We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 89 THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
Gators take down Tigers
UF hit school-record 19 three-pointers at 
LSU, pg. 14
Student raises money for disabled dog
The dog’s surgery will cost about $14,000 , pg. 5
Members of diﬀ  erent faiths commune
They visited four places of worship in Gainesville,  pg. 4FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorHE HAS BEEN PLACED ON 
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After punching a girl in the face Tues-
day, a UF professor was arrested and 
placed on administrative leave, Gainesville 
Police and a UF spokesperson conﬁ  rmed.
Joseph Steven Jackson, a 59-year-old 
professor in UF’s Levin College of Law, was arrested at about 8 p.m. Tuesday after an argument with the teenage girl turned 
violent, according to a police report.
Jackson swung at the girl three times. 
On his second swing, she backed away, making the strike a glancing blow. As the girl ran away, Jackson punched her in the 
back, according to the report.
Police arrested Jackson on a charge of 
child abuse. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released 
Wednesday afternoon on his own recogni-zance.
Jackson’s UF biogra-
phy states that he serves as the associate director 
of the Center on Children 
and Families at the Levin College of Law.
He declined to com-
ment for this article.
UF spokesperson Ja-
nine Sikes said Jackson was placed on ad-ministrative leave and arrangements will be made to cover his classes.
She said Jackson teaches courses in le-
gal writing, appellate advocacy, equal pro-tection and U.S. constitutional law. 
Jackson, an alumnus of the law school, 
joined the faculty in 1995, she said.
Sikes said she was unsure if Jackson 
will face further disciplinary measures from UF.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org   GPD: UF professor arrested for punching girl in face
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
CREEPY CRAWLIES
Annie Gormaley, a 20-year-old UF biomedical engineering sophomore, shows T ong Kang, a 22-year-
old UF biostatistics graduate student, a jumping spider while talking to her about the Insect Alive competition, which allows students to blend science, art and technology.  Andrea Lucky, a UF entomology faculty member, who spearheaded the competition, said she values the idea of interdisciplines and bringing people together to foster creativity.
IT SHOOK. 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
 A speeding pickup skidded on 
West University Avenue sidewalk 
before ﬂ  ipping on its side and striking a building near campus Wednesday.
Taylor Noel, a Dunkin’ Donuts 
employee, said he felt the build-ing shake when the truck skid 
across the front of the building, 
at 1412 W. University Ave. The building houses Target Copy, Dunkin’ Donuts, Firehouse Subs and Sushi-2-Go.
After leaving a dent in the 
building, the truck then ﬂ  ipped back over and came to a stop in front of Chipotle, the 23-year-old 
UF advertising senior said. 
He said he went outside to see 
what happened and saw the driv-
er running away from the car and down Northwest 15th Street. Bystanders helped pull out an 
older woman, who was in the front passenger seat of the truck, onto the sidewalk, he said. 
Alachua County Fire Rescue 
took the injured woman to UF Health Shands Hospital for minor injuries, Gainesville Police Sgt. John Mazzuca said.
Mazzuca said police still 
haven’t located the driver, but they are searching for him.
James Berger, 23, said he was 
sitting on the patio of Oozoo Bar when he heard the truck hit the building.
There were no other cars 
around, so Berger said he wasn’t 
sure what caused the accident or 
why the car sped up. 
“I’m just glad no one was on 
the sidewalk,” the UF economics senior said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  Truck strikes building, 
ﬂ  ips near campus 
BYSTANDERS SAID HE HIT THE BUILDING SO HARDJackson
THEY’RE BEING PAID 
$160,000 COMBINED.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Grammy-nominated artists Big 
Sean and Lil Yachty will perform 
Feb. 15 at the O’Connell Center 
for Black History Month.
Student Government Produc-
tions worked with the Black 
Student Union to bring the art-ists, said Dillon Knox, the direc-tor of SGP. Big Sean will be paid $130,000, and 
Lil Yachty will 
be paid $30,000. 
Students can 
buy up to four 
tickets using their Gator 1 Card 
today at 10 a.m. at Gate 1 of the O’Connell center. Tickets are $10 for level one and two, $15 for the lower level and $20 for ﬂ  oor seats. The gen-eral public can buy tickets for 
$20 to $40 Fri-
day, Knox said.
He said he 
expects the 
show to sell out at 6,500 people.
Ranitra Walker, the director of 
UF’s Black History Month, wrote 
in an email that the performance will celebrate successful black artists.
“Big Sean pays homage to the 
black community on and off the stage,” the 21-year-old UF crimi-
nology and law senior said. “So 
that exempliﬁ  es black excellence in itself.”
Knox said having Lil Yachty’s 
opening act will let attendees “get more for their money.” 
Kaitlin Lyttle, a 22-year-old UF 
psychology senior, said she isn’t usually excited by artists per-forming on campus, but she plans to buy tickets for this show. 
“I feel like there are a lot more 
people excited about this than a 
lot of the other concerts they’ve 
had, like Gator Growl,” Lyttle said. “They’re actually big-name artists.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
  Rappers Big Sean, Lil Yachty to perform concert at UF  
Big Sean
 Lil Yachty
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 89
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
presents Fahim Anwar 
Fahim Anwar will be perform-ing stand-up comedy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Friday from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Anwar is a comedian with mul-tiple characters up his sleeve. He just wrapped season five of “Guy Code” for MTV, and his re-cent film and TV credits include “Neighbors,” “Kirstie,” “Rizzoli & Isles,” “New Girl,” “Chuck” and “Fun House.” You can see 
Anwar in Tina Fey’s war-come-
dy film, based on Kim Barker’s memoir, “Whiskey Tango Foxtrot,” which was released in March 2016. Currently, Anwar is working on his own one-hour special and performs for sold-out comedy clubs across the country.
     Global GatorNights
Pack your bags, and grab a passport. GatorNights is taking you around the world Friday. Discover your own flavor of rhythm with dance lessons from UF’s Salsa Club or express your-self with a custom henna tattoo. 
Attend origami tutorials and 
make a paper lantern as a sou-venir. Learn introductory phras-es in various world languages at the world language exchange in Orange & Brew from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Visit nine different countries while playing a game of Around the World Mini-Golf. 
Fly on over to the Reitz Union 
Auditorium to catch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of the featured film for this week, “Moana.” GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to par-
ticipate and are allowed to bring 
a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night: “Tab Hunter 
Confidential”At 7:30 p.m. on the last Friday of every month, the Pride Community Center, located at 
3131 NW 13th St., hosts Gay 
Movie Night, which is a free service of the Pride Community Center. This Friday, the movie “Tab Hunter Confidential” will be shown. It is a documentary about the real Tab Hunter as he shares the whole story of a happy and healthy survivor of 
Hollywood’s roller coaster. A 
$2 donation is requested to help cover the cost of snacks. Visit the Facebook page at facebook. com/135747915702.‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’ The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” 
from Friday to Sunday and from 
Feb. 3 to Feb. 5 in Constans Theatre. This new play by Canadian playwright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the story of Talbot and Michaud, two Quebec City seminarians from opposing social classes with conflicting ideas about life, 
religion and art. Tickets for 
the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF fac-ulty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career ExpoThe annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be Feb. 8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers representing the food, fiber, natural resources 
and life sciences sectors will 
be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent em-ployment as well as represen-tatives of graduate programs and professional schools. All students are encouraged to at-tend. The event is open to UF 
students and alumni. CALS will 
host walk-in resume reviews in preparation for the event from 9 a.m. to noon Monday in McCarty Hall D, Room 2025. For more information, visit cals.ufl.edu.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment 
art show Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with assis-tance from Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine, is producing an empowerment art show and performance-art showcase for 
the semi-annual anti-violence 
arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, located at 2117 NW Sixth St. Artists and performers of all styles are welcome to submit work that evokes themes of re-covery, healing from trauma, 
self-discovery and love. A pub-
lic display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. There will be a range of art workshops and art-making opportunities such as a public canvas and storytelling exercis-es. All couples are welcome to participate. Email rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for informa-tion.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design ChallengeOn Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-
mation and giveaways, along 
with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (lim-ited quantities available), will be featured. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. For more infor-mation and to register your-self or a team, visit shcc. ufl.
edu/2017/01/06/condomde-
sign-challenge no later than Monday.
352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunity The UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship 
to work with the management 
team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3 
Learn some strategies about 
communicating affirmative consent in Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Campaign Phase 3. For more information or to request material, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence 
at RitaL@ ufsa.ufl.edu.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
THE AWARD WAS PRESENTED
 AT THE BIANNUAL GPD 
AWARD CEREMONY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
On Wednesday, Gainesville Police of-
ﬁ  cer Pat Hopkins was honored for saving 
a Gainesville woman from her burning home. 
Hopkins was awarded the Carnegie 
Hero Medal during a biannual event that recognized community members who helped people in need.
During the event, the crowd of about 
100 bowed their heads and held a moment of silence for fallen ofﬁ  cers, including three Orlando ofﬁ  cers killed in January.
Hopkins received the medal from past 
recipient Dr. Mark Moore of Tallahassee.
“Police ofﬁ  cers and doctors share a lot of things: stress, paperwork and saving lives,” Moore said. “I’m here to honor a hero among you all.”
Two new awards were presented during 
the ceremony. The Educational Achieve-ment Award honors ofﬁ  cers who have 
earned advanced degrees while on the 
force, and the Excellence in Community Policing Award is for those who have built strong relationships with residents. 
While Tobias Valdez, 39, and his wife 
watched two friends receive awards, he said he didn’t expect to hear so many sto-ries of bravery in Gainesville.
“You never know what a day in the life 
of an ofﬁ  cer is like,” the stay-at-home dad said. “Normally, we think of trafﬁ  c stops, but this is saving people’s life and helping to make people’s lives better.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org After ﬁ  ery rescue, oﬃ   cer awarded Carnegie Hero Medal
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
A line of ofﬁ  cers stand at the front of the Hall of Heroes inside the Gainesville Police  
Department headquarters to receive the Outstanding Unit Citation on Wednesday evening.  About 100 people attended the ceremony.
By T aylor Cavaliere 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A study co-authored by a UF pro-
fessor found that students with dis-
abilities are more likely to be bullied.
Nicholas Gage, a UF assistant 
education professor, and Chad Rose, 
a University of Missouri assistant 
education professor, analyzed conﬁ  -dential self-reports from students in Connecticut from 2011 to 2013, Gage 
said. Out of 6,531 students involved 
in the study, 1 in 5 students with disabilities reported being bullied, while 1 in 7 students without disabil-ities reported the same, according to the study, which was published in November.
Out of the students who self-
reported, 16 percent had disabilities and 84 percent didn’t, according to the study.
Gage said he was not surprised 
by the general trend the results showed, but he was surprised that high rates of bullying continued past elementary school.
This shows that schools are not 
providing enough intervention, Gage said.
“Children with disabilities are 
most at risk for bullying, as they have the least amount of social skills to address it,” Gage said.
There are programs in place to 
teach elementary school students to recognize bullying, and the ﬁ  rst step 
to ﬁ  x it is to acknowledge the issue, 
he said. 
He said this doesn’t stop at high 
school, and even university students can help.
UF’s Disability Resource Center is 
one way students can learn to sup-port those with disabilities who are prone to bullying. The center aims 
to help students with disabilities by 
providing support, empowering stu-dents and educating others about disabilities, wrote Anthony DeSan-tis, the associate dean of students and interim director of the center, in an email.
“I believe there is a lack of knowl-
edge surrounding, and a misunder-standing, of disability,” DeSantis said. 
Bullying doesn’t stop at a certain 
age, wrote Maria Rodriguez, the vice president of the Students for Anti-Bullying Initiatives organization, in an email. College students think bullying stops just because students 
grow up, she said. 
Rodriguez said although she 
overcame the effects of being bullied 
as a child, others aren’t as lucky. 
“We should be teaching aware-
ness so that we can stop the problem at its roots,” the 20-year-old UF biol-ogy junior said.
Gage said everyone should real-
ize bullying is a serious issue.
“We need to work together to 
educate all, but especially those who are most vulnerable,” he said.  Students with disabilities more 
at risk for bullying, study shows
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
In front of Century Tower on 
Wednesday, Impact Party an-
nounced its candidates for the Spring 2017 executive ticket.
About 50 students wearing blue 
Impact shirts cheered as Impact President Janae Moodie announced Smith Meyers, 22, for Student Body president; Mario Agosto, 21, for Stu-dent Body vice president; and Revel Lubin, 21, for Student Body trea-surer. 
Meyers, a UF food and resource 
economics senior, is currently the 
Student Senate president and has 
been a senator for four years. He was Senate pro-tempore from February 2016 to October 2016. 
“I promise the Student Body that 
character is what will guide how I lead this campus forward,” he said. 
Agosto spoke about attending 
UF with a Machen Florida Opportu-nity Scholarship, which is offered to ﬁ  rst-generation students from low-income families. Agosto has no prior 
SG experience, but he’s currently 
president of the Hispanic Student Association and a Florida Cicerone.
“I want to give back as much as I 
can,” Agosto told students. 
Lubin said he’s had SG leadership 
roles as an executive cabinet director and Impact’s treasurer. He’s current-ly a Black Student Union member 
and Florida Cicerone. 
UF Student Body President Su-
san Webster said she’s mentored the 
candidates, and their backgrounds and leadership roles form a strong ticket. 
Impact has not released an ofﬁ  -
cial platform, Meyers said.
Elections will take place Feb. 21 
and Feb. 22 from 8:30 a.m to 8:30 p.m., where students will vote for executive candidates and 50 student senators, who will represent their academic year or academic colleges. SG party announces 
executive candidates4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
By Sydney Sylvester 
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Small-business owners inter-
ested in developing their com-
panies will take part in a free, UF-led workshop today.
The workshop, hosted by 
UF’s Small Business and Vendor Diversity Relations, is sched-uled to take place every month throughout the year, said Kath-ey Porter, the department’s di-rector.
The program aims to serve 
as a budget-friendly alterna-tive to similar workshops, with 
the hopes that participants gain 
valuable skills and connections needed to run their companies.“I think that for small busi-
nesses, you don’t always have the luxury to take on or go to 
expensive workshops on busi-
ness and business develop-ment,” Porter said. “So this is our opportunity to provide free access to information that they might not be able to readily 
get.”
Workshops will be located 
at 2046 NE Waldo Road, Suite 
3201, according to the depart-ment’s website.
In November, the office will 
assess how business owners benefitted from the workshops to determine whether to con-tinue the program.About 25 business owners 
registered for today’s workshop Porter said.
Business owners can register 
for the workshops on the de-partment’s website or by calling its main line at 352-392-0380.
Charlotte Mendez, 46, the 
owner of Cleaning Genie LLC, which is comprised of social workers helping displaced homemakers, said she’s attend-
ing the first workshop to devel-
op her business.
“I’m currently in the startup 
mode of my company, and I needed more rounded insight as to how to properly operate my business,” she said. UF to host free workshop for 
small-business owners todayRomy Ellenbogen / Alligator
A group of people from various religious backgrounds gather at UF Hillel for the UF Campus  
Multi-Faith Cooperative’s “Faith in Diversity: Progressive Dinner. ”
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Mormons mingled with Krishnas 
and Methodists over fresh fruit and 
red pepper hummus on Tuesday at 
UF Hillel, one stop on an interfaith 
tour of the town.
The event, “Faith in Diversity: 
Progressive Dinner,” was hosted by 
the Campus Multi-Faith Cooperative 
as a part of UF’s Martin Luther King 
Jr. Celebration.
About 100 participants received 
free food at four stops in religious buildings along West University Av-enue. They were encouraged to talk with people of other faiths while they 
ate, said Angelo Grasso, the chair of 
the Campus Multi-Faith Cooperative.
“It’s crucial, especially in the 
times where we’re living now, 
where there’s a lot more perceived 
polarization, it’s important students maintain a posture toward others that are different from them, of tol-erance, understanding and engage-ment,” Grasso said. The dinner has been held for more than 10 years, he said.
Erica Kaplan, an interfaith am-
bassador, said the night would help people learn about each other’s faiths and cultures.
“You have to be educated,” Ka-
plan said, “and be aware of other people’s religions to promote that inclusive environment.”
During the final stop at Gator 
Wesley Foundation, attendees dis-cussed prewritten questions like, “What aspects of your faith address global poverty?” or “What do you think is the biggest problem in the 
world?”
Rayce Pion, a member of Gator 
Wesley, said he enjoyed speaking 
to new people at the dinner. He said 
meaningful connections span any re-
ligious divides.
“I feel that you can be really good 
friends with people who think differ-ently than you,” the 20-year-old UF 
business law sophomore said.Community members of different faiths gather over food  
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
BROWN BAG TALK
Visiting scholar Filiz Sonmez discusses her “Tripod” interdisciplinary 
approach to about 10 listeners in the Reitz Union, Room 2340, on Wednesday afternoon. Sonmez has done architectural and photo-graphic work in Gainesville’s historic Duckpond neighborhood.THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Amy Vickers, a 21-year-old UF health science junior, holds her dog Captain at Squirrel 
Ridge Park on Tuesday afternoon. Captain has swimmer-puppy-syndrome, a rare muscu-lar disorder affecting his hind legs, which makes standing and walking extremely difﬁ  cult.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Contributing Writer
The ﬁ  rst time Amy Vickers saw Captain, 
the pit bull terrier struggled to stand.
Just six weeks later, the seven-month-old 
puppy is more than $2,500 closer to a cor-
rected pair of hind legs.
The dog suffers from swimmer-puppy-
syndrome, a rare muscular condition that causes his legs to angle outward. 
When he tries to stand, his stomach 
touches the ﬂ  oor. It’s a condition that left Captain’s attending veterinarians at the UF Small Animal Hospital perplexed, but one they were willing to help ﬁ  x.
His therapy costs about $500 each month, 
and the surgery that may ﬁ  x his legs is esti-mated to cost about $14,000, said Vickers, a 21-year-old UF health science junior.
After an initial visit to the vet, Vickers 
set up a GoFundMe page to help pay for her dog’s expenses. As of press time, Captain still needs about $12,316 to fund his sur-gery.
“He absolutely deserves a second 
chance,” Vickers said, “but it’s going to take a lot more work.”
Vickers adopted Captain from his previ-
ous owners Nov. 27 in Panama City, Flori-da. It was only after she took ownership of 
him that she learned of his disability.
Christine Senneca, a third-year resident 
at UF Small Animal Hospital’s neurology de-partment, was one of the ﬁ  rst to see Captain 
when he came to the UF College of Veteri-nary Medicine in December.
“I was just passing by and was really 
interested in what he was doing,” Senneca said. “He was desperately trying to stand but couldn’t because his legs were com-pletely splayed.”
Although he still isn’t strong enough to 
walk on tile and hardwood, physical ther-apy sessions have made it so Captain can now walk on soft surfaces like carpet or 
grass, Vickers said.
Meghan Brumby, a specialty intern at the 
UF College of Veterinary Medicine’s integra-
tive medicine department, has been giving therapy to Captain since December.
“Captain has made very signiﬁ  cant im-
provement since starting his physical ther-apy regimen,” Brumby wrote in an email. 
The future of Captain’s recovery will be 
determined based on his health after he is full grown, Brumby said.
Because he was not treated as a new-
born, like most afﬂ  icted with his disorder, Captain’s surgery is still in question, she said. If he gets the surgery, more physical therapy will likely be recommended.
“It is extremely rewarding to see the hard 
work that Captain, his owner and the Inte-
grative Medicine team have put in truly pay-
ing off,” Brumby said. “I am grateful to play a (role) in giving Captain the loving life he deserves.”  UF student raises money for pet dog with rare disorder
THE PROJECT WILL COST 
ABOUT $5 MILLION.
By Isabella Sorresso
Alligator Contributing Writer
A $5 million, 24-home cohous-
ing community in Gainesville will 
break ground next month, mak-ing it the ﬁ  rst of its kind in the city.The Gainesville Cohousing, 
located at 4500 NW 27th Ave., will break ground Feb. 3 and take about a year to complete.
After 10 years of dreaming and 
ﬁ  ve years of planning, Brooks Nelson, the facilitator of the com-munity, said the residents will have shared living spaces like a common room, dining area, pool, garden and playground.“An intentional community is 
a community that has a purpose and beyond just having a home where you park your car and you know, live, eat and sleep,” he said.” 
Only four properties in the 
community are still available, he said. 
The 24 homes can accommo-
date about 40 people and will allow residents to share more of their lives than an average neigh-borhood, Nelson said.
Andrew Kaplan, the architect 
behind the project and a future member of the community, said there are about 140 similar com-munities throughout the U.S. — and he’s excited to ﬁ  nally bring Gainesville one.
Living in a community like this has been a goal of his for years, but it’s been difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd pro-spective neighbors who would like to interact with each other, he said.
“I think that ﬁ  nding the right 
group of people who have similar interests and values is the key,” Kaplan said. “We have done that in Gainesville.” 
 $5 million cohousing property to become city’s firstThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Maybe the sun has been out the whole time
Take a look around.
South Sudan slips closer to genocide 
daily; the slaughter of Syrian civilians 
continues; war crimes in Yemen transpire unfettered; peace between Israel and Pal-
estine falters; Russia reverts back to Cold War era geopolitics; Turkey works to stamp out its fourth estate; North Korea inches closer and closer to a functional nuclear arsenal for its irascible dictator; China grows stronger by the minute, threatening to annex disputed territory in the South China Sea — and that’s just outside our borders. Within them, we’ve got a puerile egomaniac for president (or, if you voted for him, a coun-
try on the brink of collapse), a looming specter of terror 
attacks both homegrown and imported, we lost Prince and far too many others, and the first episode of season four of “Sherlock” was underwhelming.
In other words, the world today trembles under the 
weight of innumerable calamities, and its knees are about to buckle.
That is the narrative spun (perhaps unconsciously) by 
journalists — myself counted among them — for whom 
“serious news” and “bad news” are too often synonymous. 
None of the above stories are made up, but they dominate news coverage to an extent that obscures any and all traces of progress, misleading the public as a result.
I’m hardly the first to notice this trend. David Born-
stein and Tina Rosenberg wrote eloquently about it in The New York Times, and viral data scientist Hans Rosling has made a career of upending the public’s gloomy misconcep-tions. The crooked, uncomfortable truth is that the world 
is in better shape than it’s ever been and it’s improving, all 
while very real, very pressing problems persist. 
Sharing evidence to support both of those facts is es-
sential, but not just for maintaining some rosy pipe dream about a defiantly optimistic electorate. We cannot ever hope to solve our problems without examining them with the same careful eye used to solve past dilemmas. Under-standing the shape progress has taken in the past helps us recognize it in the present, leaving us less susceptible to empty promises of radical change and more ready to accept pragmatism, even if it doesn’t square well with our immediate experi-ence.
So in my inaugural column for this paper, let 
me shine my spotlight on some good news and make a promise to do so as often as I shine it on the bad: Average life expectancy (71) is now closer to that of the country with the highest (Japan, 84) than that with the lowest (Swazi-land, 49). Improvements in medicine and the quality of life have tempered the population ex-
plosion of the past couple centuries, lowering the average 
number of births per woman to 2.5.
Globally, men 25 and older have spent an average of 
eight years in school — the number for women in the same 
age group has risen from 3.5 to 7.1 between 1970 and 2009. What’s more, 90 percent of girls attend primary school, a number that has risen steadily since 2000. And on top of all that, we’ve sliced the proportion of the world popula-tion living in extreme poverty by half in the past 20 years. 
Closer to home, cities like Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Des 
Moines, Iowa, serve as testing grounds for public policies and social interventions that improve early childhood edu-cation, better serve ever-diversifying urban communities and address income inequality, among other things. And believe it or not, the rest of “Sherlock” was worth the lack-luster first episode.
This is a broad look. In the future, I plan to share spe-
cific, concrete stories that will make news of progress as tangible as that of incompetence. Perhaps in doing so, I 
can help spur on the realization that we don’t need to wait 
for a year (or four) to pass for the sun to come out — maybe it’s been out the whole time, and we just need to, every so often, look up.
Champe Barton is a UF economics and behavioral and 
cognitive neuroscience junior. His column appears on 
Thursdays.The dystopian 
reality we now face 
When we first started comparing the future of America 
to a dystopian nation, it stemmed mostly from curi-osity — from a desire to expose you, dear reader, to dystopian novels outside of the stereotypical “1984” — and to challenge you to think critically about the 
fate of your country.  At the time, it was purely hypothetical, the type of fun exercise one would do in an English class. But in the past week, one characterized by “alternative facts” and a media blackout on the Environmental Protection Agency, to list a few, George Orwell’s famed novel has begun to read more like a histo-ry book than a work of fiction. And, it seems, people have taken notice. In the days since Trump’s inauguration, sales of the book have spiked by nearly 10,000 percent, NPR reported Wednesday.
Just to recap: Kellyanne Conway, an adviser to President Don-
ald Trump, announced on Sunday that falsehoods can be consid-ered “alternative facts,” and a gag order was placed on several government agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency, in essence prohibiting employees from communicating to reporters or posting on social media.
First, Conway’s comment. Following the Jan. 20 inaugura-
tion, the Trump aide defended White House press secretary Sean Spicer’s false claims that Trump’s inauguration had the “largest audience” ever, saying he was merely presenting “alternative 
facts.” When we previously compared the two dystopian worlds 
presented in “1984” and Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New World,” we noted that the media system of “Brave New World” — which drowned out important stories in heaps of useless information — was more similar to our current system. But Conway and her refusal to admit Spicer was, in fact, outright lying about the size of Trump’s inauguration crowd, present a very scary reality: The government very blatantly lying to us, even when we know bet-ter. And the scarier possibility that we might start believing them.
That’s not to say the government doesn’t already lie. But this 
is unprecedented. This is a scenario in which everyone had ac-cess to the truth, from the aerial photos comparing former Presi-dent Barack Obama and President Trump’s inauguration crowds, to statistics from the Washington, D.C., public transport and Nielsen television ratings. But the government insisted other-wise. This is straight out of “1984,” in which terms such as new-speak and doublethink are used in an effort to eliminate personal thoughts and affirm people that yes, maybe Big Brother is telling 
you something different than what you thought you saw, but his 
words are true also.
But hopefully not all of the government will follow in this 
Orwellian trend, right? After all, it was the National Parks Ser-vice that tweeted the initial picture comparing the inauguration crowds. That’s where the scary reality of that social-media and press-release blackout comes in, in which certain government agencies — and it should be noted they are the more science-based agencies — are not allowed to release information to the 
public without being approved by a political team. Which ba-
sically means they need their scientific facts approved. Which means the government gets to decide what is fact. 
What can we as citizens of this too-close-to-Orwellian-for-
comfort nation do? We rebel. We listen to the media. Not all of it swings one way or another, despite what your party will have you believe. We read unbiased newspapers, we get the real story. We follow the lead of the Badlands National Park Twitter account, which has spurred other government agencies to keep tweeting 
facts until they are deleted. And we will make it hard to control 
what we know is true by spreading that truth everywhere.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORChampe 
Barton
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Food Truck Rally turns four
It will return to the High Dive on Saturday, pg. 10THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF debuts new play “The Divine”
“The Divine” opens Friday,  pg. 9By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
Gainesville’s chapter of the 
National Women’s Liberation is 
hosting its fourth annual Roe v. 
Wade beneﬁ  t show Saturday.
The event, which will take 
place this year at The Wooly, cel-
ebrates the 44th anniversary of 
the landmark decision that recog-
nized the constitutional right to allow a woman to make her own decisions regarding abortion.
Moran, a 22-year-old Flori-
da State University biology and chemistry senior, who asked that her ﬁ  rst name remain anony-mous, said it was the importance 
of reproductive justice that made 
her interested in attending the concert, even though it’s two hours away. 
“Roe v. Wade doesn’t just 
mean something to me as a wom-an, it means something to me as a patriot,” Moran said. “I think Roe v. Wade allowed us to set 
the groundwork for paid family 
leave, family health care, an un-derstanding that women will not be second class citizens in our own country and for these con-
cerns to be a policy issue and not 
just a privilege of wealth.”
Moran said it was also a com-
bination of the recent election as 
well as the promise of music that 
intrigued her.
Five Gainesville bands, The 
Howleez, Bite Marks, The Ones to Blame, Endless Pools and Guts!, who consist primarily of women, will be playing.  
“Music is a great outlet to ad-
dress the concerns of Trump in a way that seems more manageable than it did Nov. 9,” Moran said.
Emma Brady, a member of the 
NWL and the lead organizer for the beneﬁ  t, said the purpose of the event was to educate and raise consciousness about the contin-
ued struggle for abortion, inter-
sect with other groups around town that specialize in reproduc-tive justice and raise funds that 
ﬁ  ght for the freedom of women. 
“We’ve met people on campus 
as we’re ﬂ  yering for the event that 
don’t know what Roe v. Wade is, which makes it difﬁ  cult to bring 
those people into the ﬁ  ght for 
their rights when they think that their rights are safe,” Brady said. “I think it’s sad, but for me, I also think it’s dangerous and that kind 
of lack of information is part of 
how the patriarchy divides us.”
While this was Brady’s ﬁ  rst 
year organizing, she said she has performed with her band The Ones to Blame at previous Roe v. Wade beneﬁ  t shows. 
She said although every year 
has had a large turnout, this year will be even bigger.
Attendees can enjoy a tarot 
card reader, photobooth and re-
hearsed guerilla theatre that re-
enacts the ﬁ  rst abortion hearing that was interrupted by women. 
“I think that people get caught 
up in feeling almost shameful to talk about reproductive jus-tice, and I want people to walk 
away feeling that we all support 
each other and recognize that there should be no reform to sex-ist laws, because we’re capable of governing our own bodies,” 
Brady said. 
Melissa Powers, a 22-year-
old UF psychology and women’s 
studies senior, said the impor-
tance of education for women’s 
reproductive health and abortion was very essential to her.
“I think education is super 
important because obviously we 
need to spread awareness and 
understanding of the issue,” Pow-ers said. “It’s time for women to have the choice to do what’s best 
for themselves and to be able to 
do that safely.”
With the recent inauguration of Donald Trump, a president whose platform in-
cludes limiting the reproductive 
rights of women, the beneﬁ  t show represents hope in an oth-erwise dismal time. 
“With our current political 
situation, I’m trying to be alert when it comes to women’s is-sues,” Powers said. “I’m inter-ested in going to the beneﬁ  t to 
show support for women’s right 
to abortion, contraception and re-productive healthcare.” 
Brady, who has seen an inﬂ  ux 
in women getting involved with 
the NWL since Trump’s elec-
tion, said the beneﬁ  t show will prove it’s the support and unity of women that will make a differ-
ence in the end.
“This event reminds us that 
our rights were taken by women, they weren’t given to us because 
the government run by men de-
cided that it made sense to be 
fair,” Brady said. “In recognizing that we have a lot of power when we are all united, I think that gal-vanizes us to continue to ﬁ  ght for 
what we want.” 
The event will have an educa-
tional spin, along with the mu-
sic and full bar, according to the 
event’s Facebook page. National 
Women’s Liberation will provide information on the current ﬁ  ght for abortion, birth control and re-
productive rights. 
Doors open at 7 p.m., and 
the bands will start performing 
at  8 p.m. The cost is a $5 to $15 donation at the door, which will 
go to NWL.
The Wooly to host Roe v. Wade beneﬁ  t concert
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Gainesville chapter of the National Women’s Liberation will celebrate the 44th anniversary 
of the historic Roe v. Wade decision  Saturday. Doors open at 7 p.m. for the 8 p.m. show.
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
This Friday, the monthly Art-
walk Gainesville event will be 
taking place around the down-
town area. There will be 19 ven-
ues exhibiting local art at the event, which is free and open to the public.
Artwalk acts as a self-guided 
tour of downtown Gainesville. By visiting each gallery participating in the event, attendees will get to explore areas of the city they 
might not have known about be-
fore. 
Locations of the venues, de-
scriptions of the art featured at 
each of the venues and a map of 
the downtown area are all avail-able at artwalkgainesville.com.
The Gainesville art walk hap-
pens on the last Friday of each 
month. Though it has been going 
on for more than 30 years, many Gainesville residents don’t know about it.
“Over the last 30 years, the art-
walk has gone through different phases,” Artwalk Gainesville co-ordinator Frank Curtis, 56, said. 
“I have been the Artwalk coordi-
nator for a little over a year, and I’ve been trying to bring it up to more modern standards.”
Artwalk starts at 7 p.m. and 
ends at 10 p.m. However, the Gainesville Fine Arts Association, located at 1314 S. Main St., will open early at 6 p.m. for an open-
ing reception by Curtis. 
“The GFAA is hosting an art 
in education program at the Art-
walk,” Curtis said. “A lot of art-
ists, including myself have donat-
ed pieces. One hundred percent of the proceeds from this will go to elementary art education in Alachua County.” 
A unique exhibition that is 
new to Artwalk Gainesville will take place at local woodworker Marcus Collier’s home. Collier 
makes Asian-inspired wood fur-
niture, including everything from desks to cigarette dispensers to wooden shoji screens. Collier’s 
home gallery also opens at 6 p.m. 
“Everything I make is Asian-
inspired,” Collier, 57, said. “I was 
originally inspired by my mom, who ﬁ  lled my childhood living 
room with Asian antiques and 
art.”
Artwalk Gainesville kicks oﬀ   new year with 19 venues
LOCAL8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Huxley, a London-based DJ who 
has achieved worldwide recognition 
for his explorative sound, is set to perform at Gallery Ultralounge on Friday. The event, which is hosted by Over Easy Creative as a part of their weekly “Over Easy & Friends” show, will run from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., with tickets ranging from $10 
to $15. 
“Over Easy & Friends” has been 
occurring weekly since Gallery Ul-
tralounge opened roughly a year 
ago, said Les Voss, the 24-year-
old founder of Over Easy Creative. 
The goal of “Over Easy & Friends” is to book artists that are just that: friends of the team. 
“It’s cool being able to not just 
book a name because it’s a name, but book a name because it’s a friend of a friend,” Voss said. “The bigger Over Easy gets, the bigger the people we have relationships with get.” 
Voss added that booking big 
names like Huxley is tricky because Gainesville is a small market for 
electronic acts. It makes more sense 
to book artists that are traveling in Florida to play in other big cities. 
“Are they in the area, and if they 
are in the area, can we pull them?” 
he said. “That’s the behind the 
scenes side of booking.”
The show follows Huxley’s 
performance on Miami’s Groove 
Cruise, a four-day cruise that fea-
tures performances from more than 100 electronic artists. This is part of Huxley’s tour around the world, 
with stops in New York, the Neth-
erlands, Amsterdam, Ireland and 
more. 
Voss said he expects the show 
will be packed, as Huxley is such a 
big name and Gallery Ultralounge 
is a small space, with a capacity of 
about 150 people. “I think it’s going to be a cool 
party because it’s going to be tight and intimate,” Voss said. “We’ll 
keep it dark, and it’s going to be 
loud.” 
Krista Kingsbury, a 20-year-old 
UF botany and pharmacy sopho-more, said she plans to go to the 
show after attending various Over 
Easy Creative events held at Gal-
lery over the past year. Although 
she doesn’t avidly listen to Huxley, she said she expects it to be a great 
show based off of the music and 
atmosphere of Gallery events she’s 
attended in the past.  
“Pretty much the whole package 
of it together makes me want to go,” 
she said. “They always do a really 
good production.” 
Huxley is known for his varied 
sound, not afraid to go outside the 
box with everything from house to 
drum and bass. Friday’s show will 
be his ﬁ  rst time ever performing in 
Gainesville.DJ, producer Huxley to perform in Gainesville for ﬁ  rst time
Courtesy to the Alligator
Huxley will perform at Gallery Ultralounge on Friday at 10 p.m. as part of  the weekly “Over Easy & Friends” show.
MUSICTHURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
“The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt” will be presented by UF’s 
School of Theatre and Dance from Friday to Sunday and Feb. 3 to Feb. 5 in the Constans Theatre.
“The Divine” depicts the disquiet-
ing effects of a renowned French ac-tress’ visit to two young seminarians in Quebec City  during the 1900s.
Sarah Bernhardt, the renowned 
French actress, is known for her col-orful career, according to a UF press release.
Although the play is set in the 
20th century, the relevance, espe-cially for college students, trans-gresses the decades.
“Sarah Bernhardt was the ﬁ  rst 
real celebrity actress of the world,” said Christie Robinson, a UF ﬁ  ne arts Masters third year and actress in the play. “Sarah Bernhardt’s per-son is very relevant to today. She 
speaks passionately about standing 
up for what is right, ﬁ  xing wrongs and not being afraid to put yourself out there.”
The cast has been rehearsing for 
about 5 weeks, according to David Young, the director of “The Divine” and a UF professor. He said the show questions “almost everything that we think about.”
“This play talks about ﬁ  nding 
your inner sense of rebellion,” said Jake Lesh, a UF ﬁ  ne arts Masters third year and actor in the play. 
“Sarah makes this statement that the 
country is so backward with politics and their sense of art, and the inau-guration just happened (now).”
The cast said they hope “The Di-
vine” makes the audience feel some-thing and reﬂ  ect on themselves.
“It doesn’t matter what side you 
believe in, this play promotes the 
idea that you have a voice,” Lesh 
said. “Each person in their own right has the power to rebel in things they don’t believe in.”
Students from the “What is the 
Good Life” class have already had the opportunity to see the show.“The students (from What is 
the Good Life) have been reacting so positively to ‘The Divine,’” Lesh 
said. “I think they’re taking away 
the idea that they can relate to these characters.”
This performance may never be 
more relevant than it is now, with the inauguration of Donald Trump and the nationwide marches for women’s rights in response.
“This particular play, I think, will 
speak to many students,” Robinson said. “Sarah gives a big speech at the end of the play that, to me, en-compasses everything the Women’s March on Washington meant, so many people can relate to (what she said).”
Tickets for the UF production 
are $18 for the general public, $15 
for UF faculty and staff and $13 for 
students. Tickets can be purchased through the University Box Ofﬁ  ce at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center or 45 minutes prior to the performance at the Constans Theatre Box Ofﬁ  ce.
UF School of Theatre and Dance debuts play ‘The Divine’
THEATRE
Courtesy to the Alligator
“The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt, ” will open Friday 
at UF’s Constans Theatre and hold six performances.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
By Rebecca Santana
Avenue Writer
Forty percent of homeless youth in Amer-
ica are members of the LGBTQ+ communi-
ty, as reported by the True Colors Fund, an organization that seeks to aid the homeless LGBTQ+ community in any way it can. Al-
though this is a national organization, some 
Gainesville locals feel the need to speak out about this issue and help raise money for those in need. Hardback Cafe, located at 211 W. University Ave., will be hosting a beneﬁ  t to support this fund and its cause Friday.
The bands playing this event  — Pob-
lano, Flowan, Sports Reference, Sam Kuhns — are volunteering their time to support this 
cause. The doors open at 9 p.m., and the 
show starts at 10 p.m.
There is a $3 cover, or donation, at the 
door. There will be a Gainesville Artwalk display before the beneﬁ  t starts. 
Bar manager and co-event coordinator 
of the cafe Julia Bushnell said she expects there will be a good turnout and that “it should be a full evening of events.” Bushnell 
was made aware of the True Colors Fund by 
a regular customer, Tyler Thompson. 
Following the election in November, 
Thompson suggested to Bushnell that the Hardback regularly host some sort of beneﬁ  t to help people who may be affected by the new presidential ofﬁ  ce. 
“It seems like an appropriate time to do 
something,” Bushnell said.Hardback Cafe has hosted beneﬁ  ts in the 
past, and Bushnell said she especially likes 
to host a beneﬁ  t when someone brings a 
speciﬁ  c organization to her attention. 
Poblano, an Indie punk band playing 
for the beneﬁ  t, is “mad stoked” to be able to help this cause. Levi Bradford, the gui-tar and vocalist for the band, has a special connection to this cause, as his brother is transgender.
“As a straight white cis dude, I’m glad 
to be able to do something,” Bradford said. 
Bradford said he realized many youth 
may become homeless after their coming out, and this is a serious issue. Poblano said it is proud to be playing this event, and it said Hardback Cafe is really doing some-thing great to help people. 
Like Poblano, Sports Reference said it 
oves to help in any way that it can. Thomp-
son contacted Sports Reference, and the 
band was eager to say yes. 
Jeremy McGuire, the drummer and back-
up vocalist for the emo-punk or “sad rock” band, said this is “a time where it is really important to us to help when we can.”
The goal is to raise money to help the 
homeless LGBTQ+ community, and many people are throwing their full support be-
hind this cause, but the local entertainment 
is another big appeal for this event.
“Sports Reference all day, every day,” 
said Matt Marder, a fan of several of the lo-cal bands performing. “Also, Flowan’s new stuff is really, really great. I’m ready.”By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer 
On a whim in 2013, Pat Lavery decided to 
host six food trucks at once in the High Dive parking lot. Fifteen minutes later, the lot was full of customers, and Gainesville had its ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial food truck rally.
Now celebrating its fourth anniversary, 
the Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally expects its largest turnout yet this weekend. 
About 12 food trucks will be in the High 
Dive parking lot, located at 210 SW Second Ave., Saturday. The event is held about ev-ery six weeks, but the anniversary rallies ev-ery January draw in the biggest crowd, with a few thousand people attending, said Lav-
ery, the event’s founder and organizer. 
“We feel like we have been a cata-
lyst in the launch of food truck culture in 
Gainesville,” Lavery said.
The event begins at 5 p.m., with live mu-
sic starting at 7 p.m. Trucks range in choices from dinner options like tacos, grilled cheese and pizza, to desserts like funnel cakes and snow cones. Vegan and vegetarian options 
will be available. 
Each rally raises money for a local char-
ity. Attendees can “vote” for their favorite 
food truck by donating money in the jar at the truck of their choice. Proceeds for this event will beneﬁ  t UF Habitat for Humanity. 
This is UF Habitat for Humanity’s third 
consecutive year partnering with the Original Food Truck Rally, said Jennifer McBride, the 
UF Habitat for Humanity event coordinator. 
The club plans to use donations to 
fund various projects, including critical 
Gainesville home repairs and school supplies for children in Alachua Habitat for Humanity homes. 
The food truck with the most donations 
receives a monetary prize from UF Habitat for Humanity, which incentivizes the trucks to encourage donations, McBride said.
“We love collaborating with local busi-
nesses, especially the High Dive and the Original Food Truck Rally, because it’s a great way to educate the community and raise awareness about our organization’s mission,” the 24-year-old UF ecology gradu-
ate student said.
Cilantro Tacos, a family-owned Mexican 
restaurant and food truck, will be in atten-
dance. Sen Khiev, the owner and food truck operator, said he looks forward to the turn-out from both the community and the local food trucks he’s gotten to know. 
Cilantro Tacos has been to about 10 food 
truck rallies with High Dive, Khiev said. He 
said the variety of events keeps them en-
gaged.
“You kind of don’t know what to expect, 
so it keeps you on your toes a little bit,” he said. 
Khiev said he appreciates that the rally 
offers diverse food options from all different trucks while supporting a charity. 
“It’s a really positive event for the com-
munity,” he said.  
Between locals, students, families and 
professionals in attendance, Lavery said they have raised about $15,000 for local charities over the past four years. 
“My favorite thing about the rally is that 
(it) is a unifying event in Gainesville with so many different types of people attending,” Lavery said.Gainesville to host beneﬁ  t 
show for homeless LGBTQ+Food Truck Rally turns four
LOCAL
 LOCALTHURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-27-17-10-1
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-27-17-5-2
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
Queen Futon - like new
Beautiful hardwood frame and beach design 
cover. $225 - call 352-262-7706      1-27-
17-3-6
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
ACROSS
1 Hindu noble
5 Like pastrami
10 Rum cake14 “O no! it is an __-
fixed mark ... ”:Shak.
15 “SNL” alum Cheri16 Restaurant in the
same corporategroup asApplebee’s
17 What rattlers that
never bask in thesun may get?
19 Pool element20 Vegetable __21 Sore22 Oaf24 Careless26 “This __ test”27 Strikebreakers at
a brewery?
34 “Curb Your
Enthusiasm”creator
37 Different38 By way of39 Controversial
sightings
40 Demonstrators,
often
41 Grammy
category
42 Budgetary waste43 Allen who
managed theBeatles andStones
44 Farmyard noises45 What berets
cover?
48 Wee battery49 Odorless gas53 Declare56 Comic actor
Jacques
58 Words in
praiseful titles
59 Track
component
60 Angry looks in
the hayloft?
63 Military wind64 African herbivore65 Lot66 Lost traction67 Quaker in the
forest
68 Adele’s brotherDOWN
1 They get carried
away
2 Be of use to
3 Pudding snack
cup maker
4 It may come after
you
5 Bone below the
sacrum
6 State on the
Colorado Plateau
7 Fall back (on)8 Before, in verse9 Doesn’t care for
10 Lunch order with
“special sauce”
11 “May I speak?”12 Pro __13 High point18 Flavorful
23 Cold War letters
25 Trident-shaped
letters
28 Johnnycakes29 Top story
30 Fine __
31 Lady’s company?32 Take to the
cleaners
33 Fifth Avenue store34 Keister35 Miles off
36 Suffrage, with
“the”
40 Moorish palace
of southern Spain
41 Sneakily seek,
with “for”
43 Dodge Aries, e.g.
44 Eye-related
46 Aced
47 Shows one’s
feelings50 Battling
51 “48 HRS.” co-
star
52 Moved carefully
53 Stray sounds?
54 Epic __
55 Name for a
poodle
56 Vacation plan
57 Diarist Frank
61 “I get it” sounds
62 Not quite right
By Jerome Gunderson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/26/1701/26/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 26, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Jenny Rowland will face her former team — Auburn — when the Tigers come to Gainesville for a gymnastics competition tomorrow night. For a full preview, see tomorrow's paper. Florida loses top football recruit
Elijah Blades, a four-star defensive back and one of Florida's top football 
recruits in the class of 2017, announced his decommitment from Florida via 
Twitter on Wednesday night. While Blades added that he's still considering the Gators, his decommitment dropped UF's class to 17 members. By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Amanda Butler has been dealt a bad hand 
all season.
The coach in her 10th year at the helm of 
the Florida women’s basketball team has had 
to handle her leading scorer quitting the pro-gram, a slew of injuries depleting her roster down to eight active players and a demoral-izing ﬁ  ve-game losing streak — putting her team at the bottom of the SEC standings to open league play.
So when the Gators (10-9, 1-5 SEC) ﬁ  nally 
won their ﬁ  rst conference contest of 2017 on Sunday against Georgia, no one was more hyped in the locker room than Butler herself.
“(There was) lots of cheering, lots of hugging, lots of high-ﬁ  ving, chest-bumping, all that stuff,” assistant coach Shimmy Gray-Miller said. “That all came from Amand a actually.”
Propelled by an 18-3 run to begin the sec-
ond half, UF defeated the Bulldogs 76-68 in Athens to end Butler’s worst start to confer-ence play under her tenure as Florida’s head coach.While the win served as an emotional 
high for Butler, she was also extremely happy for her players to ﬁ  nally receive the results they’ve been working for.
“I just felt so good for our team,” Butler 
said. “These kids bring it every single day, and they have been bringing it all year long, 
Florida, depleted by injuries and transfers, trying to stay hotThe Associated Press
Florida's Devin Robinson, left, knocks the ball loose from an LSU player during Wednesday's game. 
When Fox Sports’ Pe-ter Schrag-er likened Keanu Neal 
to the sureﬁ  re NFL Hall-of-Fame safety Ed Reed last week, it got me thinking. 
Was Neal, the for-
mer Gators safety set 
to lead the Atlanta Falcons defense 
against Tom Brady and the Patriots 
in Super Bowl LI, part of the best 
college football secondary of the 
21st century at Florida?
The answer: Possibly. 
UF’s 2015 edition of DBU fea-
tured two ﬁ  rst-rounders in Neal and cornerback Vernon Harg-reaves, along with undrafted free 
agent Brian Poole, who now starts 
alongside Neal on the Falcons. 
But wait, it gets better. Quincy Wilson and Jalen Tabor 
are near locks to be two of the ﬁ  rst 
few corners taken in the ﬁ  rst round 
of this year’s NFL Draft, and safety 
Marcus Maye could also go in the 
early rounds. 
If all this plays out according 
to many mock drafts, that would mark four ﬁ  rst-rounders and two 
more NFL-quality defensive backs 
all on the ﬁ  eld at one time in 2015.
That’s more than rare.That’s almost unheard of. 
Except, maybe, if you’re the 
aforementioned Ed Reed. 
Reed was the key piece in Mi-
ami’s 2001 secondary that featured ﬁ  ve ﬁ  rst-rounders (Reed, Antrel 
Rolle, Sean Taylor, Phillip Bucha-
non and Mike Rumph) that went on to win the National Champion-
ship that same year. 
SB Nation compiled a list of 
the best secondaries of the 2000s two years ago and 
ranked that Hurri-
canes group ﬁ  rst — and rightfully so, as 
the Canes allowed just 9.75 points per 
game that year.
If updated now, 
though, that list 
would almost have to slide Florida’s 
2015 secondary in 
the No. 2 slot.
Keep in mind, however, I’m 
basing this all on talent. 
Statistically, UF’s secondary 
was actually a lot better this past season. The Gators were one of just 
two teams to limit opposing quar-
terbacks to under 150 yards per 
game, while they surrendered just 
north of 180 a game in ’15.
So sure, Tyrann Mathieu (3rd 
round), Eric Reid (1st) and Morris Claiborne (1st) made LSU’s 2011 
defensive backﬁ  eld pretty special.
And Florida State’s 2013 squad 
consisting of Jalen Ramsey (1st), 
Ronald Darby (2nd), LaMarcus 
Joyner (2nd) and PJ Williams (3rd) 
was pretty loaded. 
Heck, even Florida in 2008 had 
some pretty darn good DBs in Joe 
Haden (1st), Janoris Jenkins (2nd) 
and Major Wright (3rd).
But to feature four ﬁ  rst-round 
talents and more?
Hopefully Gator fans savored 
that while it lasted, because Florida may never boast a secondary of 
that caliber again.
Now think of what could have 
been had UF actually been able to score points. 
Patrick Pinak is the online 
sports editor. His columns appear 
on Thursdays. Contact him at ppi-
nak@alligator.org, or follow him 
on Twitter @pinakk12.   UF’s 2015 secondary was 
one of best of this century
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
SEE WOMEN'S BASKEBALL,  PAGE 15By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
 Chris Chiozza searched the sky.
The ball hung high in the air after being tipped, 
so Florida’s point guard ran. He caught the ball just 
past the half-court line and looked up. There, with 
no defenders in front of him, KeVaughn Allen was running toward the basket. Pass. Catch. Score.
Allen’s uncontested layup gave UF a 22-point 
lead late in the first half — a sign of more to come.
“The basket seems to be a little bit bigger when 
you’re in a defensive rhythm,” UF coach Mike White said.Fresh off of a miserable two-game losing streak 
— one in which the Gators defended poorly, shot a 
combined 18.6 percent from three-point range and 
openly criticized each other’s lack of effort and communication — UF looked like a revamped team Wednesday night.
There was energy. There were points. And be-
hind an improved defensive outing and one of its best offensive performances of the season, No. 25 Florida (15-5, 6-2 SEC) defeated LSU (9-10, 1-7) 106-71 on the road to earn its first conference win 
since Jan. 14.Gators demolish LSU with three-ball
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALLTHURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
and so for them to ﬁ  nally be rewarded for that … 
made it really special.”
The Gators’ time for celebration is over, however, 
as their next SEC battle comes tonight at 7 p.m. when they face Tennessee (12-7, 3-3 SEC) at the O’Connell Center.
UF has lost 48 of its 52 all-time matchups against 
the Volunteers. It snapped an 11-game losing streak 
against UT last season with a 74-66 victory in Knox-
ville, a contest that Butler didn’t coach due to a family emergency.
With Florida’s head coach back for this year’s con-
test, though, interior play is going to be a key point of 
emphasis if the Gators want to win.
“Very dynamic rebounding team, have a lot of size 
at the end of the ﬂ  oor, like to block a lot of shots,” 
Butler said of Tennessee. “So we have to play a good 
game all the way around.”
The Volunteers are led by Mercedes Russell, a 
6-foot-6 redshirt junior who averages 16.6 points per 
game and ranks fourth in the SEC in rebounding at 9.4 boards per game.
As always, however, the Gators' number one focus 
is on themselves rather than their opponent.
“We’re not as concerned about what they’re do-
ing,” freshman forward Sydney Morang said. “We’re just preparing the way that we did for Georgia and 
playing the game that we need to play.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BASKEBALL,  from pg. 14UF is 4-48 against 
Tennessee all-time
“Our defense, that’s gotta be our 
identity,” White said. “But we made a 
bunch of shots tonight.” 
Florida shot 56.3 percent from the 
field and made 57.6 percent of its 
three-pointers. The Gators’ 19 three 
pointers set a school record, and their 58 first-half points were the most un-der second-year coach White.
With Canyon Barry, Florida’s sec-
ond-leading scorer, sidelined with a sprained ankle, forward Devin Rob-inson sparked UF’s offense. He made four three-pointers in the first half alone and finished the game with a ca-reer-high 24 points on 9-for-15 shoot-ing.
“I just knew with Canyon out, 
somebody had to step up,” Robinson said. “We knew we really needed this one, so we came out focused.”
Freshman Eric Hester also helped 
fill the void left by Barry, scoring a career-high 16 points and making all five of his three-pointers.
But as well as Florida played, LSU 
played equally poorly. The Tigers missed wide-open shots. They made careless passes. They lagged back on defense after missed shots and even after makes, creating scoring opportu-nities for a Florida team desperate to prove it's worthy of a top-25 ranking.
During one sequence in the first 
half, when LSU guard Brandon Sam-son made a mid-range jumper, the Tigers’ defense failed to account for UF forward Kevarrius Hayes, who was streaking down the middle of the court. Chiozza delivered a cross-court pass into Hayes’ outstretched arms. Two steps later, Hayes had a dunk, and the Gators had a 27-14 lead.
“We tried to move the ball, share 
the ball and just try to find open guys,” Robinson said. “Our defense got our offense going.”
Maybe most impressively, Florida 
limited LSU leading scorer Antonio Blakeney to just four points. And it held the rest of the Tigers to 43.8 per-cent shooting from the field, forcing 11 turnovers and handing them their sixth consecutive loss.
“Hopefully we can maintain our 
momentum and have some carry over,” White said. “Our locker room right now has some confidence, and we feel pretty good about ourselves.”
A radio and television broadcast 
contributed to this report.
 
@icohenb 
icohen@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Robinson scored a career-best 24 points
The Associated Press
Mike White has a word with Florida forward Justin Leon during Florida's win over LSU on Wednesday in Baton Rouge. 
GAME INFO
• Who: Florida Gators (10-9, 1-5 SEC) vs. 
T ennessee Volunteers (12-7, 3-3 SEC)
• Where: O’Connell Center
• When: 7 p.m.
• TV: SEC Network +
• Radio: ESPN GainesvilleUF hit school-record 
19 three-pointers 
@ LSU:
Freshman Eric Hester: 5-for-5
Junior Devin Robinson: 5-for-8
Junior Chris Chiozza: 3-for-6
Sophomore KeVaughn Allen: 3-for-6
Senior Justin Leon: 3-for-616   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2017
