We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaTHURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorGatoRaas
UF’s GatoRaas dance team won ﬁ  rst place in Dallas, TX, pg. 3
Murder
Five suspects have been taken into custody for their involve-
ment in the 2016 murder of a Gainesville man, pg. 8Florida kicks oﬀ   SEC Tournament 
today
UF softball plays Ole Miss at 2:30 p.m. in 
the quarterfinals in Knoxville, TN, pg. 17
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
On Tuesday, Anne Clarke pre-
tended to die outside of Rep. Ted 
Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce.
Clarke, who was diagnosed 
with breast cancer in 2004, did so to show the congressman how the 
American Health Care Act would 
affect people like her.
Although Clarke’s cancer is 
now gone, she said insurers would 
consider it a pre-existing condition under the new health care bill, 
which passed in the U.S. House of Representatives on May 4. Al-though Yoho originally opposed 
the American Health Care Act be-
cause he thought it kept some of former President Barrack Obama’s health care law regulations in tact, he later released a statement 
announcing his support of the 
amended bill.
Clarke was one of about 30 oth-
ers to lay on the ground, holding 
up gray cardboard headstones out-side of Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce Tuesday af-
ternoon. The “die-in” was initially 
suggested by Indivisible, a nation-
al organization dedicated to resist-ing President Donald Trump’s po-litical agenda, especially his plans 
to replace the Affordable Care Act 
with the American Health Care Act.
Throughout the protest, people 
shared how the American Health 
Care Act would affect them or their 
loved ones. Some feared their mili-tary service would be considered a pre-existing condition, while oth-
ers discussed the possibility of not 
being able to afford treatment or VOLUME 111 ISSUE 145
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida legislators voted to 
approve a budget that will give UF about $120 million in new 
funding.
About $55 million will go 
toward research, $33 million 
toward building renovations 
and $17 million toward building 
maintenance, UF spokesperson Janine Sikes wrote in an email. Florida Bright Futures scholarships will also receive 
funding from the budget, which 
was passed Monday afternoon.
The $83 billion budget 
allocates money for state 
agencies, universities and public 
schools for the 2017-18 ﬁ  scal year. Although the budget was approved by the Florida Senate and House of Representatives, it can still be vetoed by Gov. Rick 
Scott.
Sikes said speciﬁ  c funds have 
been allocated for renovations 
at Norman Hall, which will receive $17.4 million, as well 
as the Engineering Innovation 
Nexus Building and the New Music Building.
“We are especially pleased 
that the legislature provided enough funding to complete the Norman Hall project a year earlier than expected,” Sikes said. 
Sikes said the money allocated 
to research endeavors will help the university achieve its goal of becoming a top-ranked public research university through 
increased stipends for graduate 
students and compensation for faculty.
The budget also makes 
enhancements to Florida Bright Futures scholarships. Now, the Florida Academic Scholars Award will cover 100 percent of tuition and associated fees, as 
opposed to $103 per credit hour.
Students who receive this 
award will also be rewarded 
with $300 each semester to cover textbook fees. This change will affect all those with 
the scholarship in the upcoming 
ﬁ  scal year.
Robert Crockett, a UF 
information systems junior 
and recipient of the Bright 
Future’s Florida Academic Scholars Award, said he thinks the change will beneﬁ  t college students across the state. 
“I think this will bring 
more gifted students to great schools now that they have the opportunity to afford high 
tuition costs,” the 19-year-old  Florida legislators pass 
$83 billion budget
SEE SENATE,  PAGE 4Adam Turner / Alligator Staff 
As a way of protesting the American Health Care Act, a group of about 30 local activists staged a die-in 
at Rep. T ed Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce in Gainesville on Tuesday. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer 
A city employee was attacked early 
Wednesday morning by a homeless man 
while entering her workplace at City Hall.
At about 7:30 a.m, as the woman walked 
toward City Hall, at 200 E. University Ave., she noticed a man standing at the doorway. When she tried to enter the building, Duan Deshawn Freeman, 33, pushed her to the 
ground and climbed on top of her, according to a Gainesville Police report. 
Freeman used his left hand to cover her 
mouth in an attempt to mufﬂ  e her screaming 
and his right hand to try removing her bra, blouse and pants, according to the report.
Multiple people from inside City Hall, in-
cluding James Munger, who works on the second ﬂ  oor, heard the woman’s screams and rushed outside to help. Munger said 
while Freeman was on top of the woman, 
his pants were down, completely exposing his butt, according to the report. As people rushed over 
to aid the woman, Free-man ran away, according 
to the report. After iden-tifying him, investigators 
found Freeman at about 
11:33 a.m. at the St. Fran-cis House homeless shel-ter, said GPD spokesper-
son Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. 
The woman, whose name has been kept 
conﬁ  dential as of press time, sustained cuts and bruises on her back, legs, hands and feet, according to the report. 
“(The) victim was able to injure her at-
tacker — which left fresh identiﬁ  able marks on him,” Tobias wrote in an email.
Freeman faces a charge of attempted sex-
ual battery. As of press time, he remains in the Alachua County Jail, awaiting his ﬁ  rst court appearance Thursday morning. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Female worker attacked by homeless man outside City Hall
Freeman
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 4“Die-in” at Ted Yoho’s oﬃ   ce CAMPUS
Protesters faked death“I think this will bring more 
gifted students to great 
schools now that they have 
the opportunity to aford 
high tuition costs.”
Robert Crockett
UF information systems junior 4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
said. 
On Tuesday, UF President Kent Fuchs 
issued a statement expressing his gratitude 
to the Florida House and Senate for their 
support of higher education and UF.
“The 2017-18 budget includes 
signiﬁ  cant investments in our programs 
and educational spaces, scholarships for 
our students and support for faculty and graduate students — all bolstering UF’s push to become one of the nation’s top public institutions,” he said.
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org
 SENATE,  from pg. 1UF received 
Distribution of funding
Where the money is going:
• Research: $55 million
• Building renovations:  $33 million 
• Building Maintenance: $17 million
Buildings receiving speciﬁ  c funding:
• Norman Hall: $17.4 million
• Engineering Innovation Nexus 
Building: $8.65 million
• New Music Building: $7 millionmedication due to supplementary cuts in 
Medicare.
“What’s important to highlight here is 
that even though I’ve had no other health issues and I didn’t do anything wrong, Re-publicans seem to think pre-existing condi-tions are our fault,” Clarke said. 
Since January, tensions have ﬂ  ared 
between local activist groups and the congressman, who serves Florida’s third congressional district, including Alachua, Clay, Putnam and Union counties, as well 
as most of Marion county. In addition to 
two town hall meetings held with the con-gressman in Gainesville earlier this year, the local chapter of Indivisible has orga-
nized weekly protests at Yoho’s regional 
ofﬁ  ce.Despite frequent appearances at Yoho’s 
ofﬁ  ce in Gainesville, representatives from the congressman’s ofﬁ  ce were not pleased 
with the Tuesday die-in. Protest organizer 
Olysha Magruder said one ofﬁ  ce work-er came out to tell protesters they were trespassing on private property and even threatened to call the police. 
This led protest leaders to move the die-
in from the parking lot to a grassy patch of land in front of the ofﬁ  ce, which is techni-cally public land, Magruder said.
Magruder said alongside other local ac-
tivists, she plans on continuing the protest of the American Health Care Act so Florida senators vote against it in the near future.
“We know they’re watching,” Magruder 
said. 
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.org PROTEST,  from pg. 1About 30 people attended WHAT’S HAPPENING?
'River of Dreams' 
The Matheson History 
Museum’s new exhibition, “River of Dreams: The St. Johns 
and Its Springs,” runs from now 
until June 24. This original exhi-
bition examines Floridians' past, present and future relationship with the St. Johns River and its springs. The exhibition and all 
related programs are free and 
open to the public. The exhibi-
tion includes original work by 
photographer Anne Ledbetter and Bruce Mozert; artifacts from 
Kingsley Plantation; a model of 
the Silver Glen Springs shell 
mound; documents and images 
on loan from the UF, Smathers Library, Special & Area Studies 
Collections and the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper 
project; and images of the St. 
Johns River, Ocklawaha River and Silver Springs from the Matheson's photographic, ste-
reographic and postcard col-
lections. For more information, 
visit mathesonmuseum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display 
The University Galleries at UF 
presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The exhibition features 
work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a 
popular street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of ur-
ban art. The show will include 
abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different sizes 
and other artifacts. An opening 
reception for "Layers" will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The 
exhibition and reception are 
free and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries. 
Museum Nights: Mini Mania
Join the Harn Museum of Art today from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. for Museum Nights: Mini Mania. 
This evening celebrates the 
miniature Asian art exhibition “Show Me the Mini.” View a petite dance performance, take 
a tiny tour and listen to the 
sounds of a toy piano perfor-mance. Art activities include painting a miniature landscape and folding itsy-bitsy origami. 
Admission is free. For more in-formation, visit harn.ufl.edu/
museumnights.
GatorNights: featuring Daniel 
Martin MagicGatorNights is bringing you a night of mystery for your first week back for Summer class-es. From escape rooms to mug 
shots, bring your friends and 
take home some fun memories. Daniel Martin is the headlining magician for the night, so bring 
some friends and prepare to be 
mind-blown. His show will take place from 8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. The mystery contin-
ues with the 2017 thriller “Get 
Out” as the featured film for the night, showing at both 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. Attendees must 
be current students and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Star Center Theatre and Caring 
and Sharing Learning School presents: ‘School of Rock’The Star Center Theatre and 
Caring and Sharing Learning 
School present “School of Rock” at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Friday and 
Saturday at 7:30 p.m. “School 
of Rock” is a brand new mu-sical based on the famous Paramount Pictures film written by Mike White, which starred 
Jack Black. The musical follows 
Dewey Finn, a failed wannabe rock star who decides to earn a few extra bucks by posing as 
a substitute teacher at a presti-
gious prep school. Completely disinterested in academic work, Dewey decides to create his own curriculum, turning his 
class into a guitar-shredding, 
bass-slapping, mind-blowing rock band. Tickets are $12 for children ages 2-12 and $17 for 
the general public. They can be 
purchased at performingarts.ufl.edu or at the UF Performing Arts Box Office.
Karaoke Night at the 
Hippodrome
The Hippodrome State Theatre is bringing karaoke back to their basement. Spend your Friday night with them for this free, fun event. Their bar will be open, too, if you need a little bit of 
liquid courage. The event runs 
from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. and is 
free to the public. For more in-formation, visit facebook.com/events/1692947081001695.
Flower Empower Yoga
Roll out your mat and come find your Zen at Flower Empower Yoga, a monthly, free yoga ses-sion for girls ages 11 to 18. This month's yoga session will take 
place Saturday from 11 a.m. to 
12 p.m. at the Alachua County Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. University Ave.
Lauren Wilsman of Zen Vibe 
Yoga will lead the yoga ses-
sions. Flower Empower Yoga is brought to young girls by Zen Vibe Yoga and Dream on 
Purpose. For questions, email 
info@dreamonpurpose.org.
Florida Museum to Host Speed-
Dating Science Evening event 
May 18Speed date a science subject. Join the Florida Museum of 
Natural History for an evening 
of science and snacks May 18 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. At “Speed Science: Night at the Museum,” 
guests may ask scientists their 
most burning questions one-on-one. Pre-registration is re-quired, and participants must be 18 years or older. The cost 
is $20 for members or $25 for 
non-members. For more infor-mation, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/cal-endar/grid/speed-science-1.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 145
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  96° LOW  64°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez , Carter Page, Nicole T anner
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren Johnson THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By T aylor Norberg
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When it was announced that 
UF’s GatoRaas dance team had 
won ﬁ  rst place at the Raas All-Stars National Championship, no one ran toward the trophy — they ran for each other.
The team took home their ﬁ  rst 
national title in seven years at the competition in Dallas, Texas, on 
April 15. Their routine showcased 
the traditional Indian folk dance of Dandiya Raas, which originated in India’s province of Gujarat.
“You stand in a semi-circle and in the middle is the trophy, but when we won no one wanted to get the trophy right away,” said 
Vikram Nandyala, a 19-year-old 
upcoming co-captain. “It really 
represented that we had become 
more than just a team.”
This year, the team added more 
energetic moves to modernize their style. The once ﬂ  uid chore-
ography became more rigid and 
technical in style.
“We started noticing that other 
teams in our circuit were imple-
menting a more modern style of 
Raas,” said Aksha Patel, a 22-year-old former team co-captain.The team continued to break 
personal bests throughout the season and gained more points 
at competitions than in previous 
years.
They arrived at the national 
competition with a mindset of gratitude, wanting to savor the 
moment of performing on such a 
large stage, Patel said. 
“I think the number one thing I 
wish for them is to remember why we dance, “ Patel said. “We’re 
there to have fun and to show our 
culture to everyone who watches 
and to show our new members that exact passion.”The theme of their dance rou-
tine was “Toy Story,” with one dancer representing Andy and the 
others representing additional toy 
characters, said Umbar Malik, a 
22-year-old former co-captain.
“‘Toy Story’ was a huge crowd 
pleaser because it was easily rec-
ognizable, and the routine fol-
lowed the storyline of the movie,” 
Malik said. 
This season, the group was 
comprised of almost all newcom-ers, which ended up being an ad-
vantage since the team captains 
wanted to teach a new, modern-ized style of Raas, said Nandyala, a UF ﬁ  nance junior.
With a new vision for the team 
in place, GatoRaas went to ﬁ  ve 
competitions in the 2016-17 sea-
son and practiced nine to 10 hours 
a week, sometimes rehearsing ev-
ery day, Nandyala said.
On the back of the team’s T-
shirts is the quote, “Pain is tempo-rary, pride is forever.” Nandyala 
said this quote resonated with him 
when he saw their hard work pay off.  
“This year showed me that 
all the sacriﬁ  ces and pain I go through come out positive in the end,” he said.
Take a Tiny Tour
 
Fold Itsy Bitsy Origami 
 
View Toy Piano and Petite 
Dance Performances
 
Create a Miniature Landscape 
Painting and much more! 
image: Ryuto, Japanese, Miniature Album, 19th century, Museum purchase 
funds provided by the Kathleen M. Axline Acquisition Endowment
www.harn.ufl.eduTonight! May 11 
6 - 9 p.m. 
 Mini ManiaFREE FOOD + ADMISSION 
CAMPUS
 UF’s GatoRaas dance team wins a national title in Texas
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF’s GatoRaas dance team poses with their trophy from the Raas All-Stars National Championship. Courtesy to the Alligator
UF’s GatoRaas dance team celebrates a win on Feb. 4 at the Raas Mania competition at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The team went to ﬁ  ve competitions for the 2016-17 season.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
said. 
On Tuesday, UF President Kent Fuchs 
issued a statement expressing his gratitude 
to the Florida House and Senate for their 
support of higher education and UF.
“The 2017-18 budget includes 
signiﬁ  cant investments in our programs 
and educational spaces, scholarships for 
our students and support for faculty and graduate students — all bolstering UF’s push to become one of the nation’s top public institutions,” he said.
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org
 SENATE,  from pg. 1UF received 
Distribution of funding
Where the money is going:
• Research: $55 million
• Building renovations:  $33 million 
• Building Maintenance: $17 million
Buildings receiving speciﬁ  c funding:
• Norman Hall: $17.4 million
• Engineering Innovation Nexus 
Building: $8.65 million
• New Music Building: $7 millionmedication due to supplementary cuts in 
Medicare.
“What’s important to highlight here is 
that even though I’ve had no other health issues and I didn’t do anything wrong, Re-publicans seem to think pre-existing condi-tions are our fault,” Clarke said. 
Since January, tensions have ﬂ  ared 
between local activist groups and the congressman, who serves Florida’s third congressional district, including Alachua, Clay, Putnam and Union counties, as well 
as most of Marion county. In addition to 
two town hall meetings held with the con-gressman in Gainesville earlier this year, the local chapter of Indivisible has orga-
nized weekly protests at Yoho’s regional 
ofﬁ  ce.Despite frequent appearances at Yoho’s 
ofﬁ  ce in Gainesville, representatives from the congressman’s ofﬁ  ce were not pleased 
with the Tuesday die-in. Protest organizer 
Olysha Magruder said one ofﬁ  ce work-er came out to tell protesters they were trespassing on private property and even threatened to call the police. 
This led protest leaders to move the die-
in from the parking lot to a grassy patch of land in front of the ofﬁ  ce, which is techni-cally public land, Magruder said.
Magruder said alongside other local ac-
tivists, she plans on continuing the protest of the American Health Care Act so Florida senators vote against it in the near future.
“We know they’re watching,” Magruder 
said. 
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.org PROTEST,  from pg. 1About 30 people attended THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
IT INCLUDES A STARBUCKS.
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
Just north of University Avenue, Gaines-
ville’s 13th Publix location has opened its 
doors to the UF community.
The campus-oriented grocery store, located 
at 203 NW 13th St., ofﬁ  cially opened May 4. It includes a pharmacy, a Starbucks and an out-
door lounge area. The parking lot includes 63 
car spots, four handicap spots, 32 scooter spots and two spaces for motorcycles, according to 
Alligator archives.
“Publix is proud to open its ﬁ  rst store in 
this beautiful community near the University of Florida, which includes a Starbucks,” said Dwaine Stevens, a spokesperson for Publix. 
The store hired 145 new employees and is 
open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily, Stevens said.
Prior to its grand opening, in a show of sup-
port for the community, Stevens said Publix donated to four local charities. The donations included $296,500 to United Way of North 
Central Florida, $3,044.43 to the Field and Fork Pantry, $70,000 to Alachua County’s Habitat 
for Humanity and $64,809.16 to Bread of the 
Mighty Food Bank. 
Although some students say the store is 
smaller than they would have liked, many 
agree that the on-campus location is conve-
nient.
“It’s kind of small, but it’s also kind of 
close to where I live,” said Keira Wharton, a 19-year-old UF psychology freshman. “So it’s 
convenient.”
Sydnee Vaughan, 18, said she believes the 
new store is close to everything, making it eas-
ily accessible to students who live on campus.
“Honestly it’s great,” the UF nutritional sci-
ences freshman said. “It’s very convenient, it’s 
very modern.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.org UF-centric Publix opens 
By David Street
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Student Senate held its ﬁ  rst meeting 
of the Summer on Tuesday, where they elect-
ed a new member-at-large. 
Anmol Shah, a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore, 
was unanimously voted in after a ﬁ  ve-minute 
Q&A period. There were no other candidates.
The questions Senate members asked in-
cluded why Shah was interested in serving as 
a member-at-large and what excites her most about being a member-at-large. 
Shah said topics that are most important 
to her are inclusivity, tolerance, respect and impartiality.
The members-at-large are part of the Re-
placement and Agenda Committee. They have the ﬁ  nal say on agendas and interview replacement senators. 
Twenty-one new senators for Summer A 
and Summer C terms were also introduced at the meeting. New Senate seat positions were advertised 
at the April 18 meeting, said President Pro-tempore Trevor Schaettle, a 21-year-old UF 
history senior. 
One of the new senators is Cole Gabriel, 
a 21-year-old UF accounting senior and the 
Graduate and Family Housing senator. 
“I’m passionate about serving my fellow 
students,” Gabriel said. “My objective is to make sure that they’re (Student Government) speaking for this minority that is graduate stu-dents, because even if they’re only here for a 
year, their needs are still really important as 
students.”
When determining who gets to serve on 
Senate, Schaettle said his committee looks for the most qualiﬁ  ed and passionate students. He said about 100 applicants were denied.
“Summer C is a great opportunity for peo-
ple to get their feet wet throughout Senate,”  he said.
 New senators introduced The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Former FBI Director James Comey was 
more involved in U.S. political affairs than any predecessor in living memo-
ry, excluding perhaps J. Edgar Hoover. 
While Comey got away with this un-
der former President Barack Obama and his holdover appointees, recently confirmed At-
torney General Jefferson Sessions and Deputy 
Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, were not going to have the federal police force become another political body. As Sessions put it, “It is es-sential that this Department of Justice clearly reaffirm 
its commitment to longstanding principles that ensure 
the integrity and fairness of federal investigations and prosecutions. The Director of the FBI must be someone who follows faithfully the rules and principles of the 
Department of Justice...” Comey’s conduct had more 
to do with his own celebrity than with upholding the principles and image of the DOJ and the bureau.  
Recalling the investigation into the emails of former 
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Comey was prompt-
ed by former Attorney General Loretta Lynch to give a 
recommendation to the DOJ on whether to prosecute Clinton. While this was Lynch’s decision to make, her secret tarmac meeting with Bill Clinton days prior im-
paired her ability to appear impartial. She depended 
on Comey to make the call. Comey, in what was sup-posed to be a brief announcement of the conclusion of his investigation, catalogued for an hour the ways in which Hillary Clinton violated federal law by shar-
ing classified information on her private email server. 
Republicans were salivating, as a recommendation to prosecute Clinton began to sound unavoidable. Would the DOJ under Obama finally do something impartial 
and apolitical? Not hardly. Comey surprisingly con-
cluded by refusing either to call a grand jury or recom-mend prosecution for Clinton. Republicans everywhere were alarmed and disappointed that someone who clearly violated the law would not see her day in court. They resented Comey until 
he returned to the spotlight. 
In October, less than a month before Elec-
tion Day, Comey held yet another press con-
ference. In what became known as his “Oc-
tober Surprise,” Comey declared that he was 
reopening the investigation of Clinton, after several thousands of her previously believed 
to be deleted emails were found on the server of former U.S. Rep Anthony Weiner, the disgraced husband of 
Clinton’s right-hand woman, Huma Abedin. Comey ex-
plained that these emails had to be assessed, enraging Democrats everywhere, who feared another negative Clinton story could further damage her already lack-
luster, message-less campaign. Then just days later, 
missing his beloved spotlight, Comey returned to cen-ter stage to declare the investigation closed yet again.  
The DOJ is supposed to be apolitical, taking into 
account only the law and the facts, regardless of the 
political ideology of the president or the subject of the 
investigation. The DOJ and the country depend on the FBI to conduct these investigations impartially. Over the last year, under the leadership of Comey, the FBI 
has been anything but apolitical. His concern with his 
own celebrity, and image, instead of for justice, was more than enough reason for Sessions to recommend his removal. Thankfully the “Comey Show” is over, and the DOJ can get back to making impartial judgements 
based on the rule of law. All Americans, Democrat or 
Republican, should be supportive of this termination. 
Jack Story is a UF political science graduate. His 
column usually appears on Mondays.Firing Comey: A move that was long overdueThere are several topics we are constantly warned to 
steer clear of when meeting new people. As a general rule of thumb, it is never a smart idea to bring up the subjects of religion, money and — of course — politics. History has shown us time and time again that these are 
some of the most controversial matters in the world. This past year especially, politics became the crux of major issues on a national scale as well as a personal one.
The last presidential election had Republicans and Dem-
ocrats at each others’ throats, and that is putting it lightly. Americans began to cling to their political party for dear life, even if they previously considered themselves to be only loosely affiliated. 
What has resulted from this increasing strength in party 
identification is a rigidly divided American public. We became a society of Donald Trump fans and Hillary Clinton fans, not a society of united people. The division that arose does not feel dissimilar to the #TeamEdward or #TeamJacob battles that took place in our aggressively awkward tween years. It seems that as a society, we have digressed.
The judgment that is now surpassed on a person for their 
political beliefs is something that has spilled over into all walks of life. Friendships have been lost, family relationships have 
been strained, and business deals have fallen through. Why? 
Is it because someone filled in a different bubble than you on a sheet of paper back in November? It seems absurd when you think about the fact that we have allowed this election to cause so much destruction in our own lives. 
I’ll admit, I too have been guilty of casting judgment on 
people whose voting choice might have differed from mine, but that doesn’t make it OK. For a while, however, I thought it was.
I think it was largely the theatrics, extremities and general 
egregiousness that took place in the last election that left peo-ple in awe. People began to seek comfort and solace among like-minded friends and so the division began. What started as harmless congregation for therapeutic talks turned into friends hating each other and reasons for hatred among their agree-able companions. Animosity over political ideology became not only acceptable, but encouraged.
Around the holidays, people would post on social media 
complaining about how they would have to endure their “Trump/Hillary supporting family” as if they now love them less because of the election. America became almost like a gi-ant high-school cafeteria with either group sticking their nose up at the other and looking down them.
Now that we are more than 100 days into the Trump presi-
dency, I think it is time we come back together as one united country. The election is over, and the damage has been done. We have enough to worry about under Trump’s reign without 
creating more problems on our own accord. 
This is not to say I think people should compromise their 
integrity or give up what they believe. It is to say that we need 
to learn again how to be a tolerant society. 
America prides itself on its diversity and freedom, and we 
all become somewhat hypocritical when we dismiss another American for no reason other than their political beliefs. It is fine to have your opinions. It is also fine to fight for what you believe in, but it is about time we start doing so in a tolerant 
and inclusive manner.We need to make 
room for tolerance 
in politics
Jack Story
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
The phrase my mother consistently 
used to persuade me to clean my plate at dinner gradually became more per-sonal as I got older and as our home country started entering hysteria. That 
phrase was, “There are starving children out there.” These children are not those we are appropriated to believe come from charity commercials. These children take the form of my family and other oppressed people in Venezuela.
When I moved from my birthplace of Va-
lencia, Venezuela, to Houston and later to Chi-cago, I had just celebrated my ﬁ  rst birthday in 
1998. Photographs tell me my party was full 
of family I had yet to know in an apartment my parents were ready to leave. My mom tells me America was not the ﬁ  rst scam she ex-perienced, but it was responsible for the ﬁ  rst time her cholesterol went up. At the time, the media told of an election between two men in new political parties, one of whom promised anti-corruption and anti-poverty. His name 
was Hugo Chavez.
Four-year-old me came to know a teacher named Pam and learned English 
by watching television. Upon vis-iting my grandmother’s apartment in Valencia, I met the people to whom I had likely babbled the 
phrase “Los quiero” whenever 
the phone was pushed up against my ear. Meeting my tias (aunts, in Spanish) Marlene, Lilia, Gra-ciela and Grecia felt like I had four strange mothers. They locked their doors a lot after we came inside, and they didn’t carry purses on the streets. My grand-father owned a grocery store smaller than the 
ones in Illinois but with fresher mangos.
Ages 6 through 10 showed me more of 
what was going on in Venezuela, and I ﬁ  nally 
learned all of my cousins’ names over the phone. I turned into a white suburban out-cast because I had black hair, tan skin and the only people with whom I spoke Spanish with were my parents and sister. Chavez appar-ently wasn’t letting people talk about his ma-
nipulation or they could be silenced. I heard 
my parents throw around the Spanish words “matando” and “peligroso” after many phone calls. The fact that my aunt’s washing machine was sto-len from the top ﬂ  oor of her apart-ment was terrifyingly amusing.
Ten years after I left Valencia, I 
came back to warnings on how we should avoid yellow taxis, since my uncle was killed while on the job. I ﬁ  nally spent all of two weeks with my family who I couldn’t af-
ford to see any earlier, and I learned that I loved them all along. People could distinguish my Spanish from others because I didn’t have 
an accent or properly use slang. I was told I 
shouldn’t speak too much in public. By the time I left my real family, I knew I wouldn’t be back any time soon.
While I receive the comfortable education 
my family risks their lives to give me, I think of the people whose lives I could have lived had my parents not had the opportunity to leave Venezuela. 
“I feel ignorant,” I told my mom as we re-
viewed the latest in protests, feeling slightly helpless. She reassured me that my knowl-edge does more than I think.
Our responsibility as citizens of a privi-
leged (and currently threatened) country is to pay attention and talk. The way we are inﬂ  u-
enced will hopefully motivate us in the future 
to join forces in righting wrongs. Venezuelan freedom of press currently faces extinction as publications and journalists are consis-tently shut down by the government for lack of funds to complete basic operational stan-dards; the private media is controlled. 
Our real fears in current events embody 
the reality just across the Caribbean. Assault 
and robbery are commonplace as inﬂ  ation has 
risen an exorbitant amount, which has even-tually led to desperate murders and ofﬁ  cials continuing to claim there is no humanitarian crisis. Last week, global news outlets docu-mented violent protests erupting in Venezuela — they are speaking, and we see them being silenced.
Karla Arboleda is a UF journalism and 
international studies senior. Her column ap-pears on Thursdays.
Venezuela's humanitarian crisis: An incentive to care more about AmericaColumn
Karla Arboleda
opinions@alligator.org
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads FRIDAY NIGHT 
$3 Margaritas; $3 Lemon Drop 
Shots; and $4 First Magnitude Drafts
SATURDAY NIGHT 
$3 Tequila Shots; $3 Cocktail on Tap; 
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL 
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
The work of local autistic art-
ists was showcased and celebrat-
ed at the Hippodrome State The-
atre on Monday night.
In a partnership with West Port 
High School in Ocala and the UF Center for Autism and Related 
Disabilities, the Hippodrome held 
a fundraiser titled, “Envision the 
Invisible: Celebrating Autism in the Arts” to celebrate autism on 
all points of the spectrum.
In addition to enjoying artwork 
created by autistic individuals 
in the Hippodrome’s art gallery, 
guests of the event were able to 
watch an hourlong play illustrat-
ing autism through the eyes of 
someone who isn’t directly im-pacted by the disability. The per-formance, called “The Invisible,” was written by an alumnus of WPHS whose brother is autistic. It was performed by members of the 
high school’s Autism Spectrum 
Disorder unit.
Norma Barnes, an Autism 
Spectrum Disorder teacher at 
WPHS, said it was amazing to see 
the event come together after be-
ing in the works since January.
In order to bridge the appar-
ent divide she saw between high-
school students with special needs 
and those without them, Barnes started a program called Wolfpack 
United Mentor Program.
Barnes said the event’s purpose 
was to show those in the commu-
nity that those with autism want 
to be included and acknowledged 
just like everyone else. “We’re hoping to advocate and 
celebrate people on the spectrum 
and show the public how they re-ally want to be included in com-munity activities,” Barnes said. 
Tyler, a 17-year-old autistic 
student who wished to keep his last name anonymous, said par-
ticipating in a discussion panel 
at the showcase Monday evening 
was one of the best experiences of 
his life.
An 11th grader at WPHS, Ty-
ler shed light on what it means to 
have autism.
“I just want people to know 
that all minds, bodies and souls 
are created equal (and) should be 
treated equal,” he said. 
@catie_wegman
cwegman@alligator.org  Hippodrome State Theatre celebrates autism in the arts 
Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff 
Nine-year-old Case Russel showcased his artwork at the Hippo-
drome State Theatre’s “Envision the Invisible: Celebrating Autism in the Arts” on Monday night. The Hippodrome paired with the UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities and West Port High School in Ocala to celebrate autistic artists in the community.
ANTONIO MASON’S MURDER 
WENT UNSOLVED FOR 
ALMOST A YEAR.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost a year after the 2016 murder of a 
Gainesville father, ﬁ  ve suspects have been 
taken into custody.
On April 25, Gainesville Police identi-
ﬁ  ed ﬁ  ve suspects connected to the July 2016 killing of Antonio Mason, 35. In the span of three days, all ﬁ  ve of the suspects 
were taken into custody. 
Jacoby Shefﬁ  eld, 27, Daryl Wilkerson, 
25, Jamal Thompson, 21, Rodney Shefﬁ  eld, 
28, and David Lock, 32, have all been con-nected to Mason’s death, as well as the nonfatal shooting of his infant daughter and a bystander, according to a GPD press release.
On April 25, GPD arrested Wilkerson 
and Jacoby Shefﬁ  eld, while Thompson was incarcerated in Georgia, said GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. At about 
10 p.m. April 26, Rodney Shefﬁ  eld turned 
himself into the Alachua County Jail. Few-er than eight hours later, Lock also turned himself in, Tobias said.
All ﬁ  ve suspects face charges of ﬁ  rst-de-
gree murder and two counts of attempted murder, according to the release.
On July 27, Mason died after four gun-
men invaded the house he was in and shot 
him in the chest, police said. The gunmen 
also shot Mason’s infant daughter, Zy’mya, whom he was holding during the invasion — as well as a bystander.GPD believes Rodney Shefﬁ  eld prom-
ised to pay the other four suspects to break into the house, located at 820 NW Fourth 
Place, under the false impression that 
someone who lived there had previously stolen money from him, according to the release.
“They broke into the house and just be-
gan shooting wildly,” Tobias said.
Zy’mya, who was 11 months old at the 
time, and the bystander, Jordan Smith, were both hit by gunﬁ  re but survived, ac-
cording to the release.
“The young infant that was shot, that 
bullet wound in her arm is going to be a 
somber reminder to her that her father is 
not there to watch her grow up,” Tobias 
said.
After the shooting, GPD offered a $3,000 
reward for information that would lead to an arrest, according to Alligator archives. In late August, after receiving little infor-mation from the ﬁ  rst incentive, GPD raised 
the award to $5,000 and did so again in 
September to $8,000.
As of press time, Wilkerson, Jacoby 
Shefﬁ  eld and Lock remain in the Alachua 
County Jail, each in lieu of a $3.5 million 
bond. Rodney Shefﬁ  eld remains in jail in lieu of a $3.25 million bond.
“We know it’s not closure cause it’ll 
never bring Antonio back,” Tobias said, 
“but we’re happy to have brought justice 
for the family.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org  Five suspects in custody for 2016 murder of a Gainesville father
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Gainesville Club Scene
Gallery Ultralounge dance club will remain open 
under a new name, pg 12Summer Jams
What songs you should (and shouldn’t) put on your summer playlist, pg #10By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Gainesville’s groundbreaking new the-
ater festival, Summer Shakes, will address 
sexism and unequal representation within 
the theater community by producing two 
Shakespeare plays performed exclusively by a female-identifying cast. 
Auditions for the two plays, “Julius Cae-
sar” and “Richard III,” were held in Weimer Hall on May 9 and May 10, where actresses were asked to perform a one-minute clas-sical monologue traditionally performed by a man. The auditions will continue today 
from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in Weimer Hall.
According to the press release, Summer 
Shakes, which was started by UF students 
Logan Vonada, Samantha Stone and Taylor 
Bartenope, strives to reinvent Shakespeare 
through messages of empowerment and femininity in modern society.
Bartenope, co-founder and production 
manager of Summer Shakes, said the most important part of creating the festival was making sure that the outcome accurately reﬂ  ected the founder’s mission. 
“We’re all very active in our beliefs in 
politics and progressive ideals, so we knew that we wanted the festival to be inclu-sive,” the 22-year-old tourism, events and 
recreation management senior said. “We 
really wanted to include all these different people who aren’t as represented, not just in Gainesville, but in theater in general, be-cause there are still different parts of the 
arts that are still so heavily male-dominat-
ed, and it would be really cool to include girls who have just as much talent, just as 
much skill and to really feature them.” 
Bartenope said Shakespeare was chosen 
because, in order to fulﬁ  ll Summer Shakes’ 
desire for inclusiveness, there needs to be 
enough available resources for those who 
wish to participate. 
“Shakespeare is accessible to every-
one. You don’t need to have money to read it; you can Google it and read it on-
line because it’s no longer copyrighted,” 
Bartenope said. “We’re also interpreting the plays in different ways that are not going to just be point-blank Shakespeare. 
We’re making sure we can make a state-
ment about ego-masculinity and femininity by including those female roles.” 
Hannah Smith, a 20-year-old UF po-
litical science junior, said that while she hadn’t been involved in theater since high school, she was inspired to audition due to the all-female cast and directors. 
“I think sometimes women have to 
make a space for themselves, whether it be in the arts or anywhere else,” Smith said. “This production, I think, could have a 
great opportunity for that.”
Smith said she believes the limited num-
ber of roles available to women in theater 
can be summed up by the fact that male writers are generally valued more. “Male writers are paid more and taken 
more seriously,” Smith said. “When the opportunity for male writers is skewed in 
their favor, we have a narrower viewpoint 
represented.” 
Summer Shakes hopes to ﬁ  ght against 
this inequality in representation by empha-
sizing the importance of female acting, di-
recting and producing in theater. 
“We want people who come to see our 
plays to feel empowered, to feel inspired and to realize that there’s a lot of girls in the arts that can direct, produce, act, paint and perform,” Bartenope said. “There’s so much that can be done for such little re-
sources. You can do anything that you set 
your mind to, and for us, it was a theater festival.”
Summer Shakes will be featuring pro-
ductions of “Julius Caesar,” directed by Stone, and “Richard III,” directed by Vonada, with show dates and times still to be announced.   
Courtesy to  the Alligator
The Summer Shakes theater festival will present both Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar” and “Richard III” with an all female-
identifying cast.F estival to feature all female-identifying cast
“W e’re all very active in our beliefs in 
politics and progressive ideals, so we 
knew that we wanted the festival to be 
inclusive.” 
T aylor Bartenope
UF tourism, events and 
recreation management seniorBecause not all releases are created equal
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Consider Iggy Azalea’s “Fan-
cy,” Omi’s “Cheerleader” 
and The Chainsmokers’ 
“Closer.” What do all of 
these songs have in com-
mon? They were all summertime re-
leases that dominated the charts in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. 
Summer is a big season for music 
releases since people are looking for soundtracks to their vacations, road-
trips and other activities. As the sea-
son gets closer, here are some recent releases to help you start curating 
your summer playlist.10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
YOUR SUMMER PLAYLIST
“Slow Hands” By Niall Horan
After several listens to Niall Horan’s new single, I’m still puzzled as to which genre this track falls into.
At ﬁ  rst listen, it is obvious the track is overly produced, causing all the varying sounds to be tastelessly 
muddled together. With country-style guitar picking, lyrics that mirror a pop song and a constant “woo” between verses, there is no coherent sound. Add the fact Horan’s weaker vocal ability is being buried underneath this instrumental conundrum — this song is having an identity crisis. 
The track itself sounds like an attempt at a more risque version of a One Direction song you have already 
listened to and would probably prefer.
Horan should stick to the lighter pop sound of his ﬁ  rst single, “This Town,” rather than attempt to adopt a 
style that seems unnatural.
“I’m the One” By DJ Khaled 
featuring Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance The Rapper and Lil Wayne
In a time where most rap collaborations consist of subtle burns at other artists’ use of ghost writers or their 
lack of success (I’m looking at you Drake, Future and Meek Mill), listeners need an upbeat rap track. 
And although I can’t help but cringe at the typical “We da best music, anotha one,” DJ Khaled lead in, this 
collaboration works. 
This track features Justin Bieber, Quavo, who gained popularity in 2017 for his track “Bad and Boujee” (he’s 
one of three rappers in the group Migos), Chance The Rapper and Lil Wayne. Although Bieber’s chorus gets repetitive, it allows each rapper to maintain his own sound, serves as a clean transition and provides the song with a catchy beat.
“I’m the One” is the ﬁ  rst of many releases that embody the requirements of a light summertime tune and is 
worth adding to your playlist.THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
Often when two strong vocalists collaborate on a track, one is either left in the background or the two don’t blend together. In the case of Dua Lipa’s collaboration with rhythm 
and blues artist Miguel, “Lost in Your Light” was a success. 
A dance song about ﬁ  nding adventure in passionate love graces every summer playlist, and this track is no exception. 
Even though artists like Tove Lo and Bebe Rexha have similar song styles, Lipa’s R&B-style vocals add a sultry sound to the track that compliments the upbeat tempo of the 
electronic-dance-music-style instrumentals. 
Lipa is gaining popularity on the music scene following collaborations with electronic DJs like Martin Garrix and Major Lazer. Her next major collaboration will be with Cold-
play’s Chris Martin for “Homesick” on her self-titled upcoming albu m, which will be out June 2.
Your summer playlist continued …
“Stay Together” By Noah Cyrus
Every summer comes with a barrage of “YOLO” tracks aimed to mirror the carefree attitude of the season. Normally, these songs begin to blend together due to a lack of originality in 
the subject — that is, until Noah Cyrus released “Stay Together.” 
In comparison to her ﬁ  rst single “Make Me (Cry),” Cyrus’ new track has unedited vocals, allowing her lisp to punctuate each lyric with a natural brevity. Listeners were ﬁ  rst reluctant when introduced to the idea of another Cyrus releasing music, assuming she would use the success of her older sister, Miley Cyrus, to gain popularity. However, with vocals that resemble a mix between Lana Del Rey and Florence Welch being backed by clean instrumentals in both of her releases, Noah has started making a name for 
herself in the music world. 
Although “Stay Together” has parallels to Miley’s 2013 hit “We Can’t Stop,” Noah’s alternative sound sets her apart from her famous sibling. Her debut album “NC-17” has no scheduled 
release date, but it will continue to show listeners her ability as an artist.
“Lost in Your Light” By Dua Lipa featuring MiguelBy Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
Where Gallery Ultralounge’s business 
hours should be displayed on its Facebook 
page, there are, instead, two words: “per-
manently closed.” However, the header 
photo’s words, laid atop an ominous, black, star-speckled backdrop give Gallery partygoers hope: “Coming Soon.” 
Almost 1 1/2 years after its initial open-
ing, Gallery Ultralounge, a popular vehicle for the electronic dance music scene in Gainesville, is closed for a makeover and name change before Summer B classes at 
UF begin. 
The club will reopen at its West Univer-
sity Avenue location with an interior al-
most unrecognizable to regulars at the end 
of June, owner Douglas Palmeri said. 
“Nature-themed” and “more organic” 
were some of the phrases Palmeri used 
to describe his vision for the reopening, which will introduce a more “DJ friendly” 
space and cater to the different styles of 
music under the electronic dance umbrella.
“We are going to open the space, up-
date sound and lighting, and completely 
renovate the bar, ﬂ  oors, walls and general 
layout,” Palmeri said. “It’s going to have a whole new vibe and give partygoers a com-pletely different experience. Our sales were going down, yes, but mainly we were only 
catering to one crowd. We still want to stay 
loyal to our EDM fans, but one night of the week, we want to explore different, more 
mainstream styles of music.” 
Palmeri stressed that he didn’t want to 
settle for “mediocrity” or let the space be 
“just another club in town.”  His main fo-
cus is for the space to be a work of art in 
itself, just as he said he believes the music to be.
The true catalyst for the renovation, in-
cluding a new menu and addition of a “dif-ferent music night,” was inspiration from the aesthetic and overall vibe of this year’s Miami Music Week, an electronic dance event held annually in March.
Les Voss, the owner of Over Easy Cre-
ative, is a promoter for EDM and has been throwing weekly house-music-oriented parties at Gallery Ultralounge since Janu-ary 2016. 
“Once a month, we throw a party called 
Hard Boiled that has more forward-think-ing bass music, and we also have Surﬁ  ng on a Rocket, which is lasers and future 
bass with lots of synthesizer sounds,” Voss 
said. “We try to bring in regional and na-tional talent a few times a month. We’ve brought national acts Sage Armstrong, Huxley, Ardalan, Toadface, as well as lots and lots of regional friends.”
Much of the EDM scene in Gainesville 
is underground, and though a small de-
mographic of music fans is familiar with 
the types of artists who perform at places like Gallery Ultralounge, they are steadfast in their loyalty to places like Gallery Ul-tralounge.
The changes Palmeri is making to Gal-
lery Ultralounge are expected to beneﬁ  t all of his promoters as well. Voss in particu-lar, who has been with the gallery since its 
inception, commended Palmeri’s contribu-
tion to the underground EDM community after a local favorite, The Motor Room, originally named Spannk, closed in 2015.“The goal we’ve come to agree on … is 
to create a space that’s transformable with lights and different genres of music to be-come different things for different nights, 
while still keeping a genuine approach and 
not losing ourselves in a sea of nightlife options,” Voss said. 
Gallery Ultralounge’s inﬂ  uence on the 
EDM scene in Gainesville is not lost on the 
city’s newer residents, including Christo-
pher Klein, a self-proclaimed EDM junkie. 
“I’m stoked that the new Gallery is going 
to be unlike anywhere else in Gainesville 
to rage to EDM,” Klein said. “From what 
I’m hearing, the renovations will create a unique selling point for the business.”  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gallery Ultralounge club on West University Avenue will undergo major renovations before reopening for Summer B.
12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
 Gallery Ultralounge to reopen with a different name
ARTBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Assistant Principal Ed 
Haukland stepped foot onto the 
ﬁ  eld of his elementary school April 29, he knew he’d be getting dunked underwater. 
About 700 students, teachers 
and Gainesville residents gathered under the blistering sun at Kimball Wiles Elementary School for its annual Family Fun Day. Students dragged parents from the ﬁ  ve bounce houses on the school’s out-door ﬁ  eld to the food-vendor fair in the front parking lot — and to the 
outdoor faculty dunk tank. 
Haukland, 48, took his ﬁ  rst 
shift, and to the glee of the students 
who ran up and pushed a big red button, he was dropped straight into the water.
“We’re all people, right?” Hauk-
land joked after stepping out of the tank, every part of him soaked, 
from the hat on top of his head to 
his fake alligator-skin shoes. “We all have fun together.”
The school has thrown the car-
nival on and off for about a decade as an opportunity to bring families together and raise money for the school’s parent teacher association, said Kelly Goede, a lead member of 
the association and president-elect 
for next year. 
“It’s an event for kids to come out with their families and have a good time,” she said. “Just to have fun — fundraising and fun.” 
Goede, a lead organizer for the 
carnival, said this year’s event had a special theme: superheroes. Plastic masks depicting The Aveng-ers, Batman and Spider-Man were 
taped along the hallway between 
the cafeteria and outdoor court-yard. Wonder Woman banners outlined the check-in and ticket booth on the front parking lot. The PTA also displayed a life-
sized Iron Man replica and Captain America costume in the cafeteria, which kids and families posed with throughout the afternoon. Goede said her friend James Coates, the CEO of local armor manufacturer Phalanx Defense Systems, provid-
ed the replicas for the event.
On the other side of the court-
yard, Cristina and Sherman Mer-
ricks watched their three kids, Ariana, Kayden and Judah, play around one of the event’s obstacle courses.
“He’s a competitive kid,” Cris-
tina said of Kayden as he worked to complete the last stage of a mini obstacle course: throwing balls through ﬁ  ve adjacent hoops. “He’s more interested in the prize at the 
end — anything that can get tickets 
really quickly.”
Cristina and Sherman, both 
founders and co-owners of Dynasty CrossFit, said although their chil-dren go to Gainesville’s The Rock School, a private Christian school, they came to Wiles Elementary’s 
event to support the school and 
their friends in the PTA. 
They said they arrived at about 
2:30 p.m. and initially planned to stay for only a brief time. But two hours later, 5-year-old Ariana, 8-year-old Kayden and 3-year-old Judah were still hard at play.
“They don’t want to leave — we 
were only going to stay for a few minutes,” Cristina said. “They love it (here).”
Wiles Elementary’s school re-
source ofﬁ  cer, Philip J. Mauldin, said he goes by “Mauldin” to most of his Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-ﬁ  ce colleagues and fellow deputies.
To the students, however, he’s 
“Ofﬁ  cer PJ.” To some of the ﬁ  fth graders, he’s even just “PJ.”
In turn, he said, he knows all 
the kids.
“People ask me how many kids 
I have, and I say, ‘Well, I have to add my two on and 985,’” he said, referring to the nearly 1,000 stu-dents who attend the school. 
After more than ﬁ  ve years at 
Wiles Elementary, Mauldin said he views the school and its students as the future.
“A lot of people want to com-
plain about the education system, but it starts right here,” he said. “This is the bread and butter.”THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.Reduce your showertime by 2 min.Reduce your showertime by 2 min.Reduce your showertime by 2 min.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
PhotographersOPEN HOUSE
Fri., Jan. 13, from 2 to 5 p.m.
Please send resume 
and clips to mvossler@alligator.organd editor@alligator.orgTHE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO 
FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITION:David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
At Kimball Wiles Elementary School’s annual carnival, students and their families posed with life-sized rep-
licas of Iron Man and Captain America, which were manufactured by the local Phalanx Defense Systems.
 ‘Fundraising and fun’: Wiles Elementary holds annual carnival BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles 
from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR 
vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      5-16-17-18-23 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands & Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    4-18-17-7-2
Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage $950 mo
Walk to UF. Off street parking. Avail now.
We require a first, last and a $500 sec to 
move in. $40 app/credit check. No Pets 332-5836 weekdays    5-30-17-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsGOODBIKE / 2 LocationsBicycle Sales and Service425 NW 13th St ● 352-792-6600210 NW 10th Ave ● 352-327-3727Big selection of new & used bikes    5-23-17-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
KILLS ROACHES-GUARANTEED!
Buy Harris Roach Tablets or Spray.Odorless, Long Lasting.Available: Hardware Stores,The Home Depot, homedepot.com.Try Harris Bed Bug Killers Too!      5-11-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTHURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Eye-related prefix
5 Acht minus
sechs
9 Con
13 Rock guitarist
Eddy
15 Make
16 Dracula costume
item
17 Workshop sticker
19 Major in
astronomy?
20 64-Across’s
realm
21 Pacified23 CBS maritime
drama
26 Lay bare27 Kitchen sticker
32 Personal
assistant
33 “Zounds!”
34 __ Mahal37 Had already
learned
38 City north of
Memphis
39 Pacific island
where much of
“Lost” was filmed
40 Scrape (out)
41 “Wheel of
Fortune” name
42 Half-note feature
43 Mailroom sticker
46 Kicks out
49 Water source
50 I-15 city between
Los Angeles andLas Vegas
52 Service
interruption
57 Stage direction
58 Desk-bottom
sticker
61 Icy coating
62 Numbers game
63 Knife hawked on
infomercials
64 Old despot
65 Try to find66 Is appropriate
DOWN
1 River through
Frankfurt
2 __ platter
3 City near Ghost
Ranch, a favorite
Georgia O’Keefferetreat4 “Devil Inside”
band
5 Crazy
consonant?
6 Used to be
7 La Salle of
“Under the
Dome”
8 Subtle slur9 Make busts
10 Producer Ponti11 Spots for
religious statues
12 Civil War general14 Getting a good
look at
18 10K, say
22 They may not be
on speakingterms
24 Clarifying words
25 City “it took me
four days tohitchhike from,”
in Paul Simon’s
“America”
27 Hoops move
28 Zamboni domain29 __ fixe30 Meadow drops31 Parking place
34 “Cheerio!”
35 “Shh!” relative36 Head start
38 Full-length
clerical garments
39 East of Essen41 Electric Chevy43 Annoy44 Childlike race in
“The TimeMachine”
45 Thrown46 Critic Roger47 Line on which 
y = 048 Ballerina
descriptor
51 “This is fun!”53 “What a brutal
week!”
54 Lambs, in Latin55 A strong one may
invert anumbrella
56 Big birds59 Hydrocarbon
suffix
60 Asian pan
By Mark McClain
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/11/1705/11/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 11, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. GEOGRAPHY: What river bor -
ders Maryland and Washington, D.C.?
2. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the sea witch in “The Little Mermaid”?
3. HISTORY: In what year did the 
nuclear disaster at Chernobyl take 
place?
4. MUSIC: Which singer/songwriter 
composed the song “Calendar Girl”?
5. SCIENCE: What do dendrologists 
study?
6. LANGUAGE: What does the Jap-
anese word “kamikaze” mean?
7. PROVERBS: What is the ending 
of the proverb that begins, “A watched 
pot ... “?
8. LITERATURE: Which confes-
sional poet of the 20th century used the pseudonym Victoria Lucas? 
9. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the fear 
represented in apiphobia? 
10. ANCIENT WORLD: Eratosthe-
nes is considered the father of what field of study?
Answers
1. The Potomac2. Ursula3. 1986
4. Neil Sedaka
5. Trees and shrubs6. Divine wind7. ... never boils.8. Sylvia Plath9. A fear of bees10. Geography
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 8, 2017 King Features Weekly ServiceALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    5-18-17-16-14
********Opus Coffee**********
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.00/hr. To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     5-25-17-5-14
Need native Italian speaker.
In person conversational lesson.
1 to 2 hours per week. Schedule flexible. 
Reply to JLLSuzy@yahoo.com    5-16-17-
4-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and 
medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Wanted someone to complete building a website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14
Driver Trainees Needed NOW!
Become a driver for Werner Enterprises.
Earn $800 per week! Local CDL Training
1-877- 214-3624     5-11-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00
Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.
Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.
Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     5-11-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline
for meeting real, fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726and make a REAL connection.      5-11-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
FRESH CUSTOM APPAREL
T-shirts, Hats & Uniforms.Screen
printing, Embroidery & Sublimation
FREE Graphic Design & Shipping on
eligible orders.Call, Text or Email for
same day Quote.786-514-6298
joe.plaza@freshprintsmiami.com
5-18-5-15
NORTHFLO CROSSFIToffering UF staff and student student dis-count. $99 dollars a month. We also offer personal training and nutrition. Call Today 352-470-9131    5-23-17-5-15
AIRLINE SERVICE DISPATCHER
Get FAA approved training in weeks
not years
to become a certified aircraft dispatcher.
Job placement assistance.
Call AIM 888-242- 2649.       5-11-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMP
Get Stronger &amp; Harder Immediately!Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently &amp; Safely.
Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.
Free Phone Consultation: 1-800- 354-3944
www.DrJoelKaplan.com      5-11-10-16
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida men's tennis coach 
Bryan Shelton  prepares 
for potential second round 
matchup  with alama mater in 
NCAA T ournament. Read the 
story, pg. 19.  Jeremy Foley set to become professor this Fall
UF's College of Health and Human Performance announced on Wednesday 
that former Florida athletic director Jeremy Foley  will be brought in as a 
professor of practice in sport leadership beginning in the Fall 2017 semester.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsBy Skyler Lebron 
Sports Writer 
After a season-long conference grind, the 
No. 1 Florida softball team is preparing for 
an opportunity to become SEC Tournament 
champions.
The Gators haven't won a conference 
postseason title since 2013, with the team 
failing to win more than one game in the 
tournament since that time.
Florida (50-5, 20-3 SEC) will begin its 
postseason journey today against No. 8-seeded 
Ole Miss in the quarterfinals.
The Rebels (37-18, 10-14 SEC) are coming 
off a narrow 2-1 victory over Mississippi State 
in the bracket's opening round.
While UF and Ole Miss have two vastly 
different records, anything can happen during 
tournament time.
Throughout the majority of the season, 
other SEC teams had trouble keeping up with Florida’s elite pitching and fiery hitting.
Only three teams were able to beat the 
Gators all year – Auburn, Kentucky and 
Tennessee – but none were able to do so in 
their series opening matchups.
Both Auburn and Tennessee won on the 
back end of a three-game series with UF.
Kentucky did so in the middle of a three-
game slate with Florida, but the Wildcats 
followed the victory with a shutout loss the 
following day.
In the three defeats, Florida was outscored 
11-2.
In the twenty wins the Gators earned 
in conference play, they controlled the 
competition by a scoring margin of 109-7.
That was largely in part due to a Florida 
pitching staff that led the SEC with a 0.75 ERA.
The Gators' trio of Delanie Gourley, Kelly 
Barnhill and Aleshia Ocasio pitched with 
such tenacity during the regular season that UF softball ready to kick off SEC 
Tournament against Ole Miss
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Kevin O’Sullivan has been around the 
block long enough to know that anything 
can happen in the game of baseball.
The coach in his 10th season at Florida 
and 25th overall in the college ranks has 
seen everything from one of his players 
hitting two grand slams on the same day 
to an opponent scoring double-digit runs in 
one inning.
Nothing surprises O’Sullivan anymore. 
He’s witnessed it all.
However, when his No. 7 Gators lost to 
the No. 23 South Florida Bulls on Tuesday 
night, O’Sullivan couldn’t help but scratch 
his head at the lack of command his pitchers 
displayed on the mound.
UF threw only three more strikes (109) 
than it did balls (106) in the midweek contest and walked a season-high 17 batters 
in the eventual 15-10 victory for USF.
The blowout abruptly ended the best 
stretch of baseball Florida has played all 
year – a 17-day span featuring sweeps over 
Georgia and Ole Miss that culminated in a 
nine-game winning streak.
While Tuesday’s loss was highly deflating 
for a team that was beginning to flourish at 
just the right time, O’Sullivan emphasized 
the importance of his players keeping their 
spirits up with just a week and a half left 
before the regular season ends.
“I think we’ve won 15 of our last 17 
coming into (Tuesday),” O’Sullivan said 
after the contest. “We can’t let this one 
game affect our psyche or how we’re feeling 
about ourselves because we’ve been playing 
for so long.”
UF (35-14, 16-8 SEC) won’t have to do Gators look to rebound 
from USF loss this weekend
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Kelly Grassel would not be denied.
The senior from Chesterton, Indiana, saved her best round 
of golf for last at the Scarlet Course in Columbus, Ohio, on 
Wednesday afternoon, shooting a team-low 2 under for the day 
and carrying Florida to its second consecutive NCAA Regional 
title and its third in program history.
Grassel finished the tournament at even par, earning her a share of first place with Ana Pelaez of South Carolina.
Coach Emily Glaser said she had confidence in Grassel to do 
well in this tournament.
“What a great event for Kelly, she played fantastic and really 
carried us this week,” Glaser said in a release. “We knew she 
could excel on this course and she managed her game very well.”
South Carolina used a stellar back nine — carding 11 birdies 
and two eagles — to lower its score by eight strokes and claim a 
tie for title with Florida. Along with Pelaez, two other Gamecock 
golfers finished in the top five.Grassel’s performance on the final day — four birdies and 
only two bogeys — helped solidify the Gators’ position. Every 
golfer for the UF had at least one birdie, though the team still 
struggled on the back nine in what has been a habit over the 
course of the tournament, posting 14 bogeys.
Senior Maria Torres capped off an unusually quiet performance 
with a 1 over for the day, finishing the tournament at 11 over and 
giving her a share for 26th overall. All Gators finished in the top 
37 in a field that featured 90 golfers.Florida claims share of first place in NCAA RegionalSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 20
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Alex Faedo (left), Kevin O'Sullivan (center) and Mike Rivera convene on the mound 
during Florida's 1-0 win against LSU on March 24, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Kelly Barnhill pitches during Florida's 5-0 win over Georgia on April 8, 
2017, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
SEE W-GOLF,  PAGE 2018   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
Entering the NCAA tournament as the 
No. 1 seed in the ﬁ  eld, senior Belinda 
Woolcock only has one word to describe what she and the Florida women’s tennis team feels like.
Underdogs. Having lost both the SEC regular-
season and conference tournament titles to Vanderbilt in April, the Gators are ﬁ  red up to avenge their losses moving forward.
“For us, I feel like it’s a different attitude, 
and we have a different perspective in the tournament,” Woolcock said. “We’re really hungry to beat the teams we lost to this 
year and continue beating the teams we did 
already beat.”
Florida will get a chance to do just that 
as it hosts the ﬁ  rst and second round of the NCAA Tournament this weekend. Florida will play Massachusetts on Saturday, and the winner of that match will face the winner of South Florida and Miami on Sunday. 
While the team knows its toughest 
competition lies ahead of them, UF is 
accustomed to facing talented competition. 
The Gators played 17 of the current top-25 teams in the country this season, and 21 of their 26 matches came against teams that made the NCAA Tournament. Of those 21 matches, Florida boasted an 18-3 record. 
Despite this, coach Roland Thornqvist 
said he still thinks Florida has yet to play its best tennis. Throughout the spring, 
Thornqvist’s main goal has been to train the 
Gators to be the best team possible by May. Both he and his players feel like they’ve accomplished this feat. 
“I think we’re in a great condition right 
now,” Woolcock said. “I feel like all of us are playing at our highest level. I think going into the NCAAs we don’t need to change anything in particular; we’re just going to continue what we’ve been doing.”
Thornqvist said that the team has also 
come together more over the past two weeks. Having exams behind them and  
tennis as their sole focus has made his 
players more relaxed. However, he says they have also kept high energy, a positive attitude and a hunger to win, helping each other in the process.
“It’s an individual sport but it’s a team 
format,” Thornqvist said, “so when you can draw strength from each other, whether it’s in practice or when we’re actually 
competing, you become greater than the 
sum of your parts. And that’s what we’re aiming for.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org Gators hungry to avenge losses in NCAA tournament
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Belinda Woolcock serves during Florida’s 4-2 
win over Oklahoma State on Feb. 18, 2017.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   19 
much waiting before it receives 
its first opportunity to rebound 
from Tuesday’s loss, as it’ll travel 
to Tuscaloosa this weekend for a 
three-game series against Alabama.
The Crimson Tide (19-29, 
5-19 SEC) sit dead last in the SEC 
standings and have the third worst 
ERA in the conference at 4.40.
However, ‘Bama has won four 
straight games including as series 
sweep over Auburn last weekend, 
leading sophomore infielder Blake 
Reese to note that the Crimson 
Tide can’t be taken for granted.
“They’re playing spoiler right now,” he said. “They’d like nothing 
more than to try and knock us out 
of the SEC just to say they did it. 
They’re fighting for some pride 
right there, and they’re not going to 
lay down and let us come through 
and just roll over by any means.”
Junior Alex Faedo, sporting a 
7-1 record and 2.42 ERA, will make 
his 13th start of the year on Friday 
for the Gators, while sophomores 
Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar 
will get the nod on Saturday and 
Sunday, respectively.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMark Stine
Sports Writer
Florida coach Bryan Shelton had 
a fantastic career at Georgia Tech.
As a player, he achieved All-
American status and was selected 
to the All-ACC roster every year dur -
ing his time in Atlanta. As a coach, 
he led the Georgia Tech women to 
a national championship and is the 
winningest coach in the program's 
history.
Now the Yellow Jackets are in 
Gainesville to participate in the 
NCAA Tournament.
“It’s a little bittersweet,” Shelton 
said. “When we saw that (Georgia 
Tech) was coming to our region, I 
thought about the potential to go up 
against your best friend.”
Kenny Thorn is the head coach of 
the Georgia Tech men, and has been 
a friend of Shelton’s since the two 
started playing doubles together at 
13 years old.
Yet, before Shelton can think 
about facing his alma mater and one 
of his oldest friends in a prospective 
second round matchup, his team 
must first get past a school they’ve 
never faced, Florida Gulf Coast.
FGCU qualified for the tourna -
ment after winning the Atlantic Sun 
conference as a four seed, defeating 
rival North Florida and Lipscomb in 
the final two rounds.
The Eagles boast the ASUN fresh -
man of the year, Felipe Ramirez, as 
its number one player, as well as a 
former Gator, junior Oliver Landert. Ramirez and Landert play as a dou -
bles combination and made key con -
tributions towards FGCU’s confer -
ence title victory.
“They’re high-energy guys that 
compete hard,” Shelton said. "They 
give (FGCU) a lot of firepower and 
emotionally they give them a charge 
as well… and their skill sets allow 
them to create a lot of matchup prob -
lems.”
However, Florida will have the 
advantage of hosting the first two 
rounds, a luxury that players like se -
nior captain Elliott Orkin aren’t tak -
ing for granted.
“It’s huge for us,” Orkin said. 
“Playing in front of our home crowd 
and boosters and having their sup -
port here is really big for us and 
motivates us to do our best. These 
two matches are really important so 
we’re going to make the most out of 
it.”
Hosting has proved advanta -
geous for the Gators in their prepara -
tion for the tournament. The attitude 
in Florida’s two-a-day practices has 
also been that of improving rather 
than maintaining.
“You still go into every practice 
looking to improve as much as you 
can and trying to help improve your 
teammates,”  Orkin said. “All of the 
hours we put in the gym lead up to 
this tournament. So our goal from 
the beginning of the season was to 
peak at this moment.” 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgUF men's tennis gear up 
to host NCAA Tournament
BASEBALL,  from pg17Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Head coach Bryan Shelton watches doubles play during Florida's 
4-2 win against UCLA on Feb. 5, 2017, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 11, 2017
HIPPODROME CINEMA .25 SE 2ND PL G AINESVILLE
CALL 352.375.4 477 OR VISIT THEHIPP.ORG
FREE KARAOKE! ONE NIGHT ONLY!
JOIN DJ JARED BOWENS FOR A FUN & FREE NIGHT OF 
KARAOKE AT THE HIPP THIS FRIDAY! 7PM-10PM
HIPP LOWER LEVEL! FREE! FREE! FREE! FULL SERVICE BAR!
DECONSTRUCTING 
THE BEATLES
RUBBER SOUL
TWO NIGHTS ONLY!
WEDNESDAY, MAY 17TH AT 6:00PMTHURSDAY, MAY 18TH AT 8:00PM
HIPPODROME CINEMA
(386) 462-7779volunteer@junglefriends.orgEvery day of the week
Sunup to Sundown
JungleFriends.org
We Need Volunteers!
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Mike Holloway is no stranger to success.  
Holloway, a UF graduate, has been involved 
with the Florida track and field team for 21 
years.
After starting out as an assistant, he took 
over as head coach of the men in 2003 and 
head coach of the women in 2008.
Since taking on the responsibility of 
coaching both teams nine years ago, he has 
racked up six national titles.
But before the Gators can compete on the 
national level once again this year, the team must first make it through the upcoming 
SEC Outdoor Championships.  The three-day 
competition, held in Columbia, South Carolina, 
kicks off today and will wrap up on Saturday. 
Under Holloway’s leadership, the men’s 
and women’s teams have combined for eight 
SEC titles (five indoor, three outdoor) over the 
past nine seasons.
Florida will look to improve on a 
disappointing performance in last year’s 
conference championship, where it left 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, with mediocre results. 
The men’s team finished in sixth place, while  
the women’s team finished in seventh.
If the team wants to redeem itself this year, it will probably look to jumper KeAndre Bates. 
Bates is currently on the Bowerman Watch 
List, an award designated to the country’s best 
overall track and field athlete, and is the 13th 
Gator to make the list since it started in 2010. 
The next closest college program is Texas 
A&M, which has had 10 different athletes make 
an appearance.  Versatile hurdler, jumper, and 
sprinter Grant Holloway has received votes for 
the list as well.
At the Tom Jones Memorial Invitational, 
Florida’s last home meet and regular season 
finale, Bates set an NCAA-best 16.7 meter 
triple jump (54-feet-9.5), while teammate TJ 
Holmes notched a nation-leading time of 49.19 seconds in the 400-meter hurdles.
The Gators hope to ride this momentum 
into the SEC Championships, and throughout 
the rest of the postseason.
Following UF’s strong showing at its final 
regular season met, Holloway said preparation 
would be the biggest key for his team to have 
success in Columbia.
“We just have to make sure we’re sharp 
mentally, physically and emotionally” he said 
in a release.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgHolloway leads Gators track & field into SEC Championships
allowing runs became a surprising thing to do.
LSU was second in the SEC in earned runs allowed at 
82. Meanwhile, Florida led the conference with less than 
half that number at 39 earned runs.
The Gators were also the only team in the conference 
to get over 500 strikeouts, earning 539.
UF's defense was also nothing to scoff at. With a 
.986 fielding percentage committing only 19 errors in 
55 games, scoring on this team became even more of a 
struggle.
Florida’s offense backed up the pitching and defense 
as well throughout the season. The team as a whole 
averaged a .311 batting average and blasted 44 home 
runs while swiping 90 of 102 possible stolen bases.
Kayli Kvistad and Amanda Lorenz both hit over .380, 
while five other players on Florida’s roster batted over 
.300.
Despite all of the success, just one loss is all it'll take 
to knock them out of the tournament. The Gators will 
face Ole Miss in Knoxville, Tennessee, starting at 2:30 
p.m.
 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg17
Freshman Marta Perez ended up finishing 7 over 
for the tournament after struggling to find her day-
one groove in which she finished 1 over. However, 
Perez’s performance was good enough for a tie of 
11th overall.
Junior Taylor Tomlinson rounded out the scoring 
for UF, finishing the tournament in a tie for 30th at 12 
over after posting a 6 over for the final day.
Glaser said that she was proud of the way her 
team played, and that she had some takeaways from 
the experience.
“To be able to play on this type of course, under 
the pressure of regionals, the week before the 
National Championship is a huge advantage for us,” 
Glaser said. “This is the type of course where taking 
a mental vacation at any time will cost you dearly. 
We expect the NCAA Championship to be like that 
as well.”
The Gators, by virtue of finishing in the top six in 
the regional, earned a spot in the NCAA Championship 
beginning May 19 in Sugar Grove, Illinois.
@morganmcmuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgW-GOLF,  from pg17
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Junior Kayli Kvistad bats during Florida's 15-7 win over Bethune-
Cookman on March 29, 2017, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
