We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Rocking around 
Painted rocks have appeared in downtown Gainesville, pg. 4. 
Beaty ﬁ  re disturbs students’ Saturday night
There were no damages reported, pg. 5. Florida tops Oklahoma on the road
Dyandria Anderson scores 29 points in 80-61 
Gators win, pg 16. By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Satchel Raye ﬁ  rst start-
ed making art, he used paint, stained glass and pencils. 
Over the years, his medium 
shifted to dough, sauce and top-pings. 
“When I make a pizza and it’s 
beautiful and crispy and caramel-ized and perfect, that makes me so happy,” he said. “I want to do it again.”
The longtime Gainesville resi-
dent is known for the eccentric pizzeria that is Satchel’s Pizza, but Raye, 49, hopes that isn’t the only legacy he leaves behind. 
“I would like to be thought 
of as an artist with a pizza shop, because really my art is what inspires me and drives me,” he said. 
Raye is constantly looking for 
opportunities to exercise his ar-tistic side and add to his restau-rant, which opened in 2003, he said. Sometimes, he doesn’t have to go looking. 
After a ﬁ  re at Satchel’s Pizza in February 2012 left the kitchen in ruins and the restaurant ﬂ  ood-ed, Raye promised to come back 
with a restaurant even better 
than before, according to Alliga-
tor archives. Four years later, he 
found himself making the same promise. 
On the night of Dec. 5, 2016, 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters responded to a ﬁ  re 
that erupted at Satchel’s Pizza at 
about 9 p.m. Fifteen-foot-ﬂ  ames 
licked the roof of Lightnin’ Sal-
vage Enterprises, according to Al-
ligator archives. Raye arrived in 
time to watch the building burn 
to the ground. Denise Prodigo-
Herrmann, the ofﬁ  ce manager for 
Satchel’s Pizza, arrived shortly 
after Raye.
“I worked that day in my of-
ﬁ  ce in the restaurant,” she said. “I was here on the property, and 
I set the alarm before I left and 
it seemed like everything was 
ﬁ  ne.”
Standing before the blaz-
ing building, hand-in-hand with Raye and other staff, Prodigo-
Herrmann knew somehow, ev-VOLUME 112 ISSUE 41
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Olivia Serrano, an 18-year-old UF business administration and psychology freshman, leads the a cap-
pella group The Sedoctaves in their performance at the 28th Annual Pond Lighting at North Florida Regional Medical Center.
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
New security measures will be 
in place at UF’s Fall commence-
ment ceremonies at the O’Connell 
Center.
The O’Connell Center installed 
metal detectors at all gates in Au-
gust ahead of the Fall sports sea-son, which cost $55,000, accord-ing to Alligator archives. These 
metal detectors will be used for 
guests and graduates during com-mencement Dec. 15 and 16, said UF spokesperson Margot Winick.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Commencement 
is encouraging people attending to arrive two hours prior to the beginning of the commencement ceremony to have time for the se-curity check, Winick said.
“All graduates and their guests 
will need to arrive early so that they can clear the metal detec-tors now in place at the Exactech 
Arena at the O’Connell Center,” 
Winick said.
In addition to passing through 
metal detectors, visitors entering the center with bags will have them checked, according to Alli-
gator archives. 
Meghan Asbury, a 21-year-old 
UF sustainability and the built 
environment senior, said she has 
not gone to the O’Connell Center 
since the installation of the metal detectors. Asbury, who will be graduating Dec. 16, said UF’s rec-ommendation to arrive two hours early for commencement reminds 
her of going to airports. 
“I do not think that’s a bad 
thing,” she said. “It is good to be 
safe. If someone has a weapon, 
they are more likely to be caught 
now.” 
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.org UF Fall commencement ceremonies to use metal detectorsBy Romy Ellenbogen 
and Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
About 15 years ago, nursing 
student Michael Bumbach put on his scrubs, washed his hands 
and walked into an open-brain 
surgery performed by a doctor — another man.
But when he walked into the 
room, the doctor said, “Wow; you’re not the person I expect-
ed.”
Bumbach, now a professor at 
the UF College of Nursing, said 
he still remembers the doctor’s 
reaction. He’s received the same sentiment throughout his time 
as a male nurse practitioner. He knows when people think of nurses, they don’t always pic-
ture him but rather a woman in 
scrubs.
UF’s own nursing college is 
dominated by women, with an 
average of about 93 percent of students enrolled being female, 
according to an analysis of UF enrollment data from the past five years. Other colleges like the 
UF College of Education and the 
UF College of Public Health and Health Professions also contain a majority of female students.
While women are prominent in these areas, men maintain a stronghold in the UF Herbert Wertheim College of Engineer-ing, the second-largest college 
at UF. With 6,976 undergraduate 
students enrolled in the College of Engineering in Fall 2016, only 
‘You’re not the person I expected’: A look at UF’s gender gaps
SEE GENDER,  PAGE 8
SEE SATCHEL,  PAGE 9Satchel: A Gainesville 
icon rebuilds
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
HIGH  77° LOW  55°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is 
Dec. 15. Apply well before the 
deadline to ensure the federal 
processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is award-ed on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as pos-sible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more 
information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to the pub-lic. For more information, visit 
talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.
org.
UF Environmental Horticulture 
Club’s 21st annual poinsettia show and saleThe UF Environmental Horticulture Club is hosting its annual poinsettia show and sale 
Thursday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
at the Horticultural Greenhouses behind Fifield Hall, located at 2550 Hull Road. The event features an 8,000-square-foot display, and the club has pro-duced more than 2,000 plants. The event is free and open to all ages. 
Ugly Christmas sweater contest
Blackadder Brewing Company is hosting an ugly Christmas sweater contest with prizes Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the brewery, located at 618 NW 60th St. The brewery is also releasing a winter beer called Warm Cockles. Bring an unwrapped donation and get half off your first beer. For more information, visit its website, blackadderbrewing.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 41
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madeline Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
The ﬁ  rst Holiday Party and Potluck for Progress was hosted by a 
coalition of social and political organizations at Heartwood Sound-stage, located at 619 S. Main St. Attendees had the opportunity to meet local candidates running for government positions and live entertainment was provided by Mama Trish.
Above:  Gail Johnson, 39, 
who will be running for city commissioner at-large seat 1, converses with T om Wells, 67, who will be running for Congress representative, at the Holiday Party and Pot-luck for Progress hosted at Heartwood Soundstage on Sunday night.
Left:  Trisha Ingle, 49, who 
goes by the stage name Mama Trish, plays the guitar and performs the Beatles’ “I’m Looking Through You” at the Holiday Party and Pot-luck for Progress at Heart-wood Soundstage on Sunday night. “I’m here to support progressives and Heartwood Studio, ” she said. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL FIGURES GATHER
Maggie MacDonald, 73, with Indivisible, a progressive movement in the U.S., ﬁ  lls out a candidate petition for Yvonne Hinson-Rawls, who intends to run for a U.S. House of Representatives seat in 2018. Gainesville gets festive at Potluck for ProgressA HOUSE BILL 
PROPOSAL TO TAX 
TUITION WAIVERS HAS 
DOCTORAL STUDENTS 
RECONSIDERING PLANS.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Madeline Gangnes woke 
up to a push notification Saturday 
morning on her smartphone, her heart sank. 
News that the Republican Party-
led tax bill passed in the U.S. Sen-ate 51-40 just before 2 a.m. Satur-day left Gangnes, a 31-year-old UF English doctoral candidate, in a whirlwind of uncertainty, mulling over how she’d be able to make ends meet under the new tax pol-icy. 
“My stomach dropped, basi-
cally. I almost had a panic attack,” she said. “Pretty much all of us were freaking out today.” 
Doctoral students like Gangnes 
take issue with the House’s ver-sion of the Senate bill from Nov. 16, which would have their tuition waivers be considered taxable in-come. Graduate students who teach or perform research for their university often have their tuition waived by the federal government, a tax break about 145,000 students 
across the U.S. rely on, according 
to NPR. 
For Gangnes, the new policy 
would mean instead of being taxed on her $20,000 annual stipend — equivalent to $9.62 an hour — she would instead be taxed as if she makes $30,700. 
The House and Senate now have 
to reconcile their two separate bills before submitting a final version to President Donald Trump’s desk, al-though only the House bill calls for taxing tuition waivers, according to The New York Times. 
If the House bill provision pass-
es, Gangnes said students from low- and middle-income families 
would have to reconsider graduate 
school altogether, tanking higher education participation nation-wide. She said she fears senators won’t fight against the House bill if push comes to shove. 
“It’s definitely this feeling like 
we’ve been sold a bill of goods, we were told we’d have this system in place for us to pursue this ca-reer that we love,” she said. “Now someone’s pulling out the rug from 
underneath.” 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
said the bill would be an affront to 
local communities, given its pro-posed corporate tax rate cuts and the $1.4 trillion deficit the Congres-sional Budget Office estimated the bill would add over the next 10 years. 
Poe said he thinks it’s unprofes-
sional how senators pushed for a vote in the middle of the night. 
“I probably know as much 
about that bill as the senators who voted for it, which isn’t a good thing,” he said. “It’s definitely not good for our community.” 
Amid student fears, the UF 
Graduate Assistants United union, which represents about 4,000 teaching and research assistants, is considering how to move forward. GAU spokesperson Josh Papacek said he feels UF should speak out against the bill.
“I think it would have been reas-
suring to the graduate students that the university is behind them on this issue,” Papacek said. “Should it pass, (GAU) should be working 
with the university to come up 
with solutions to this.” 
UF has been working with 
nonprofits like the Association of American Universities to lobby on Capitol Hill with its concerns of taxing tuition waivers, UF spokes-person Janine Sikes said.
UF President Kent Fuchs also 
wrote to Florida Sens. Marco Rubio and Bill Nelson ahead of the Sen-ate’s vote, speaking out against the bill’s effect on students, and there-by universities, Sikes said. 
“We still have to wait on the 
reconciliation between the House and the Senate bills,” Sikes said. “We’re doing what we can behind 
the scenes to get some changes.” 
In the meantime, Papacek said 
many graduate students will have 
to grapple with whether they can continue in their programs.
“It’s going to be difficult for a 
lot of people, there’s already a lot of grad students that are living paycheck to paycheck,” Papacek said. “Even $1,000 more in their tax budget is going to cause grad students to make some difficult de-
cisions as to whether they can still 
even be in school.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
Heightened fears for UF grad students, city with tax bill
How Senators Voted:
Y ea: 51
• 51 Republicans, including 
Sen. Marco Rubio
• 0 Democrats 
• 0 Independents
Nay: 49
• 1 Republican
• 46 Democrats, including 
Sen. Bill Nelson
• 2 Independents 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Soon after the Student Senate minority 
party announced it wanted to amend Stu-
dent Government codes, the Senate presi-dent, part of the majority party, created a committee to oversee all code revisions.
Inspire Party senators submitted three 
bills revising SG codes to the Senate Judi-ciary Committee at about 5 a.m. Friday. The bills aimed to increase transparency by hav-ing SG livestream SG events, expand the ab-sentee ballot process and give public notice for Supreme Court hearings. Only the absen-tee ballot bill passed in committee. The oth-ers were tabled until the new code revision committee can look it over at the start of the Spring 2018 semester.
At about 4 p.m. on the Friday the bills 
were submitted, Senate President Ian Green announced he would create a special com-mittee dedicated to revising the codes.
“I was surprised when I saw President 
Green’s email announcing the committee,” said Senator Branden Pearson (Inspire, Lake-side). “I’m concerned this will delay action.”
Green said he decided to create the code 
revisions committee after seeing Inspire sen-ators had drafted several bills reviewing the codes. He said the Senate Ethics and Rules Committee is also reviewing some codes.
“It’s been apparent that student senators 
want to make some changes to the codes,” Green said. “I think it’s most efficient to do an overhaul of all the codes at once since we haven’t done that in a while.”
Although he’s not sure of the last time 
senators evaluated and updated all codes, Green said he knows it hasn’t been done since he joined Senate in Spring 2015.
Pearson said he is concerned the code re-
visions, which would affect all students, will only be crafted by the majority party in the Senate.
The Senate is currently formed by four in-
dependent senators, 20 Inspire senators and 73 Impact senators, according to the Senate roster.Out of the 51 senators serving in Senate 
committees, two are from Inspire Party and 49 are from Impact Party, Pearson said. All committee members are selected by the Re-placement and Agenda committee, which is formed by five Impact senators and one In-spire senator.
“If you look at the committees’ composi-
tion, it’s unrealistic to think Inspire or inde-pendent candidates will serve on the code re-visions committee,” Pearson said. “And that makes you question bipartisanship.”
Green said he doesn’t plan to look at 
what party the senators are from when ap-pointing the nine members of the committee.
“I’m just looking out for the best candi-
dates,” Green said. “I’m not sure who I’ll select or from what party until I review the applications, but I’m sure there’s great can-didates from both sides of the aisle.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
SG Senate targets code revisions
BILLS REVIEWED BY THE 
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE 
• Bill requiring livestreams of 
Student Senate meetings, presi-
dential campus addresses and 
election debates (tabled for code 
revisions committee)
• Bill aiming to expand the ab-
sentee ballot process during elec-
tions (passed, Senate will vote on 
it Tuesday)
• Bill requiring Student Govern-
ment to use social media to in-
form the public about Supreme 
Court hearings before they take 
place (tabled for code revisions 
committee)By Savannah Austin  
Alligator Contributing Writer
While hunting for Pokémon in the UF 
Health Shands Hospital parking garage in June, 
Tillissa Barcia’s 6-year-old son, Austin, found a 
painted rock.
Tillissa noticed “Rockin’ Alachua County 
FB” was written on the back of the rock and 
searched the group. After the mother of two figured out it was part of a community-wide trend, the family got involved, she said.
“These rocks are bringing these people 
together,” she said. “It’s old people, and it’s 
young people. It’s really neat.” 
Rock painting and hiding has become a pop-
ular activity around the state and in Gainesville, 
with at least four Facebook groups dedicated to the activity locally, including “Rockin’ Alachua County,” which has more than 1,600 members. The group, started by 42-year-old Gainesville resident Wendy Eckhardt, began in March af-ter she heard about a similar group in Martin 
County. 
Eckhardt and her husband and children 
were visiting family there and heard about the 
activity from a friend who had started a rock group. After going on a rock hunt with her two kids, who are 9 and 13 years old, she decided she wanted to see rock painting catch on in Ala-chua County. 
“When we got back up to Gainesville (my 
children) said, ‘We’ve got to start this,’” she said. “I hadn’t heard of anything up here yet, so I said, ‘Alright, let’s paint some rocks.’”
To kickstart the tradition in Gainesville, the 
family painted about 70 rocks and went from park to park, hiding them in plain sight, Eck-hardt said. Now, members post on Facebook when they hide or find a painted rock. 
“We have developed this page in the hope 
that it will spread joy and brighten people’s day just as much as it has in other counties around Florida,” Eckhardt wrote on the Facebook group’s page.
The group’s goal now is to continue to grow 
and get more people involved, Eckhardt said.After being a part of the group for more than 
eight months now, Tillissa, 33, said rock paint-ing is an activity she does with her family. Dur-ing Hurricane Irma, the family stayed indoors and painted rocks.
“It’s the only thing they could really do that 
didn’t require fighting or power,” Tillissa said. 
For her 4-year-old daughter Avery, rock 
painting is an occupational therapy as she has cerebral palsy, Tillissa said. Avery scribbles on the rocks and decorates them with stickers, with Trolls and Star Wars being her current fa-vorites, her mother said. 
“It really helps getting her left hand moving 
and actually using it,” Tillissa said. 
Gainesville resident Mischella Proebsting 
has painted more than 400 rocks with her two sons since she heard about the trend a few months ago.
“I got hooked on painting rocks in my 
downtime and hiding them around town for ev-eryone to find,” Proebsting, 36, said. “For me, rock painting was kind of therapeutic. (For) 
the boys, they enjoyed it because they could 
get their fingers messy and go crazy with the colors.”
Proebsting said she heard about a person 
who was trying to conceive and found a rock with a baby painted on it.
“You could paint something and hit close to 
home for somebody,” she said.
Proebsting hosted a rock-painting party dur-
ing the summer with about 10 other moms and their children.
“For those who have never heard of it or 
never done it, you don’t have to be Picasso to rock paint,” she said. “It’s more about getting together and having fun.” 
Eckhardt said people who get involved with 
rock painting should write the hashtag #rocki-nalachuacounty on the back of the rock they 
paint before they hide it.
Participants can post about where they hid 
their rocks on the Facebook group, but they 
don’t have to be on Facebook, Eckhardt said. 
“The whole point is just to encourage being 
creative and to get out there and enjoy doing something fun for other people,” she said.Rock painting trend gains 
popularity in GainesvilleMONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After a Bluetooth speaker caught fire in a 
residence hall room on the 10th floor of Beaty 
Towers West, about 150 residents were evacu-ated Saturday night.
At about 12:50 a.m., the speaker caught 
fire in a student room, and the room’s resi-dents immediately moved the speaker into the bathroom before its small flames had a chance of spreading to other furniture, although the smoke alarm still went off throughout the hall, said University Police Sgt. Jeffrey Lamb. The alarm caused the entire residence hall to evacuate.
No major damages were reported, and 
there were no injuries, Lamb said.
“Only thing damaged was the speaker,” 
Lamb said.
When Jerry Gonzalez was playing “League 
of Legends” in his Beaty Towers West room late Saturday night, the last thing he expected was a fire alarm to send him and his entire 
dorm to the curb of Museum Road.
But after about 30 minutes waiting outside 
his on-campus home alongside other student 
residents, Gonzalez began to worry.
Two UPD cars blocked Museum Road just 
around the towers. Gainesville Fire Rescue firefighters had been inside the dorm hall for nearly 20 minutes.
“Normally when an alarm goes off they 
send one truck, and we’re out here for like 10 minutes,” the 21-year-old UF biology junior said. “It’s different this time.”
By about 1:25 a.m., the crowd of students 
slowly huddled back to their residence hall, some laughing that the alarm amounted to 
nothing.
At the tail end of the crowd, AJ Riggins had 
remembered his key.
During the last drill at Beaty, which Riggins 
said happened a few weeks prior, the 18-year-
old forgot his key in his 10th-floor room and was locked out. Once the alarm sounded Saturday night, he slipped on his jacket and walked out prepared, key in hand, he said.
After learning the fire was contained and 
his home was safe, Riggins said he was re-lieved, and his only worry was deciding if he should return to the anime he was binge-watching before the alarm.
“It was only a minor inconvenience,” the 
UF psychology freshman said. “I might just head back up, change and hit the sack.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgBeaty Towers evacuated after music speaker catches fire
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF law student was arrested 
Thursday after a woman told police he drugged and sexually battered her, Gainesville Police said.
Lee Brockington, 52, met the 
woman at a bar Nov. 25 and offered her a shot, she told police, according to an arrest report. She said her mem-ories of the night are uncertain be-cause she believes she was drugged, but she felt taken 
advantage of.
Between 3 a.m. 
and 4 a.m. Nov. 
26, she remembers waking up in Brockington’s bed, where he said he was snorting cocaine while she slept, she told police. Later, she woke up again and felt Brocking-ton’s fingers inside of her vagina, 
according to the report.
She had a bruise on her neck and cut on her forearm she doesn’t re-
member receiving, according to the report.
During a lineup, she identified 
another man but said Brockington looked familiar and recognized his name from mail she remembered seeing in his apartment, police said.
Police found .2 grams of cocaine 
and a straw that could be used to snort cocaine in Brockington’s 
apartment, police said. 
After his arrest, Brockington said 
the sexual encounter was consen-
sual, according to the report.
The Gainesville Sun reported 
Brockington is a UF law student.
He was arrested on charges of 
sexual battery, drug possession and possession of drug paraphernalia. 
Brockington was taken to Alachua 
County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $175,000 bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: UF law student drugs, 
sexually batters woman
Brockington
By Sofia Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writer
Around North Florida Regional 
Medical Center’s pond, 95,000 
lights were lit Friday and outlined with Christmas trees, gingerbread men and snowmen.
About 10,000 people applauded 
and cheered at 6:15 p.m. when the 
lights turned on at the 28th Annual 
Pond Lighting Ceremony, which was hosted by the hospital, located at 6500 W. Newberry Road, and included free activities such as face painting, ornament decorating and pictures with Santa.
Donations from attendees and 
proceeds from food trucks at the 
event went to Gainesville’s chapter 
of Toys for Tots, a national orga-nization run by the U.S. Marine Corps that provides gifts to chil-dren whose parents cannot afford them, said Bradley Palmer, the di-rector of marketing and communi-
cations at the hospital. Most of the 
donations at the event were in the form of toys.
“It’s really part of a Gainesville 
tradition,” Palmer said.
Individuals could exchange an 
unwrapped gift for a pass with ac-cess to all rides, such as a sled ride on a hill of fake snow. Attendees who didn’t donate a gift paid for a pass to access the rides. The hos-pital used 24,000 pounds of ice to make the snow for the hill, which was a new addition to the annual 
event, Palmer said.
“North Florida wanted to do 
something to really improve,” he 
said. “The sled-riding hill was our big addition.”
This year’s ceremony was dedi-
cated to the memory of Lance Cpl. Phillip Paul Clark, one of the hos-pital employee’s sons who was hit 
by an improvised explosive device 
in the Middle East in 2010, Palmer said.
Gainesville resident Terri Mc-
Kimmey, 56, who has attended the event for more than 10 years, watched and listened to the Gainesville High School Naval Junior ROTC caroling Christmas songs. Other performers during the 
night included The Sedoctaves, a 
UF student a cappella group.
“(Previous years’) wasn’t as 
good as this,” she said about the ceremony. “This is much better. I think the singing and lights are the most beautiful part.”
North Florida medical center 
hosts holiday light ceremony By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tyler Ellman will never forget how he felt 
standing at Auschwitz.
“It changed my entire perspective on life, on 
history, on the world and on my faith,” Ellman, 
a UF theatre and telecommunication senior, said.
After returning from the March of the Living 
trip, where thousands of Jewish teens marched 
from the Auschwitz concentration camp to the 
Birkenau camp, Ellman began working on his play, which will debut tonight at High Dive, lo-
cated at 210 SW 2nd Ave.
The play, “Tap Dancing Through Aus-
chwitz,” will run today and Tuesday, with doors opening at 7 p.m. and the play beginning 
at 8 p.m. Ticket prices range from $6 to $12.
Ellman said the play is about six high school 
students who visit Auschwitz to learn more about their ancestors. The title refers to one 
character’s nervous fidget, expressed through 
tapping his foot when in an uncomfortable situ-
ation.
“Before going on the trip, I was going 
through a lot,” Ellman, 22, said. “You start to really look at life a different way when you’re 
having issues that are so real, and then you’re 
put into a whirlwind of a crazy absurd place like Auschwitz.”
The play’s director, Steven Breiter, helped 
Ellman revise the script during the four years Ellman spent writing. Breiter said the play 
would be good for the Jewish community.
“(It’s) a metaphor for how all these kids on 
this trip are uncomfortable and going through a tough time learning about their ancestors,” 
Breiter said.
Ellman fundraised to rent the High Dive 
space with support from five different Jewish student organizations, including the UF Jewish    
Student   Union , Lubavitch Chabad  Jewish Cen-
ter,  UF   Hillel and Alpha   Epsilon Phi. He also 
received support from the  Jewish Council   of   
North   Central   Florida, Ellman said.
All of the proceeds from the play will be do-
nated to the Arab   American   Community   Center    
of   Florida, an organization that helps Iraqi and 
Syrian refugee families, Ellman said. He said 
people say “never again” about the Holocaust, 
but must also focus on current injustices.
“Don’t be a bystander, make your voice 
heard, take action,” he said.UF student’s play explores 
connections to Auschwitz
POLICE ARE STILL UNSURE 
HOW MANY PHOTOS AND 
VIDEOS WERE ON HIS 
COMPUTER.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A former Florida Department of Children 
and Families spokesperson was arrested 
Thursday after police found child pornog-raphy on his house desktop computer, 
Gainesville Police said.
Thomas William Barnes, 67, was ar-
rested at about 12:57 
p.m. at GPD Headquar-ters after investigators 
spent months looking into Barnes’ possession and 
transmission of child por-
nography, according to an 
arrest report.
On Aug. 12, Yahoo no-
tified the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children that a user had transmitted suspected child por-nography Aug. 12 from a specific IP address, according to the report. A subpoena to Cox 
Communications revealed the IP address be-
longed to Barnes, and Yahoo confirmed the 
account user was “Tom Barnes.”
Police said they searched Barnes’ desktop 
computer at his house and found multiple folders of child pornography, which were 
saved and hidden within folders that police called seemingly innocuous, like modem and device drivers folders. One folder titled “Too much” had at least 55 images depicting 
sexual interactions with children who are as 
young as 6 years old, according to the report.
Police are still unsure how many imag-
es and videos of child pornography are on 
Barnes’ computer, according to the report.
The Gainesville Sun identified Barnes as a 
former DCF employee.
Barnes was arrested on charges of pos-
sessing and promoting child pornography. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $900,000 bond.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: former DCF spokesperson 
sent, owned child pornography
Barnes
Event Overview:
•  Radio personality Storm 
Roberts emcee’d the event
•  Three local food trucks 
attended.
•  95,000 lights on display, 
5,000 more than last year.
•  10 activity booths were 
present.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialMONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
Potential trigger warning: This column 
cites anti-LGBTQ+ quotes in an ef-fort to demonstrate how we must vote against anti-LGBTQ+ politicians.
On Thursday, members and allies of 
the LGBTQ+ community celebrated the news: The New York City Council passed a bill ban-ning conversion therapy, the controversial — and cruel — therapy meant to turn gay people straight. As the bill goes to Mayor Bill de Blasio for signing, it seems as though we’ve ﬁ  nally got a speck of good news in the turbulent ocean of terrible sound bites we’ve heard for months on end.
This is certainly a victory. Gay conversion therapy has 
long been criticized as inhumane and downright wrong. According to the National Center for Lesbian Rights, the techniques associated with conversion therapy are “de-void of scientiﬁ  c validity and pose serious dangers to patients — especially to minors, who are often forced to undergo them by their parents or legal guardians.” Simi-larly, both the American Psychological Association and the American Psychiatric Association have warned of the 
dangers of conversion therapy.
This therapy rests on the foundation that we must 
see same-sex attraction as a mental illness, a notion so 
grossly ancient and awful it boggles my mind people actu-ally continue to think this way. It would be easy for me to think, especially as a white, middle-class woman, that the LGBTQ+ community has mostly emerged victorious from these hard-fought battles, that there is not much left to ﬁ  ght for. It seems simple to dismiss homophobic and transphobic remarks as the words of crazies, certainly not 
the mainstream and not worth correcting. But this is just 
not so.
Let’s take a look at some contemporary elected ofﬁ  -
cials and political hopefuls, for example. First up: Vice President Mike Pence. In 2016, Time magazine shared a collection of Pence’s remarks on LGBTQ+ issues through-out his time in the public eye. In 2006, he said in a speech that “societal collapse was always brought about following an advent of the dete-rioration of marriage and family,” in reference 
of same-sex couples.
Last May, Pence opposed former President 
Barack Obama’s initiative to let students use 
the bathrooms of their preferred genders. And just this October, while discussing gay rights, President Donald Trump joked that Pence “wants to hang them all.” (By the way, Mr. 
President, jokes are supposed to be funny.)
So right off the bat, both our president and vice presi-
dent have spoken with anti-LGBTQ+ rhetoric and quite 
clearly do not serve as allies to the community. Can we 
even act surprised? Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore, now known for horrendous allegations of sexual misconduct and assault made by multiple women, was disgusting even before his terrible actions came to light.
Twelve years ago, Moore compared homosexuality to 
bestiality. As a judge, Moore refused to acknowledge that the U.S. Supreme Court made same-sex marriage con-
stitutional across the country. Last week, Moore called 
the sexual misconduct allegations against him part of a 
conspiracy led by liberals; gay, bisexual and transgender 
people; and socialists alike.
We must work to ensure people like Moore do not hold 
elected ofﬁ  ce. Make sure other people know the danger-ous views of those in and running for public positions. Share their views — being sure to warn others of their wrongness and offense. Please, when the time comes, vote against these people. Support the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity, whether you are a member or an ally. Help create 
and nurture a society where we are free to love and be loved by whomever we choose.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Even when we think we won, we must keep working
Fear is holding us 
back from change
In our society, there is an epidemic of fear. Fear of social 
rejection, fear of mockery, fear of being cast as the odd one out. The crippling concern many have for judgement 
inﬂ  icted on them has left a number of bright minds si-
lenced. It’s time we put an end to this epidemic.
We have all seen it before: A good friend with a brilliant 
idea, too scared to share it with the world. They will voice 
their informed opinions but only from behind closed doors. 
They speak where they feel safe or where they have no fear for disdain. At this point, the issue isn’t that people are afraid they will be shunned for where they stand on hot-button issues. The problem is more so that people are worried the world will 
associate them with the groups and causes they support.
Earlier this week, our opinions editor discussed a recent 
guest column published in the Alligator with a friend of hers 
who also happens to write a column for the section. The piece 
in question was about offering 24-hour access to the morn-
ing-after pill, more commonly known as Plan B, on the UF campus. She and her friend cooed about the idea presented in the column and agreed that giving women at UF the abil-ity to obtain the pill at all times would help to further ensure 
unwanted pregnancy. 
The conversation continued, and her friend revealed al-
though she thought it was a marvel idea and something that 
should be discussed more often, she probably would not feel 
comfortable writing a piece about it with her name attached 
to it. “I wouldn’t want people to read it and assume I’d taken the morning-after pill,” she said. Despite the fact she’d never taken it and that there is no shame whatsoever in doing so, the fear of judgement remained. 
This anxiety held her back. And it continues to hold plenty 
of others back from sharing their opinions as well. Even when people do share their ideas, they often revert to prefacing their opinions with disclaimers like, “I’m not gay, but I support gay 
rights,” or, “I wouldn’t get an abortion myself, but I do think 
women should have the right to choose to have one.” These clauses offer little aid in expressing one’s opinion, and, in fact, they often stiﬂ  e the message they try to get across.
When people distance themselves from a cause or a group 
of individuals, they offer a directive which insinuates they have diminishing respect for the groups they discuss. They want them to be happy and live freely but do not want to be thought of as a part of them. Not only is this practice disre-
spectful, but it often weakens people’s opinions in the process. 
If we are ever going to effectively communicate our ideas in 
a way that will ignite change and make people listen, we need 
to lose the element of fear.
We understand this is something easier said than done. It’s 
human nature to worry about the way you are perceived, and it’s something each of us struggles with. Nonetheless, change will never happen if we muzzle our opinions by alluding to the shame we assume accompanies certain groups of people. And 
it deﬁ  nitely won’t happen if we stay silent entirely. 
Please, dear reader, ﬁ  nd your courage. If you have an opin-
ion, it’s worthy of being heard. It’s as simple as that. Stop 
worrying about the way the world will see you, and instead focus on crafting competent and powerful messages that don’t 
further unreasonable stigma. 
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Earlier this year, President 
Donald Trump terminated Deferred Action for Child-
hood Arrivals (DACA), an 
executive order by former 
President Barack Obama which gave undocumented people who 
came to the U.S. as children pro-
tection from deportation for two years. This order was also re-newable.
Trump said he would support Congress 
working on a bill to put this into law, and many Republicans said while they did agree with DACA in principle, they thought it was wrong that it came through 
executive action.
With the legislative year coming to a 
close, time is running out to ﬁ  nd a way 
to protect DACA recipients. Trump fa-mously promised Sen. Chuck Schumer 
and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi 
that he would make this happen — but there hasn’t been much activity on this is-sue since then. 
As someone who hasn’t been in gov-
ernment for very long, Trump may not re-alize how long it takes to write and pass legislation — setting a deadline isn’t ef-fective — which is evident from each time 
Congress increases the debt ceiling, only 
to increase it again months later. Dream-ers, many of whom have never lived out-side of the U.S. as adults, deserve a way 
to stay and a pathway to citizenship. Our 
immigration system is broken, and an act similar to the DREAM Act would not ﬁ  x everything, but it’s a good place to start.
Instead of working on a way to keep 
DACA recipients protected from depor-tation, last week Republicans worked to pass a bill that about 49 percent of Ameri-cans oppose, according to a Reuters/Ipsos 
opinion poll published by CNBC. In con-
trast, a majority support a path to citizen-ship for DACA recipients, according to a Politico/Morning Consult poll conducted in September. DACA recipients could be 
forced to leave the only country they’ve 
ever known because of a political ploy to make sure Trump has a vic-tory. The tax bill, which some are calling the #GOPtaxscam, 
shows how the Trump admin-
istration likes its legislative achievements — behind closed doors with only Republicans 
and above all: fast. So fast there 
wasn’t enough time to type out all the parts of the bill so some 
parts were handwritten. 
While Trump says the bill would be 
bad for him, it’s clear it protects both him and his family by cutting the estate tax and lowering corporate taxes. Graduate students, many of whom rely on waiv-
ers for tuition and stipends to live, would 
be taxed instead. Republicans who ques-tioned the bill ended up voting for it any-way. 
It’s clear even though Republicans said 
they would support protecting DACA re-cipients, they aren’t actually eager to fol-low through. If they were, they would have done so already before passing a bill 
that actually hurts many of the middle-
class Americans they claim to care about. 
While Sen. Jeff Flake held out support 
for the bill in exchange for assurances of protection for DACA recipients, this prob-
ably won’t happen in time. It’s important 
to remember while DACA relieved some stress for a lot of people who arrived in the U.S. as children, it wasn’t a true im-
migration status but rather a form of legal 
limbo. According to the Center for Ameri-can Progress, approximately 800,000 peo-ple were given temporary relief through DACA — which allows them to get better 
jobs with better pay, increasing tax rev-
enue. DACA has been good for the econo-my. Passing an act similar to the DREAM Act with a pathway to citizenship would 
preserve those beneﬁ  ts while also allow-
ing these young people to not have to wor-ry about whether they will be deported. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. We need a DREAM act that grants a 
pathway to citizenship to dreamersColumn
On Friday, there was a 
bomb threat at my old high school. The school 
went into lockdown, 
and people were scared 
out of their minds. It turned out the bomb was not real. Howev-
er, as we have seen over the last 
few years, these stories of terror in everyday places like schools, churches and concert venues do not always have a happy ending. Innocent 
people have their lives snatched away 
from them for no reason other than being in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
When I was in eighth grade, a boy 
brought homemade Molotov cocktails to school with the intent of blowing up the school. Thankfully, he concocted the cocktails incorrectly, and they did not work. 
Not all was well, however. When con-
fronted by one of the school police offi-cers, he stabbed the officer. No students were harmed, and the officer made a full 
recovery. But if his intentions were ful-
filled, many students would have been harmed, or worse, lost their lives.
It’s important to note, I grew up in a 
very normal town. Bad things didn’t really 
happen there. We heard about way worse 
stuff on the news, and we all just kind of blew off the things that happened to us, knowing it could be so much worse. 
This, dear reader, is unfortunately the 
world we live in. 
Schools go into lockdown all the time. 
When I was young, I always thought it was for the “bad guys” who would break 
in with their guns and try to hurt us. I 
never imagined it would happen so often, and I definitely never imagined it would be kids my own age and even younger. 
It happens so often we stop even giving 
it very much attention. I mean, there’s a story every day about something terrible happening somewhere. It could be worse. 
Yes, it certainly could. But are we go-
ing to wait until it is to start doing some-thing about it? How many more people have to have their lives taken or put in danger before we address this? And I don’t mean “Pray for 
wherever” Facebook posts and 
news stories. I mean legislation. I mean real action. 
I use my platform to talk 
about mental health quite often. One day, I hope I’ll never have to talk about it again. That will mean it has the attention it de-
serves, and everyone agrees upon its level 
of importance. 
I will not assert every instance of ter-
ror or harm to others is a direct result of 
a lack of attention to mental health, but it 
is certainly a starting point. Why do we 
wait until people do or try to do terrible things before we consider they may be struggling with their mental health? Why do we wait until a middle-school student 
is in handcuffs in a courtroom before we 
decide it’s time to get them the help they need? When we are about the age of some of these kids, we learn about logical rea-
soning. 
Logically, to prevent something bad 
from happening, you have to address it 
before the bad thing happens. If we keep waiting and simply hope it will be differ-
ent in the future, nothing will change. If 
anything, it will get worse. 
I can’t help but think it can be attrib-
uted to people wanting to assume the best 
of people. Maybe it’s just a phase. May-
be they’re going through a rough patch. Maybe they just need to be alone to work through some stuff. I’ll leave them be. These are dangerous assumptions. I rec-
ognize not wanting to insert yourself into 
a situation with mental trouble because it can be scary. But if you see signs, don’t wait for something horrible to happen. Be 
their advocate. They need you. They need 
all of us.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism 
and psychology junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.WE need to address mental health 
before people are in danger, not afterColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
about 27 percent of them were 
women.
Bumbach said as a male nurse 
of more than a decade, people still ask him if he plans to be-
come a doctor. Because he’s a 
man, they expect him to move 
beyond nursing, he said, but he wants to remain in nursing and 
help diversify the profession.
“There’s more and more of a 
push in nursing to say, ‘Hey, why 
are we majority homogeneous, 
why is the nursing force mainly 
white women?’” Bumbach said.
When Bruce Qian walks into a 
class in the College of Education, 
he’s often either alone or accom-panied by only one other man.
When the 23-year-old educa-
tion graduate student enrolled at UF in Fall 2016, he was one of 8,152 men seeking graduate-lev-
el degrees in education — com-
pared to 8,665 women.
The College of Education of-
fers graduate-level online de-grees, meaning on-campus 
classes may not reflect the actual 
ratio of men and women seek-ing education graduate degrees. But when Qian goes to class in 
person he said he notices few 
women.
“Even in China it’s the same 
picture,” said Qian, who is a Chi-nese international student. “Most 
teachers there are female.”
The disparity is worse for un-
dergraduates in the college — 
which in the last five years has 
an average of 94 percent female 
undergraduate students.
In Fall 2016, there were only 
30 men enrolled at the under-graduate level, compared to 380 
women.Tom Dana, the associate dean 
of academic affairs for the col-
lege, said the majority of under-graduate students attending UF for education are women inter-
ested in elementary and early 
childhood education. 
“It is low; we’re a fe-
male dominated field by 
and large,” Dana said.  
A lot of people who become 
teachers tend to be women.” 
Dana said he believes every 
education college has similar 
gender diversity numbers.
At the University of Califor-
nia, Irvine, which the U.S. News 
and World Report ranked along-
side UF as the ninth best public university, less than 17 percent of undergraduate students en-rolled in its College of Education 
in Fall 2016 were men, according 
to the university’s website.
Dana said while the College 
of Education’s minors tend to at-
tract male students, due to the 
minors involving math and sci-ence education, the college as a whole doesn’t specifically recruit men, but rather looks for can-
didates interested in the profes-
sion.
“We recruit for the best stu-
dents we can locate,” he said. 
“We do try to reach out to any 
group of students that would be-
come good teachers.”
In the UF College of Engineer-
ing, three in every four students 
are men.
Curtis Taylor, the associate 
dean for student affairs in the 
College of Engineering, said the 
college is focused on improving the disparity between men and women. He said UF’s engineer-ing college went from having a 
23 percent female enrollment in 2011 to a 28 percent female en-rollment in 2017. UF has not yet 
added Fall 2017 student enroll-ment data to its online database.
“This is a national problem, 
it’s a problem that’s been around for a very long time,” Taylor said. “There’s a need for a cultural shift or a cultural change within 
engineering, as well as within 
the society about engineering. There still are many perceptions that contribute to less women go-
ing into engineering, engineering 
being a traditional male role.”
At UF, Taylor said the engi-
neering college works to wel-
come women in the program. 
Because the college gets no sway over admissions, Taylor said ad-ministrators focus on helping students have a better experience 
while they’re enrolled.The college hosts differ-
ent welcoming ceremonies for 
groups including women, gradu-ate minority students and LG-BTQ+ students. They also offer 
luncheons for women and en-
courage students to join the Soci-ety of Women Engineers, where they can meet mentors and learn from women working in the en-
gineering field.
“That goes a long way, hav-
ing a mentor and being able to 
see people that look like you and 
have similar interests that you’re 
aspiring to do,” Taylor said.
Taylor said faculty in the col-
lege are important in fostering a “culture of inclusion.” In the 
past six years, the number of fe-
male faculty — which includes professors, administrators and researchers — in the College of 
Engineering went from 11 per-
cent to 19 percent, and Taylor said they’re continuing to focus on diversifying faculty.
“I think the general trend 
is occurring, one, because our dean, she’s very focused on di-versity inclusion, something that is extremely important,” Taylor 
said.
The lack of female professors 
when compared to men is com-
mon in most of UF’s colleges. 
From Fall 2011 to Fall 2017, the UF Warrington College of Busi-ness Administration had an av-
erage of about 29 percent female 
professors, and the UF College of Design, Construction and Plan-ning had an average of about 31 percent female professors, ac-
cording to UF faculty data.
Only the UF College of Jour-
nalism and Communications, 
the College of Education and the 
College of Nursing have had an 
average majority of female pro-fessors since 2011.The disparity continues into 
UF’s upper-level graduate pro-grams, like the UF College of Vet-erinary Medicine, where female professors make up less than 30 
percent of the faculty despite fe-
male students making up more than three-fourths of the veteri-nary school’s population.
May Mansy, the president 
of WiSE, a club that promotes women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields, said it’s important to have 
diverse faculty so women can 
feel welcome in the classroom.
Mansy, 31, said her friends 
have sat in on mechanical or aerospace engineering cours-
es and found themselves the 
only woman in the room. They dropped the class shortly after, feeling uncomfortable.
“It’s a very intangible thing 
that gets instilled into the psy-chology of women in general, that if you see a certain field be-ing represented by males most of 
the time, you don’t feel welcome 
in there anymore, you don’t feel like you belong anymore, unless you find yourself represented,” 
she said.
Taylor said it’s important to 
have a diverse workforce, and he 
hopes UF’s engineering college can be a model for other schools 
as they fight the national issue of 
gender differences in the field.
“It’s what students want,” he 
said. “And it’s also what compa-
nies want. They realize the work-
force is a diverse workforce, and if you’re going to have leaders in engineering, you’ve got to have leaders who can inspire people 
from different backgrounds.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
GENDER,  from pg. 1While women dominate nursing and education, men rule engineering
•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
Welcome BackADVERTISE WITH THE ALLIGATOR
352-376-4482  advertising@alligator.orgDEADLINE 12/13/2017  
RUN DATE 1/8/2018Contact Your  
Sales Rep T odayEDITION SPRING 2018
310 NW 6 St. • (352)376-5331
erything would be fine. 
As she combed through insur-
ance papers and obsessed over 
the logistical nightmare of rebuild-ing, Raye was already thinking of ways to transform the building into 
something new, she said. 
“He really treats this place like 
it’s an extension of him,” Prodigo-
Herrmann said. “It’s not called 
Satchel’s Pizza for nothing.”
Raye has been putting in 19-
hour days to create the newly built 
Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises, set to open in mid-December, he said. 
The two-story building will in-
clude a playground, bar, live-music 
venue and gift shop for customers, 
as well as two offices and a break 
room for employees on the second 
floor. Raye said some of the space 
will likely not be complete for the 
opening in December, but he plans 
to throw a grand opening in the 
spring. 
The new space will also include 
a second ATM and two additional bathrooms for customers, he said. 
As for the interior decorations, Raye said the space will evolve 
over time, but getting it up and 
running is his first priority. 
“I think it’ll take me another 10 
years to really create something as 
vibrant and as exciting and visu-
ally interesting as what we lost,” 
he said. 
With the grueling process of re-
building added to his regular work-
load, Raye said he could never go about the task alone. But he hasn’t just built a business over the past 14 years; he’s built a family.
During long days, Raye moti-
vates himself by thinking of his work family and his wife, Caroline, who can always make him crack a smile. 
“My life is between Satchel’s 
Pizza and my home,” he said. “My 
energy and my inspiration comes 
from my family.”
Danny Lore has worked for 
Raye for 10 years. As the manager of Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises, 
Lore looked on with Raye in shock 
as they watched the flames engulf 
the space, he said. 
“Lightnin’ Salvage was just 
a big piece of art. It was a huge 
sculpture,” Lore said. “For him to 
watch that thing go up in flames, it 
was just devastating.”
If it were anybody else other 
than Raye, Lore might be worried, 
but past experiences remind him 
that Raye tackles everything head-
first.
Lore recalls sharing an idea with 
Raye about remodeling the bar in Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises. Two days after perusing Lore’s rough sketch of the design plan, he came 
into work to find that Raye had al-
ready cut a hole in the wall. 
“Once he gets his mind set that 
he’s going to do something, he gets it done,” Lore said. Though rebuilding was hard 
work, Raye said art is intrinsic to him.
When he was 12 years old, 
Raye discovered his talent for pen-cil drawings. His parents enrolled him in an adult drawing class on 
Saturdays so he could be with art-
ists closer to his skill level. At UF in 
the late 1980s, he honed his paint-ing skills as an art major before transferring to the Atlanta College 
of Art. 
At Satchel’s Pizza, Raye has 
found a way to weave together his 
two loves: making pizza and cre-ating art. To him, it’s one in the 
same. 
“The pizzas are really mandalas. 
So when we make a pizza, we’re 
spreading these toppings out even-ly and making a beautiful piece 
of art that somebody can eat,” he 
said. “I really feel like I’m making 
art when I’m making pizza.”
When outsiders first catch a 
glimpse of Satchel’s Pizza, it might 
look more like an antique shop full 
of old knick-knacks than it does a 
restaurant teeming with art. But the recycled materials that cover nearly every inch of Satchel’s Pizza 
is part of what makes it meaning-
ful, Prodigo-Herrmann said. 
“I think that there’s something 
very literal like when people touch 
objects and then they get passed on to be created into something else,” she said. “All of that energy really does play a part in what our place is all about.”
It’s an energy that draws cus-
tomers to the pizzeria, said Mike Hill, 49, a seasoned Satchel’s Piz-za-goer. The Gainesville resident has been frequenting the business for about 12 years. His go-to is a white pie and a chat with Raye. 
“Every time we go, it seems 
there’s some new project that Satchel is working on to improve his place,” Hill said. “He’s one of the most innovative people I’ve 
ever met.”
Raye’s personality is evident in 
every corner of the restaurant, Hill 
said. From the vinyl on the booths to the ingredients in the homemade sodas, a little bit of Raye can be seen in everything. 
“His fingerprints are all over the 
entire place,” Hill said. 
Raye believes that his Satchel’s 
Pizza was so warmly received by the Gainesville community because his life was shaped by the town. He 
always knew it would be the right 
place to open his business. Al-
though he spent much of his twen-
ties and early thirties traveling to 
Jamaica, Mexico, Alaska, Europe, 
Thailand and other worldwide lo-
cations, Raye always found himself 
back in Gainesville. 
“I just feel like that this is where 
I’m from, and so my art is reflective of this community, and this com-
munity can really relate to what I 
do,” he said. 
As Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises 
prepares to reopen, Prodrigo-Her-rmann said the community gets 
to be a part of a beautiful new be-
ginning. Once again, Gainesville 
residents get to watch Raye artfully 
gather up the charred and smoky 
pieces of the past and turn it into a 
community’s treasure. 
“Over the years, you will now 
get to watch a new evolution of 
Satchel’s Pizza,” she said, “and it, 
again, will all come from him.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Satchel Raye,  the owner Satchel’s, plans to reopen the outdoor area of his 
restaurant this month after it burnt down in December 2016. 
After two fires, Lightnin’ Salvage will repoen in December 
•   •   •10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Two UF researchers ﬁ  nd 
that bait can kill termites in 
roughly one month
By Nicholas Aguila
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF researchers found that a 
specific species of termite can be killed 
within one month after feeding on a new bait.
Their November study was conducted 
and self-funded by Thomas Chouvenc 
and Nan-Yao Su, members of the UF In-
stitute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.
They began their study in 2013 by 
growing a termite colony from a single 
king and queen to roughly 80,000 ter-
mites in four years, Chouvenc said. The study uses a new form of insecticide to target the bugs, specifically subterranean termites.
“There is wide misperception on how 
termite baits work,” he said. “This study revealed that using termites’ Achilles’ heel, we can eradicate whole colonies 
with minimal chemicals.”
Studying the effects of bait on this 
species of termites is cost-effective, 
Chouvenc said. Su found that termites cause an estimated $40 billion a year to 
structures around the world, Chouvenc 
said. He said the bait can also eliminate colonies with minimal effect on the en-vironment.
By late 2016, the researchers tested 
the relationship between different doses of chemicals and the termites’ reactions, Chouvenc said. They found when a ter-mite consumes the synthetic poison, they 
carry it back into the colony.
“If subterranean termite feed on baits 
during their foraging activity, feeding 
on the bait for about one single day is enough for the termite to bring a lethal 
dose of the bait to the rest of the colony,” 
said Chouvenc.
Red snapper population to be 
examined by UF researchers
By Anna Cappelli
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers have been awarded a 
$10 million grant to study the red snap-
per population in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Robert Ahrens, an associate professor 
in the UF Institute of Food and Agricul-tural Sciences fisheries and aquatic sci-ences program, will join other research-ers to assess the fish population. Will Patterson, a UF professor, also received 
funding.
The grant is funded through an 
order from Congress and comes from 
the Mississippi-Alabama Sea Grant and 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, Ahrens said.
The study aims to find a better 
method of determining the number of red snappers in the Gulf of Mexico, Ahrens said. 
“The red snapper population in the 
Gulf of Mexico is an iconic species,” 
Ahrens said. “It represents some of the 
biggest challenges we face with respect to the management of fishery resources in the Gulf.”
Since traditional assessments are not 
effective in counting population size, fishers believe the harvest restrictions put on the fish are too high and are hav-ing a negative impact on their revenue, 
Ahrens said.
UF’s goal is to provide an alternative 
assessment of the red snapper popula-
tion using methods like remote-operated vehicles, which count fish in a specific 
area. However, this method only works 
in clear water, so the group is looking into other methods as well.
The project will begin in 2018, 
Ahrens said. The team hopes to start the actual sampling of the population by late spring or early summer. 
Dolphin and human brain 
similar in Alzheimer’s pattern
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Knowing her family’s history with 
Alzheimer’s disease, Dr. Maria Carolina 
Gallego-Iradi began researching treat-
ments for the disease in marine mam-mals.
The UF assistant scientist discovered, 
in both human and dolphin brains, the manifestation of Alzheimer’s is almost identical, she said. She discovered the similarity while studying  dolphins that 
washed ashore in Spain and has been 
conducting a study for more than 10 years.
Gallego-Iradi said the discovery is 
a rare occurrence in animals, and she hopes it can lead to more knowledge or a treatment for Alzheimer’s. 
“It should be an outstanding advance 
for humanity,” she said. 
To study the connection, she said re-
searchers would have to study hundreds of dolphins’ daily activity and collect data on any abnormal losses of function. 
But, she said, because dolphins are 
wild animals, it would be nearly impos-sible to detect if the marine mammals have Alzheimer’s.  
Alzheimer’s disease is a progres-
sive brain disease that leads to memory loss, cognitive disability and, ultimate-ly, death. Humans develop Alzheimer’s when they are older, and if dolphins also 
have Alzheimer’s, it would be the same, 
she said.
The pathology between dolphins and 
humans is similar because dolphins car-ry the amyloid plaques and neurofibril-
lary tangles that appear in humans with 
dementia or Alzheimer’s, Gallego-Iradi said.
“Dolphins’ brains are highly complex, 
just like humans,” she said.
THE CAMPAIGN WILL REPLACE 
AN EVENT THE INITIATIVE 
HOSTS ANNUALL Y.
By Hannah Burkhart
Alligator Contributing Writer
Create in Place, an event organized by 
352Creates, will go online Friday.
352Creates, a UF Arts in Medicine pro-
gram initiative, encourages art created lo-cally with Create in Place, an event started in 2016, said Charlotte Kesl, the coordinator of Create in Place. 
Instead of hosting an event at Depot Park 
in the spring, the initiative is motivating so-cial media users to share their artwork with hashtag #CreateinPlace, and 352Creates will repost their work the second Friday of each 
month, Kesl said.
“We intend to make our new Create in 
Place a creative movement that is more far-reaching than just a one-day reminder each year,” Kesl said. “We want to encourage the 
352 area residents to create wherever they are and whenever they want.”
John Kieslich, the operations assistant at 
UF Arts in Medicine, said he got involved in 
the initiative because he works at UF Health 
Shands Hospital and thought patients have a better hospital visit when creating art.
“352Creates works to help the community 
achieve optimal well-being through mindful-ness, creativity and the arts,” Kieslich said.
Kesl said the new campaign will have a 
greater impact since it is year round rather than once every spring.
“This shared sense of community through 
creativity can now be felt once a month in-stead of once a year,” Kesl said. “Our net-work of individuals, organizations and 
business can now be constantly connected 
by sharing their creative projects with our hashtag.”By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested for 
driving drunk after leaving Midtown on Friday, University Police said. 
Brittny Diane Castillo, 22, was 
pulled over by police on West Uni-versity Avenue after an officer saw her drive into an intersection with 
a red light, speed 10 miles over the 
limit and drift into a bicycle lane at about 2:30 a.m., according to an arrest report. The officer said she avoided eye contact and admitted to 
rolling through the red light.
The officer saw a cup in the cen-
ter console cup holder, which looked 
like it contained an alcoholic drink, 
according to the report. Castillo’s 
eyes were red and her passenger’s speech was slurred, police said. 
She told police she and her pas-senger, who was her boyfriend, were going home from Midtown, and she 
had two drinks earlier that night, 
according to the report. The officer said she smelled like alcohol and per-formed poorly on field sobriety exer-
cises. 
Castillo refused to give a breath 
sample at UPD headquarters.
She is listed as a UF student in the 
UF directory.
Castillo was arrested on a charge 
of driving under the influence and 
taken to Alachua County Jail. She was released Saturday at about 12:36 
p.m. on her own recognizance.
Castillo could not be reached for 
comment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF art program to promote 
local art with social mediaUPD: UF student drives drunk, drifts into bike laneBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608Century 21 Elite LocationsCall Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils 
& internet incl. Grad student preferred. 
Available now. Call Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
Be a Brand Ambassador for Hangology.Visit us at hangology.comReq's: Well-established social media network.Compensation: $15 per item sold.Contact: phil@hangology.com    12-6-17-7-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for very suc-cessful Entrepreneur. $20/hr. Must have vibrant personality, be in great physical shape, enjoys sporting events. Office sup-port; computer &amp; plan social functions; light house work/errands; some travel. Email resume & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com    1-8-18-6-14
RGIS, LLCHiring NOW!
Inventory Associates• Starting: $9.00• Flexible p/t work• Promotion opportunities• Regular wage reviews• Grp health plan after 90 days• Equal Opportunity EmployerStart your career today!Apply @: www.rgis.comJob #: PRE1511       1-8-18-6-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14Weekdays after 2:30 pm. To help with 3 kids ages 8-15, with after school pickups and activities. $12/hr. Experience, references required. email: rosenson@ufl.edu.     12-6-17-3-14
WANTEDBartender & Barback Experienced, Reliable and ResponsibleDirty Bar, Gainesville FL(352) 373-1141     1-10-18-5-14
Girls Place, Inc. Classroom CounselorsLooking for passionate & enthusiastic peoplePT M-F After SchoolApply online www.girlsplace.net     1-8-18-4-14
Psychology Office looking for Spring 
Semester Volunteer Office Interns. Two 
full-day a week commitment. Credit may 
be available through UF psychology and 
English Departments. Excellent writing and 
communication skills important.
Send vita/resume with letter of interest to
info@cpancf.com
1-17-18-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
Reduce Your Student Loans & Obtain Financial Freedom!  Join Our Affiliate Program At ConversionPros and Get Paid on 3 Levels! Unlimited Potential!  See Exciting Details at http://ernie187.recruitlikeamachine.com/partner    1-8-18-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACROSS
1 Knight’s “shining”
protection
6 Elegant
10 WWII
servicewomen
14 Car body style
15 Mennen shaving
lotion
16 Get one’s ducks
in __
17 Devotee of singer
Gloria
19 Heavy book
20 Buck or doe21 Beluga yield
22 Viewed to be
24 Precise price27 Mineral springs30 Believer’s suffix
31 Five-time
Wimbledon
champ Björn
32 Portion out
34 “Westworld”
network
35 Bon Ami
alternative
39 Mata Hari story,
e.g.
43 Simplicity44 The “I” in TGIF
45 Family car46 Disney’s “__ &
Stitch”
48 Above-the-street
trains
50 Chapter in history
51 Garden purchase
from a Lowe’s
rival
56 Truck capacity
57 Coffee order:
Abbr.
58 Image to click on62 Gadget’s rank:
Abbr.
63 According to the
U.S. CensusBureau, it’s 63 for
retirement
66 Slugger Sammy67 Earth orbiter
68 Wafer brand
69 Jacob or Esau
70 Choice word
71 Not reached, as
a goal
DOWN
1 Scored 100 on
2 Went up
3 Sound-off button
4 Wagner work5 Striped-shirt
wearer6 Happen as
expected
7 Buyer’s proposal
8 BART stop
9 Hammer or
screwdriver
10 Nixon Era
scandal
11 Pleasing smell12 Tailed celestial
body
13 31-Across, by
birth
18 Rainbow shapes
23 Poetic “always”
25 Credit in a
footnote
26 “Dancing Queen”
group
27 Place for
valuables
28 Not guilty, for one29 Gift for the poor33 Skillet for folded
egg dishes
34 Growth chart
nos.
36 Green stone37 Banned apple
spray
38 TV warrior
princess
40 It’s often followed
by .pdf
41 On the summit of42 Old U.S. gas
brand
47 Swearing-in
words
48 Timeless, in
verse
49 Women’s links
gp.
51 Lift up
52 Televised as we
speak
53 Soccer great
Lionel54 Black-and-white
cookies
55 Marketing
gimmick
59 Period “before
the storm”
60 Look at
lasciviously
61 Without ice, at
the bar
64 TV loud-soft
control: Abbr.
65 Bearded antelope
By Jeff Stillman
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/04/1712/04/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, December 4, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Stay in the big
house
10 Beach pretender
15 [Yawn]
16 Many a Studio
Ghibli film
17 Fund for
incidentals
18 Character who
dances on the
beach at Stavros
19 Supporting
20 Evil skill22 Talbot Jr. or Sr.
on “Rectify”
23 Obstacles on the
set
25 Confident
response to
“Your opponent
is ready”
26 Funeral rite heap
27 Poet Thomas29 “Baby Blues”
baby
30 Maranjab Desert
country
31 Empty out 
badly?
33 Repertoire35 Skeleton’s
place?
38 Do maintenance
on, as a puttinggreen
39 Card carrier
41 Convene42 Chill (with)43 Kate of “House of
Cards”
45 Grouses49 Welding sparks50 Better52 Tar on the ocean53 Compete54 Like free-range
chickens
56 West of
Tinseltown
57 Country album?59 History buff’s
artifacts
61 Tearful queen
62 Big brother, often63 First chips64 Chaotic placesDOWN
1 Nursed
2 Zip
3 Overhaul the
plant
4 Old hand
5 Dessert
companyfounded in 1928
6 Shells from
stands
7 Sequentially8 It runs in the
shower
9 Short-lived
things
10 Indistinct
11 Noted resident of
The Dakota in
Manhattan
12 Singer?13 Pale order14 Tone down21 Washes out24 South Seas
cover-ups
26 They’re beaten at
parties
28 Intrusive32 Tough guy’s
exhortation34 Church of country
35 Allergy sufferer’s
choice
36 Legendary court
figure
37 Mine carriers
40 “As if!”
42 Caribbean city
with cocotaxis
44 German
chancellorMerkel46 City west of
Baghdad
47 Mercury, e.g.48 Bargains beyond
belief
51 Teammate of
Mariano for 19years
54 Exploits55 Small change58 #16, familiarly
60 Booking agent?
By D. Scott Nichols and C.C. Burnikel
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/02/1712/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, December 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Take off, empty
1.  Reveal, uncover5.  Not definite or clear 
2.  Reasonable 6.  ____ practice 
3.  Fantastic 7.  Articulate, eloquent 
4.  Red wineNDOLAU
VLIUENUGAVE
HCIRO
LOALICG
SMWAEEOEFTULN
LETCARANSWERS: 1A-Unload  5A-Vague  6A-Choir  7A-Fluent
1D-Unveil  2D-Logical  3D-Awesome  4D-Claret  B-Ed Sullivan12-4-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “I've tried every way I know 
to smile into a camera, but I can't do it.”
BONUS1. In 2016, Jayson Werth tied a 
Nationals franchise record for consec-
utive games reaching base (46). Who 
else did it?
2. Name the player in the 1970s who 
led the American League in triples 
and home runs in the same season.
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that the Big Ten had four teams ranked in the top 10 of The Associat-ed Press college football poll during 
the season?
4. Who was the last San Antonio 
Spurs player before Kawhi Leonard 
(2015 and 2016) to win the NBA’s Defensive Player of the Year Award?
5. In 2017, Nashville’s Frederick 
Gaudreau became the third rookie since 1927 to score game-winning goals in consecutive games in the Stanley Cup Final. Name either of the first two.
6. When was the last time before 
2016 that golf was played in the Sum-mer Olympics?
7. Name the golfer who, in 2017, set 
a record for the lowest 18-hole round in a men’s major championship?
Answers
1. Rusty Staub, in 1970, when the 
franchise was located in Montreal.
2. Jim Rice, in 1978 (15 triples, 46 
home runs).
3. In October 1960, Iowa, Illinois, 
Ohio State and Purdue were ranked in the top 10.
4. David Robinson, in 1992.5. Pittsburgh’s Jake Guentzel (also 
in 2017) and Boston’s Roy Conacher (1939).
6. It was 1904.7. Branden Grace, at the British 
Open.
© 2017 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 27, 2017King Features Weekly Service15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals
 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesCan college football fans 
expect an all-SEC national championship? One of our columnists think so. Read the opinion piece, pg. 15. Former Gator Cristian Garcia tweets about paying players
"Fans keep calling for an expanded college football playoff but do not want 
to see the athletes get paid. Where's the justiﬁ  cation in the amount of money NCAA ofﬁ  cials & conference commissioners are pocketing while the athletes are battling it out for the "love of the game,'" Garcia tweeted Sunday.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S GOLF
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Gordon Neale had everything 
settled. As a top-25 prospect in his 
recruiting class, he had his pick of 
offers from high-proﬁ  le programs. 
But there was only one school he 
wanted to attend. With a scholar-
ship lined up, he was headed to 
play golf at Southern Methodist 
University.
Until he wasn’t.
At the beginning of his 
senior year at Tesoro High 
School in Orange County, 
California, after being com-
mitted to the Mustangs for 
a year and a half, he was 
informed by an assistant 
coach at SMU that head 
coach Josh Gregory had 
resigned amid allegations 
of recruiting violations.
Gordon was shocked.
“Nobody saw that 
coming,” he said.
Gordon committed to SMU 
expecting to play for Gregory, so 
after his would-be coach’s departure, 
he lost interest in the school. 
Now, overwhelmed with 
uncertainty concerning his future as 
a college athlete, Gordon had only 
months to make a decision most 
golfers have years to make. 
But after having to overcome the 
disappointment of missing out on his 
perfect ﬁ  t, having to build relationships 
with coaches he’d never spoken to 
and being forced to rush a decision 
that would affect the rest of his life, he 
eventually found a home in Gainesville.
Excited to be a Mustang
It’s easy to see why Gordon wanted 
to go to SMU. After all, heading into the 2014 fall season, the Mustangs 
were coming off a postseason run in 
which they won the American Athletic 
Conference and advanced to the NCAA quarterﬁ  nals, where they lost a hard-
fought match to eventual champion 
Alabama.
SMU’s commitment to its golf pro-
gram brought about some of the best fa-
cilities in the country, including a new 
golf course estimated to cost $50 mil-
lion, which will host PGA tournaments 
beginning in 2018. The Mustangs, who 
ﬁ  nished ranked No. 26 the previous 
season, were looking like a national 
title contender in 2014-15. Gordon was 
excited to play for Gregory, who his fa-
ther said he “really, really, liked.”
While Gordon had looked at schools 
near his hometown of Dove Canyon, 
California, his reason for leaving the 
Los Angeles area was, strangely, the 
reason most people come to Southern 
California in the ﬁ  rst place.
“The weather was perfect,” Gordon 
said.
Gordon was too ambitious to play 
in pristine conditions. He wanted wind. 
He wanted rain. He even wanted to be 
tested by types of grass that the Los An-geles area couldn’t offer. 
The range of conditions in Dallas 
made it the perfect destination, and 
SMU the perfect school. 
But then, everything changed.On Aug. 8, 2014, SMU announced 
Gregory’s resignation. In the school’s ofﬁ  cial release, there was no mention 
of why he resigned.
However, days later, details emerged 
that Gregory had resigned under pres-
sure from the university after repeated 
allegations were made against him for 
violating NCAA rules, including imper-
missible text messages sent to recruits, 
according to a report from Golfweek.
Gordon’s father said he didn’t think 
the allegations warranted Gregory’s 
resignation.
“It was an unfortunate circum-
stance,” his father, Garth, said.
While Gordon remained commit-
ted at the time, he told Golfweek in the days after Gregory’s resignation that he Bad luck turns into good fortune for UF's Gordon Neale 
How NCAA violations and coaching 
relationships guided one men's golfer 
to a new home in Gainesville.
days after Gregory’s resignation that he 
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 16MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer 
There was a moment of 
hesitation from the crowd at 
the O’Connell Center on Fri-day when Shainah Joseph struck the game-winning kill 
against Miami. 
As soon as the ball landed 
on the opposite side of the 
net, barely in bounds, Joseph raised both arms in the air with a look of pure joy on her face, knowing she had just helped her team advance to the Sweet 16.
But the road to the Final 
Four only gets more difﬁ  cult as the No. 2 seed Gators (27-1, 17-1 SEC) could face two top-15 teams in regionals this weekend.
Florida takes on No. 15 
seed UCLA in the O’Connell Center on Friday at 4 p.m., 
which is  followed by the 
matchup between No. 7 seed Minnesota and No. 10 seed Southern California at 6 p.m.  
UF’s region is the only one 
with four national seeds re-maining in the tournament, upping the competition the Gators will face this week-
end. 
After securing their sec-ond NCAA Tournament win in a four-set match against 
Miami, the Gators are prov-ing they have the motivation to advance in the tourna-ment. 
Joseph helped make this 
journey for the Gators a little easier with her powerful im-pact on a dominating offense.
Joseph, named an All-SEC 
player for the ﬁ  rst time in her career in November, boasts a .368 hitting percentage, notching 248 kills out of 543 total attacks over the season.
While Joseph isn’t the 
team’s leader in hitting per-centage, kills or total attacks, 
she has a presence on the 
court that has helped the Gators in their recent match-es.
In Friday’s contest against 
the Hurricanes, Joseph ﬁ  n-ished the night with 19 kills and just two errors on 33 to-tal attacks — the third time in the last six matches she ﬁ  nished with at least 19 kills.
Joseph helped Florida 
clinch the win against Miami by scoring the Gators’ last two points of the match with 
two swings that left Miami’s 
defense in disarray. 
The night before, Joseph notched nine kills and one block in a 3-0 sweep against Alabama State, the Gators’ ﬁ  rst-round match in the 
NCAA Tournament.
The Ontario native’s im-
pact hasn’t gone unnoticed.
Before the tournament, se-
nior Carli Snyder said Joseph 
plays a key part in the Gators’ offense, especially since Flor-ida’s loss to Kentucky on Oct. 15, its only loss this season.
“She’s crucial to that run 
that we’ve had and she is a huge piece of our offense,” Snyder said.
Snyder added that Jo-
seph’s physicality and efﬁ  -ciency at the right side has been an asset to the Gators during their 13-game winning 
streak.
While Joseph’s hard work 
has helped the team get to the 
regional round of the NCAA tournament, she knows the team has some things to im-prove on as it goes deeper into the bracket.
“We haven’t peaked yet,” 
she said. “We will always have some things to work on.”
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
Joseph is one reason Gators are advancing to Sweet 16
The matchups for the Col-
lege Football Playoff have ofﬁ  cially been set.
After 14 weeks of the 
maniacal madness that is 
the FBS regular season, it has all 
come down to Clemson, Okla-homa, Georgia and Alabama for the right to be crowned national 
champion.
Here are my predictions for 
what to expect in each game:
 Rose Bowl: No. 2 Oklahoma vs. No. 3 
Georgia — Jan. 1 at 5 p.m.
The Sooners and Bulldogs — both coming 
off wins in their respective conference cham-
pionships — head to Pasadena, California, 
to play in the Rose Bowl on New Year’s Day.
Senior quarterback and Heisman favorite 
Baker Mayﬁ  eld has led OU’s offense to 583.3 
yards per game this season, the best mark in 
the country.
Meanwhile, safeties J.R. Reed and Domi-
nick Sanders helped UGA limit opponents 
to only 158.3 passing yards per game, the second-best average in the country.
While the Sooners’ offense looked un-
stoppable in 2017, it has yet to face a defense anywhere near as talented as the Bulldogs’.
Anticipate Georgia barely eeking this one 
out to punch its ticket to the national cham-pionship.
 Result: Georgia 38, Oklahoma 35 
Sugar Bowl: No. 1 Clemson vs. No. 4 
Alabama — Jan. 1 at 8:45 p.m.
Well, well, well. Look what we have here.In a rematch of the past two 
seasons’ national title show-
downs, the Tigers and Crimson 
Tide are squaring off in New Or-
leans on New Year’s Day in the Sugar Bowl.
Both teams’ defenses are the 
cream of the crop in the FBS, with Alabama and Clemson rank-ing ﬁ  rst and second, respectively, in points allowed per game.
Although the Tigers are the defending na-
tional champions, don’t expect them to get past the Crimson Tide for a second consecu-tive time.
Alabama will just squeeze by to set up 
the ﬁ  rst all-SEC title game in CFP history.
 Result: Alabama 30, Clemson 28 National Championship: No. 3 Georgia 
vs. No. 4 Alabama — Jan. 8 at 8 p.m.
In what probably should have been this 
season’s SEC Championship Game, the Bull-dogs and Crimson Tide will instead go head-
to-head on Jan. 8 in the National Champion-
ship Game.
Alabama still has a sour taste in its mouth 
from last year’s loss to Clemson, when it fell to the Tigers on a last-second touchdown. 
Nick Saban and company will use that as 
motivation in a close, six-point victory over UGA.
Result: Alabama 34, Georgia 28 
Dylan Dixon is the Alligator’s assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at ddixon@alliga-tor.org.Predicting the College Football Playoﬀ  You’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixonMEN’S BASKETBALL
GATORS HOST SEMINOLES 
TONIGHT AT 9 IN O’CONNELL 
CENTER AND ON ESPN2.
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
In recent years, Florida State has wran-
gled Florida in multiple sports. 
Men’s basketball is no exception. Over 
the last three seasons, the Seminoles are 
3-0 against the Gators, winning all three contests by a combined nine points.
This year, No. 6 Florida enters tonight’s 
9 p.m. matchup against the Seminoles in the O’Connell Center as a nine-point favor-ite.
But for Florida coach Mike White, the 
rivalry has yet to manifest itself as anything 
more than just another game.
And he hopes to keep it that way.
“I know it’s a big game in our fans’ 
minds,” White said.  “I don’t know if you 
make a game really emotional, I don’t 
know how that puts you in the best place mentally to play really well.”
As the Gators (5-1) prepare to take on 
the Seminoles (6-0) tonight, White knows 
how dangerous this FSU team is.
Led by coach Leonard Hamilton, who 
has been at the helm of the program since 
2002, the Seminoles boast a high-octane of-
fense with multiple scoring options.
Four of FSU’s probable starters average 
over 10 points per game, same as Florida’s 
starting lineup.
“They can really spread the ﬂ  oor this 
year with multiple three-point shooters,” White said. “And they’ve got an emerging young point guard in [CJ] Walker.”
Walker, a sophomore from Indianapo-
lis, has made a big leap this year, averaging 11 points and three assists per game, more than double his average from last season in both categories.
Walker showcased his sophomore jump 
with a 24-point performance against then-undefeated Rutgers to keep the Seminoles’ record perfect on the year.
“It’s the next game and it’s an ACC op-
ponent,” White said. “It’s a good team. It’s a team coming off an NCAA Tournament run.”
Despite this being his ﬁ  rst season play-
ing for Florida, redshirt junior Jalen Hud-son has experience facing the Seminoles.
The guard averaged 7.8 points in four 
previous matchups with FSU while he played at Virginia Tech.
Now, as Florida’s leading scorer averag-
ing close to 22 points per game, Hudson hopes to use that experience as an advan-tage tonight.
“I’m a little bit familiar with how they 
play and their coach and their coaching style a little bit,” Hudson said.
Whether viewed as an endless feud be-
tween the Gators and Seminoles, or just 
another game in a grueling ﬁ  ve-month 
schedule, Florida wants to come out strong following its ﬁ  rst loss of the year against Duke on Nov. 26.
“We’ve got to protect our house,” Hud-
son said. “I’m excited just to get to it.”
 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org ‘Got to protect our house’  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Outside hitter Shainah Joseph collected 19 kills against Miami in the second round 
of the NCAA T ournament on Friday, helping the Gators advance to the Sweet 16.VOLLEYBALL16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2017
was reconsidering his commitment 
and exploring other colleges.
“I still don’t know what’s going 
to happen," he told Golfweek at the time.
In the weeks that followed, Gor-
don grew less and less comfortable 
with the state of SMU’s program. Fi-nally, he decommitted.
“The program started going 
downhill,” Gordon said. “There was a bunch of uncertainty.”
 Searching for a new homeGordon went from an excited 
high school senior with a secure fu-ture to a free agent in a few weeks, looking for a new school when most of his peers had long since commit-ted. He felt lost.
“I can’t imagine being a young kid 
like that, fired up to go to a college, 
and to have it all derail,” his personal 
coach Bob Lasken said. “From being on a potential top-five team with the 
best facilities, and to have that pulled 
out from under you and be back to 
square one was really difficult.”
Gordon found himself in a strange 
position. One would think that a top 
recruit becoming available would be 
a godsend, and coaches from top-tier 
programs would be knocking down 
his door every day.
However, with some elite golfers 
committing as early as middle school, many programs had exhausted their 
scholarship budget for the 2015 class.“You get afraid that all the schol-
arships are locked up,” Gordon said.
He felt like his future — one that 
he’d spent a year and a half looking forward to — was taken away from 
him.
While he had other offers from 
programs like three-time national champion Texas and hometown 
USC, none of them offered the same 
comfort he felt from SMU and Greg-ory.
Florida enters the fold
Before he decommitted from 
SMU, Gordon didn’t have any inter-
est in Florida, and the former Gators 
coaching staff didn’t recruit him. He 
didn’t want to go to school that far 
from home.“I didn’t look at any schools east 
of Texas,” Gordon said.
However, newly hired UF coach 
J.C. Deacon had been following him from afar ever since his days as an 
assistant coach at Nevada-Las Ve-gas. While Gordon didn’t have any 
interest in a lower-tier program like 
UNLV, Deacon saw an opportunity 
to reach out to him once he arrived 
at Florida.
Early one morning during Gor-
don’s senior year, a call from an un-known number jarred him awake. 
He didn’t recognize the voice on the 
other line. It belonged to Deacon.
Gordon knew the coach from 
Deacon’s UNLV days and heard from friends committed to UNLV how ex-
cited they were to play for him. But 
he didn’t know Deacon had recently taken the head coaching job at Flor-
ida.
The call from Deacon sparked 
Gordon’s interest in playing for the Gators.
Even though the 17-year-old was 
reluctant to go so far from home, UF 
offered an intriguing opportunity.
While in Florida to compete in the 
Junior Players Championship, Gor-don decided to take advantage of a 
chance to visit Gainesville.
He was glad he did.
He instantly connected with Dea-
con and then-assistant coach John 
Handrigan, now the head coach at 
Notre Dame.
“We were good buddies right 
away,” Deacon said. “He was really comfortable from day one.”
In Florida – and its new stable of 
coaches – Gordon saw an opportu-
nity to find an environment that felt 
like home. One that felt like SMU.
“I fell in love with the coaching 
staff,” he said.
 A tough choiceEven though Gordon liked what 
he saw during his Florida visit, it wasn’t enough for him to decide on 
Florida outright. As National Signing 
Day loomed in the spring, Gordon had yet to make a decision between 
Florida and other schools, namely 
Arizona State.
“I remember it coming down re-
ally close between us and ASU,” Deacon said. “Honestly, we were worried.”
While many high school athletes 
make their recruiting decisions based 
on superficial factors like clubhouse 
amenities, Gordon was slightly dif-ferent.
He made a pros-and-cons list.With an elaborate point system.
He made a list of the schools he 
was considering and assigned points 
to each school based on possible ben-
efits. For example, schools got points 
if they had an on-campus golf course. 
He didn’t want to drive for 40 min-
utes through traffic to get to practice like he would have to at a school like 
UCLA.
He added up the total points, and 
while it was close, Florida won.
Garth said he was proud of his 
son for the maturity he showed throughout the process.
“He made a decision without be-
ing starry-eyed,” he said.
Gordon verbally committed to the 
Gators in February while traveling to South Africa for a tournament and 
made it official by signing his Letter 
of Intent in April.
Despite how difficult the deci-
sion was for him, Gordon, now a star 
junior at UF, says he has no regrets 
about choosing the Gators.
Everything that drew him to 
SMU was there for him at Florida: top-flight facilities, a coaching staff 
he trusted and an environment that 
would challenge him.
For an upperclassman with plans 
to win major tournaments like the Masters while playing on the PGA 
Tour, it would be easy for him to 
think about his post-collegiate career.
But coming off of a career-best se-
mester this fall — notching two top-five finishes, including second place 
at SMU’s Trinity Forest, the course 
he once thought he’d call home — Gordon’s focus is on his legacy as a 
Gator. After his first coaching choice 
resigned, months of uncertainty, and 
an improvised recruiting process, 
Gordon is finally able to enjoy some stability.
“I want to leave my name hanging 
around UF for a while,” he said.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BASKETBALL: UF 80, OU 61
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
As Funda Nakkasoglu missed a wide-
open layup, she and teammate Haley Loren-zen shared a laugh. Her embarrassing miss didn’t matter, as the Gators (5-3) were just minutes away from sealing an 80-61 road victory over the Oklahoma Sooners (3-4).
“Our kids have worked hard for this,” 
coach Cameron Newbauer said after the win.
Their hard work showed on Sunday af-
ternoon at the Lloyd Noble Center in Nor-man, Oklahoma.
Senior guard Dyandria Anderson led all scorers with a career-high 29 points on 8-of-
11 shooting while going 6-of-7 from behind 
the arc.
Her effort came just a few weeks after 
she notched a career-high 21 points against 
Stetson. With Sunday’s performance, An-
derson topped her career high for the sec-
ond time this season and has added a spark 
to Newbauer’s offense.
Nakkasoglu was clutch for the Gators as 
well, knocking down seven of her 15 shots 
during a 24-point effort.
The junior guard notched her fourth dou-
ble-digit scoring effort in her first season as 
a Gator.
“I think our team fought tonight,” New-
bauer said. “I’m just so grateful for our kids to have this opportunity to come out here 
and blessed that we got the W.”
After the game, Newbauer said he doesn’t 
consider the Gators to be a good defensive 
team. But on Sunday, Florida dominated the glass and disrupted the offensive flow of the 
Sooners. It outrebounded Oklahoma by 25 
and forced the Sooners into difficult shots.
Oklahoma shot under 35 percent from 
the field as a result.
The Sooners’ leading scorer, senior cen-
ter Vionise Pierre-Louis, recorded only four points on 1-of-8 shooting as well as three 
rebounds. Senior Gabbi Ortiz, who was av-eraging over 14 points per game for Oklaho-ma, didn’t score against Florida. The guard 
finished the game shooting 0-for-8 from the field, despite being on the court for all 40 minutes.
The Gators will now shift their focus 
toward No. 8 Ohio State for a mid-week 
matchup in the O’Connell Center. But for the time being, Newbauer and his Gators 
squad are going to take some time to soak 
in the win.
“It’s a completely different type of game 
because (Ohio State) can shoot it from the 
perimeter,” Newbauer said. “But we’re 
gonna enjoy this one tonight, get some ice 
cream and have fun and celebrate.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this re-
port.                                   @justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgGators dominate Sooners in biggest win of Newbauer era
After a stressful recruiting process, Neale found a fit at UF
Alligator File Photo
Following SMU coach Josh Gregory's resignation in 2014, Gordon Neale decommitted from the 
Mustangs and was left looking for a new college. Eventually, he signed his Letter of Intent to play at UF.
GOLF,  from pg 14