We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 8 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
Gators forced to adjust to canceled 
football game
Florida no longer has a tune-up game to prepare for SEC play. Read the story, pg 14. 
Adoption fees waived before Irma 
Local humane society wants its animals safe, pg 8. 
New policies for homeless shelter
Grace Marketplace pavilion is now night-to-night, pg 9. FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
HE PREVIOUSL Y TRIED TO 
SPEAK SEPT. 12.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Avowed white nationalist lead-
er Richard Spencer may speak at 
UF on Oct. 19.
Although UF was persistent 
about denying Spencer’s initial request to speak Sept. 12, the National Policy Institute made a request for another date, and UF had to make a “good faith” effort to accommodate, accord-
ing to a statement from UF. A 
contract has not been signed yet. After Spencer’s request to speak Sept. 12 was denied, with UF President Kent Fuchs citing safety 
as a main concern, the institute 
said it would take the issue to court. UF’s general counsel sent an email back saying UF did not 
mean to permanently bar Spencer from campus. 
UF will evaluate the safety 
risks and costs of Spencer speak-ing, according to the statement. 
They have been working with lo-cal, state and federal law enforce-ment agencies for the past month to evaluate, including the FBI.
“UF deplores Spencer’s and the 
National Policy Institute’s rheto-ric and views, which run counter to those of this institution. We 
also acknowledge that many of our students, faculty and staff are 
disproportionately impacted by their racism,” the statement said. 
Spencer would speak at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts if he came, wrote UF spokes-person Janine Sikes in an email. She said the cost has not been de-
termined yet. 
Andre Fonseca said he thinks 
Spencer should be banned from 
speaking at UF. Fonseca, a 
22-year-old UF political science junior, said he feels UF should 
stand up against Spencer’s ap-pearance.
“Even though he says it’s 
peaceful and free speech, he’s us-ing his platform to stir up hate to-ward others,” Fonseca said. “His speech has hate in it.” 
Fonseca, who was born in Mi-
ami of Guatemalan parents, said he’s personally felt the prejudice from people he knows who hold 
Richard Spencer tentatively sets new date to speak at UF
SEE SPENCER,  PAGE 8By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Florida’s ﬁ  rst home football game was 
canceled Thursday because of Hurricane Irma. 
“As the hurricane’s track has ap-
proached the state of Florida, it’s become obvious that playing a football game is not the right thing to do,” UF Athletic Director 
Scott Stricklin said in a press release. 
Stricklin said a large amount of fans 
traveling to the game could put a burden 
on roadways already ﬁ  lled with those try-ing to evacuate. 
“Gainesville is also close to some of 
Florida’s heaviest trafﬁ  c points this week, speciﬁ  cally Interstate 75, which is a key statewide evacuation route,” Stricklin said. 
Florida, which was slated to face 
Northern Colorado at noon Saturday, an-nounced the game will not be rescheduled because the teams do not share an open date for the rest of the season. 
The game had already been resched-
uled from 7:30 p.m. Saturday to noon because the Category 5 hurricane was ex-pected to hit Gainesville either Saturday night or Sunday morning.
After staying in contact with UF and 
government ofﬁ  cials, Stricklin said the fo-cus of the state should be on relief efforts rather than the game. 
In a release, the school announced 
that refund information would be com-municated to those who have already pur-chased tickets. Gators home opener called 
oﬀ   because of hurricane
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
IRMA THREATENS ALACHUA COUNTY
Alachua County residents work to ﬁ  ll sandbags to prepare for Hurricane Irma. The 
storm is currently ranked as a Category 5 hurricane and projections see it heading toward Florida.
Staff Report 
Hurricane Irma, a major storm 
with wind speeds of 175 miles per 
hour, shifted further west Thursday night, making the potential effects on Gainesville more severe. 
Hurricane Irma will approach the 
coast near Jacksonville late Sunday possibly as a Category 2 storm. The northeastern area of the state can expect tropical storm force winds ranging from 100 mph to 120 mph, according to a National Weather Ser-vice update as of Thursday night.
Florida Gov. Rick Scott declared 
a state of emergency Monday, lifting highway tolls and canceling classes in Florida schools Friday and Mon-day.
UF and Santa Fe College canceled 
classes on Friday due to Scott’s deci-sion. UF previously announced cam-pus would close Sunday and Mon-day. The opening home game of the football season was also canceled af-ter being initially moved up to noon. 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe de-
clared a state of emergency Wednes-day for seven days, according to Al-ligator archives.  
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said UF will likely open two shelters on campus, with details to be an-nounced Friday. Generators for the buildings have been tested. 
Alachua County opened 12 shel-
ters, including nine general popula-tion shelters, one special needs shel-ter and two pet-friendly shelters.
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Pa-
trol vehicles will continue to run through Saturday night, Sikes said. Dining halls will have regular hours until Saturday night and then will have selective hours from Sunday to 
Monday. 
Regional Transit System has no 
plans currently to remove buses 
from routes, but if winds exceed 35 mph, all RTS buses will have to be removed from the road, said city spokesperson Chip Skinner. 
“It’s a wait and see right now,” 
Skinner said. “These are heavy vehi-
cles and are very sensitive to winds 
over 35 miles per hour.” Gainesville and Alachua County 
government ofﬁ  ces will close Friday at noon and remain closed Monday. Curbside waste collection is sus-pended Monday.
Gainesville Regional Utilities said 
tap water is safe to drink during the storm because Murphree Wa-
ter Treatment Plant can operate on 
standby power.
Residents can collect sandbags 
from the Gainesville Public Works Department, located at 405 NW 39th Ave., from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., while supplies last, until Saturday.
During the storm, all Publix lo-
cations will be open and operating 
with regular hours. Target will re-
main open Friday and Saturday. UF Health Shands Hospital will 
operate 24/7 throughout the storm, and UF’s veterinary hospitals will be open for emergency cases. 
The American Red Cross will host 
three free, public courses over the weekend on disaster relief and shel-ter training, said ARC spokesperson 
Christian Smith. 
The “Just in Time” training 
courses were designed in the wake 
of Harvey, and are designed to train volunteers to help the Red Cross with food distribution and disaster relief in affected areas, like Texas, Louisi-ana and possibly Florida, Smith said. 
The second course in the program 
will be Friday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Marion County Emergency 
Gainesville, UF hunker down for Hurricane IrmaSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Greg Bogos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  86° LOW  73°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply to be an assistant supervi-
sor of elections for UF Student 
GovernmentApply to be a part of the Fall 2017 UF Student Government 
elections team as an assistant 
supervisor of elections. Multiple assistants will work with the su-pervisor of elections in planning 
and holding elections for 50 sen-
ators based on where students 
reside in Gainesville. Visit sg.ufl.
edu/get-involved/apply and se-lect the “executive” link to ap-ply no later than today at 4 p.m. Contact Supervisor of Elections Erica Baker at elections@sg.ufl.edu with any questions.
LeadUF applications
LeadUF is based on the under-standing that leadership is a life-long journey developed by our experiences and engagement in the community and world. The 2017 program through the David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service has been expanded to a semesterlong, foundational leadership experi-ence designed specifically for first- and second-year students, 
where participants will learn 
about, reflect on and develop their personal leadership frame-work. Please apply to the pro-gram by today, and visit bit.ly/lead-uf for more information.Study abroad information ses-
sion Want to learn more about study abroad and various options? Attend the information session Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Bryan Hall, Room 130. The session 
will highlight the UF Heavener 
School of Business programs in Dublin, London, Madrid, Paris and Rome, along with exchange programs. These programs are open to all UF students and majors. Take on-site courses in language, art and culture to-ward your major or minor de-
gree requirements. Internships 
are available in all locations, and scholarships are also available. RSVP on Facebook at facebook.com/events/206275166572503. Contact 352-273-0151 for more information, or visit warrington.ufl.edu/heavener/studyabroad. 
Viva Museum
Celebrate South American cul-ture from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Sept. 16 at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Enjoy the musi-cal groups Danzas PeruJax and 5 Notas as they perform traditional Latino music and dance, and view seldom-seen Andean arti-
facts from the museum’s South 
American ethnographic collec-tion. This is a bilingual, fun-for-all-ages event. For more infor-mation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/viva-museum or call 352-273-2061.
Fall study abroad fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad Fair at the North Lawn on Sept. 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad program direc-tors and independent program providers will have table dis-plays and be available to an-swer questions. Former study 
abroad students will share their 
international experiences. The UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application process and to help students find the right program. Overseas internship opportuni-ties are available. Study abroad can be used to satisfy Summer 
residency requirements, and 
most financial aid can be used. For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 7
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
GAINESVILLE PREPARES FOR
 THE WORST
Above: The Shell gas station off Archer Road experiences backups 
extending into traffic lanes as Gainesville locals attempt to fill up their 
tanks before experiencing the potential effects of Hurricane Irma.
Right: Jason Wright, the 25-year-old general manager at the West 20 
apartment complex, fills the entire bed of a pick-up truck with water 
bottles outside of Winn-Dixie on 34th Street to prepare for Hurricane Irma.T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1Looking 
for a non 
invasive 
holistic option for:
•increased blood flow
• sleep management
• stress reduction & 
relaxation
• mental acuity• physical fitness and 
endurance
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705  
Complementary 20 minute session
from UF MBA
Shelters
• Kanapaha Middle School, 5005 SW 75th St.
• Joseph Williams Elementary School, 1245 SE Seventh Ave.
• Waldo Community School (pet-friendly), 14450 NE 148th 
Ave.
• ElderCare of Alachua County (special needs), 5701 NW 34th Blvd.
Entertainment
• Hippodrome State Theatre closed Sunday and Monday
• Soccer match between UF and University of South Florida canceled
• Steve Spurrier’s UF Bookstore book signing canceled
• Billy Dean concert relocated to Live Oak, Florida
• Bo Diddley Community Plaza’s Friday night concert canceled
• Orange and Blue Festival canceled
• Auditions for “Annie” at Gainesville Community Play House are postponed
• The grand opening of The Sewing Coop postponed
UF events
• Multicultural and Diversity Affairs’ A Conversation on the First Amendment canceled
• 9/11 Day of Service event from the Collegiate Veterans Success Center canceled
• The Multicultural Greek Council Showcase postponed to Sept. 21
• Honors Involvement Conference canceled
Medical
• UF Health Shands Hospital will remain open 24/7
• The small and large animal hospitals at UF will remain open for emergency serviceLocal
• The Alachua County Courthouse open 
• Alachua County Waste Services open during normal business hoursFood
• All Publix stores in Gainesville open
• Leonardo’s By the Slice and Bistro 1245 open
• Peach Valley Cafe open through Saturday 
• The Social at Midtown open through Saturday 
• Tijuana Flats open through Saturday
• Pascal’s Coffeehouse closed Saturday through Monday
• Salty Dog Saloon open unless there is an evacuation for GainesvilleManagement center in Ocala, and the 
third will be Saturday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Red Cross site, located at 1425 NW Sixth St.
Smith said the Red Cross may offer 
aid to areas in the wake of the storm if and when the county requests it. Re-gardless, people who attend the train-ing sessions will be better equipped to help their own neighborhoods and loved ones, she said. 
“If they’re not able to be used for 
this storm here, some have offered to even help us in Texas and Louisiana,” 
Smith said. “People’s hearts are really 
great.”
Liz McMaster left Gainesville on 
Tuesday night with the belongings that could ﬁ  t in her car and her newly ad-
opted 1-year-old cat, Ellie. 
She drove up to Hartsﬁ  eld-Jackson 
Atlanta International Airport to ﬂ  y to 
Colorado and stay with her boyfriend, Lucas, far away from Hurricane Irma. 
McMaster, a 22-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering ﬁ  fth-year stu-dent, said she wasn’t going to take any chances after seeing the destruction 
Harvey wrought. 
“I think that there’s no safe city 
in Florida,” McMaster said. “Even if 
you’re missed by 200 miles, the weath-er’s going to be catastrophic.” 
As a ﬁ  rm believer in climate change, 
McMaster said newer hurricanes are going to be stronger than Floridians are used to. She wanted her parents and 
younger brother, 20-year-old Scott, to 
evacuate with her, but she said they decided to hunker down in their home-town of St. Petersburg. 
McMaster, safe in Fort Collins, Col-
orado, said she worries for her family and for the rest of her state. 
“It’s crazy, we all have the mind-
set like, ‘Oh we’ve done this a million 
times,’” she said. “They just don’t un-derstand that climate change is affect-
ing these storms, they’re not going to be the same.”
Gainesville resident Jennifer So-
koloff said her dad evacuated from 
the West Palm Beach area around 11 
a.m. Wednesday but didn’t make it to Gainesville until after 9 p.m. While her father made the 10-hour crawl up the interstate, the 38-year-old searched four different stores for water and food for herself, her family and her dog, Leo. 
While waiting in lines for water and 
gas, Sokoloff saw local grocery stores 
and gas stations turn into boxing rings. 
She even called the police while pump-ing gas because she witnessed a ﬁ  ght nearly break out over pricing.
“Be patient and kind,” she said. 
“You’re not getting anything out of be-ing nasty or starting ﬁ  ghts in all these lines.”
In the Caribbean, Hurricane Irma 
destroyed houses and left thousands homeless, according to The New York 
Times. 
Hundreds of miles away, Ricardo 
Valle González felt helpless. 
Hurricane Irma was expected to 
inﬂ  ict catastrophic damage in Valle 
González’s home country of Puerto 
Rico. It ended up leaving 60 percent of 
the island without power, according to The New York Times. Valle González didn’t know what would happen to his aunts, uncles and grandparents who still lived on the island.
All he could do was wait. Nearly 8 
hours after the storm hit Puerto Rico, Valle González spoke to his family. 
“I was very stressed, mainly be-
cause I know the infrastructure there is not the best,” said the 18-year-old UF business administration freshman. “It was very stressful for me, knowing that there was nothing I can do.”
Valle González’s family, who live throughout the island, were prepared with supplies, he said. His grandfather boarded up the windows outside of the house. His uncle, who lives in an apart-ment, didn’t have window protection. 
“I spoke with one of my aunts who 
lived inland, and she said they received some wind and rain, but nothing near-ly as bad as they expected,” he said. “They’re alright and there is minimal damage to their home.” 
As South Florida braces for a di-
rect hit from Hurricane Irma, Hannah Child, a UF animal sciences freshman, 
worries for her family and her home in 
the Florida Keys. 
Her mother and grandparents evac-
uated to the Ocala area but her father and brother are waiting the storm out in the Keys. 
“Our house is built to withstand 
(Category) 5 hurricane winds, but you know you can’t trust those things 
sometimes, and we live right on the 
water, so it’s even more of a threat,” the 18-year-old said. 
Child thinks people are underesti-
mating the storm, especially since its exact path is still unknown. She said her father and her brother are waiting to decide what to do, but the decision is complicated. 
“It’s a lot to do, being able to move 
a lot of your childhood memories and a lot of things you want salvaged,” she said. “It’s a long process and it’s tir-ing.” 
Although Child said she’s not wor-
ried about Gainesville, she is scared for her home.
“It’s going to be very sad to come 
next time and it’s absolutely gone, and not the same,” she said.  
UF and Santa Fe classes canceled 
Friday to Monday by Gov. Rick ScottGainesville during Hurricane Irma
•   •   •
•   •   •FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Due to 
Hurricane 
Irma
the Alligator 
office will be 
CLOSED   
Monday.
By Ashley Leong
Alligator Contributing Writer
Amonté Martin was sitting 
next to his 2-year-old son watch-
ing the news about Houston’s ﬂ  ooding when he was moved to act. 
He saw a news story about a 
father and son in Houston walk-ing along a bridge; they had lost everything and had been res-
cued via helicopter. 
“I just want to create an av-
enue for people to give,” the 
28-year-old said. 
Martin, a UF environmental 
justice doctoral student, set up ﬁ  ve different on-campus do-nation stations to collect non-perishable food and clothing 
for Harvey victims. He also set 
up a GoFundMe page, called 
#ChompChomp4Houston, to raise money to ship the collected items. 
“All the proceeds are going 
towards shipping the clothes and the food,” said Martin.
The GoFundMe page will be 
accepting donations until Oct. 6, 
he said. Martin wants to partner 
with organizations around cam-pus like Target Copy and the UF 
Athletic Department to help raise 
awareness for his campaign.
“At the end of the day what-
ever we do is just going to be a drop in a bucket, but at least it’s a drop or two to help someone in need,” Martin said. 
However, as Hurricane Irma 
approaches, Martin says he has noticed a lull in donations, which he attributes to people needing to stock their own homes in preparation for the storm.
He says he will also consider 
altering his own personal cam-paign to help those in Florida.  
“Right now it’s still focused 
on Houston, but probably on 
Monday we will refocus on Mi-
ami,” Martin said.
Jireh Davis, a 20-year-old UF African-American studies and 
political science junior, started 
the Help for Houston campaign. 
“I’m not from Houston but 
I do have family who is from Houston, and they’re OK, but 
there are so many families that 
are not okay,” Davis said. “It breaks my heart because I just feel like if it was us I’d want someone to help us.”
The campaign collected items 
this week but Davis said there may be another collection later.
Derrick Kerr, a 20-year-old 
UF mechanical engineering ju-nior, said most of the collection was clothing. Kerr and Davis will work with Houston Recov-ers to disperse their donations, says Kerr. 
“We hope to help the com-
munity of Houston and Texas as a whole because they are in need of a lot at the moment,” 
Kerr said. “And we just want to, 
you know, change a life or two, 
even if it’s just a few people.”Gainesville shows support for Harvey victims
Ashley Leong / Alligator Contributor
Derrick Kerr, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, stands outside of the Reitz Union to collect donations for Harvey victims. He is volunteering with Help For Houston.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Column
I wanted to write about something political. 
I really did. I wanted to write about how I was told by two professors that class might be canceled either due to weather condi-tions or the violent threats of white suprem-
acists. I wanted to write about the repeal of De-ferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
I wanted to say a lot of things, but I’m not 
an authority on any of those subjects. I’m too tired, and I’m mentally preparing myself for what could be a bad hurricane and a week of eating canned beans.
So instead I’m going to write about memes.With the announcement of Hurricane Irma spiraling 
into a Category 5 (the strongest one to make projected landfall in Florida in more than a decade), came prepared-ness announcements, The Weather Channel videos — and memes. Lots and lots of memes from every corner of the internet.
I write about memes a lot. It’s a thing. I don’t actively 
partake in making them, but I prefer to watch them from afar, consume them and then reflect upon them. They’re an interesting phenomena. I’ve talked about them be-fore, how our generation uses memes as a way to project some sort of concrete feeling out of an era of tumultu-ous change, not unlike the Dada art movement during the post-World War I era. 
Why do I find memes so fascinating, you might ask? 
Why have I written multiple columns on them?
Well, I’d like to bring up another art movement that 
happened in direct response to another tumultuous time in our history: the theatre of the absurd, which spun off in the post-World War II era, and was notable for such works you might have used SparkNotes in high school as “Waiting for Godot” and “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.”
Let me tell you a bit about that last one.If you don’t know much about that play, 
it follows two minor characters from Shake-speare’s “Hamlet” as they fumble around the events of the play and try to find meaning in it all. As an audience familiar with “Hamlet” (and with the title of this play), we know they are go-ing to die. It’s a given. And in the grand scheme of “Hamlet,” they are nothing, just two off-hand mentions at the end, while we are focused on the more important characters.
The play is funny. It relies on physical hu-
mor and wordplay. Although our two leads do everything they can to prepare for their destiny, they can’t quite do anything to stop it from happening. At least they find a sort of comfort in having each other before they are carted off to the inevitable.
And that I think is what we are trying to do with 
memes.
Because, friends, we’re all going to die. Whether we 
like it or not. Soon after, time will eat at all of our ac-complishments and one day, someone will say our name for the last time on this planet and then never again. It’s inevitable.
But let’s look at that in a less dismal and depressing 
sense. The hurricane is going to come, and it’s going to be strong. After stocking up on water, nonperishable foods and gas, and after hunkering down, evacuating and get-ting in contact with our loved ones, what are we going to do? We might as well accept what is coming. We might as well make light of our fate, reach for a hand to hold and laugh among our piles of Bush’s baked beans.
What’s going to come is going to come, so taking influ-
ence from our artistic predecessors, we might as well find joy and absurdity in the inevitable before it does. 
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and computer sci-
ence (super) senior. Her column appears on Fridays.Hurricane memes: Let’s laugh before Irma hits
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgEditorial
You slowly make your way into the Marston Science Li-
brary Starbucks, sleep-deprived and in desperate need of 
your favorite holiday beverage: the pumpkin spice latte. 
Yes, dear readers, it’s back.
You think to yourself, surely the sugary, spicy goodness 
will bring you back to life after your blurry, almost-forgot-
ten journey through Midtown the night before.
After waiting in line for what felt like an eternity, you 
finally reach the counter and tell the barista your order. Af-ter waiting and waiting and waiting, you question why you didn’t just order through the app or on Tapingo. “I guess that’s just my hungover brain,” you reason.
Several minutes later, they call out your name. Much 
to your surprise, when you go to pick up your drink, they haven’t spelled your name wrong. In fact, they haven’t spelled your name at all. Scribbled across the white and 
green cup is:
Darts & Laurels
For many Gators, the devastating reality of Hurricane 
Irma is finally hitting home — literally. As of Thursday eve-
ning, Gainesville has not yet been instructed to evacuate. 
For much of Florida, however, this is not the case.
For a lot of us, receiving panicked phone calls and texts 
from our family members who have been forced to evacuate 
their homes was the wake up call we needed — no pun in-
tended. These calls and texts turned on an invisible switch 
inside our minds telling us, “OK, this is real.” 
Even if these evacuations turn out to be nothing more 
than overcautious preparation, the threat of Irma remains real. It has already wreaked havoc in the Caribbean and 
doesn’t show any signs of going easy on Florida. The reality 
of Hurricane Irma, dear reader, is your first dart.
As the panic continues to set in and the store shelves run 
out of water and the gas stations out of fuel, there is one 
thing a lot of us are forgetting about: pets. Gainesville Pet 
Rescue is trying to get the word out that they need people to foster some of their furry friends during the storm. As of now, Gainesville Pet Rescue has found foster homes for all of its animals, but the Alachua County Humane society 
is still in need of fosterers. They are asking for a two-week 
commitment and will provide all supplies necessary. 
For thinking about our furry friends, we want to award 
a laurel to Gainesville Pet Rescue and those who have 
stepped up to foster animals.
Unfortunately, the weather isn’t the only thing Gators 
have to worry about right now. Not only do we face the threat of a hurricane, but we also face the threat of a white supremacist paying a visit to our campus. 
Even though UF denied Richard Spencer’s request to 
speak on campus, Spencer has reportedly retained legal counsel and plans to pursue efforts to hold this event as originally requested. No one truly knows the dangers his 
visit might bring, and thus, many Gators must continue to 
live in constant fear while they continue to hear rumors swarm about Spencer’s arrival. 
Spencer’s resolute efforts to visit our campus certainly 
make him deserving of our next dart.
We have a surprising accolade for He-Who-Must-Not-Be-
Named, otherwise known as Gov. Rick Scott.  For cancel-
ling class tomorrow when UF has been slow to do so, Scott gets a laurel. Take this time to buy supplies and make sure 
any friends and family in South Florida are prepared. We’re 
going to get through this hurricane together, dear readers. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7 
At this point, everyone has heard 
the saying chivalry is dead. Hon-estly, I don’t know whether that’s 
true, but I have some better news. 
Regardless of what the boys are 
up to today, I can affirm that humanity, at least, is still very intact. 
I learned this in the middle of procras-
tinating on my course work. I know we all do it, but this was a new level of crunch time. Let me set the scene.
The time was 9:05 a.m., and I had a 
miniature essay due by 11:59 p.m. that night. Plenty of time, I thought, which was why I started my assignment the day it was due. Then I realized the prompt came from 
the textbook I did not have yet.  
There’s nothing like the feeling of see-
ing “Turn to chapter one and answer the 
questions on pages 14 and 15 to complete this assignment,” knowing perfectly well 
the only place you can turn to for help at that point is the heavens. 
I went into an immediate pan-
ic. Should I call my mom or Ama-zon, the company that I rented 
my book from? Why wasn’t it here? Where did my roommate say she was going today?  
I was completely alone, and 
since this was an online class, there were slim chances that I would be able to get a hold of any of the other more than 100 screen 
names I have seen in the discussion posts.  
After all, I was probably the only one 
who waited until today to get my work 
done anyway. 
Or so I thought. I was already past the point of despera-
tion, so I took a risk of annoying my entire class and sent out a mass email for help. I went through the roster, selected every 
name and added them to my send list. Then, I typed out my message, 
asking if anyone could take a pic-ture of their book and send me 
the questions we had to answer. 
After 20 minutes of anxious-
ly refreshing my inbox with no 
responses, I realized I had to 
face the facts: I was screwed. I 
mentally accepted that I would have to take the loss and hoped I would do better in the future. 
I moved on to the other things I had to 
do that day and got to work. It was only 10 a.m., and the day was far from over. However, once noon hit and the rest of the world woke up, a miracle happened. 
I got not one, not two, but four respons-
es. Multiple people sent me the questions for my assignment, and I was able to save my future and get back on track. I couldn’t believe it. 
Not only did people take the time out of their busy day to help me, but they even attached nice messages. One student gave me her number for future reference, just in 
case I needed anything else.  
These kind words and considerate ac-
tions proved to me that humans still knew 
how to be good. I was worried about con-
tacting a bunch of strangers, but after so 
many emailed me back, I realized we were all in this together. We were all classmates, and mine were the very best kind. 
By helping me when I needed it, they 
showed me that compassion was still very much alive. All it took was a couple of emails, but what can I say? A little kind-ness goes a long way, especially when a 
Category 5 hurricane is so nearby.  
Victoria Fortier is a UF journalism soph-
omore. Her column appears on Fridays.
Man created computers, but could 
computers be what ultimately brings mankind’s demise? With 
the advent of artificial intelli-
gence in the last couple decades, 
computers have not only developed a mind of their own, but have become better at 
many of the things humans try to do. It is 
the classic tale of the apprentice rising up and turning on his master, and I fear we are quickly approaching the iconic moment in every film that has this sequence: the fleet-
ing moment of stillness when the master 
realizes his fate and that his end will come from the exact thing he created.
In the novel “Frankenstein,” by Mary 
Shelley, Victor Frankenstein creates his creature out of an obsession with the sci-ences and lust for knowledge and scientific advancement. In Victor’s dreams, his cre-ation is beautiful, a true scientific feat for 
humanity, but when the creature actually 
comes into being, it is a monster. The fun and games quickly come to an end, and Vic-tor flees from his creation out of fear. He tries to go about his life as nor-mal, as if ignoring his creation’s existence will result in it simply 
disappearing from Earth with a 
swift poof. Spoiler alert to those who haven’t read the novel: Vic-tor was wrong.
In the ensuing chapters, the 
creature turns Victor’s life into a living hell, making demands of Victor and killing off his loved ones when his creator refuses to appease him. It 
doesn’t take a lot of imagination to see the 
stark parallels between this 19th century classic and the relatively short history of AI. Man is Victor Frankenstein, and AI is our 
creature, born out of the allure of scientific 
advancement and the fateful curiosity of “I wonder how far we can go?”
When Watson, IBM’s “question answer-
ing computing system,” defeated Ken Jen-
nings on “Jeopardy!,” everyone laughed at 
the computer’s amusing performance on national television.  Part of me views this as the initial moments of the creature’s life, when Victor is amused and even proud of what he accomplished. In 2017, we are approaching the 
distinct moment when Victor be-
gins to realize the severe implica-tions of what he has done. If the novel has anything to teach us, it 
is that once the creature comes to 
life, there is no turning back.
Just this past week, Elon Musk 
went on an almost presidential-caliber Twitter rant, warning that AI, and the mul-
tinational race for “AI superiority,” is the 
“most likely cause of WW3.” Musk even suggests the idea that World War III would “be initiated not by the country leaders, but 
one of the AI’s, if it decides that a preemp-
tive strike is most probable path to victory.”
So, could we all perish if an AI finds a 
“probable path to victory” for its country? Who gave the nuclear codes to Watson? 
Part of me thinks “well then just don’t give 
the AI’s the ability to fire missiles,” but I know very well that it is not that simple and (an even scarier thought) that AI wouldn’t be that stupid. Despite having created it, we do not know the limits of AI. Let that sink in. Mankind, in its perpetual struggle with 
mortality, has possibly created something 
truly limitless. We have created something smarter than ourselves, given it the tools and potential never to stop and to endlessly 
soak up and analyze information long after 
the brightest human mind would break for lunch.
The potential outcomes and possibili-
ties of AI are endless, but it is time to start 
acknowledging the threats alongside the 
opportunities. It is not a matter of direct-ing the efforts of AI toward good instead of evil, as such a solution makes the major 
assumption that we can and will be able to 
control AI at all. It appears at this point in time, we will have to just wait and see what happens, which can be quite an unsettling thought.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.One email can bring lots of hope to procrastinators everywhere
It's time to realize that AI domination may be imminent Column
Victoria 
Fortier
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
CYNTHIA
Peace CorpsVolunteer,NicaraguaWe teach in classrooms,
help entrepreneurs take theirbusinesses online, build appsto share healthcare information,and more. If you are inspiredby impact that is hands-on,grassroots-driven and lasting,Learn more atpeacecorps.gov/volunteer.By Heaven T aylor-Wynn
Alligator Contributing Writer
Five new bike repair stations will be in-
stalled across UF’s campus to expand Stu-
dent Government’s bike repair program.
The Florida Department of Transportation 
donated the stations as part of a grant pro-
gram, said Troy Roberts, the department’s 
communications coordinator for District 2. The stations did not cost UF money. Each unit, called a Dero Fixit Service Station, in-cludes essential tools to complete basic re-
pairs and bike maintenance. 
University Police Sgt. Tim Peck said he 
doesn’t know when the new repair stations 
will be installed. 
One of the ﬁ  ve new stations, located at 
Jennings Hall, has already been installed. The remaining four will be located at Lake-side Residential Complex, Inﬁ  nity Hall, New-ell Hall and Library West, Peck said. 
UF is one of two pilot schools with the 
stations. The department wanted to increase cyclist safety on campus, Roberts said.
“We’re always trying to look for new and 
innovative ways to make travel (safer),” Roberts said.
Brian Habing, a UF mechanical engineer-
ing senior, said although the stations on campus are convenient, the functionality of them doesn’t compare to the Reitz Union bike shop. 
Habing said he used the stations in the 
summer when the Reitz bike repair shop was closed and he needed a hex wrench.
“It was convenient because I didn’t have 
the tool with me at the time,” the 21-year-old said.  “It would have been dangerous to ride home with a loose steering bar.”Five bike repair stations donated to UF by FDOT
white nationalist views. 
“They think everyone’s from Mexico 
and that we’re all fat and lazy,” Fonseca said. “That’s just not true.” 
For Andrew Sowinski, 19, he feels the 
protection of free speech should be applied 
to all views, even with views he said he fundamentally disagrees with. 
“The rules have to be set so that the op-posite side has a voice — even when the other side is bats--- crazy,” the UF com-puter engineering freshman said. 
Sowinski said if Spencer does in fact 
speak Oct. 19, he feels people would be 
better off not going rather than showing up to protest. Given that both the right and 
the left have extreme sides, he said he fears 
mass protests doing more harm than good. 
“It’d be a recipe for violence,” Sowinski 
said. “It’s just a matter of not going, not 
giving them the attention they’re looking 
for.” 
@hoffdavid123 
dhoffman@alligator.org SPENCER,  from pg 1Spencer, UF have not signed a contract yetMORE THAN 16 ANIMALS 
HAVE BEEN FOSTERED.
By Savannah Austin 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Amber Young-Parker walked into Alachua 
County Humane Society’s shelter Thursday 
and asked for a cat — any cat.
Young-Parker, 44, went home with a 
2-year-old cat named Carmilla, one of more 
than 100 animals available at the shelter to 
be taken home before Hurricane Irma hits Florida this weekend. The humane society, 
Gainesville Pet Rescue Inc. and Helping Hands 
Pet Rescue waived adoption fees for adult cats and dogs Thursday and Friday. About 41 animals were fostered since Wednesday.
“The goal is to empty our shelter as much 
as possible,” said Margot DeConna, the direc-tor of development for ACHS. “We want to ensure we have space to take in animals that require shelter from the storm or are lost or stray.” 
Any remaining animals at Gainesville Pet 
Rescue and Helping Hands Pet Rescue will be transported to ACHS, the largest and saf-
est of the facilities, to weather the hurricane, 
DeConna said. ACHS can normally hold 200 animals but will house 100 more in an emer-gency. 
DeConna said although adoption is a life-
long commitment, fostering a pet requires about two weeks of caring for the animal.
“Fostering is an excellent way to dip your 
toes into pet ownership and give (a) pet a 
safe place to stay in an emergency,” DeConna 
said. 
ACHS will be open for adoptions and fos-
tering Friday from noon to 6 p.m. and will be closing Saturday and Sunday to prepare for the storm. 
Young-Parker, a mother of two, frequently 
volunteers with the shelter and has been fos-tering animals for the last two years, so she 
knew they would be in need with the storm 
approaching. 
“I just know they needed extra hands, and 
I think it’s better for the animals to ride out a storm in a home instead of here in the shel-ter,” Young-Parker said. “I told them just tell me who you need me to take.”Humane Society waives 
adoption fees for hurricane
Savannah Austin / Alligator Contributor
Gainesville resident Amber Young-Parker, 44, holds her new foster cat, Carmilla, 
at the Alachua County Humane Society. Young-Parker is fostering the cat for two weeks to help the shelter before Hurricane Irma.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF officials traveled near-
ly 8,000 miles to teach Ethiopian 
butchers food safety tips. 
The Feed the Future Innovation 
Lab for Livestock Systems, which 
received $49 million from the U.S. 
Agency for International Develop-ment, is part of the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, said Adegbola Adesogan, a pro-fessor in the UF Department of Animal Sciences.
The goal of the trip was to help 
improve the nutrition, health, in-come and livelihood of poor resi-dents in Ethiopia, Cambodia, Ne-pal, Niger, Rwanda, Uganda and 
Burkina Faso, Adesogan said. The 
project started with Ethiopia as the first country and will continue to the other six nations. 
“Unlike in the U.S. or in west-
ern countries, people in the coun-tries where we work get very little meat, milk and eggs,” Adesogan said. 
Adesogan said improving food 
safety will help improve nutrition.
When butchers in Ethiopia 
asked UF for help with improv-ing the hygiene of their meat han-
dling processes, UF sent Jason 
Scheffler, an assistant professor in the UF Department of Animal Sciences, to train them on basic hygiene practices and safe con-sumption. 
Scheffler went to Ethiopia as a meat science expert. He traveled there in October to assess existing practices. 
“You really have to put your-
self in their shoes and get on the ground in their country to really understand what the problems 
are,” he said. “That meat assess-
ment was really beneficial be-cause I had made some assump-tions about how they do business that were just wrong.”
From Aug. 25 to Aug. 29, 
Scheffler and UF graduate student Taylor Langford trained workers who will go on to train others throughout the country.
Scheffler said he taught tech-
niques that could be implemented with little money and infrastruc-ture. He felt the Ethiopians re-
sponded positively to the lessons. 
“Something I had to be very 
cognizant of was making sure 
that the things that we were sug-gesting were rational and would result in sustainable change,” he said.
UF IFAS works to improve food safety in Ethiopia
By Nicolette Perdomo
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a suitcase large enough for him to 
fit inside comfortably, Frank Curtis wants to fill it with his personality.
The large-scale suitcase installation, 
which is 12 feet long, 4 feet wide and 8 
feet tall, is a part of Curtis’ new art in-
stallation titled “Lost and Found: The Art of Assemblage.” The free installation will open Friday and run until Oct. 20 at Co-frin Gallery at Oak Hall School, located at 8009 SW 14th Ave. 
The event celebrates Curtis, a local 
Gainesville artist who has been creating sculptures out of suitcases for more than 
30 years.  
The exhibit includes original suitcase 
pieces and several other non-suitcase 
pieces. “I began making suitcase sculptures in 
1984 after I went on vacation to the Do-minican Republic,” Curtis said. “I had this 
suitcase, and I realized it was made out of 
wood and I thought I could cut things out and put things into it and make artwork.” 
The exhibition features artists who 
repurpose old belongings in their art, in-cluding Charisse Celino, Bill Paine, John Patterson and Marie and Rusty Hammer. 
Curtis will spend about five days build-
ing the largest piece in the collection. The 
school’s art class students helped Curtis 
build his suitcase and will cover it with their art.
Robert Ponzio, a co-curator of the Co-
frin Gallery, said Curtis and the students have learned from each other during the process.
“Students are painting, everyone’s just 
trying to do what we can,” Ponzio said.By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Bill English’s day starts every 
morning at 4:30 a.m. 
The 47-year-old veteran 
catches the 5:30 a.m. bus from Grace Marketplace to a local la-
bor hall to find employment. If 
there’s no work for him, he re-turns to Grace at 6:30 p.m. for a bed in the pavilion. If he’s late, he’ll sleep in the woods. 
Recent changes to the pa-
vilion have made nights a little easier for English. On Monday, the pavilion became a night-by-
night shelter.
The pavilion at Grace, at 
3055 NE 28th Ave., is an out-
door shelter with 55 beds, said Jon DeCarmine, the organi-zation’s director. In the past, people could reserve a pavilion 
bed  for 30 continuous days but 
were required to make progress finding permanent housing. The pavilion now opens daily at 6 p.m. Beds are on a first-come, first-served basis and intend to serve people facing an immedi-ate housing crisis, DeCarmine said. 
Prior to the change, some 
people were repeatedly reserv-ing beds in the pavilion without pursuing permanent housing, DeCarmine said.
“We’re trying to convey that 
the shelter is part of a process,” he said. “It’s not a destination.”
DeCarmine hopes transi-tioning the pavilion to a night-by-night shelter will encourage Grace residents proactively find 
permanent housing while pro-
viding a cleaner environment. 
English said the pavilion was 
infested with rats and visitors’ belongings spilled off their blow-up mattresses. Rather than a temporary shelter, some people treated it like their home.
Now, the pavilion is cleaner 
and more spacious, English said. He pressure-washed it himself all day Sunday. 
“Just because you’re home-
less doesn’t mean you have to live like homeless,” he said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org School opens exhibit  
by Gainesville artistGainesville homeless shelter changes housing policy10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
By Champe Barton
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students wandering the maze of McCarty 
Halls, trapped in an infinite loop of signless 
walkways, will have a new way to navigate.
Google Maps has introduced a feature that 
will provide both walking and biking direc-tions to popular spots on campus, complete with 360-degree street view imagery. 
An algorithm will determine UF’s most 
popular locations based on the most searched locations in Google Maps, a Google spokes-person wrote in an email. 
At UF, a Google representative pedaled 
one of the company’s trikes — adult-sized tricycles carrying a cluster of 360-degree cam-eras — along walkways and plazas, snapping pictures of areas Google’s street cars can’t reach. Privacy technology blurred the faces of anybody caught in the lens’ scope, the spokesperson said. 
The project comes as part of a broader 
effort initiated by Google in 2012 to upload 
street view imagery of university campuses 
across the world, from Waseda University in Japan to the University of Glasgow in Scot-land to the University of Miami. 
Natalie Remond, an 18-year-old UF chem-
istry freshman, said she would use the new feature to navigate campus. 
“I get lost because I can’t tell what the 
street signs say,” Remond said. “Sometimes 
the halls don’t show up (on my maps).” 
By Juan Lozano
Alligator Contributing Writer
Beekeepers will toast with beer to the con-
struction of a new bee lab on campus. 
First Magnitude Brewing Company, lo-
cated at 1220 SE Veitch St., will host Bees 
and Brews, a fundraising event for UF bee re-
search, Friday from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m., said Ben 
Guzman, the event coordinator at the brew-ery. Tickets are available in increments of $10, $15 and $20 depending on the amount of beer and freebies offered. Visitors will be able to sample honey, eat honey-infused foods and drink beer at the event.
The money will be used to build the UF 
Bee Lab, which is scheduled to break ground 
near Southwest Recreation Center in Septem-
ber but may be postponed due to Hurricane Irma, said Mickey Schafer, the communica-tions secretary of the Gainesville Area Bee Club.
Guzman expects more than 110 people to 
attend the event.
 “We have a very strong ecologically mind-
ed base here,” Guzman said. 
The Florida Department of Agriculture and 
Consumer Services and UF will donate $2.5 million if the Florida State Beekeepers Asso-ciation raises $200,000, Schafer said.
The event sponsors — The Gainesville 
Area Beekeepers, FSBA and the UF Bee Lab 
— research declining populations of bee colo-
nies.
Susan Harris, a master craftsman beekeep-
er, said the lab will find new ways to raise strong colonies.
“Honey bees are dying at rates that have 
never been seen in the past,” Harris said. “Trying to keep the bees healthy, that’s giant.”By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Nan-Yao Su was recognized for his subter-
ranean termite research with a UF Foundation Term Professorship. 
UF’s Provost’s office gave the award to 
two UF professors. Su, who’s studied termites 
since 1978, will receive $25,000 for his re-
search.
“There are many projects we are carrying 
out right now, but I am sure we will use the funding to study the nitrogen recycling pro-cess of termite colonies, as well as the use of other insect growth regulators,” wrote Su in an email.
Su said he’s best known for contributing to 
the Sentricon system, which has been in use since 1995 and is now used in 32 countries.
“I guess one factor is the impact of my work that applied information generated from basic biological studies to invent a control method, Sentricon system,” he said. 
The system has protected three million 
homes from termites and has reduced the use of pes-ticides by more than 9,000 metric tons, Su said. 
Jacqueline Burns, the 
UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ dean of research, wrote in an 
email that Su is a member 
of the Florida Inventors 
Hall of Fame.
“Dr. Su has been very generous in his sup-
port for students at UF and the research they 
conduct,” Burns said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgGoogle Maps to include walking directions around campus
Beekeepers to raise funds for 
UF Bee Lab at First Magnitude Provost gives UF professor award for termite research
Su
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY,SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-20-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     9-29-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Cabin in the woods, one room, peaceful, with wildlife and pond. 23 mi east of Gainesville. $500/mo. No smoking/drugs. Call 352-301-4707.          9-8-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
1BR APT AVAILABLE
IN COUNTRY VILLAGEUF students only. Walk, drive or ride to cam-pus. Call 352-373-2700     9-8-17-2-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-
10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, 
pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-11-17-7-14
Caregiver for 30-yr-old w/autism.Training provided. Car, clean record, finger-printing required. $15/hr. P/T or F/T, Mon, Tues, Wed.    352-301-4707      9-8-17-5-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    12-6-17-40-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-25-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-6-15-14
FOCUS GROUP MEMBERSwanted in Gainesville to discuss issues on real legal cases in north FL. Paid $35 for 3 hours of your time. Date of focus groups is Thurs Sept 7th. Morning and afternoon ses-sions available. Call Rita at 800-654-4659 M-F for more info.      9-13-17-5-14
BIG MILL'S CHEESESTEAKS
Now hiring line cooks, sandwich makers & counter personnel. PT, flexible hrs. Apply in person 2111 NW 13th St.     9-13-17-5-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for highly suc-
cessful Entrepreneur. Very attractive finan-cial package. She’s physically fit & a sports 
enthusiast who can plan travel & social func-
tions. Computer literate & capable of travel-
ing.Email resume’ w/photo to: nebnepmac@
gmail.com    9-15-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1.  Taken, swiped
1.  Rattled5.  Bedazzle
2.  Speech6.  Angry
3.  ____ pencil 7.  News ____
4.  Straight NOLSET
ANEKSHAZAEM
TRAIE
TROONIA
SELAEYHCHARON
INLERAANSWERS: 1A-Stolen  5A-Amaze  6A-Irate  7A-Anchor
1D-Shaken  2D-Oration  3D-Eyelash  4D-Linear  B-Lake Tahoe9-8-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is located at 6,225 feet 
above sea level.
BONUS13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-6-17-
43-15
Complete Home Repairs,
Storm Damage Specialists24HR Emergency Services OfferedPreventative Maintenance Packages
Rental Maintenance Packages
Call us @ 352-639-3208        9-13-17-3-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      9-8-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 
ACROSS
1 Short pants?
5 “Gloria in 
Excelsis __”
8 Where JFK,
Nixon and Carterserved
14 Brazil’s largest city
16 Military builder
17 “In my opinion ... ”
18 MLB single-
season
recordholder for
most hits
19 Skier’s destination
20 Musical set in
Manhattan’s EastVillage
22 Shooting marble23 “Xanadu” gp.24 Youngest
Simpson
26 O’er there
28 Somewhat, to
Saint-Saëns
29 Against: Abbr.
31 Spanish pronoun32 Pen pal’s
greeting?
33 Removes, as a
temporary hem
36 No-hitter, usually38 Shot with more
detail
39 Hogwarts
subjects
40 Ford maverick?41 Windy City transit
initials
42 Blue Shield
offering
43 Energy field44 Hardy title
teenager
45 Carpathian
Mountains locale
47 Do diner work48 Roadie’s box51 Product made
from fermented
rice
52 Game typically
with 81 squares
55 “Scram!”
57 Make less
vulnerable toearthquakes, say
59 Straying60 Countermanded61 Wee62 Muesli bit63 Repairs with turf
DOWN
1 Russia had one in
the 20th century
2 Level, in London3 ’70s-’80s show
about a big family
4 Induced the
purchase of 
add-ons, say
5 “Tonight, I
Celebrate My
Love,” e.g.
6 Brother of Peyton
7 Obsolete audio
technology
8 Employing
9 Federal housing
assistance
program
10 “No thanks”
11 Somewhat12 Aloe __13 “That smarts!”
15 Flight-related
prefix
21 I problem?
24 Pyrénées peak
25 Mike of “Next
Friday”
26 Rural agreement
27 Org. that inspects
workplaces
28 Any of 12 popes
30 Treasure chest
coins represented
graphically by twoconsecutive letters
in six puzzle
answers (including
this one)32 1875 Alcott 
novel
33 Uma’s role in
“The 
Producers”
34 Squirrel’s hoard
35 Escape
destinations
37 Fourth 
dimension
38 Essence40 Budget motel
chain
43 Hunky-dory44 Elizabeth I’s line46 Shabby47 “Hamilton” role
48 Help with a 
job?
49 “A __ formality”
50 Shave52 Editor’s mark53 Captain hanged
for piracy
54 Pac-12 team56 Salon offering58 Spacewalk 
initials
By Alex Eaton-Salners
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/08/1709/08/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 8, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services 23 Rides
ACROSS
1 Drains
5 Takes from page
to screen, say
11 One of
Beethoven’s
nine: Abbr.
14 Party with tiki
torches
15 Flashy Chevy
16 With 36-Down,
Dr. Seuss classic
with the subtitle
“The Simplest
Seuss forYoungest Use”
17 Cowardly Snoopy
nemesis?
19 Seagoing “I see”
20 French film icon
Brigitte
21 “The Racer’s
Edge”
22 Urban air
concern
23 Much
25 Curriculum __27 Gloomy route to
Oz?
32 Actress Vardalos
33 Butte relative
34 RadioShack
predecessor
35 Automaker
Ferrari
37 Watched closely
40 Fictional London
alter ego
41 United43 Halt45 Belonging to us46 Embarrassed
three-person
Vegas act?
50 Kentucky pioneer51 Divided sea52 Applaud54 Old PC monitor56 “Altogether ooky”
family name
60 Rocker Ocasek
61 Primary mixes
that affect 17-,27- and 46-Across
63 Query
64 Fire up65 Attract pigeons
for, say
66 Bluster
67 Colorful fish68 2016 N.L. East
champs
DOWN
1 Untidy type2 Certain
something
3 Early late-night
host
4 Ice cream treat
5 Polish removers
6 Apply carefully
7 Latin I verb8 “Friday the 13th:
Jason Lives,”
sequentially
9 Torrid Zone
parallel
10 Junior
11 Words of
reproach
12 Up-and-down toy13 Downloaded
video format
18 Jewish folklore
figure
22 Mother of Isaac24 Recipe amt.26 B’way buy27 Many of its knives
have a limited
lifetime warranty
28 Arkansas team29 Mrs. Gorbachev
30 Compute31 Salon worker32 Twice-monthly
tide
36 See 16-Across
38 Sicilian high point39 Track events with
mechanical lures
42 “Strange Magic”
gp.
44 Museum with
Goyas and El
Grecos
47 Recital bonus48 Red wine option49 Gary who played
Beethoven in
“Immortal
Beloved”52 Outcropping53 Songwriter 
Loeb
55 __ de force57 “Dancing 
Queen” quartet
58 Bubbly maker59 Old fast fliers61 Player in an
indoor tree
62 Soweto’s
country: Abbr.
By Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/07/1709/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators soccer game vs. FSU called off
Florida was scheduled to play Florida State on Friday and South Florida 
on Sunday in Gainesville, but because of Hurricane Irma, both games were called off. Last year's matchup between UF and FSU was canceled because of Hurricane Hermine.Sophomore Rachael Kramer 
hopes to lead the Florida volleyball team to its ﬁ  fth consecutive win today at 5 p.m. Read the story, pg. 15.GATORS MISS OUT 
ON OPPORTUNITY 
FOR TUNE-UP GAME VS. 
NORTHERN COLORADO.
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
After losing their season opener 
to Michigan in Texas, the Gators 
were looking for a conﬁ  dence 
booster. Florida’s matchup with 
Northern Colorado was supposed to be the team’s get-back-on-track game before its conference sched-
ule begins Sept. 16. But with Hur-
ricane Irma approaching, No. 22 Florida’s chance at a tune-up game is gone. 
UF (0-1) and Northern Colorado 
(1-0) won’t reschedule their con-test, since the teams don’t share a bye week. So after a demoralizing 33-17 loss in which they failed to score an offensive touchdown, the 
Gators will go into next weekend’s 
game against No. 25 Tennessee (1-0) with no diagnostic test to see where their offense stands. 
“We were ready to play a 
game and get that taste out of our mouth,” UF coach Jim McElwain said Thursday in a radio interview. “What we’ve gotta do (now) is 
hunker down, give up ourselves 
for the people in distress … and get ready to play Tennessee in the Swamp next week.”
How badly did the Gators need 
a game to work out their issues on offense?
The team sits dead last in the 
country in rushing after an 11-yard 
performance against Michigan (compared to the Wolverines’ 215 
yards on the ground). As a whole, the team gained 192 yards when it had the ball — only four FBS teams 
out of 128 have lower yards-per-
game averages. 
UF’s offensive line was widely 
criticized for letting Wolverine de-
fenders run wild in Week 1. But 
now the bigger question facing the team’s offense is who will be under center to lead it. 
Florida’s redshirt freshman 
quarterback, Feleipe Franks, started against Michigan and was pulled in the second half after fum-bling. Notre Dame transfer Malik 
Zaire entered the game but was 
sacked ﬁ  ve times after being quick to abandon the playcall. McElwain said this week that he planned to play both quarterbacks against 
Northern Colorado. So not only did the Gators lose a chance to get 
back to .500, but they won’t have an opportunity to sort out the quar-terback situation until next week 
when they face a nationally ranked 
opponent. 
And the offense isn’t the only 
unit robbed of a chance to correct 
mistakes made against Michigan. 
While they ﬁ  nished the season sixth in the nation in scoring de-fense in 2016, the Gators now sit 94th in the same category after a 
sloppy performance by a second-
ary lined with inexperienced fresh-men in their season opener. 
There goes their chance to 
bounce back. 
“If we don’t get to play, it would 
be very disappointing because we’re ready to show what we got this week,” linebacker Kylan John- Gators’ home opener called oﬀ   
Alligator File Photo
UF called off the Gators' game against Northern Colorado, meaning Florida has to start its home schedule next week vs. T ennessee.
Alligator Staff
Hurricane Irma may have gotten 
Florida’s home opener against the star-
studded Northern Colorado Bears can-celed this weekend, but nothing is ever strong enough to interfere with an alliga-
torSports weekly picks column.
We’re back and ready for another edi-
tion of impeccable analysis and in-depth 
breakdowns for all things you need to know for this week’s college football slate. With no game action taking place in Gainesville on Saturday, that leaves you plenty of time to watch other con-tests taking place around the country.
There are four matchups this week-
end between top-25 programs that are must watches. No. 2 Ohio State dukes it out with No. 5 Oklahoma; No. 3 Clemson goes head-to-head with No. 13 Auburn; No. 6 USC takes on No. 14 Stanford. And for our ofﬁ  cial debate of the week……(drum roll please)……. sports writers Ethan Bauer and Ian Cohen will argue over which team will win when No. 15 Georgia plays at No. 24 Notre Dame.
Georgia (+4.5) wins because…Oh Ian. Poor, naive Ian. Yes, Jacob 
Eason is out, but his true freshman backup, Jake Fromm, is the “real deal” according to his teammates. How did I know that? To be honest, I didn’t. I liter-ally typed “Jake Fromm real deal” in a Google search and the ﬁ  rst article to pop up went into unnecessary detail about 
just how “real” he is. He’s also a “stu-
dent of the game,” a “ﬁ  eld general” and a “gamer” according to his teammates and coaches. With a guy who’s clearly that talented, trusted and existent (re-member, he’s “real”) under center, how could Georgia lose?
- Ethan Bauer
Notre Dame (-4.5) wins because…
Georgia quarterback Jacob Eason will 
reportedly miss Saturday’s game with a knee injury. That’s pretty much all you need to know.
When a team’s starting quarterback 
goes down, it’s usually a good idea to bet on the opponent. But it’s an especially good idea in this case.
Eason was really impressive as a 
freshman last year. Not only did he put up some good numbers — 2,430 yards, PICKS
SITE: Nowhere
KICKOFF: Never
TV /RADIO: Not happening
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
Gone with the winds
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16Florida's home opener scrapped 
as hurricane approachesFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
Game Day at Blackadder 
Local Craft Beer
Tailgating Growler Fills
Open Early for Home Games
618-A NW 60th ST
(Newberry Rd by McAlister’s)
www.blackadderbrewing.com
352.339.0324
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
VOLLEYBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
A little over a year ago, the Flor-
ida volleyball team marched into 
East Lansing and swept Michigan 
State on its home court.
Today, the Spartans will look to 
return the favor.
The No. 2 Gators (4-0) are 
slated to take on No. 21 Michigan 
State (5-1) in the O’Connell Center 
at 5 p.m., the only match from this weekend’s Active Ankle Challenge 
still being played.
The challenge originally fea-
tured appearances by Florida, Michigan State, North Carolina 
Greensboro and American, but due to the threat of Hurricane Irma, the competition was scaled back to only the Florida-Michigan State match.
The Gators 
are led by soph-omore middle 
blocker Rachael Kramer, who sits at eighth in 
the nation with 
a .494 hitting 
percentage.
Kramer was a huge part of  
Florida’s back-to-back upsets over top-ﬁ  ve teams to open the season, 
including a career day against 
Nebraska in which she spiked a game-winner, part of a personal-
best 20-kill performance.Kramer was subsequently 
honored with player of the week 
awards from the SEC, AVCA and 
espnW.
“It’s nice to get personal recog-
nition,” Kramer said after picking up the accolades, “but I’m almost 
more proud of the wins we have this season, and it’s hard to get 
those recognitions I did this week 
without my teammates.”
One of Kramer’s teammates, se-
nior middle blocker Rhamat Alhas-san, leads the Gators with 25 total blocks and ranks 13th in the NCAA 
in blocks per set.
Alhassan will be met by Michi-
gan State senior middle blocker Alyssa Garvelink, who is third in the nation in the same category.
The Spartans’ top ﬁ  ve attackers 
— all seniors — account for 230 of the team’s 259 kills this year, in-
cluding 52 from Garvelink.
The Gators will also be tasked 
with defending one of the top serv-ing teams in the country.
The Spartans are second nation-
ally in service aces per set (2.37) and boast senior setter Rachel Mi-narick, who ranks ﬁ  fth in the coun-
try in individual service aces per 
set (0.75).
This match, however, is far from 
the ﬁ  rst challenge the Gators will face this season. Michigan State will be Florida’s fourth ranked op-
ponent in its ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve matches.“Being able to win when things 
aren’t going well is a skill we love 
to have here at Florida, and one we 
didn’t necessarily have last year,” 
senior libero Caroline Knop said.  “Against a good Kentucky team, 
we kind of crumbled. Against a 
good Missouri team, we didn’t ﬁ  nd a way to ﬁ  ght.”
Whether it was upsetting No. 1 
Texas and No. 5 Nebraska, or stay-ing focused and pulling off con-
secutive sweeps last weekend at 
the SEC-ACC Challenge, the 2017 Gators have shown they’ve learned 
how to handle adversity.
Their next test? Handling Michi-
gan State.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org  Facing Michigan State, Gators look to remain unbeaten 
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports writer
Although Hurricane Irma 
looms over the state of Florida, 
it’s business as usual for the 
Gators men’s golf team, which 
begins its season on Friday.
Led by coach JC Deacon, the 
Gators will travel to Dalton, Geor-gia, for the Carpet Capital Invita-
tional hosted by Georgia Tech.
Florida is coming off a solid 
season in 2016-17 that saw it take 
home ﬁ  ve team titles and four in-
dividual titles.  However, the sea-
son ended with disappointment as the Gators lost in the semiﬁ  -
nals of the SEC Championship 
and had an early exit in the NCAA Regional Tournament.  
The preseason No. 7 team in 
the country will look to surpass 
last year’s end result, and that be-
gins this weekend.
Part of the reason Florida is 
a preseason top-10 team is the fact that it returns nearly every 
key contributor from last year’s 
roster.  However, the Gators will 
have to replace the production 
of Sam Horsﬁ  eld, who decided 
to forego his ﬁ  nal two years of 
eligibility and turn pro.  He led Florida in top-ﬁ  ve individual ﬁ  n-
ishes during his career, and thus 
his production 
will not be easy 
to replace.
With that 
being said, the 
Gators bring in 
two newcomers: 
Chris Nido and John Axelsen. 
The pair of freshmen will be starters in their ﬁ  rst career tour-
nament,  Florida announced on 
Thursday.
The other starters are Jorge 
Garcia, Gordon Neale and Alejan-dro Tosti.
Garcia recorded two top-10 
ﬁ  nishes last year, and his career-best ﬁ  nish is a tie for fourth.  The 
junior is one of several key veter-
ans on this Florida team.
Neale, Florida’s other return-
ing junior, was an All-SEC Second 
Team member last season and 
was one of two Gators to play in all 33 rounds.
The Gators round out their 
starting lineup with Alejandro 
Tosti.  The senior, who was a ﬁ  rst 
team All-American last year, is 
the defending SEC Champion and 
is the clear leader of the talented group.
This weekend’s tournament 
includes seven teams ranked in the top 25, so it should be a good 
litmus test for Deacon’s team, 
which has high hopes for this 
season.
If Florida gets the level of play 
that it expects from its freshmen, 
along with similar production from its returners, this could be a 
special year for the Gators.  
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFlorida heads to Georgia for season’s ﬁ  rst tournament
Deacon
Kramer
MEN’S GOLF  ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2017
son said Tuesday before the game 
was canceled. 
But as the Category 5 hur-
ricane’s path turned toward 
Gainesville, Florida Athletic Direc-
tor Scott Stricklin said Thursday that asking fans to make the trip during a time of statewide emer-gency was out of the question. 
“We badly wanted to play this 
football game,” Stricklin said. “Our team badly wanted to play this football game.”
Now, in order to avoid starting 
the season 0-2 for the ﬁ  rst time in 46 years, the Gators will need a win against Tennessee. And they need it badly. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14
Max Chesnes / Alligator
Jim McElwain's Gators are in danger of starting 0-2 for the ﬁ  rst time since 1971.
CROSS COUNTRY
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer 
With Category 5 Hurricane 
Irma threatening to reign over 
Florida, the Gators men’s and women’s cross country season began earlier than planned this 
year. After saying goodbye 
to standouts such as Taylor Tubbs on the women’s team and Carlos Miranda on the men’s team, younger players have proven they can rise to the occasion after Thursday’s performance at the North Flor-ida Invitational in Jacksonville, 
previously scheduled for Satur-
day morning. 
Sophomore Jessica Pas-
coe, who hasn’t competed in a cross country meet since the NCAA South Regional Champi-onship last November, placed second in the women’s 5K with a time of 18:11.12. She made a 
strong return to the women’s 
team after sitting out most of last year’s indoor and outdoor track season with tendon in-ﬂ  ammation and tendonitis in various areas around her foot. 
Following Pascoe was red-
shirt sophomore Emily Chap-man, placing fourth with a 
time of 18:52.14, and fresh-
man Laura Jones, who placed sixth with a time of 19:23.81. Personal records were set by Chapman and redshirt sopho-more Autumn Bartlett, who 
placed seventh with a time of 
19:37.64.
The men’s team also ﬁ  n-
ished well on Thursday, with three of the Gators taking 5th, 6th and 7th place in the Men’s 5K. Redshirt freshman Mar-shall Dillon’s time of 15:51.41 earned him a spot in 5th place, 
with redshirt sophomore Mac 
Macoy just behind him at 15:52.89. Redshirt freshman Blake Lowery ﬁ  nished in sev-enth with a time of 15:57.69. 
“Marshall Dillon ran at the 
U.S Junior Championships in track in June,” assistant coach  Chris Solinsky said. “When 
you get the chance to have 
someone at the U.S Junior Championships, it’s a good experience. Typically exposure to that level of competition gives somebody a good jump forward that following year in terms of conﬁ  dence.” 
Both the men’s and wom-
en’s teams have gained three new freshmen this season. On top of these new members of the team, Florida will be mak-ing a few adjustments to the 
coaching staff this season. The 
Gators are led by Solinsky and 
head coach Mike Holloway. 
“Leading into this year, it’s 
a bit more of a rebuilding year, just with the transitioning of coaches and different coaching philosophies,” Solinsky said. “We have a bunch of good freshmen coming in and then 
other kids that probably will 
be our leaders but have a red shirt available. We’re actually kind of sitting them out this fall and letting them build towards being ready for when the track 
season [begins] and at very 
worst be ready for next fall.” 
The Gators' next match is 
the Mountain Dew Invitational Sept. 23 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
agomez@alligator.org  UF runs in 1st meet
16 touchdowns and eight interceptions through 13 games — but he also looked the part. The kid has a really strong arm, and he should have a future play-ing on Sundays. 
With Eason out on Saturday, I don’t 
have conﬁ  dence in the Bulldogs’ of-fense to get much accomplished.
- Ian Cohen
Now, onto the picks!
Leading off with a 5-3 record is al-
ligatorSports editor Matt "I think I’m a NASCAR driver" Brannon, whose 
reckless, maniacal driving earned him 
a whopping $250 ticket last weekend while driving to Dallas for UF’s season opener. Matt was going 88 in a 70 mph zone, ladies and gents, an absolute no-no when driving right by the po-po. Maybe he’ll learn his lesson next time. But knowing him, I highly doubt it. 
Next up with a 5-3 record is alliga-
torSports assistant editor Dylan "Fix yo face" Dixon, who fell asleep in the pas-senger’s seat during the 17-hour drive to Dallas and while passed out began to sleep-grope the face of the driver. He says he didn’t mean to. But we all know that’s an excuse for being caught red handed trying to get to second base with an imaginary girlfriend. 
Following Dylan with a 5-3 record is 
the Gainesville Sun’s Graham "Sheesh, this is news to me" Hall, who tweeted that tight end Deandre Goolsby was out indeﬁ  nitely with an injury. Goolsby re-sponded directly on Twitter indicating he had no idea what Graham was talk-ing about. Don’t worry Graham, we’ll all forget this little snafu. Just like we 
forgot about when you “conﬁ  rmed” 
ﬁ  ve-star QB Jacob Eason (of the Geor-gia Bulldogs) would commit to Florida. 
The ﬁ  nal competitor to go 5-3 last 
week is Gator Country’s Nick "Oppo-site of Peter Pan" de la Torre, who tried to recruit a new Alligator hire to work for his outlet. Contrary to how Peter Pan offers kids a wonderful, youth-
ful life, Nick offers them a tedious yet 
unrewarding but also uninteresting op-portunity to transcribe interviews and get coffee.     Next up in ﬁ  fth place with a record of 4-4 is the Alligator’s Ethan "Please talk to me, Feleipe" Bauer, who fruit-lessly begged for a one-on-one with UF's starting QB. Not that Franks didn't want to talk, he just wants to 
talk to anybody but Ethan.
     In a tie for sixth place at 3-5 is 247Sports’ Thomas "Goldcamp" Goldkamp, who had his name spelled wrong in the print version of the last picks column. Don’t worry, none of his 20,000 Twitter bots noticed.      Also 3-5 is the Orlando Sentinel's Edgar "My only friend is my tripod" 
Thompson. Edgar's little buddy tipped 
over at interviews Tuesday, making the same sound Edgar does when he pounds his ﬁ  sts in anger after a s***** performance in the picks column.     And in piss-poor last at 2-6 is al-ligatorSports’ Ian "Trafﬁ  c signals are my kryptonite" Cohen, who missed last weekend’s Florida-Michigan game 
after spending three consecutive days 
stuck at a stop light when his color-blind eyes failed him.
PICKS,  from pg. 14