We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 80 THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
UF women’s tennis opens play today
The team is hoping to ﬁ  nd success in Las Vegas,
pg. 14
UF women’s tennis opens play today
A conversation with Riﬀ   Raﬀ  
The eccentric rapper will perform at High Dive tonight, pg. 7
Gainesville band wins spot at Okeechobee fest 
The Delta Troubadours beat out 3,200 bands for the gig, pg. 8Satanic puppet cussesat students on Turlington
It was to promote a play at the Hipp, pg. 3
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
The residents of 13th Street 
apartments will sleep well now 
that the roosters are gone. 
Students returned to Gainesville 
after break only to hear the con-
tinuous crowing of ﬁ  ve nameless 
roosters. In the leasing ofﬁ  ce on 725 NW 13th St., a piece of pa-per hung asking a single question: 
“Who feels personally victimized 
by the roosters next door?”
“They shouldn’t expect to see 
or hear them back,” said Wiley Wood, the owner of Gainesville Floral Exchange — and the roost-ers’ former keeper.
Wood, 48, confessed to keep-
ing the roosters in a cage outside the shop, just down the street from the complex. But as of Wednesday 
morning, they have been relocated, 
he said. 
An exhausted Christina Zaldi-
var, 19, said after an endless sym-phony of squawks, her only option was to call the police.
“They’re right next to my win-
dow, and they’re annoying as s---,” 
the UF international studies sopho-
more said. Zaldivar said when she looked 
out her window, she saw a large cage — presumably the rooster’s 
retreat.
“I know there’s more than 
one because what happens is one 
squawks, and then another one tries to squawk louder,” she said.
Zaldivar said she reported the 
roosters more than once and many of her neighbors felt frustrated too, which prompted the leasing of-
ﬁ  ce’s petition. 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers have responded to complaints of the 
rooster’s disruptive nature on two occasions this week, GPD spokes-
person Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in 
an email. 
The most recent confrontation 
occurred Wednesday morning af-ter someone complained about 10 minutes of constant crowing, To-bias said.
“The call was cleared with the 
code that he (the ofﬁ  cer) was either 
unable to locate the source of the  Roosters’ crows cause neighborhood squawking
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
BARNYARD BUDDIES
Christopher White, 4, feeds hay to Penny the cow at the Morningside Nature Center during 
Barnyard Buddies on Wednesday. Barnyard Buddies happens every Wednesday at 3 p.m., between September and May, allowing children to feed cows, chickens, pigs and sheep.
THE THREE STATUES WERE SHIPPED 
IN EIGHT PIECES AND WEIGH A 
COMBINED 85 TONS.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
For more than three years, Buddhist monk 
Thich Duc Thong has dreamed of bringing gi-ant buddha statues to Gainesville.
Come Friday, he hopes to cross that dream off his bucket list. 
“He thought having these giant statues 
would be such an oddity that it would draw people to what he envisions will become a meditation park,” said Bob Todd, who is help-ing fund the installment of three Buddhist stat-ues at A Nan Buddhist Temple, a Gainesville temple.
The combined 85-ton statues, which cost 
about $500,000 to build, ship and install, will be featured at the the Buddhist temple’s gar-den, located at 2120 SE 15th St. The three statues include a sitting Buddha, 
a reclining Buddha and a 45-foot-tall represen-tation of Quan Yin, the Buddhist goddess of compassion.
Todd said they’re hoping to have all eight 
pieces installed by Friday. With each passing day, the cost to install them increases, so the goal is to ﬁ  nish before the week ends. The pieces, sculpted in Vietnam, were brought to Jacksonville by boat Saturday and arrived in Gainesville on Tuesday.
Todd said he helped the temple obtain the city permits needed for the statues’ installation, but most of the project was funded by commu-nity members who are involved at the temple.
Jason Pham, a 42-year-old Jacksonville resi-
dent and member of the temple, said he hopes the garden’s new additions will attract people from across the country to Gainesville.
“The statues will help the people to relax 
and to have a peaceful mind,” he said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org
 Local Buddhist temple begins erecting 85-ton statuesSEE ROOSTERS,  PAGE 4Five roosters had the cops called on them
VIDEO SURVEILLANCE 
SHOWS HIM 
POCKETING MONEY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A manager of Five Star Pizza was 
arrested Tuesday for pocketing about 
$11,000 in cash from the restaurant, Gainesville Police said.
Ian Armando Monterroso, 26, 
was arrested at about 10:06 a.m. af-ter stealing from the pizza restaurant for four months, according to a po-lice report. From August to Decem-ber, he canceled about $17,055.86 worth of food orders at the 210 SW Second Ave. location.
Other managers, on average, can-
celed about $5,396.11 in sales during 
the same time period, according to 
the report.
Monterroso canceled cash orders 
sometimes hours after they were paid for, according to the report.
Surveillance footage shows Mon-terroso pocketing money from the till on multiple occasions, according to the report. The restaurant’s owner said there are more videos of him stealing, but the recordings were lost due to a technical malfunction.
One employee of the pizza store 
told police he recalled accepting $86.68 for an order in November that was subsequently canceled by Monterroso after the order was paid for and delivered, according to the report.
Another employee said he 
watched Monterroso put money into 
his pocket instead of the cash draw-
er, according to the report.
Police arrested Monterroso on 
charges of grand theft and scheming to defraud and obtain property. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Wednesday afternoon on his own recognizance. 
As of press time, Monterroso 
could not be reached for comment. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org Police: Five Star Pizza 
manager steals $11,000WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Back To School Poster Sale at the 
Reitz Union outdoor tabling 
areaThe Reitz Union is hosting a Back To School Poster Sale. Now 
until Friday, from 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m., there will be a table out-side the Reitz Union featuring posters. Most posters are priced between $5 and $9.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Visiting Artist Lecture Series with Arthur Ou 
today
The UF School of Art + Art History is presenting artist Arthur Ou today as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series. Ou will present at 6 p.m. in the Music Building, Room 101. Ou works in photography, painting, sculpture and installa-
tion. Ou will give a lecture about 
contemporary art and culture as it relates to national and inter-national trends. For more infor-mation about the Visiting Artist Lecture Series, visit arts.ufl.edu.
352Creates Leadership Team 
Opportunity
The Center for Arts in Medicine 
is seeking students to join their 352Creates Leadership Team for a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short let-ter of interest and a resume. For more info, visit 352Creates.com.
STRIVE’s Consent Campaign 
Phase 3Learn some strategies about com-municating affirmative consent in STRIVE at GatorWell’s Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign Phase 3. For more in-formation, or to request materi-
al, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or 
contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu or 273-4452.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to the University Gallery in Gainesville Cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and 
culture festival, from January to 
March. Cuban muralists, danc-ers, musicians, authors and aca-demics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the 
University Gallery and the Gary 
R. Libby Gallery. The University Gallery will also host a Brown Bag Talk with Jim Liversidge, a curator of the Popular Culture Collections at Smathers Library, on Friday from noon to 1 p.m. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” 
visit arts.ufl.edu.
GatorNights: Nightmare on Gale 
Lemerand Street
This Friday, GatorNights is hosting “Nightmare on Gale Lemerand Street” at the Reitz Union. In the Rion Ballroom at 9 p.m., comedy mind reader 
Eric Dittelman, who has been 
featured on NBC’s “America’s Got Talent,” will perform. The event will also have an escape room, which will be open all night in the Matthew’s Suite. Coffee from the Global Coffee House will also be offered, along with free bowling and billiards 
at the Game Room from 8 p.m. 
to 1 a.m. GatorNights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club is offering free lessons and danc-es twice a week every Monday and Friday. On  Friday nights, the organization hosts two lev-els of lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday 
nights, the organization hosts 
two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to  9 p.m., and social dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union Breezeway. For more information, find the organization on Facebook.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21Collectors from across the region will share their personal trea-sures with the Florida Museum of Natural History visitors dur-ing the 38th Collectors Day on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the museum’s longest-running public program, 
allowing guests to interact with 
collectors and learn about the context and historical signifi-cance of their collections. The registration deadline to display collections is Saturday. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collectors-day-registration or call 352-273-
2061.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28
Beginning Jan. 28, the Florida Museum of Natural History visi-tors will be able to see the mu-seum’s new featured exhibit “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Guests may view tree frogs, bull-frogs, horned frogs, giant toads and poison dart frogs. The mu-seum will host a public open-
ing celebration that includes a 
Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Jan. 24 or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for 
the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. 
Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and college students; $5 for children aged 3 to 17; and free to museum mem-bers and UF students with a val-id Gator 1 Card. 
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design ChallengeOn Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-
mation and giveaways, along 
with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited quantities available), will be fea-tured. The event will also feature the Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/con-
dom-design-challenge.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: 
In an article published Jan. 11 ti-tled “Citizenship classes expects to see surge in Trump era,” the Alligator incorrectly stated the cost of classes offered is $100. The class is free.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 80
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris   
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Students were heckled and cursed at 
Wednesday afternoon, egged on by a Satanic 
felt pupped named Tyrone.
“F--- off,” the blue puppet purported to 
yell, the words coming from an actor with the 
Hippodrome State Theatre. “You’re a p---y.”
Tyrone, one of the main characters in 
“Hand to God,” a play at the theatre starting 
Friday at 8 p.m., was on Turlington Plaza to 
promote the work. The actor who plays and 
controls Tyrone, 26-year-old Jon Kovach, led the vulgar display, passing out free tickets with Hippodrome marketing interns.
“Hand to God” is about a boy who puts on 
a biblical puppet show, only for his puppet to become possessed by the devil. The show deals with themes of religion and humanity in 
a comedic way, said Lauren Warhol Caldwell, 
the show’s director. Warhol Caldwell said the show’s raunchy humor appeals to students.
“‘Hand to God’ really ﬁ  ts like a glove, no 
pun intended, with this demographic,” she said.
When he wasn’t trying to rile up students 
or yelling at his own master, Tyrone asked passersby for hugs and to play a game, even-tually drawing the attention of Kevin Cooley, a 24-year-old UF English literature doctoral 
student. Cooley teaches a course on anima-
tion and puppetry, and after seeing the Turl-ington display, he said he plans to encourage his students to attend the show. He said he was pleased to see puppet theory in action.
“The puppet asks us to believe he’s not hu-
man, which subverts the idea of a puppet as an object to be controlled,” he said.
Kovach said he didn’t hesitate to scream at 
students as he was acting.
“Tyrone believes what he’s doing is for the 
better,” Kovach said. “As long as I relate to that, I don’t have any guilt or bad feelings.”
Though the foul-mouthed puppet sur-
prised some, Aziz Nefzi, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman, felt the performance was just another day on Turlington, where vocal evangelists and other performers are com-
monplace.
“Every time I walk through Turlington I 
expect to see something a little bizarre,” Nefzi 
said.
@romesbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org S atanic puppet cusses at students to promote play
Alan Alvarez/Alligator Staff
Tyrone, a foul-mouthed puppet controlled by Hippodrome State Theatre actor Jon Kovach, 
hugs Sammy Dahan, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday. 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
During UF’s nine events centered 
around Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
this month, students will honor Mal-
colm X for the ﬁ  rst time.
A succession of events begin 
Thursday and will continue until 
Jan. 31. The celebration will kick 
off with a walking candlelight vigil 
at 6 p.m. Thursday from the closed Institute of Black Culture on Univer-sity Avenue to the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. While walking to the Reitz 
Union, students will be recreating 
scenes from the civil rights move-ment, said Ebony Love, an MLK Cel-ebration Committee event organizer.
Following the vigil, UF Religion 
Professor Gwendolyn Simmons will speak about the two activists’ lega-cies. Students will then be able to share their experiences related to 
race and civil rights activism, Love 
said.
The 20-year-old UF history ju-
nior said the celebration’s theme is 
“Martin with Malcolm,” because the 
committee felt Malcolm X deserved recognition.
“We’re also looking at Malcolm 
X and the legacy that he left, and 
why we don’t necessarily talk about Malcolm X as much as we talk about 
Martin Luther King,”Love said.
Myko Nigo, a 22-year-old UF 
nutritional sciences senior, said he’s attending the vigil because as a member of the Asian community, he wants to support black students 
while learning about King.
“I think it’s important because 
MLK is known for his bravery and 
resilience and ﬁ  ghting for equality 
during his time,” Nigo said, “and 
especially with the racial discrimina-tion and hate crimes as of today.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org  UF students to honor Malcolm X during MLK celebration 
Other UF events for the 
Martin Luther King Jr. cel-
ebration:
Jan. 16 at 8 a.m.: MLK Day 
of Service at the Reitz Union 
Rion Ballroom.
Jan. 17 at 6 p.m.: MLK Lec-
ture by Ibram Kendi, a UF Afri-
can-American history professor who won the National Book Award, at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Jan. 23 at 6 p.m.: Educa-
tional forum hosted by Multi-
cultural and Diversity Affairs at 
Arredondo Cafe.
Jan. 25 at 6 p.m.: “Faith in 
Diversity” free dinner at UF Hil-lel.
Jan. 27 at 6 p.m: Remember-
ing the legacy of the Institute of Black Culture at the Reitz Union, Room 3320.
Jan. 28 at noon: Farewell to 
La Casita at Institute of Hispan-ic-Latino Cultures.
Jan. 30 at 6 p.m.: Screening 
of “13th,” a documentary about race and the American justice system at Smathers Library, Room 100.
Jan. 31 at 7 p.m.: MLK Key-
note Lecture from Marc Lamont Hill, an author, activist and tele-vision personality, at the Univer-sity Auditorium.4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
noise or that it was no longer making noise upon 
his arrival,” he said. 
Luckily for those losing sleep, the unwanted 
alarms won’t ring again. Wood said he gave the roosters away, but he explained why they were liv-
ing on 13th Street to begin with.
The ﬂ  orist is also a farmer with property in 
Levy County, where he raises chickens and other 
animals. At his farm, the rooster-to-hen ratio had 
become dangerous, forcing him to kick the roost-
ers out. A little more than a week ago, he brought 
them to Gainesville to give them away. Wood said 
it’s better to have more hens than roosters to avoid “coop abuse.”
“The males end up roughing up the females,” 
he said. “You really need like a 1 to 8 ratio, and so when that batch of ‘em grew up, some of ‘em had to move on.”
Despite their distinct midnight calls, Wood said 
none of the birds had names.
The residents of 13th Street weren’t able to ad-
dress the troublesome roosters by name, and luck-ily for them, they never will.
“Well the roosters are gone,” Wood said. “And 
they won’t be back.”
               @molly_vossler   mvossler@alligator.org ROOSTERS,  from pg. 1The late-night crows kept tenants up
Cocka Doodle Don’t: Gainesville 
ordinance on noisy animals
Sec. 5-2. — Animals as a public nuisance.
(1) No owner or keeper of any animal shall 
permit the animal to become a public nuisance. 
The following can become a public nuisance, and the owner or keeper of the animal can be cited for any instance of:
(f) An animal making sounds that are a 
violation of Chapter 15 of this Code (Noise).
Sec. 15-1. — Legislative ﬁ  ndings; declaration 
of necessity.
It is found and declared that:
(1) Excessive sound within the limits of the 
city is a condition which has existed for some time, and the amount and intensity of such sound is increasing.
(2) Such excessive sound is a detriment to the 
public health, safety, welfare and quality of life of the residents of the city.IT WAS THE SECOND PIPE 
ISSUE ON CAMPUS IN 
TWO DAYS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Students living in Beaty West 
didn’t have water Wednesday after 
a hot water pipe leaked.
The leak came from a pipe on 
the ground ﬂ  oor of the building, 
according to an email sent to resi-
dents from Dan Lepper, the area coordinator. In order to repair the pipe, maintenance workers from UF Housing and Residence Educa-tion shut off hot water from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and cold water from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m, UF spokesper-son John Hines wrote in an email. 
This is the second water leak 
on campus in two days. The space between two pipes in the ceiling of the Hub broke some time between Monday night and Tuesday morn-ing, according to Alligator archives. 
Hines said the leak in Beaty 
West didn’t cause damage. 
“We replaced the section of the 
pipe and added some valves to minimize future outages,” Hines said.
Zoe Bortz, an 18-year-old UF 
criminology and law freshman, 
said she realized the problem when 
there was no hot water to wash dishes around 9 a.m.
“I just hope it’s ﬁ  xed by tonight 
so I can bathe,” she said.
Maxime Korner, an 18-year-old 
UF psychology freshman, said the toilet wouldn’t ﬂ  ush in her room during the day, so she had to ven-
ture downstairs to use the rest-
room.
“It made me grateful for having 
water,” she said. “You don’t really know what you have until you lose it.” 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgBeaty pipe leak leaves 
students without water THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer 
More than a dozen local res-
taurants are selling burgers and 
fries at a discounted price next 
week.
Gainesville’s third annual 
Burger Week, offered by the 
smartphone app Gift Certiﬁ  cates 
and More, will run from Monday 
to Sunday and offer $5 meals. This year, new restaurants like Gator’s Dockside, World of Beer and Backstreet Blues Oyster 
House are joining in.
“We wanted to do it for two 
reasons,” said Edward Lavagni-
no, the founder and president 
of the app. “We wanted to give 
back to the community...and it’s also good publicity for the restau-rants.”
Lavagnino said to get the deal 
people must download the app and create a free account.
“They get a really good dis-
count on a great burger from 13 different restaurants,” he said. 
“This is a great way for them to 
save a lot of money.”
Praveen Varanasi, 21, said he 
doesn’t support the app because it promotes products that are not 
economically and environmen-
tally sustainable. 
“I don’t think it’s good for our 
society to continue the consump-
tion of these sort of products,” 
the UF economics, political sci-ence and sustainability studies junior said.
Varanasi said he has been a 
vegetarian all his life and vegan for three years. He said he would support the app if it offered more vegan-friendly options.
“I think that if they give more 
of an effort and advertise more vegetarian or vegan businesses or healthy alternatives, then they’d deﬁ  nitely get more of a follow-
ing,” he said.
@Mary_Lou_W  
mwatkinson@alligator.org Burger Week returning to GNV
New:
• Gator’s Dockside
• World of Beer 
• Backstreet Blues 
Chophouse and Oyster 
Bar
• Krazy G’s Hog House Saloon
• OOZOO Kitchen + Bar
Returning: 
• T exas Roadhouse 
• Relish (Promotion is available at all 
Gainesville locations)
• TGI Fridays
• The Swamp Restaurant
• Wahoo Seafood Grill
• Sweet Mel’s
• Sal’s Place
• Gators Den Sports GrillBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was ar-
rested Tuesday after admitting to 
stalking a 16-year-old for months, Gainesville Police said.
Charles Hart, 23, started fol-
lowing the girl at the beginning of the 2016-17 school year, accord-ing to a police report. He waited almost every day for her to get off the bus and would greet her and look her up and down, she told police.
The student would often try 
avoiding Hart by ducking into 
the Library Partnership Branch, 
at 1130 NE 16th Ave., and at a laundromat, but Hart was hardly deterred. After a school crossing guard noticed and reported the activity, police told him to stop, according to the report.
The student noticed Hart fol-
lowing her again Tuesday and 
yelled at him to stop three times, according to the report. When she 
tried to jog away, he followed her.
Hart told po-
lice he was walk-ing behind her, not following her. He called it a joke, according to the report.
He admitted 
to following her 
for months and 
knowing her routine, according to the report. He told police that the highlight of his day was going to the library. 
The student told police she 
was scared he would harm her, according to the report. 
Police arrested Hart on a charge 
of aggravated stalking. Authorities 
took him to the Alachua County 
Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $20,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: 16-year-old stalked 
for months after school WHERE TO GO
Hart
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOROn holiday in Mississippi: judgements meet reality
The wafting stench of cigarettes and 
sounds of jazz greeted me as I stepped off the plane and into the airport termi-nal in Kenner, Louisiana, just outside of New Orleans. 
It was two days before Christmas, and my 
mom, brother and I were in town to visit my uncle and his family. I was excited to see them, especially since the opportunity only comes a few times a year. 
Normally, they make an annual trek to 
Florida. This year, however, we decided to take a trip to visit them. This change of plans didn’t exactly have me jumping out of my seat with anticipation. They don’t live in New Orleans; that just happens to be where the closest major airport is. They live in Mississippi. 
Like most people, I didn’t have Mississippi high on 
my bucket list of states to visit. It was far down the cel-lar, somewhere in line near the dull, droning cornfields of Kansas and Iowa. 
When my uncle first told me he was accepting a job 
in Mississippi a few years ago, I distinctly remember feeling surprised that anyone would willingly relocate there. Mississippi is a place where people move from, not to. There are no major cities. No real attractions. According to Business Insider, it’s the poorest state in the union based on median household income, and the third fattest state, behind Arkansas and West Virginia. It’s also a hassle to get there. If you live far enough away that you need to fly, you have to find an airport in another state if you want a reasonably priced ticket. 
And the people who live there…I didn’t exactly view 
them kindly, either. Those concurrently amusing yet mildly repulsive “People of Wal-Mart” chain emails came to mind. 
You know the kind of person I’m talking about. These are the people that, from 1863 to 
1945, refused to observe Independence Day on July 4 in the city of Vicksburg because it coincided with the date Union forces captured the town. It took over three-quarters of a cen-tury to emotionally recover from the Confed-eracy’s defeat. What kind of backward place was I headed to? 
I mulled this over as we barreled down In-
terstate 10 and made the hour-and-a-half trip to Gulfport, a small city on the coast. And for 
the next five days, I decided to view the place where I was staying with an open mind. I was pleasantly sur-prised. Shocked, actually. 
We visited numerous quaint coastal towns, toured 
historic sites, walked piers and marinas and ate fresh seafood from the Gulf of Mexico. If I didn’t know any better, I never would’ve guessed I was in Mississippi. My actual experience had little in common with the state that I had always pictured. 
Now I’m not saying that Mississippi doesn’t have 
regressive and archaic areas. It does. Quite a few of them, actually, as you head north and away from the Gulf Coast. There are people who never stray from their rural hometowns, still believe in secession and are still prejudiced. But it’s not everyone. 
Every place has its ups and downs, good and bad. Often, we judge places based on predetermined 
opinions and perceptions. I’m guilty of it. And we do the same thing with people. So go out, and explore the world. Make judgments for yourself instead of relying on others to do it for you. Give people a chance. You just might be surprised at what you find.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His columns ap-
pear on Thursdays.The actual, actual 
dystopian reality  
of the US
Last week, we published an editorial discussing reasons why 
a hypothetical dystopian fate of the U.S. was more simi-lar to a Huxleyan dystopia (massive inputs of meaningless information that detract from important news; control by desire and pleasure) instead of the typical Orwellian one 
(censored media; control by fear). This week, we’re going to re-evaluate that claim and amend it slightly.
This re-evaluation of our claim comes from a recent press con-
ference by President-elect Donald Trump. You’ve probably seen the tweets and articles about it already, but if you haven’t, the brief version is that Trump slammed BuzzFeed and CNN for pub-lishing reports about documents regarding Russian operatives al-legedly having compromising information on Trump. CNN pub-lished a synopsis of the documents and BuzzFeed released all of 
them, telling the American people that they could make up their 
minds. Trump attacked both organizations and refused to answer a CNN reporter’s questions, calling him “Fake news.”
Now, we’re not going to analyze these documents or claim 
their validity. We’re not going to discuss whether BuzzFeed was in the right or in the wrong for releasing unverified documents and whether Trump is right to claim the media is biased and sensationalizing a movement against him. Right now, we’re fo-cusing on the comparison we previously made and how this turn 
of events plays into it. 
Let’s look at the Orwellian side to this: Our president-elect is 
making claims that some forms of news are more valid than oth-
ers. He is trying to tell us which news to pay attention to (hint: It’s the ones that validate his actions). One of the big themes of “1984” is government control of the media, and yes, Trump dismissing outlets as a “failing pile of garbage” and “fake news” isn’t exactly outlawing news headlines. But that blurry little line of a government figure controlling the news is getting a little blur-
rier with each bombastic statement and with more people believ-
ing his claims every time.
But let’s get back to the Huxleyan view — that true news 
is covered up by a mass input of meaningless information. One could make the argument that this whole news story is a wad of meaningless information. The right is defending their politi-cal candidate, crying out at the liberal media for making these unprecedented claims. The left is passionately advocating for freedom of the press, pointing out that control of the press is one 
of the first signs of fascism. But the fact is, most people don’t 
care to look into the fact that neither media outlet claimed these allegations were true: CNN just reported their existence, while BuzzFeed uploaded them (specifying at least three times in their article that the claims were “unverified”). And most people aren’t actually taking the time to read through all of the documents any-way. They latch onto the sensationalized view of this story, de-pending on whichever side they agree with: “The Liberal Media is Screwing Us All” vs. “Trump Will Turn Us Into a Fascist State.”
What is the true takeaway of these documents? Well, in all 
honesty, we don’t know. We’d rather they were in the open and known about than hidden away, but sensationalizing claims that aren’t verified isn’t exactly the way to go about it. 
So perhaps the fate of the U.S., should it end up going down 
the path to dystopia, doesn’t solely prescribe to the doctrines of “1984” or “Brave New World”— but instead, as is the American way, goes down its own path of blazing self-destruction, a fiery melting pot of both dystopian worlds.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
The must-see movies of this year
‘Moonlight, ’ ‘La La Land, ’ and more, pg. 10‘One Tree Hill’ stars to perform in GNV
They will play at the High Dive on Sunday, pg. 8By Ana Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
Horst Christian Simco, better 
known by his stage name Riff Raff, will be performing at the High Dive tonight, with doors opening at 8 p.m. for the 8:30 p.m. show. 
An enigmatic rapper, Raff does 
what he wants and is known for 
his wild public persona. 
Prior to signing with Diplo’s re-
cord label Mad Decent, he worked 
with Dirt Nasty and Andy Milona-
kis in their group, Three Loco, 
and said music has always been 
part of his life. 
“What does music mean to me? 
Everyday, gotta listen to music fam, it’s inspiration,” Raff said. 
“Also, when I eat food, I gotta 
listen to music; I don’t like to 
hear people’s teeth hitting metal 
forks.”
The rapper claims to only use 
plastic forks for safety reasons. “Ain’t no tellin’ how many 
mouths have been on those Ruby 
Tuesday forks,” he said. 
Raff’s dogs, Jody and Holly, 
are all over his social media and 
have a fanbase of their own. Holly 
is the more “snappy” of the two 
dogs and might even try to take 
someone’s head off, he said.
“They’re with me on tour and 
have a full-time trainer,” Raff said. “They have so many fans that people would try to kidnap them if I let them alone.”
Raff has made a career out of 
his style and personality. His fa-cial hair has sparked Twitter de-bates and many questions, but the mastermind behind the zigzag pattern is Raff himself.
“I’ve been a barber since sev-
enth grade,” he said. “I don’t like men touching my f****** face. I couldn’t imagine a guy braiding my hair, either.” 
When asked who braids his hair, Raff replied with “girls, probably.”
Raff has no plans on slowing 
his career down. He said he has a movie in the works with fellow 
rapper Bones and a reality show 
that has been ﬁ  lmed with Dirt 
Nasty. 
He doesn’t believe in deﬁ  ning 
himself, despite his eclectic style.
“I just go with the ﬂ  ow: If I like 
it I do it, and if I don’t like it, you 
gotta pay me,” Raff said.
Aside from performing, Raff is 
ready to celebrate his 35th birth-day Jan. 29. 
“I turn 400 years old,” Raff 
said. “I’ll celebrate to that.”
Raff has never been to 
Gainesville before and plans to stick around at the High Dive af-ter the show. 
“I’ll be gator bitin’ my way into 
the High Dive,” Raff said. “I can’t wait to be in Gainesville. I’m gon-na do some Florida Gators stuff.”
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
When the long-awaited “Fan-
tastic Beasts and Where to Find Them” movie premiered in the-atres in November of 2016, Harry Potter fans of all ages were dazzled by beasts of all kinds, from Nifﬂ  ers to Thunderbirds. 
For those wanting to take the 
magic a little further, the Florida Museum of Natural History will be hosting “Fantastic Beasts of the Museum,” an event dedicated to the most recent movie and the Harry Potter universe as a whole. 
The event, which will take place 
Saturday, will be free to the public and run from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Florida Museum, located at 3215 Hull Road. Food and drink will be available to purchase from High Springs Orchard and Bakery. 
The Youth Leadership Board of 
the Florida Museum is putting on the event. Eve Rowland, a 19-year-old UF zoology freshman, helped develop this program, which is de-signed to attract more youth to the 
museum. 
“The Youth Leadership Board 
has students aged 12 to 18 that are 
going to design programs for teens, 
by teens,” Rowland said. 
Rowland added that the Youth 
Leadership Board has been work-
ing on this event for months. She 
said the students involved planned 
the event and she facilitated any-
thing they might need. Rowland 
said she hasn’t read any of the 
Harry Potter books and pointed 
out that the students on the Youth 
Leadership Board have really tak-
en the reins in planning out the 
logistics of the event.
“The kids who are in the pro-
gram explain everything to me,” 
she said. 
As for the event itself, there will 
be two main activities, including 
house trivia and a Fantastic Beasts 
scavenger hunt, Rowland said. Par-
ticipants will have the opportunity 
to explore the museum in search of animals that have been paired up 
with beasts from the movie. 
Rahel Faruque, a 22-year-old 
UF public relations sophomore, said he grew up a Harry Potter fan, reading all of the books and seeing every movie. Although he has not read the “Fantastic Beasts” book yet, he said he still plans on attending the “Fantastic Beasts” event, especially after seeing the movie in theatres. 
“I love the way they incorpo-rated wizardry into North America and showed a new side to the Har-ry Potter universe that we didn’t know existed,” he wrote in an email. “Watching the movie did motivate me to check the event out because I want to see how the museum will bring the magic alive.”
The museum and the Youth 
Leadership Board hope to do just that with “Fantastic Beasts of the Museum,” Rowland said. The event is a part of a greater 
effort to bring more youth to the museum and to the Youth Leader-ship Board program, which will have open applications within the year for others to join and help create events like this one for oth-er students. 
“The teenagers know what oth-
er teenagers want,” Rowland said. “We’re really hoping that this event goes well so we can keep the program and attract more people.” Rapper, personality Riﬀ   Raﬀ   to 
perform at High Dive tonight
Natural history museum to host ‘Fantastic Beasts’ event
MUSIC
LOCAL
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer 
The Delta Troubadours, a rock 
‘n’ roll band signed to Swamp Re-
cords, will be performing in the 
2017 Okeechobee Music and Arts 
Festival, which runs from March 2 to March 5. The band landed this spot through the “Destination 
Okeechobee” competition, put on 
by ReverbNation. 
After a busy social media cam-
paign that prompted band mem-ber Gytis Garsys to get locked out of Facebook and Instagram mes-
saging for 24 hours, the band beat 
out 3,200 other bands by winning the popular vote. This victory al-lows The Delta Troubadours to have their names listed on the 
same lineup as The Lumineers, 
Kings of Leon, Flume and Wiz Khalifa, among others. 
The four members of The Delta 
Troubadours are Gytis Garsys (vo-cals, guitar, keys), Jon Franklin (bass, vocals), Ian Heausler (lead guitar, vocals) and Max Rowe 
(drums). All Tampa natives, the 
men knew one another in high school, but they did not join forc-es and start performing together until just about two years ago. 
Since then, the band has per-
formed regional gigs, including Gainesville’s High Dive just last Friday and larger events like 
Tampa’s 2016 Gasparilla Music 
Festival. On playing such a huge show 
in the band’s hometown, Garsys 
said “(Playing Gasparilla) was a 
treat … it was special.” 
Since it originally came togeth-
er, Garsys said the band is “still steeped in the blues,” as they 
have been, but they are “opening 
(themselves) up to stylistic oppor-tunities” as well. 
According to Garsys, the band 
has been busy writing new mu-sic over the past year and has hours of studio time lined up for the weeks ahead. Fans can ex-
pect new releases from The Delta 
Troubadours this spring and more live performances in the coming year. 
For now, of course, the 
band is looking forward to the Okeechobee Music and Arts Fes-tival. For fans coming out to the festival, Garsys “promise(s) to 
put on the best damn rock-n-roll 
show they’ve ever seen.”
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
Before they each made their television 
debuts on the drama “One Tree Hill,” Tyler 
Hilton and Kate Voegele were musicians.
They will be performing together at the 
High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave. in 
downtown Gainesville, on Sunday evening. 
Christina Holmes and Kaylan Moody will 
open the show. 
“This will be a very intimate night of 
acoustic driven pop and rock,” said Pat Lav-
ery, the owner of Glory Days Presents and promoter of all High Dive events. 
The show starts at 7:30 p.m., and tickets 
are $15 for general admission and $75 for VIP, which includes a meet and greet, a spe-cial acoustic performance from Hilton and Voegele and early entry into the venue.
Caroline Kaplan, a UF advertising junior, 
said she’s excited to reminisce and hear songs from “One Tree Hill,” a show she calls an important part of her college experience.
“Now that Tyler and Kate are coming 
here to where it all started for me, it is full circle,” the 20-year-old said.  Kaplan, who purchased a general admis-
sion ticket, has previously been to one con-cert at the High Dive. She said she prefers its small venue atmosphere. 
“The intimate setting really helped the 
audience connect with musicians,” she said.
Hilton, who grew up in Palm Springs, Cal-
ifornia, starred as the musically talented and 
arrogant Chris Keller on season two, three, 
four and nine of “One Tree Hill.” 
Voegele, from Cleveland, played the also 
musically inclined Mia Catalano on the show from seasons ﬁ  ve to eight. 
While Hilton has performed at this venue 
before, it will be Voegele’s ﬁ  rst time at the High Dive. 
Guests under 18 must be accompanied by 
a parent or guardian. There will be a $3 fee 
charged at the door for those under 21. 
Kaplan said she looks forward to hear-
ing “When The Stars Go Blue,” a rendition 
of the Ryan Adams song featured on “One 
Tree Hill” by Hilton, as his character Chris 
Keller, and Bethany Joy Lenz, who played 
Haley James Scott. 
“We need more songs like that one these 
days,” she said. Local band wins spot in Okeechobee music festival lineup 
 Former ‘One Tree Hill’ stars 
to perform together in GNV
MUSIC
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Tyler Hilton and Kate Voegele, known for their parts on ‘One Tree Hill, ’ will 
perform at the High Dive on Sunday. Doors open at 7 p.m. for the 7:30 p.m. show.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
This Friday, Portland-based ex-
perimental metal duo The Body 
will be coming to the Atlantic right before they embark on a two-month long American tour. The 
show at the Atlantic will be the 
group’s only planned stop in Flor-ida for their current touring cycle.  
The Body has a versatile sound 
that evades any concrete descrip-tors given to metal bands in the past. Their music ranges from poppy ambience to all-out sludge-metal. Their latest release, “No 
One Deserves Happiness,” incor-
porates elements of electronic music like drum machines and high-pitched, almost mechanical sounding female vocals. “No One Deserves Happiness” ﬂ  uctuates between accessible musical mo-ments like these and noisy instru-mentals, complete with demonic 
vocals typical of most “metal” 
music.  
“The Body’s music drones, 
swells and then soothes,” said Claudia Acosta, a 21-year-old UF English junior. “I’m curious to see how they perform their songs live, especially because they only have two members.”
Back in 2014, Gainesville local 
Daniel Halal, the owner of Arrow’s Aim Records, released a collabora-tive album between The Body and Baton Rouge-based sludge-metal band Thou through his indepen-
dent record label Vinyl Rites. The 
album, “Released From Love,” has since been reissued by Thrill Jock-ey in the U.S. and Daymare in Ja-pan. Halal, 31, booked The Body’s pre-tour Gainesville show. 
“I like The Body’s unﬂ  inching 
commitment to making the music they want to, on their own terms, 
separate from genre restrictions,” 
Halal said. “They are also two of the funniest people on Earth.”
Vinyl Rites was started in 2006, 
originally as a way for Halal to re-lease his own band’s music. Since then, the label has put out over 40 releases, most of which are on vi-nyl, through small runs of 500 to 
1,000 records.
Gainesville-based artist Ironing 
will be opening The Body’s Atlan-
tic show. This noisy sample-based project’s sole member is Andrew Chadwick, a Gainesville resident and crucial player in the local mu-sic scene. 
Along with putting on the re-
curring “Action Research” events around town for touring experi-mental artists, Chadwick can also be found ﬁ  lming shows around town with his camcorder almost every week. Chadwick posts these high deﬁ  nition videos of Gainesville performances to You-Tube under the username “aw-chadwick.”
“I would describe an Ironing 
set as a hyper, noisy, cut-up dance party with slapstick turntablism,”  Chadwick said. “Kenny Millions once described it as ‘Florida’s J. Dilla meets Otomo Yoshihide plus his own thing.’ I loved that de-scription.”
Ironing gets its name from 
Chadwick’s trademark ironing 
boards, which he puts his audio 
equipment on when performing live. He manipulates sound sam-ples from vinyl records and cas-settes through a soundboard and various other manipulative gear. As with most live audio manipula-tion, no two Ironing sets are the same. 
“I saw Ironing in Miami a few 
months ago,” Acosta said. “The set was really strange and exciting. At one point, he just started throwing cassettes at his audio gear.”
Local acts Bite Marks and Liv-
ing Lost will also be opening the show this Friday. 
Doors open at 9 p.m., and tick-
ets can be purchased in advance for $10 from Arrow’s Aim Records or showclix.com. Tickets are $12 at the door, but because this is The Body’s only Florida concert before embarking on tour, there is a strong possibility of the show selling out.
Band The Body to play only Florida show at the Atlantic
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Body,  a metal duo from Portland, will play at the 
Atlantic on Friday at 9 p.m. Tickets are $10 online and at Arrow’s Aim Records  or $12 at the door. 
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
While many could argue that 
2016 was not great for a variety of 
social and political reasons, it’s no  argument that it was a year in which movies ﬂ  ourished. This year par-ticularly proved that diversity and equal representation in ﬁ  lmmaking was necessary for telling intricate stories from all walks of life. While 
there is still a lot of progress to be 
made, the movies that scored big in 2016 told perspectives from women, people of color and those within the 
LGBTQ+ community. In a world 
as big and diverse as ours, it’s im-
portant for everyone’s stories to be heard.
“Hidden Figures”:  
“Hidden Figures” tells the heart-
warming story of three inspirational African-American women at NASA who were the leading force behind one of the largest operations in 
history — sending astronaut John 
Glenn into space. The untold story 
of these three brilliant trailblazers, Katherine G. Johnson (Taraji P. Henson), Dorothy Vaughan (Oc-
tavia Spencer) and Mary Jackson 
(Janelle Monae), powerfully depicts 
the often undisclosed contributions women have made to the world. The movie, which recently had a private screening at the White House host-ed by the Obamas, has been met with astounding reviews. The direc-
tor, Theodore Melﬁ  , intricately re-
tells how these three women fought 
tooth and nail against both racism 
and sexism to merely exist and excel within a world that wanted to keep 
them hidden. Now 98 years old, the 
real-life Katherine Johnson is ﬁ  nally 
getting her well-deserved chance to 
tell her story. 
“Moonlight”:
There’s a reason why “Moon-
light” has been constantly hailed 
as the “Best Movie of the Year” by both The New York Times and Va-riety magazine. Director Barry Jen-
kins beautifully tells the story of a 
young African-American boy com-
ing to terms with his sexuality in a way that is both poetic and breath-taking. The movie, which is told in 
three separate times in the man’s 
life, follows the character Chiron 
as he grapples with his identity and his drug-addicted mother, played by Naomie Harris. The ﬁ  lm is based on 
a play by Tarell Alvin McCraney, 
“In The Moonlight Black Boys Look 
Blue,” which was more of a person-al essay by McCraney about his own lifetime acceptance of being a black 
gay man.
“La La Land”:
Let’s have a moment of silence for those who were playing drink-ing games during the 74th Golden Globe Awards last Sunday and 
had to take a shot every time “La 
La Land” won. I was one of those 
overzealous movie-fans, crawling 
into class while blasting the now Golden Globe winning song “City of 
Stars” from my iPhone earbuds. “La 
La Land” tells the story of a wishful 
actress, Mia (Emma Stone), and her 
romantic interest, Sebastian (Ryan Gosling), who is a struggling jazz 
musician attempting to make it big 
in Los Angeles. The movie, which is 
an original musical written by direc-tor Damien Chazelle, won a record total of seven Golden Globes, which 
is the most awards won by any ﬁ  lm 
ever. What makes the ﬁ  lm’s success 
so dazing is the fact that no one in Hollywood wanted to make it. Stu-dios didn’t want to back a movie 
that seemed doomed from the start 
— it was a new musical with no 
pre-existing popular songs and, on top of that, a jazz musical. Chazelle, who also wrote the award-winning 
movie Whiplash, ﬁ  rst wrote the 
movie back in 2010 when he was an 
unknown, making the success of the ﬁ  lm even more difﬁ  cult to predict. 
“Fences”:
Denzel Washington showcases 
his impeccable talent as a director 
by creating a ﬁ  lm that vigorously symbolizes a sense of defeat and yet wholesomeness within a broken family. Set in 1950s Pittsburgh, the 
movie tells the story of Troy Maxson 
(Washington), a working-class Afri-
can-American father who tries to 
raise his family whilst battling with his own personal demons, which 
ultimately wreak havoc within his 
home. When Maxon’s wife Rose (Vi-
ola Davis) asks him to build a fence 
around their house, Washington brilliantly uses the fence to symbol-
ize the constant emotional and phys-
ical barriers that his character puts 
up to block his family out. “Fences” was adapted for the big screen from its Pulitzer-winning play by August 
Wilson, which awarded both Davis 
and Washington their Tony’s during 
the 2010 Broadway revival. 2016 has been a breakthrough year for Davis, who has been killing it ev-
ery Thursday night as law professor 
Annalise Keating on “How to Get 
Away with Murder,” won her well-deserved Golden Globe for Fences and is expected to win an Oscar for 
her role as well. If you have a box of 
tissues close by, watch Davis’ inspi-
rational 2015 Emmy speech about the importance of diversity within Hollywood. After that, watch her 
movies — all of her movies — her 
speeches, interviews, her theatri-
cal performances and then spend the rest of your night lying awake wondering about the implications of Davis’ perfection, and if someone 
could be, perhaps, too perfect. 
“Moana”:
Everyone loves a good animated 
movie, and “Moana” is successful in 
bringing back that quality feel-good 
Disney nostalgia, whilst spinning a 
story that is as thought-provoking 
and intricate as the stunning visuals. 
Every minor detail (the waves crash-ing onto the shore, Moana’s hair, 
even the grains of sand) is striking. 
The movie is set on a mystic Poly-
nesian island and follows a daring young adventurer, Moana, as she sails across the ocean in search of a 
legendary demigod, Maui (Dwayne 
Johnson), in order to retrieve a pou-
namu stone that would bring hope to her ailing island. Auli’l Cavalho, who voices Moana, is a native-born 
Hawaiian actress, who was just 14 
years old when she got the role. Dis-
ney purposely searched out an en-tire cast of actors of Polynesian de-scent in order to accurately portray 
the lives and stories of those they 
were telling. The ﬁ  lm uses a com-
bination of powerful Polynesian vo-cals, traditional hide-covered Tyka drums and belting lyrics created by 
Lin Manuel Miranda (yes, that Lin 
Manuel Miranda) to follow Moana 
in her journey.
The diverse, must-see movies of the 2017 award season
FILMTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-2TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
● SLEEPER SOFAQueen mattress, like new. Navy fabric.$190 - negotiable.● Mirrors 3'x5'7", coffeepot, pictures & more.
Call 352-372-4600    1-17-17-4-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
MOVING SALE!!!! Items include: Kenmore 
Washer/ Dryer set $225, Glass dining table set $150, Dresser with mirror $200 AND LOTS MORE. For more details, Contact 561-329-3781.       1-12-17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!Copytalk Business Services is hiringemployees to transcribe audio files.- 60+ wpm required- Competitive pay rewarding production- Located close to UF campus- Create your own scheduleApply at www.ctscribes.com       1-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestHorse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-19-17-10-15
GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching 
& aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-17-17-8-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
PART TIME SALES ASSISTANT needed for local Audio/Video retail store. approx. 15-17 hrs per week.Thurs & Fri 12-6pm and Sat 10am-3pm. Ideally, applicant should be tech savvy, have some retail experience, be organized and posses good communica -
tion skills. Position starts at $10 per hour. Applicants can email resume to mark@elec -
tronics-world.net.    1-13-17-5-14
ACROSS
1 Buccaneers’
home
6 Silly bird
11 Revolting word?
14 Plane read
15 Large grouping16 Pen user17 Miss America
runner-up?
19 Part of a royal
flush
20 Anastasia __,
“Fifty Shades ofGrey” character
21 Emergency
signal
22 Frosted flakes23 Called up25 “Unsafe at Any
Speed” author
27 Put in order30 Fab alternative32 Special Forces
trademarks
35 Legendary horse
tale setting
36 Passage for the
birds?
38 Gold, in Granada39 “My bad”41 Wartime prez
42 Little Jack
Horner’s dream?
44 Proofreading
mark
45 Overwhelm
46 Biological
building block
48 Flight-related
prefix
49 Emerged51 Carrier that
doesn’t fly on theSabbath
53 Order with
tzatziki sauce
55 Some Samsung
TVs
57 “Yay, me!”61 Fishing __62 Emulating the
writing style of“The QuietAmerican”?
64 Weaken,
perhaps
65 Jack’s links rival66 Start a correction
process
67 Secret
competitor
68 Bounded69 Ice cream
purchasesDOWN
1 Hardy heroine
2 Minimally3 Lawn disruption4 “The parent of
revolution andcrime”: Aristotle
5 Cub Scout leader6 Yak7 Miner matters8 DuPont acrylic
9 Mexican buffet
feature
10 Contact’s spot
11 “Tell me about it”12 Nickname for
late-night host
O’Brien
13 Didn’t just think
18 Russo of “The
Intern”
22 Feudal grunt24 Comprehend26 Shoot down27 Ripped off
28 Longtime Utah
senator Hatch
29 Area for urban
growth
31 Get around
33 Potato, e.g.34 Look after
37 Goddess of
peace
39 Red cup brand40 Like some oil
rigs
43 Mark’s successor
44 “Amadeus”
narrator
47 Eccentric Sacha
Baron Cohen
persona
50 Twin Cities
suburb that
hosted the 2008U.S. Women’sOpen52 Madison Ave.
agent
53 Snatch54 Discipline with
poses
56 Cut58 Big man on
campus
59 Caltech, e.g.: Abbr.60 Golf tournament
souvenirs
62 Country miss63 Comprehend
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/12/1701/12/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 12, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Roland Thorqvist is leading the Florida women's tennis team into the 2017 season with a veteran-heavy lineup, pg. 16Florida football adds four early enrollees
The UF football program announced Wednesday that it added four early 
enrollees. Offensive lineman Kadeem T elfort, tight end Kemore Gamble, defensive tackle Kyree Campbell and athlete Kadarius T oney will participate in Spring practice and be eligible for the 2017 Spring game. By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Concerned friends and family 
members have been contacting Haley 
Lorenzen all week.
“What the heck is wrong with the 
Gators?” she recalled friends asking 
her. “What is going on with you guys?”
To the outside world, things appear 
to be falling apart for the Florida women’s basketball team.
Its leading scorer, Eleanna Christi-
naki, left the program last month after 
refusing to accept a half-game suspen-
sion against North Carolina A&T. 
UF is averaging an SEC-worst 20.8 
turnovers per game while also shoot-
ing a lowly 26.8 percent from the three-
point line.And since conference play began on 
Jan. 1, UF (9-7, 0-3 SEC) has opened 
with three straight losses for the ﬁ  rst 
time ever under head coach Amanda Butler.
However, despite their struggles, 
Lorenzen and the rest of the Gators continue to stay optimistic about this season.
“No one has experienced what we 
have experienced thus far,” Lorenzen 
said with a smile. “So that’s where I’m 
conﬁ  dent in our team because we are continuing to get better.”
Florida’s next opportunity re-
bound comes tonight when it travels to Starkville to face No. 4 Mississippi State.
The Bulldogs (17-0, 3-0 SEC) are one 
of three Division I women’s basketball teams still holding a perfect record, along with No. 1 UConn and No. 15 
Virginia Tech. Mississippi State defeats 
opponents by an average of 26.3 points per game and shoots 46.8 percent from the ﬂ  oor.
Junior guards Victoria Vivians and 
Morgan William make up a backcourt that is one of the best the SEC has to of-fer, and a pair of centers in senior Chin-we Okorie and sophomore Teaira Mc-
Cowan tower over defenders at 6-foot-5 
and 6-foot-7, respectively.
Still, despite tonight’s daunting task, 
UF has reason to believe it can compete 
with Mississippi State.
The Bulldogs share a lot of similari-
ties with No. 5 South Carolina, which 
the Gators faced at home on Sunday. While Florida lost to the Gamecocks 81-
62, a horrendous second quarter that 
saw UF get outscored by 21 was the  UF faces tough task at Mississippi State
By now, you’ve probably seen the clip.
At Donald Trump’s news conference Wednesday, 
the President-elect denied CNN reporter Jim Acosta the chance to ask him a question. 
Trump called Acosta’s network “terrible” before utter-
ing the following words: “I’m not going to give you a question. You are fake news.”
Now, obviously it’s unrealistic to allow every 
journalist in the room to ask a question, and by no means does Trump have to respond to Acosta or anyone else’s inquiries, but there is a scary point to be made. 
Attacking members of the press in the way Trump did   
— and has done before — fosters an environment that hinders reporters from doing their jobs. 
How do you ask an elected ofﬁ  cial as powerful as 
Trump a question about Russian hacking if you know there’s a chance he might attack your credibility?
It’s a problem that compromises transparency and ulti-
mately inﬂ  uences the opinions of the general population. 
And it’s not just in politics.It’s in sports, too.Florida coach Jim McElwain is often quick to quip at 
reporters, using mostly sarcasm in his snarky responses. 
Sometimes it’s justiﬁ  ed. Sometimes it’s not. And I doubt he ever intends any harm by it. After Florida’s season-opening win over UMass this 
past season, McElwain called out a reporter who asked about UF’s seemingly high amount of pass plays. The sec-ond-year coach asked the reporter for the exact number of passing and rushing plays, to which the reporter didn’t have an answer. 
McElwain could’ve just answered the question instead.And following a 31-13 loss to Florida State, McElwain 
again found himself taking exception to a question, this one a reasonable follow-up to a response he gave seconds before. 
Let me stop for a moment. I am by no means saying McElwain is anywhere near 
Trump’s degree of disrespect toward the media, and McElwain certainly has a right to challenge a reporter 
when justiﬁ  ed, but what those types of replies create is a 
sense of tension and uneasiness in the room.
No one wants to follow a heated exchange with a 
query of their own. 
Yeah, I get it. Emotions run high after games, especially 
losses. 
That’s ﬁ  ne. That’s sports. But there has to be a level of respect maintained be-
tween both the reporter and the subject, whether it be a POTUS or college football coach. 
Something to keep in mind, McElwain. 
Patrick is the online sports editor at the Alligator. His 
column appears on Thursdays. Contact him at ppinak@
alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @pinakk12.   Don’t tumble down 
Trump’s path, McElwain
Patrick Pinak
twitter: @pinakk12NO, THIS IS PATRICK
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Haley Lorenzen attacks the rim in UF's 81-62 loss to No. 5 South Carolina on Sunday in the O'Connell Center. The junior ﬁ  nished the game with 15 points and ﬁ  ve rebounds.
The Bulldogs are undefeated
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
GAME INFO:
• What : Florida (9-7, 0-3 SEC) 
@ No. 4 Mississippi State (17-
0, 3-0 SEC)
• When : T onight at 9 p.m. ET
• Where : Humphrey Coliseum 
in Starkville, Mississippi
• TV: SEC Network
• Radio : ESPN Gainesvilledifference in an otherwise evenly matched 
contest.
“We would’ve been in a possession-
possession game if it wasn’t for that sec-ond quarter,” Lorenzen said. “So it’s really encouraging because we were this close to beating a really good team.”A key for the Gators tonight will be to 
stay out of foul trouble. The Bulldogs are one of the best in the country at drawing contact and earning trips to the charity stripe, earning the third-most free throw at-
tempts in the country this season with 391.
With Florida currently holding only 
eight active players on its roster, it knows 
it doesn’t possess the depth it needs to be competitive if key contributors ﬁ  nd them-
selves stuck on the bench.
“If you foul, that’s jeopardizing our 
team,” senior forward Ronni Williams said. 
“And that’s for each and every one of us. If 
you’re out of the game, we’re down.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Miss. State ranks No. 3 in attempted free throws
Ethan  Bauer / Alligator Staff
Gators coach Amanda Butler gestures during Florida's 81-62 loss 
to No. 5 South Carolina on Sunday in the O'Connell Center.
Ethan Bauer / Alligator Staff
Gators forward Ronni Williams drives to the hoop during Florida's loss to South Carolina on Saturday in the O'Connell Center. 
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2017
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Fri., Jan. 13, from 2 to 5 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Staff Writers, Staff Photographers, 
Copy Editors, Sports Writers, Sports 
Copy Editors, Contributing Writers 
and Contributing Photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
VISIT US AT 
EITHER LOCATION
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
Tick tock
Take shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve waterTake shorter showers. 
Preserve waterWOMEN’S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
For Roland Thornqvist, January is 
an open race.
The UF women’s tennis coach 
is tasked with navigating his team 
through new doubles formations, a different lineup and stiff competition 
as UF begins its Spring season.
“I think this year it’s wide open 
in January, and it’s going to make 
for an interesting Christmas and certainly really cool to start off 
practice in January,” Thornqvist said 
in December. “I’m looking forward to 
having ... really good players, so we can compete every day in practice where the players have to prove 
themselves.”
Throughout the Fall season, how-
ever, the team got a head start on proving itself.With top ﬁ  nishes at the Duke 
Invitational, ITA Regional Doubles 
and Dick Vitale Classic, the Gators 
found success throughout the season. 
Players such as Anna Danilina 
and Josie Kuhlman, who went 21-2 
and 15-5 in the Fall, contributed to that success and are hoping for their momentum to carry over. 
Individuals aside, UF is equipped 
with its most veteran team of the past 10 years, which consists of seven upperclassmen. That experience is expected to show entering the Spring.
“We have a really good team. We 
have a veteran team. I’ve been telling them that the entire fall,” Thornqvist said. 
“They seem much more relaxed, 
conﬁ  dent, and they know what’s 
going on. They handle their business 
like upperclassmen. It’s been really 
easy to manage this group.” But despite the easy management, 
Florida’s schedule isn’t helpful.
The Gators host the ITA 
Championship at the end of January and play defending national 
champion Stanford and runner-up 
Oklahoma State in Gainesville in February. 
This all comes before the team 
begins Southeastern Conference play 
in March.
“We’re going to go through the 
gauntlet in February. That’s like an 
NBA schedule,” Thornqvist said. 
“We’ll ﬁ  nd out a lot about our 
team early on. And then obviously going through the tough SEC schedule will prepare us for the postseason.”
The Gators’ season begins today 
at the UNLV Invite in Las Vegas.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org Gators expected to showcase veteran experience in 2017 
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Anna Danilina prepares to return a ball during the 2016 ITA Regional Championships at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
All seven players are upperclassmen