We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorGators baseball receives No. 3 seed 
in NCAA tournament
UF will host USF, Bethune-Cookman and Marist 
in Gainesville Regional starting June 2, pg. 13Satchel’s Pizza
Picking up the pieces after December ﬁ  re, pg. 3
American Dream
The New York Times included UF on its list of schools that do the 
most for the American dream, pg. 5By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
On Monday, nearly 7,000 makeshift 
tombstones reminded those traveling down 
Eighth Avenue of the thousands of Ameri-cans who lost their lives in Iraq and Afghani-stan.
On the south sidewalk of the road, just 
next to Northwest 31st Drive, the timeline began. 
“Afghanistan 2001,” the ﬁ  rst plaque read.Stretching about a mile down the busy 
street, 6,893 tombstones — representing those who died in recent wars — were hoist-ed into the grass along the sidewalk.
As part of the annual Memorial Mile 
event, the Gainesville chapter of Veterans for Peace propped the tombstone replicas along the stretch of Eighth Avenue between Northwest 31st  Drive and Northwest 23rd Street. Each tombstone is dedicated to an individual serviceman, marking his or her full name, date of death, military branch and hometown.
“This is about the cost of war,” said VFP 
co-founder and president Scott Camil. “Our country’s been at war now for over 17 years, and the public isn’t tuned in.”
Camil, a Vietnam War veteran with two 
Purple Hearts, said he started the Memorial Mile event in 2007 to show the public what casualties of war really mean. The number 6,893 is vital to convey the real human cost of these wars, he said.
“People just see a number in their head,” 
Camil said. “When you go to Eighth Avenue, you see what that really is.” 
When Bobby Boyd walked along the 
Memorial Mile with his family Monday eve-ning, he struggled to ﬁ  ght back his tears. 
“Just about everybody out here is young-
er than me,” the 49-year-old said. “Now I got a kid about to graduate and go to college, so 
there’s a lot of these kids my son’s age.”
Boyd, a veteran who served in the U.S. 
Navy during the Gulf War, said it bothers 
him to think that so many young Americans died in Iraq and Afghanistan when the mo-tive behind both wars was unclear.
“(These kids) never had an opportunity 
to really know what they was ﬁ  ghting for,” 
he said. “Maybe one percent of the people 
out here really know what the whole cause was about.” 
***About two miles away from the symbolic 
tombs, as Century Tower’s afternoon bells chimed across campus, Courtney Bagans read a book by the University Auditorium.
In honor of Memorial Day, UF’s ofﬁ  cial 
Facebook and Twitter pages released a vid-eo describing how the 157-foot-tall carillon tower serves as a memorial to students and alumni who died in World Wars I and II.
Bagans, a UF industrial and systems en-
gineering ﬁ  fth year, said although she didn’t know about the tower’s special meaning and history, she feels it makes the landmark all the more important for students.
“I think it’s an important symbol on cam-
pus, knowing that it’s dedicated to veter-ans,” the 23-year-old said.
In World War I, 17 UF students were en-
listed into service and lost their lives, said UF spokesperson Margot Winick. More than 400 UF students enlisted into service died in World War II, she said.
While Bagans said she doesn’t know any 
veterans personally, she feels it’s important to honor them — and is glad a prominent landmark on campus does just that.
“It makes it have a little more meaning,” 
she said. 
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 150 TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
Grace King / Alligator StaffMEMORIAL MILE
From left: David Gold accompanies his wife, Judy Gold, as she records all of 
the tombstones. Each year, she makes sure the tombstones of veterans with connections to the area are marked with ﬂ  ags so they can be found easily. 
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville has the highest cost 
of internet in the state of Florida.
On Thursday, in an effort to 
change that, the City Commission 
voted to create a new subcommittee 
dedicated to expanding affordable, 
high-speed broadband internet to Gainesville residents.
Expensive internet access — and 
the high percentage of residents still without it — made this subcom-mittee a necessity, said Bryan East-man, the co-founder of Connected Gainesville, an advocacy group at-tempting to expand internet in the 
community.
Eastman said high costs, along-
side other factors, are preventing 
about 15 percent of Alachua County residents from accessing the inter-net. 
“We’re living in the 21st centu-
ry, where we connect to the world through the internet,” Eastman 
said. “We need it for jobs, we need 
it for education, we need it just so we can keep up with the rest of the world.” 
Connected Gainesville conduct-
ed a study to highlight the issues 
surrounding the lack of internet 
access in the city, Eastman said. According to the results, accessing broadband internet in Gainesville costs $1, 055.76 a year. Addition-ally, according to a Pew Research study, about 44 percent of U.S. adults believe the government should provide broadband “subsi-
dies” for low-income Americans.
“I hope the city moves forward on this and makes a bold action that 
will make it so we can have afford-able internet access for everyone in our area,” Eastman said. 
District 4 City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos will serve on the subcommittee alongside District 2 City Commissioner Harvey Ward and District 3 City Commissioner David Arreola. Hayes-Santos said his main focus on the subcommittee will be to explore options on how to lower the cost of internet. 
“A lot of people in our communi-
ty can’t even afford (the internet),” Hayes-Santos said. “In today’s day and age, internet is not a luxury — it is a necessity.”
He said the commission has been 
looking into this issue for about a year now. He added that he’s hope-ful the cost of internet will decrease in the near future so more residents can afford and access it. 
“I think we’re going to be able to 
take real steps,” Hayes-Santos said. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
City Commission creates subcommittee for aﬀ  ordable internet City honors veterans on Memorial Day
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman was arrested Sunday after entering 
a Gainesville resident’s house through a doggy 
door and drinking four bottles of wine.
Police found Linda Lee Litza, 50, in the back-
yard of Patricia Litza’s home at about 6:30 p.m., according to a Gainesville Police arrest report.
As of press time, it is un-
clear whether there is any relation between Linda and 
Patricia. Patricia declined to comment on the incident.
Earlier in the day, at 
about 4 p.m., Linda entered the home through a doggy door in the backyard and 
began drinking four bottles of wine, according 
to the report. When police ﬁ  rst arrived at the 
residence, located at 1604 NW 20th Way, they couldn’t ﬁ  nd Linda. According to the report, Linda later returned to the house — which she has been trespassed from since May 8 — with a 
broken wine bottle.
After her arrest, Linda told police she knew 
she was trespassing and admitted to entering 
the house through the doggy door, according to 
the report.
Linda faces charges of petit theft, burglary of 
dwelling and trespassing after warning, accord-
ing to the report.
On Monday afternoon, Linda was released 
from the Alachua County Jail on her own re-cognizance.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgGPD: Woman 
used doggy door to trespass
Litza
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 150
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘River of Dreams’
The Matheson History 
Museum’s new exhibition, 
“River of Dreams: the St. 
Johns and Its Springs,” runs from now until June 24. This original exhibition examines 
Floridians’ past, present and 
future relationship with the St. Johns River and its springs. The exhibition and all related programs are free and open to 
the public. The exhibition in-
cludes original work by pho-tographer Anne Ledbetter and Bruce Mozert; artifacts from 
Kingsley Plantation; a model 
of the Silver Glen Springs shell mound; documents and im-ages on loan from Smathers Library, Special & Area Studies Collections and the Florida and 
Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper 
project; and images of the St. Johns River, Ocklawaha River and Silver Springs from the Matheson’s photographic, ste-
reographic and postcard col-
lections. It will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. For more in-formation, visit mathesonmu-
seum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at 
UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-
lar street artist. In “Layers,” 
Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in-
clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s Comedy Boom features live stand-up comedy every 
Wednesday night. Local come-
dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m., and the show begins at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will accompany the show.
‘Forever Plaid’ at the 
HippodromeJoin the boys of “Forever Plaid” on a humorous ‘heav-enly’ journey through close-harmony songs of the ‘50s 
during the new musical at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre. With one final chance to give the concert they never gave, 
The Plaids sing nostalgic hits 
like “Rags To Riches,” “Love is a Many Splendored Thing,” “Catch A Falling Star,” “Three Coins In A Fountain” and 
many more. The musical is a 
mix of ‘50s and ‘60s rock ‘n’ roll, popular show and dance tunes, blended with com-
edy. The show will run from 
Wednesday to June 25. To buy tickets or for more informa-tion, visit thehipp.org/event/forever-plaid.
View rootless plants in the 
Butterfly Rainforest
Learn about the rootless plants that grow in the trees of the Butterfly Rainforest this sum-mer at the Florida Museum of Natural History from Thursday to Aug. 31. Daily butterfly re-leases are held at 2 p.m. with additional weekend releases at 3 p.m. and 4 p.m., weather permitting. UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission year-round. For more information, visit floridamuse-um.ufl.edu.
Free Friday Concert Series: 
Little Jake & The Soul 
Searchers
The City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department will host a free concert Friday in downtown Gainesville. Little Jake & The Soul Searchers will perform Friday at 8 p.m. on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Featuring lo-cal and regional musicians, the 2017 “Free Fridays” Concert Series plays each Friday night from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. through Oct. 20. The series includes a selection of musical genres. For more information, visit gnvcul-turalseries.org/free-fridays-con-cert-series.
Author series presents Nathan 
Hill
The Alachua County Library District’s 2017 Author Series presents Nathan Hill on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the Alachua County Headquarters 
Library, located at 401 E. 
University Ave. Hill, a new literary talent, also kicks off the summer at the library pro-gram. He will talk about his de-
but novel, “The Nix” and sign 
books afterward. “The Nix” is a book about ‘60s-era politics and strained mother/child re-
lations. It was named the No. 
1 Book of the Year by Audible and Entertainment Weekly, as well as one of the year’s best books by The New York 
Times, The Washington Post, 
Amazon, Newsday, Library Journal and many others. For more information about the 
series, visit aclib.us/author-
series.
Become #InvolvedUF at 
Gatormania
The largest summer event on 
campus, Gatormania 2017, will be July 8 from noon to 3 p.m. on the North Lawn. Start 
Summer B with free food, 
giveaways and live perfor-mances showcasing a variety of student organizations and campus partners. The event 
is hosted by the Involvement 
Team, the ambassadors of the Department of Student Activities and Involvement. 
For more information, visit 
studentinvolvement.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  92° LOW  68°
Local Events / News in BriefBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
When Satchel Raye thinks of ﬁ  re, he doesn’t 
feel defeat — he sees a new opportunity.
After a Dec. 5 ﬁ  re burned down his res-
taurant’s gift shop and open-bar waiting area, 
known as Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises, Raye 
said he immediately got to work on rebuilding.
“We can redesign it exactly how we want,” 
the Satchel’s Pizza owner said. “It’ll just be a 
2.0 version.”
Raye, 48, said he opened Lightnin’ Salvage 
back in 2006 as a gift shop that would give the pizza joint some room to breathe. At ﬁ  rst, Raye said he needed the space to unclog the restau-rant’s main entrance and redirect customers 
waiting in line. Ten years later, it ended up be-
ing a major source of income.
Since losing the gift shop in December, 
Raye said the business has lost more than 75 percent of its total proﬁ  t and about 30 percent of its customer base.
“It was a big part of what we are,” he said. 
“We need it for our business to survive.”
To Raye, Lightnin’ Salvage was a lot of 
things: a junk museum, a gift shop, a toy store and a place for the kids to run around. On any given weeknight, when business was slow for the pizza, Raye said Lightnin’ Salvage would be ﬁ  lled with customers engaged in trivia, sto-rytelling, belly-dancing and live music.
“Saturday is very busy, it’s the busiest day 
of the week, but come on Tuesday and we’re dead,” he said. “You can’t just live on your 
weekends.”
He got to work on rebuilding Lightnin’ Sal-
vage right after the ﬁ  re, but between drawing 
up new plans, getting approval from the city and keeping up to code on everything, Raye said it’s been a long process.Raye said he hopes for the new space to 
open by December. At the moment, he and the local construction ﬁ  rm he hired, Joyner Con-
struction, are waiting on ﬁ  nalized permits from 
the city and Gainesville Regional Utilities.
Since they started work in April, the con-
struction crew has cleared debris, set up a construction fence around the perimeter and collected necessary parts, said Joyner project manager Ryland Wagner.
With a 40-year legacy in local construction, 
Wagner said Joyner has built local staples in-
cluding UF’s Southwest Recreation Center, Butler Town Center and Gigi’s Cupcakes.
Wagner said that in rebuilding Lightnin’ 
Salvage, Joyner is continuing its service to community-oriented businesses — and that’s 
something to be proud of.
“It’s one of those buildings that we feel 
like really just contribute back to Gainesville,” Wagner said. “We take a lot of pride in those.”
Lightnin’ Salvage wasn’t Satchel’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  re, 
Raye said. Back in 2012, a smoldering kitchen ﬁ  re caused the restaurant to close down for 3 1/2 months.
Even then, despite the hardship, Raye saw it as an opportunity to rebrand and improve.
“The kitchen we have now is at least 10 
times, 20 times, better than the kitchen we had 
before the ﬁ  re,” he said.
Tyler Pratt has been going to Raye’s restau-
rant since he was 12 years old.
Anytime his family made the drive up from 
Tampa, Florida, to catch a Gators football or 
basketball game, they went to Satchel’s. Now a 19-year-old UF business sophomore, Pratt says Satchel’s holds a special place in his heart.
“It’s not just the pizza, it’s the atmosphere,” 
he said. “It’s unique, it’s different. I like the hipster vibe.”
Whenever a friend wants a new place to eat 
or hangout, Pratt said Satchel’s is his go-to.
“They get obsessed with it, and then they 
start bringing people over,” he said. “It’s like a train.”
Pratt said while growing up, almost every 
time he and his family went to Satchel’s, they 
would stop in the Lightnin’ Salvage store. He 
said he remembers the layout like the back of his hand.
When the new store opens up later this 
year, Pratt said he’ll be there to analyze every detail and  compare it to the Lightnin’ Salvage he remembers from his childhood.
“If I can tell a difference in the store, it’s 
missing something,” he said jokingly.
Now, looking at about six more months 
worth of work and nearly $500,000 to rebuild the store he lost, Raye is optimistic.
When he’s not spending time with his fam-
ily or working at the restaurant, Raye said he’s in his studio, painting tiles to decorate the new Lightnin’ Salvage.
“I’m an artist,” he said. “We’ll just pick our-
selves up and keep going.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Alligator ﬁ  le photo
On Dec. 5, a ﬁ  re burned down Satchel Pizza’s gift shop and open-bar waiting area, 
Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises. Now, owner Satchel Raye is working to rebuild it and hopes to reopen it by December.
Satchel’s Pizza to rebuild Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises 
Owner, builders hope to reopen the gift shop by December4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
By Zalomé Briceño
Alligator Contributing Writer
A study led by a UF researcher 
has found that one breast cancer 
radiation treatment is better than the others.
The study of three radiation 
therapies for early-stage breast cancer shows that the treatment, known as hypofractionated whole breast irradiation, or HF-WBI, is the most effective based on quality of life, life expectancy and saving 
health care dollars.
Ashish A. Deshmukh, the lead 
author of the study and a UF as-
sistant professor in the College of Public Health and Health Profes-sions, said he and his team have worked on the study for almost two years.
“We decided to see which ther-
apy is the most optimum one,” Deshmukh said. “We found that hypofractionated is not only effec-tive in quality of life among wom-
en, but it also saves money.”
In the study, researchers cre-
ated a comprehensive model of 
early-stage breast cancer radiation therapy where they used samples of health outcome data from the three radiation treatments.
Researchers also calculated all 
costs from each radiation treat-
ment, including patients’ travel 
costs and lost income from missing work.
“The treatment saves $3,000 per 
woman every year,” Deshmukh said, adding that the treatment is also shorter than the conventional radiation treatment by about two weeks.
Even though HF-WBI has shown 
to be effective, health providers are slow to adopt the treatment.
Denise L. Henault, a 50-year-old 
Alachua County resident and breast cancer survivor of five years, said this is her first time hearing about the treatment.
Although she did not have 
early-stage breast cancer, she said reducing the treatment time of pa-tients is great because they have to drive to get therapy every day.
“I think anytime there is an 
option for a treatment that is less invasive, it is always a plus,” she said. “Had I been in the situation 
where I had this option, I would 
have definitely tried it.”
Faster, less expensive cancer treatment more efficientBy Kay Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF teaching assistant received 
the Jack L. Fry Award for Excellence in Teaching for his work in UF’s En-tomology and Nematology Depart-ment.
At the College of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences Scholarship and Lead-ership Awards Banquet, Michael Vickers, a UF philosophy Ph.D. stu-dent, was given the award after be-ing selected by the CALS Graduate Student Awards, Scholarships and Fellowships Committee.
The award is given to a graduate 
student enrolled in CALS who has excelled in the classroom, and it was given to Vickers on May 5.
“(I love) interacting with the stu-
dents,” Vickers said. “I love being able to teach them about a topic that a lot of individuals don’t get to inter-act with, generally insects.”
As a first-generation college stu-dent, Vickers said he did not have much guidance on how to navigate or apply to college.
“I take my past experiences and 
apply them as a way to reach stu-dents who may feel the same way I did,” he said. “I know what it’s like to not really be sure what to pursue for a career.” 
Lisa Taylor, a CALS graduate 
adviser and IFAS research assistant scientist, said Vickers makes sure 
his classroom is welcoming and in-clusive.
“He cares about his students and 
works really hard,” she said. “He makes sure his students have what 
they need.”
Cat Lippi, one of Vickers’ former 
students and a UF medical geog-raphy Ph.D. student, said Vickers stood out as a teaching assistant be-cause of the effort he put into teach-ing the material.
“Aside from attention to detail 
and being patient, his personality helps him excel as a TA,” she said. “He’s obviously an expert in the ma-terial he’s teaching.”
Vickers said going forward, he 
wants to obtain a post-doctorate po-sition to gain more research experi-ence and search for a faculty position at a liberal arts college.
“Teaching students is one of the 
best experiences,” he said. “When they get enthusiastic about the sub-ject matter, it means the world to 
me.”
UF Ph.D. student, teaching assistant receives award
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A homeless woman was arrested 
last week after police said she at-
tacked two employees at the check-out line of Ross Stores.
Diane Denise Thompson, 45, of 
Gainesville is accused of slapping store manager Eric Welland Tay-lor and employee Alexandre David Evans on May 22, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report. She faces two charges of simple battery.
Thompson was trying to pur-chase her items at 
the checkout line 
at Ross, located at 2643 NW 13th St., 
when the cash register’s system failed to read her credit card, ac-cording to the re-port. Taylor, who 
was working the cash register, told Thompson that he needed to verify her credit-card funds.
According to the report, Thomp-
son demanded Taylor give her the items anyway and proceeded to slap him across the left side of his face 
multiple times.
Evans noticed Thompson slap-
ping his boss and tried to intervene, 
only to be slapped himself across the chest and arm, according to the re-port.
When police arrived, Thompson 
— outside the Ross — admitted to slapping both men. According to the 
report, she told police that Taylor 
and Evans didn’t want to give her what she paid for.
As of Monday evening, Thomp-
son remains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $5,000 bond.Gainesville woman arrested after 
slapping two Ross employees
Her credit card failed at checkout
By Samantha Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
City officials and community 
members celebrated the ground-
breaking of southwest Gaines-ville’s first affordable early child-hood education center last week.
The CHILD Center, which 
stands for Children’s Health, Imag-ination, Learning and Discovery, is expected to open in spring 2018. The Southwest Advocacy Group (SWAG), an organization founded in 2010 to improve access to nec-essary and sustainable services for families in southwest Gainesville, 
played a large role in securing and 
fundraising for the new center, lo-cated at 820 SW 62nd Terrace.
Dorothy Thomas, a SWAG 
co-chair, said the concept for the CHILD Center was developed from the need to comprehensively provide for children in southwest Gainesville.
The new center’s construction 
will be supported by O2B Kids, a child care provider serving as the facility’s operations team, as well as UF’s Anita Zucker Center for Excellence in Early Childhood Studies. 
“By starting with children and 
getting them on track from the 
time they are little, you are help-
ing their parents become their best teachers,” Thomas said.
Herman Knopf, a scientist at 
UF’s Anita Zucker Center, said his research in high-quality education services shows the need for ser-vices that maximize the children’s potential  while supporting work-ing parents.
“By partnering with a lot of oth-
er local organizations, we are able 
to layer together programs and le-
verage funding so that we can of-fer truly high-quality services,” he said.
At little to no cost, the center 
will offer enrollment to about 50 children whose parents want to find a job or go back to school and need a safe and reliable place for 
their children to learn, Knopf said.
In order to enroll in the new 
center, families must meet the 
guidelines set by programs such as Head Start, a federally funded pro-gram, and the Florida School Read-iness program, which will provide funding for the center.
Families unable to enroll their 
children in the center can take classes at the SWAG Family Re-source center, located at 807 SW 64th Terrace, to learn about the components of high-quality edu-cation, Knopf said. These com-ponents include a reasonable student-teacher ratio, engaged children and one-on-one interac-
tions between students and teach-
ers.
“What we’re trying to do is cre-
ate a ‘hub’ of services so that it is a more streamlined process,” Knopf said.   
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
was one of many to express ex-citement regarding the center at a 
groundbreaking ceremony May 25.
“This center is just the next 
evolution in creating a full set of 
wrap-around services for the resi-dents of SWAG,” Poe said.New child care center 
to open in southwest Gainesville in 2018
By Kasey McElheny
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville kindergartners will 
begin accumulating their first per-
sonal collection of books this week.
On Thursday, 150 students at Du-
val Early Learning Academy, located 
at 2106 NE Eighth Ave., will receive 
a “starter library” — a drawstring bag filled with five books. The dona-tion, organized by the Junior League of Gainesville, will give children an opportunity to build on an existing collection of books.
The Junior League, an organiza-
tion made up of female volunteers that aims to improve the lives of local children and families, has do-nated more than 2,500 starter librar-ies to young students in the past four 
years.
The purpose of the program, 
called Read With Me, is to expose 
children to literacy and encourage families to emphasize the impor-tance of reading, said Lin Lim, the chair of the organization’s literacy initiative.
She said the excitement and joy 
the children experience when receiv-ing the starter libraries is rewarding in and of itself.
“The whole idea of the program 
is for children to have their achieve-ments recognized and for them to be proud of themselves,” she said.
Because the Junior League is 
starting a new food and security 
committee, Lim said this will be the 
last year the organization donates starter libraries to local students.
Erica Warring, the assistant prin-
cipal of Duval Academy, said the Ju-nior League’s involvement has posi-tively encouraged students to work with their parents while learning to read.
“Many of our kids have learned 
how to read this year, so the starter libraries are a great way to bridge the summer as they continue to practice and develop a love for reading and learning.” Warring says.Local organization to donate 150 
‘starter libraries’ to kindergartnersThompson
ASSOCIATED PRESS — Tiger Woods was 
arrested early Monday on a DUI charge in Ju-
piter and spent nearly four hours in a county jail before he was released.
Woods, the 14-time ma-
jor champion who ranks No. 2 with his 79 career victories on the PGA Tour, has not played for four months. He is out for the rest of the sea-son while he recovers from his fourth back surgery.
Woods was arrested on suspicion of DUI at 
about 3 a.m. Monday and taken to the Palm Beach County jail, Jupiter Police spokesperson Kristin Rightler said. 
Jail records show that the 41-year-old was 
booked into Palm Beach County Jail at 7:18 a.m. and released on his own recognizance at 10:50 a.m. 
His agent at Excel Sports, Mark Steinberg, did not immediately respond to a voicemail from The Associated Press seeking comment. PGA Tour spokesperson Ty Votaw said the tour would have no comment.
Notah Begay, a roommate of Woods when 
they played at Stanford University, could re-late. Begay was arrested for aggravated drunk driving in 2000 when he ran into a car outside a bar in New Mexico. He was sentenced to 364 days in jail, with all but seven days suspended.
“It’s embarrassing for Tiger, something that 
you can’t go back and change,” Begay said on Golf Channel from the NCAA men’s golf championship, where he was working for the 
network. “I’ve been there myself ... But it was 
a turning point in my life. Hopefully, it’s some-thing he’ll learn from, grow from, take respon-sibility for and use it to make some changes.”
Woods has not been seen at a golf tourna-
ment since he opened with a score of 77 at the Omega Dubai Desert Classic, withdrawing the next day because of back spasms. He was in Los Angeles for the Genesis Open, run by his Tiger Woods Foundation, but he did not come to the course at Riviera because of his back.
He was at the Masters, but only to attend 
the dinner for past champions.
Woods, who had been No. 1 longer than 
any other golfer, has not been a factor since his last victory in August 2013 as he battled through back surgeries from a week before the 2014 Masters until his most recent fusion sur-gery on his lower back a month ago.
In an update Friday on his website, Woods 
said the fusion surgery provided instant relief, and he hasn’t “felt this good in years.”
It was the ﬁ  rst time Woods has run into 
trouble off the golf course since he plowed his SUV into a tree and a ﬁ  re hydrant outside his home in Windermere, Florida, the early morn-ing after Thanksgiving in 2009, which led to revelations that he had multiple extramarital affairs.
A police report then showed that a Florida trooper who suspected Woods was driving under the inﬂ  uence sought a subpoena for the golfer’s blood test results from the hospital, but prosecutors rejected the petition for insuf-ﬁ  cient information.
A witness, who wasn’t identiﬁ  ed in the 
report, told the trooper he had been drinking alcohol earlier. The same witness also said Woods had been prescribed two drugs, the sleep aid Ambien and the painkiller Vicodin. The report did not say who the witness was but said it was the same person who pulled Woods from the vehicle after the accident. Woods’ wife has told police that she used a 
golf club to smash the back windows of the 
Cadillac Escalade to help her husband out.
He eventually was cited for careless driving 
and ﬁ  ned $164.
Woods and wife Elin Nordegren divorced in 
2010. He later had a relationship with Olympic ski champion Lindsey Vonn that lasted about two years.TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By William Clewis
Alligator Contributing Writer
In Florida, very little is 
known about horseshoe crabs, which come to the shore to ﬁ  nd a mate this time of year.
UF researchers and the Flor-
ida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-tion Commission are working to collect data on horseshoe crabs to keep track of important infor-mation like population size and how much they move around.
However, researchers can’t 
track them alone, which is why citizen scientists have been en-
listed to help with data collec-
tion.
Jane Brockmann, a UF pro-
fessor emeritus in the Depart-ment of Biology, is one of the leaders of this crab-tracking study.
“They are an important eco-
nomic resource because of the 
biomedical industry (their blood 
is used for an important biomed-ical test), as bait for the eel and conch ﬁ  shery and as specimens in the marine-life trade,” Brock-mann said.
She said they are also an 
important ecological resource because they are food for endan-
gered sea turtles and their eggs 
are food for migrating shore-birds.
The UF Institute of Food and 
Agriculture Sciences and the Na-ture Coast Biological Station are also studying horseshoe crabs along the coast and collecting data.
Despite the previous lack of 
knowledge on Florida’s horse-shoe crabs, researchers are now providing information that’s vi-tal in determining whether they need to be protected.
“This is an important and 
unique ancient creature, little changed since the Jurassic (Pe-
riod),” Brockmann said, “and 
we hope they will be around for the future.”UF researchers track 
horseshoe crabs
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF ranked No. 6 on The New 
York Times’ third annual “Top Col-
leges Doing the Most for the Ameri-
can Dream.”
The Times created these rank-
ings based on a combination of the 
number of lower- and middle-in-
come students a college enrolls and 
the price it charges these students.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said this ranking could be attributed 
to UF’s Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars program.
Created in 2006, he said the FOS 
is designed to pay all expenses for 
ﬁ  rst-generation college students 
with annual household incomes of $40,000 or less.
Orlando said nearly 2,000 FOS 
students have graduated since the program started.
“I think the ranking sends a strong message to those students and their families that UF is a place where they are welcome and where they will ﬁ  nd the ﬁ  nancial assis-
tance and support they need,” he 
wrote in an email.
Orlando said a little more than 
25 percent of the roughly 6,800 freshmen admit-
ted in 2015 received 
Pell Grants, which is federal government money given to stu-
dents who need help 
paying for college.
Orlando also added that 
UF students who received Pell Grants in 2009 had a six year 
overall graduation rate of 87 
percent.
Meagan McBride, a 20-year-
old UF interior design junior, 
said as a student who relies on 
ﬁ  nancial support, she is grate-ful to always have the help of the university.
“It’s amazing that UF is so un-
derstanding about different ﬁ  nan-cial backgrounds,” she said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org UF recognized for helping low- and 
middle-income students financially 
Woods
Tiger Woods arrested in Jupiter on DUI charge, released  
Orlando said a little more than 
25 percent of the roughly 
       The New York Time’s 
 Top Colleges Doing the Most 
   for the American Dream
 University of California-Irvine
 University of California-Santa Barbara University of California-Davis University of California-San Diego
 University of California-Los Angeles
 University of Florida1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Editorial
History is written into our education, and 
it cannot be erased — I’m looking at you, “Old Joe” supporters. White privilege is taught, and that’s not just in the U.S. I’m half white — my mother is the last 
generation in her Portuguese family. But racists, white supremacists or really any other person who doesn’t ask wouldn’t know that. I wear my col-ors proudly, and I have consequently been taught from birth that this skin color defines me.
Whiteness will continuously try to overpower 
my colored experiences and identities with the “one bad ap-ple” talking point, so they should probably be reminded that systemic racism is prevalent not because there was one bad apple, but because there was a bad seed. Supporting a cause and being an ally retracts some meaning when one feels of-fended by another person’s experience, because it calls out systemic racism that has existed long before any of us were even alive.
It’s important for people to become allies. Intersectional-
ity (also known as the opposition of discrimination of mul-tiple identities no matter one’s race, sex, gender, orientation, class, etc.) uncovers the fact that at any given time, a person is more subject to discrimination the further they are from being a white male. In these changing times, and in a south-ern county that went blue last November, it is great to know how many people support different causes, and every day I learn of other experiences beyond my scope of privilege.
What has prompted me to speak on this matter? Like any 
other angry, man-hating woman who gets labeled as such for speaking out, I am motivated to stand up because of the series of contemporary events that affect those who are often unable to be heard because their privilege is incomparable.
This isn’t about white people; this is about whiteness.This is about whiteness like Taylor Swift’s — a rich, fe-
male celebrity — who is privileged enough because she can afford (in all senses of the word) not to attend the Women’s March on Washington and get by with a simple tweet in “support.” This is about whiteness like James Charles’ — the first male CoverGirl brand ambassador — who is privileged enough to make a joke relating the entirety of Africa to the Ebola virus. This is about whiteness like President Don-ald Trump’s, a “politician” who got to where he is because his hate preached to privilege that sees color from one election to the next. We’ve come full circle.
The history “Old Joe” represents is one claimed 
to be stemming from southern pride, although I know many Floridians who are proud of their dwelling and taste some-thing sour at the thought of being considered hailing from the Confederacy. It is clear that cities like Gainesville have outgrown the old pride that involved creating an economy from the exploitation and utter dehumanization of people, beginning with slavery and the centuries of systemic racism to follow. The way that some speak over others is entirely unacceptable, and it absolutely stems from privilege.
While the previous examples hit home in the U.S., privi-
lege won’t always quite understand that whiteness is the foundation for many things in many parts of the world.
As I grew up watching telenovelas on Univision, the only 
Hispanic channel available in Illinois, it became evident that white actors were chosen for every role that owned la ha-cienda (the plantation). The indigenous actor wore a knit shawl, a straw hat and had their black hair tied up. Bolly-wood sees predominantly light-skinned lead performers, and light skin over dark skin has become part of an assessment when it comes to romance throughout different cultures.
Speaking over another experience is the premise of privi-
lege. Learning to support and not oppress can become bigger than it is. 
Karla Arboleda is a journalism and international stud -
ies senior at UF. Her column appears on Tuesdays.
Don’t oppress those who are different from you
Karla Arboleda
opinions@alligator.orgThe goal of terrorism is clear. Just as their name suggests, 
terrorists want us — those living in the free world — to live in a state of constant terror. They want us to question whether it’s safe to do things like travel, go to work or go to a concert. The simple liberties we take for granted each 
day are what they are after. 
After the bombing in Manchester, England, last week, the 
world felt helpless. Twenty-two innocent concertgoers lost their lives. Fifty-nine were injured. Fear-stricken solacers began to mourn for those they had never met, and the world fell into a unified depression. 
Not shortly after the bomb went off and news broke about 
the horrific calamity in Manchester, people ran to social media to express their remorse. Social media became a coping mechanism 
people used to make sense of the attack. This tendency isn’t ex-
actly a new one.
After the attack in Paris last year, people added frames to their 
Facebook profile pictures that read “Prières pour Paris,” which translates to “Prayers for Paris.” After the Orlando shooting last summer, #OrlandoStrong trended on every form of social media. After the most recent attack, we all “stood with Manchester” on Twitter, Facebook and every other form of social media to show we are  grieving in solidarity with those who lost loved ones in 
the attack.
Although it appears as though social media has given the 
world a unique opportunity to stand in solidarity with strangers 
across the world, we fear that social media campaigns after ter-rorist attacks are actually doing more harm than good when it comes to battling terrorists.
As noted before, the goal of terrorism is not to annihilate a 
group of people. The goal of terrorism is to impact a group of people. To take away their freedom to live a carefree life and a 
life free of fear. When the internet explodes with social media 
posts about how devastating an attack was, the terrorists win. 
When we express our sorrows, fears and utter disgust for acts 
of terrorism, we are practically giving the terrorists the ego boost they need to keep attacking us. This isn’t to say, of course, that you shouldn’t feel sad, hurt, angry or otherwise morose when news of a terrorist attack breaks. These attacks are demented, chilling and heartbreaking. Feeling this way is only natural.
What we suggest, however, is that instead of posting on social 
media to cope with your emotions after an attack, you find out what you can do to really help those who were impacted.
After the Orlando shooting, people donated blood to ensure 
those wounded would be able to live. After the Manchester bombing, strangers used social media with purpose when gener-ous locals started #RoomForManchester and offered bewildered concertgoers a place to stay after the concert ended in catastro-phe. 
What the world needs after a terrorist attack is not another so-
cial media campaign. What the world needs is generous people, willing to do what they can to help those affected. Showing ter-rorists that we can survive past their attacks and come out stron-ger shows the free world in a different light. We no longer look like a mourning, defeated and sad society. We look instead like a society of robust and resilient individuals. 
What we urge you to do, dear reader, is to think before you 
post. Think about whether what you say colors you a victim or paints you a buoyant hero. Think if what you say will let the 
terrorists win.Don’t use social 
media to let 
terrorists winTUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
President Donald Trump took his 
ﬁ  rst trip abroad last week and gave his ﬁ  rst international speech 
in front of a coalition of more than 
50 Muslim-majority countries in 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Many Americans voiced concern about how Trump would 
be received abroad, especially in the Mid-
dle East, because of his notoriously harsh campaign rhetoric. The warm reception for his speech should alleviate those concerns. Overall, the speech sent a clear message 
to these countries — and the world — that 
the foreign policy of the U.S. is going to be entirely different than it was under former President Barack Obama.
Fortunately, Trump seems to have 
learned from the foreign policy blunders of the Obama presidency, which unquestion-ably left nearly every corner of the globe more unstable than it was before (from 
the South China Sea, to the Middle East, 
to Russia, to North Korea). Instead of start-ing off his relationship with the Arab world with an “apology tour” like his predecessor, Trump made it clear that the U.S. will be apologizing 
to no one.  
Instead of lecturing the crowd 
on his interpretation of history 
and dancing around the issue 
of radicalization, Trump got 
straight to the point. He vowed that he would provide whatever support is necessary for Middle Eastern countries to stamp out extremism. Trump 
pointed out that “more than 95 percent of 
the victims of terrorism are themselves Muslim,” but he reassured Muslim leaders that this evil can be overcome. Trump also 
cautioned that “the nations of the Middle 
East cannot wait for American power to crush this enemy for them.”  
This is a clear shift from the Obama 
policy. Trump is a strong proponent of 
individual responsibility; he believes the 
Middle East can lead the ﬁ  ght against radicalization. This change in policy will hold other governments more ac-countable and implore them to take whatever action they view 
necessary to eliminate terrorism, 
which will hopefully produce re-sults that make not only Muslim-majority countries more secure, 
but the rest of the world as well.  
Perhaps the greatest shift in 
policy is with Iran. Obama made 
continuous efforts to mend this historically 
troubled relationship, even going as far 
as lifting economic sanctions in exchange 
for international monitoring of its nuclear program. At a glance, it seemed like this policy might produce results, but anyone 
who knows Iran should have realized this 
was going to be a serious mistake. Secret-ly delivering pallets of cash to the largest state sponsor of terrorism, whose lead-ers continue to chant “death to America” 
while developing intercontinental ballistic 
missiles, now looks misguided, at least to everyone except Obama.  Trump called out Iran, exclaiming that 
,“Iran funds, arms, and trains terrorists, militias, and other extremist groups that 
spread destruction and chaos across the 
region. For decades, Iran has fueled the ﬁ  res of sectarian conﬂ  ict and terror.” Many experts believe that Iran poses the single 
greatest threat to American security. It is 
refreshing to see a president who actually puts the country’s interests ﬁ  rst, at home and abroad, instead of pandering to what-ever audience is in front of him.
Hopefully, this shift in foreign policy 
will begin to restore the stability, which was effectively destroyed over the past eight years, that comes with effective 
American leadership abroad. This may ac-
tually be a change we can believe in.
Jack Story is UF political science gradu-
ate. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Jack Story
opinions@alligator.orgTrump’s foreign policy puts America's interests ﬁ  rst, at home and abroadColumn8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer 
A graduate of the UF/IFAS School of 
Natural Resources and Environment will 
receive the E. Lucy Braun Award. 
Jules NeSmith was selected because 
she presented outstanding research at the annual Ecological Society of America meeting. 
The Braun award will be given to 
NeSmith at the next ESA meeting in August for her research on the impacts of drought and invasive plants on the survival of pine tree seedlings.
“Understanding how these two 
stressors may combine to affect tree species that we rely on for timber and non-timber products, and provide habitat 
for wildlife, is increasingly important to 
the stability of our economy and natural areas,” the 30-year-old wrote in an email. 
NeSmith earned a Bachelor’s in plant 
science from UF in December 2013. She then went on to complete her Master’s in interdisciplinary ecology with a concentration in forest resources and conservation in December 2016. 
When NeSmith went to the ESA 
meeting in August 2016, where she said she was surrounded by great ecologists, 
she knew it was going to be competitive. 
She said when she found out she 
would be receiving the Braun award, 
she was completely shocked. 
“To be recognized at the national 
level for something I’d worked incredibly hard for is conﬁ  dence building to say the least,” she said. 
NeSmith is the second alumna of 
IFAS to receive the Braun award within the last six years. 
S. Luke Flory, an assistant professor 
and ecologist at UF, said NeSmith was very enthusiastic about her research, 
and it was evident that NeSmith was 
deserving of this award. 
“The project that she worked on is 
a big multi-collaborative project with 
many people involved,” Flory said, “but 
she took on her part of the project and did a very complete job.”  
 @catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUF/IFAS alumna to receive Braun award in August
Courtesy to the Alligator
Jules NeSmith, a 30-year-old UF alumna, will receive the E. Lucy Braun Award in August 
for  presenting outstanding research at the annual Ecological Society of America meeting. 
TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 · 352-373-7383“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER TIME 
THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE THE 
BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob  Zeller
THE SOCIAL AT MIDTOWN - RESTAURANT & ROOFTOP BAR
1728 West University Avenue, Gainesville, FL 32603 
 ·
 352-373-7383
“I USED THE ALLIGATOR 
WHEN I OPENED MY FIRST 
BUSINESS IN 1996, AND I STILL 
USE THEM TO THIS DAY. OVER TIME 
THEY HAVE PROVEN TO BE THE 
BEST WAY TO REACH THE 
STUDENTS AT UF.”
- Rob
  Zeller
Owner of The Social, Grog House and Copper Monkey
WILDLIFE
CROSSINGWelcom/e.end Bac/k.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s ﬁrst issue of the fall semester. 
Place the same ad in both our New Student and Welcome Back editions and take advantage of our 10% pickup discount.
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep Toda/y.end!
352-376-4482 · Alligator Advertising ·  advertising@alligator.orgLOCAL
THEY MADE 14 STOPS 
IN FLORIDA.
By David Street
Alligator Staff Writer
Last week, about 40 fraternity 
brothers stopped in Gainesville to 
take a break from an 850-mile bi-
cycle ride through Florida.
The Gear Up Florida team, 
which consisted of more than 300 
Pi Kappa Phi brother, from across the country, biked from Miami to 
Tallahassee to raise awareness for 
people with disabilities.
On May 24, Gear Up Florida 
team members stopped at the Arc of Alachua County, a community-
based organization that’s dedicat-
ed to providing services to people with developmental disabilities. The team made a total of 14 stops 
in Florida.
At the Arc of Alachua County, 
located at 3303 NW 83 St., team members ate lunch and competed in a dance-off with people with 
disabilities. 
Gear Up Florida’s public rela-
tions specialist Ryan Billingsly said the team raised about $97,000 
by the end of their trip, which ex-
ceeded its goal of $95,000. 
Billingsly said the team’s time 
in Gainesville was one of the most 
successful stops because of the 
energy the people with disabilities had. He said as soon as the team walked in, people wanted their au-
tographs. 
“We had a great time,” said 
the 21-year-old Bradley University 
graduate. “Everyone brought in 110-percent energy.”
Tim Schlachter, a 22-year old 
graduate of University of Toledo and Gear Up Florida’s project manager, said the bicycle ride 
taught him about empathy.
“It’s given me perspective just 
to see the struggles that a lot of people go through,” he said.
Pam Minos, who has been com-
ing to the Arc of Alachua County 
for about two years and has a ge-netic disorder called Prader-Willi syndrome, said she had a great 
time with the members of Gear Up 
Florida.
“The event of the bikers means 
everything to everybody,” she 
said.
@dstreet177
dstreet@alligator.orgGear Up Florida stops by in GNV as part of 850-mile trek
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Members of Gear Up Florida and people with disabilities take a photo together 
inside the Arc of Alachua County.
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Members of Gear Up Florida, people with disabilities and people who work at the Arc of Alachua County eat lunch together.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Apt for rent 720 NW 19th Ave. Available July 
1. 2BR/1BA, W/D, completely remodeled, 
large backyard. Monthly rent $685, $800 
security deposit. Call 352-371-3473. Please 
leave message  6-6-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsTwenty-One speed 27” Schwinn Cross Trek Bicycle. Cro-Mo frame, Alivio derailer, 
Shimano Brakes, TekTro Handlebar, Etc. Too 
old to ride. Asking $150 Call 352-514-1406.    
6-1-17-2-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-3901    6-13-17-8-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage $950 mo
Walk to UF. Off street parking. Avail now.We require a first, last and a $500 sec to move in. $40 app/credit check. No Pets 332-5836 weekdays    5-30-17-6-2
Takeover my lease and I'll give you $500. 3bd/2bath apartment available for sublease at Boardwalk Apartments starting June 2017. Rent is $999. Call (786)445-6444 for more information.     5-30-17-5-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11  
2010 Acura TL *NAVI**REAR CAMERA* 
3.7L V6 Gas Automatic AWD White 70k miles 4.300$ (352) 388-7246     7-6-17-10-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and medical assistant positions. Full time and part time available. Transportation is re-quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
Wanted someone to complete building a 
website for Music Technology Inc. on Go Daddy server. $20.00 an hour. Flexible hours. Call RB Johnson at 561-601-4878.    5-30-17-7-14Caregiver(s) to assist Quadriplegic w/ADL activities PT: 2-3 providers needed6 AM-10 AM; 12-16 hours weekly $17-$20 hour; CNA or EquivalentContact: caregiverprovider@cox.net     5-30-5-14
Ground Floor Opportunity forMD/DC/PA/ARNP/AP - New Integrated Medicine Clinic.PT/FT. All inquiries strictly confidential. eMail: groundfloor2016@gmail.com    6-1-17-5-14
Farm Help Wanted:Experience operating yard/farm mainte-nance equipment required; 8-10 hrs per week (Fridays and weekends) ; private farm in Alachua, Florida; must provide own trans-portation. 352-258-3571    6-6-17-5-14
Very fast paced law office in search of a 
paralegal. Must have a college degree. Well developed organizational, communication, and analytical skills required. Must have ex-
cellent computer, verbal and written skills. 
Employee insurance is provided by employ -
er. Paid holidays and vacation time is also 
provided by the employer. Email resume to PCD@nabjr.com.     6-8-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-17-25-15
1. How many skippers of the New 
York Mets have managed the team 
more than five years?
2. Name the last person to manage 
the Chicago White Sox for at least 10 
seasons.
3. In the 2015 season, Alabama 
became the second team in the poll era 
(starting in 1936) to win four nation-
al football championships in seven 
years. Which was the first school to do it?
4. Who was the first NBA player to 
record more than 1,000 assists in a season?
5. In 2017, Florida’s Jaromir Jagr set 
an NHL record for most points tallied after turning 40 years old. Who had held the mark?
6. How old was Dale Earnhardt 
when he won his seventh NASCAR Cup championship?
7. Name the last time before 2017 
that tennis player Venus Williams 
reached the singles final at the Austra-lian Open.
Answers
1. Terry Collins (2011-present), 
Bobby Valentine (1996-2002) and 
Davey Johnson (1984-1990). 
2. Jimmy Dykes, 1934-46.
3. Notre Dame won four titles 
between 1943 and 1949.  
4. Detroit’s Kevin Porter, in the 
1978-79 season.
5. Gordie Howe, with 267 points.6. He was 43 years old in 1994.7. It was 2003.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 29, 2017 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1.  Spasm 
1.  ____ trail5.  ____ pants
2.  Oyster ____6.  Recognized
3.  Type of outfit7.  Shake, shudder
4.  Tulsa nativeUPHCIC
NIHKGIIHKKA
WNKON
CEKRACR
MNORFUIMETORR
RESONOANSWERS: 1A-Hiccup  5A-Khaki  6A-Known  7A-Tremor
1D-Hiking  2D-Cracker  3D-Uniform  4D-Sooner  B-Chuck Norris5-30-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TMS - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1400, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoytaol.com. @JUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person was inducted into the 
Martial Arts History Museum's 
Hall of Fame in 1999. BONUS
ACROSS
1 Lather on lattes
5 Stage performer
10 Tag sale tag
words
14 A6 automaker15 Prepare (oneself),
as for a shock
16 Gridiron strategy17 Mike and Carol’s
blended TV family
19 __ Major
20 “Mamma __!”: 
5-Down musical
21 Chinese currency
23 Season ticket
holder, probably
24 Willem of
“American
Psycho”
27 Musical group
with conga drums
29 Share parts with31 HBO’s “Game of
__”
32 Had a religious
awakening
34 Fish-and-chips
fish
35 Start of some
email subj. lines
36 Military day’s
march
39 __ jar42 Upper limb45 Lost it all48 In any case52 Sticks (to)53 Where to learn to
crawl?
55 Hungry, probably56 “For __ a jolly ... ”57 Japanese noodle58 Texter’s “Yikes!”59 Folk singer
Seeger
61 Kitty Hawk locale
... and what the
circled lettersgraphicallyrepresent
66 “Got it, man”67 Dinner holder68 “Star Wars”
princess
69 Tickle Me Elmo
toy company
70 Clout71 Risqué message
DOWN
1 Adjective for a
British Invasion
foursome
2 Couple’s
possessive3 Oral health org.
4 Around 10 a.m.5 “Dancing Queen”
pop group
6 Grand __: wine
label words
7 Country singer
Tucker
8 Paranormal9 Discuss to death
10 “The Simpsons”
shop owner
11 Steak-lobster
combo, on menus
12 Off the wall13 Where season
ticket holders sit
18 Triangular road
sign
22 Drug cop24 Remove
respectfully, as ahat
25 Say openly
26 Like medieval
Europe’s social
structure
27 Catch sight of28 Heckler’s cry
30 Grow old
33 Margery of kids’
rhyme
37 Pod veggies
38 Cease40 “Oh, of course!”41 Combat vet’s
affliction, briefly
43 Dream letters
44 Apple computers
46 Hitchhiker’s digit
47 Cincinnati NFL
team
48 Chimney
receptacle
49 Like some
hunting jackets
50 Single-masted
ships51 __ rasa: clean
slate
54 Skewered
Indonesian dish
58 Twistable cookie
60 Self-worth
62 UFO crew,
supposedly
63 Alumna bio 
word
64 “Kid Tested”
cereal
65 Minded the kids
By Alex Eaton-Salners 
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/30/1705/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ACROSS
1 Smelling __
6 Olympic racers
11 Paving goo
14 Dispatch boat15 Unpleasant
chores
16 Missile from
Venus?
17 Prioritizes self-
interest
19 Sports __20 Levy on liquor21 Printed again23 Dedicated works24 Nicholas and
Peter
26 Buck27 Matched office
accessories
29 Alternative to
throwing out
31 Spots32 Treat roughly34 Championship
team cheer
35 Words needed to
complete four
puzzle answers
38 “Let’s Make a
Deal” choice
40 Square placed
on a square
board
41 Scaled diagram
44 Stayed in shape47 Eccentric49 Not free, with
“for”
50 Bygone “SNL”
rival
52 “At Last” singer
James
53 “Timecop” star55 Diamond mine?57 Fanatic58 Object of a
serious hunt
60 “Evil Woman”
band
61 __ Gay62 “It’s __!”: “We’ve
been tricked”
63 Numbered rd.
64 Aired anew65 Vermouth bottle
name
DOWN
1 Grill-cleaning
solution2 Ducked
3 Nala, notably4 “Shame!”5 McGwire’s 1998
rival
6 Sch. with a live
tiger mascot
7 UHF component
8 Fetching
employees?
9 Altruist’s opposite
10 Ukr. and Lith.,
formerly
11 Like spreadsheets12 Plot
13 Name for a help
file
18 Ones working
together on afarm
22 Slope of loose
stones
25 Concert souvenir28 Blue character30 Possessed33 Umpire’s call35 Famous
36 Laugh-a-minute
sort
37 It was originally
established as
the Royal CoburgTheatre38 Fallback
provision
39 Showing off a
pedi, perhaps
41 Shouldn’t be
ignored
42 Nissan models
43 Duck-billed
mammals
44 Julie who 
voices MargeSimpson45 Not 
susceptible
46 Emmy winner
Jeffrey of“Transparent”
48 Suspect51 Street of 
mystery
54 Mimic56 Reverse, e.g.59 Creator of Q 
and M
By Samuel A. Donaldson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/26/1705/26/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, May 26, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Belinda Woolcock lost in the NCAA Singles Championship on Monday afternoon, falling to Brienne Minor of Michigan 6-3, 6-3. Read the story, pg. 14.
Pittsburgh Penguins strike ﬁ  rst in Stanley Cup Finals
Led by a late goal from rookie forward Jake Guentzel,  the Pittsburgh 
Penguins defeated the Nashville Predators 5-3 to take game one of the 
Stanley Cup Finals. Game two will take place on Wednesday at 8 p.m. ET.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida baseball team 
didn’t have much to smile about 
on Saturday afternoon during the semiﬁ  nals of the SEC Tournament.
Facing Arkansas on the road 
at Hoover Metropolitan Stadium, the Gators were walloped by the Razorbacks in a 16-0 loss.
Starting pitcher Brady Singer 
didn’t make it past the second inning after surrendering three homers and eight runs, and UF’s offense was unable to muster more than two hits in the shutout defeat.After the game, however, coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan was unconcerned, noting Florida had a much more important set of games to prepare 
for this upcoming week: the NCAA 
Tournament.
“We’ll bounce back,” he said. 
“We just need to regroup.”
The Gators (42-16, 21-9 SEC) will 
open play in the national tournament at 7 p.m. on Friday. They received the No. 3 overall seed of the bracket on Monday afternoon, meaning they’ll 
host both the regional and super 
regional round of the competition.
UF is matched up with South 
Florida, Bethune-Cookman and Marist in the Gainesville Regional, a double-elimination-style round that Florida has won six of the past eight years.
If Florida proceeds to the super 
regional, it will face either Wake Forest, West Virginia, Maryland or UMBC in a best-of-three series to advance to the College World Series in Omaha, Nebraska.
The Gators have reached the 
College World Series 10 times in program history, including ﬁ  ve times in the last seven years under 
O’Sullivan.
Before its blowout defeat against 
Arkansas on Saturday, UF had won Florida  kicks oﬀ   NCAA Tournament play on FridayBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Sundays at the Tomlinson household 
have had a very speciﬁ  c routine for the 
past 15 years.
John David, his wife Tammy, and 
their two children, daughter Taylor and 
son J.D., hit the links every week in a 
familial ritual of bonding and friendly competition. Sometimes it was for control of the TV remote, sometimes for the privilege of picking dinner.
“Truthfully, it was agonizing at times,” 
John David said, remembering the early years of the tradition. Taylor was just ﬁ  ve years old when the family started their 
weekly games. 
“Playing in the sand traps, ‘Come 
on, Taylor,’” John David said. “She’d be 
looking in the streams for frogs.”
“She would catch butterﬂ  ies and do 
cartwheels on the fairway, but it gradually grew into a force of golf,” Tammy said.
Whatever the prize may be for the 
week, you can catch the Tomlinsons 
pairing up and taking on the other half 
of their family. J.D. and Tammy versus Taylor and John David, winner take all.
“We’re a very competitive family,” 
Tammy said. 
Golf is just the tip of the iceberg. J.D. 
and Taylor have competed against each other practically from birth. Whether it’s ping pong, tennis, pool or darts, the Tomlinson siblings are more than willing to square up against each other.
Basketball may be the main 
competition between the two outside of golf. 
The two attended Oak Hall High 
School in Gainesville. From 2008 to 2011, J.D. played on the varsity basketball squad, putting up 17.3 points per game while shooting 41 percent from the ﬁ  eld and 38 percent from beyond the arc. After graduating, the shooting guard left the program as the school’s all-time leading scorer. 
Not to be outdone, Taylor lettered 
in varsity basketball all four years. She played point guard and shooting guard and averaged 10.5 points per game while 
shooting 30 percent from three-point 
range and earning ﬁ  rst-team All-Area honors multiple years.
However, the numbers may be a little 
misleading.
“I remember when she was a freshman 
and J.D. was a junior,” John David said, recalling his children’s time at Oak Hall. “He was the No. 1 three-point shooter 
in the state and they had a holiday 
basketball tournament at Oak Hall. She won the three-point contest with the boys and the girls. I think that was kind of the point where it was an awakening that she is good and she deserved respect.”
There was never any ill-will towards 
one another, Taylor remembered.
“We were always really happy for 
each other’s successes,” Taylor said. “It more so just pushed us to keep striving for more. We’d always kind of egg at each other about how many points we made each game and stuff like that.”
Taylor paused, then smirked.“He’s always been a touch better at it 
than me, but I’m slowly catching up to him,” she said.
When it came time for Taylor to 
decide where to attend college, there wasn’t too much hesitation. Taylor took ofﬁ  cial visits to Clemson and Miami, but her thoughts never wavered far from home. After all, being born and raised in Gainesville breeds a certain mindset 
within an athlete. The Church of TomlinsonWOMEN'S GOLF
BASEBALLAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
T aylor T omlinson putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick 
Golf Course.
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Kevin O'Sullivan meets with umpires before Florida's 5-4 win against William & Mary on Feb. 17, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
Florida  kicks oﬀ   NCAA Tournament play on Friday
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14SEE WOMEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 15•   •   •14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Belinda Woolcock hits a forehand during Florida's 4-2 win against 
Oklahoma State on Feb. 18, 2017, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
16 of its previous 18 games and outscored 
its opponents 137-87 over that stretch.
Florida’s offense has received a large 
boost in recent weeks from junior catcher JJ Schwarz and senior outfielder Ryan 
Larson.
Schwarz has hit .382 with 15 RBIs and 
four home runs since April 30, showing 
flashes of the power he displayed during his freshman campaign when he led the Gators in homers, RBIs and slugging percentage.
For Larson, the Orlando native is 16-
for-53 in May and has reached base in 18 consecutive games.
However, Larson had to leave Friday 
afternoon’s contest against Mississippi State after taking a pitch to the head  that caused a “slight fracture” in his skull, according to UF’s coach.
Pitcher/outfielder Nick Horvath and shortstop Dalton Guthrie are also nursing injuries, leading O’Sullivan to emphasize the importance of “getting healthy” 
ahead of Friday night’s contest against 
Marist.
“We obviously won’t play anybody 
unless they’re 100 percent,” he said. “It’s been a long year for everybody with all the injuries.”
 
A video posted to Floridagators.com 
contributed to this report.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgLarson is 16-for-53 in MayWOMEN'S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
After a historic run in the NCAA 
tournament and a remarkable 
four years as a Gator, Belinda 
Woolcock’s college career came 
to a close on Monday when she lost 6-3, 6-3 in the NCAA Singles Championship finals.
Playing Michigan’s Brienne 
Minor, Woolcock admitted she had “nothing left in the tank” for Monday’s match. It was her 11th consecutive day of singles matches 
since arriving in Athens, Georgia, 
on May 19 for the Round of 16 in team play, and it showed.
Minor came out strong as she 
surged to a 4-0 lead in the match’s opening set. After earning a break, Woolcock showed signs of life as she closed the gap to 5-3, but ultimately dropped her serve one game later to end the set.
Minor then continued to play 
hard through the second set and 
quickly jumped out to a 4-2 lead.  
While Woolcock held to make it 4-3, Minor took the final two games to earn the 6-3, 6-3 victory and secure a national championship in 
NCAA women’s singles play. 
Woolcock said she was 
“shocked” she made it as far as she 
did in the singles tournament after 
pouring so much into the previous 
week’s team competition. 
“I didn’t expect a lot because 
I put so much effort and energy into the team event,” she said in 
a release. “I’m just so proud of 
myself that I got this far into the tournament. I know today I may have run out of steam….My mind 
was fresh and I did everything that I could today. I’m just so proud 
that I was able to represent the Gators.”
This was Woolcock’s last match 
in orange and blue after graduating in April. During her time at UF, she earned a 113-39 singles record, making her the 17th-winningest singles player in the history of 
the program. After Monday’s 
match, coach Roland Thornqvist had nothing but praise for the Melbourne, Australia, native. 
“She’s been a dream student-
athlete,” he said. “You get them, work them and they get better and better and finally their senior year they get paid. That’s what 
happened to Belinda, and I’m 
really proud of her.”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org Woolcock falls to Minor in NCAA Singles Championship
BASEBALL,  from pg 132017 GAINESVILLE REGIONAL
• Florida (42-16)
• South Florida (41-17)
• Bethune-Cookman (33-23) 
• Marist (32-21)Even her parents had reservations about 
their baby girl moving far away.
“I always wanted her to go to Florida,” 
John David said. “But we never put any 
pressure on her to go to Florida. As parents, 
we just want her to be close. But we felt she 
should go through the process.”
“I’m a little more independent than my 
brother,” Taylor said.
J.D. never took an official visit outside 
of Gainesville and signed with the Gators as soon as he got the chance. What little hesitation that Taylor did have quickly dissipated with her official visits.
“I don’t think I knew it until I did take 
those trips how much I wanted to be a Gator,” Taylor said. “I really liked Clemson, but trying to picture myself in purple and orange instead of orange and blue, it was tough.”
Taylor ended up being the lone signee of 
coach Emily Glaser’s second recruiting class. If not for the transfer of then-sophomore 
Kelly Grassel from Glaser’s alma mater 
Michigan State, Taylor would have ended up being the lone American on Glaser’s team. 
“We are very excited to welcome Taylor 
to the Gator family,” Glaser said in a release upon Taylor signing her letter of intent on Nov. 15, 2013. “Taylor is very athletic and physically talented, but also has a good golf mind.”
That ‘good golf mind’ has been a theme 
that Glaser has repeated throughout Taylor’s career. 
After the SunTrust Gator Invitational in 
March, where Taylor tied for ninth among 
all golfers while helping her team capture its 
seventh Gator Invitational win in 11 years, Glaser again professed her appreciation for Taylor’s mental game and her willingness to ask for help.
“She likes for me to kind of line her up 
occasionally just to make sure that she’s doing it properly,” Glaser said. “If we do that every few holes or so, it kind of gives 
her peace of mind.”During that same tournament, Taylor 
could be seen lining up her shot, taking a 
few practice swings, then stepping back to readjust her angle. However, Taylor’s admitted perfectionism was not the cause of 
this. Not this time.
“I was actually telling my dad that during 
the back nine (of round two), my stomach 
kept growling when I stepped up to it,” Taylor said after the match. After recalling the incident months later, Taylor laughed it off.
“It was a long day,” Taylor said. “It was 
36 holes. Normally, I eat enough to where it 
doesn’t affect me at all.”
Mr. and Mrs. Tomlinson also reflected on 
the incident with chuckles.
“Do I have a bar in my purse?” Tammy 
remembered asking herself. “Or a banana?” 
Stomach-growling aside, Taylor takes 
pride in her approach to the mental game.
“I’m pretty meticulous on the golf 
course,” Taylor said. “I’ve developed really good course management, and I think that’s 
what (Glaser) saw in me. Knowing, if you’re not hitting it well, where to miss it.” 
Taylor’s parents see that mindset too. 
The seemingly happy-go-lucky attitude of Taylor is underscored by intense focus on her tasks at hand.
“She’s a perfectionist. She really agonizes 
over everything,” John David said. “If she 
has a fault, she’s really hard on herself. 
Sometimes I hate to see her beat herself up over a lot of stuff, but that’s just the way she is.”
While her shyness may throw some 
people off the scent, Taylor is not some golf robot that lives on the green. The joking side of her is not usually on display, but rather is expressed through her interactions with her teammates and coaches. In this year’s NCAA Championships, Taylor could be seen with Grassel and Karolina Vlckova on a 
video uploaded to Vlckova’s Twitter account 
singing a Backstreet Boys parody lamenting the rained-out conditions of day two of the competition.
“I’m really bad at singing, but I’m not 
afraid to,” Taylor said. “It kind of suits me.”
Taylor’s go-to karaoke jam is indeed the 
Backstreet Boys classic ‘I Want It That Way.' She said that she gets hyped up for matches with it. Taylor occasionally switches it up from country and pop to rap for when she “really wants to grind.”
Aside from musical shenanigans, Taylor 
said that her humor has been amplified by 
being a part of the team.
After getting lost in the woods at the 
Clemson Invitational last year, she said the 
team is convinced they saw Sasquatch. She loves watching Zoolander and Talladega Nights. 
This goes without mentioning the three-
year April Fools’ Day feud with coach Glaser. The first year Taylor was with the team, she texted Glaser saying that she sprained her ankle during a dance class the day before leaving for a tournament, just after Grassel had broken her elbow.
“She was a little frustrated with that,” 
Taylor said, grinning. “She’s always looking out for it now, so I haven’t been able to get 
her as good.”
That didn’t stop Taylor from trying again 
this year. At dinner, Taylor put “a bunch” of 
salt in Glaser’s drinking water.
“I guess I didn’t put enough salt in 
because she went through the whole dinner drinking the water and not realizing it,” Taylor said. “And then she pretended afterwards that she was allergic to salt and 
April Fools’d me."
The competitive nature of the Tomlinson 
family may not be confined to the golf 
course, but that is the holy ground on which they all congregate. Tammy currently holds the record in the family of the most hole-in-ones with four. J.D. got his first a few 
months ago.
“I’m the only one that doesn’t have a 
hole-in-one now,” Taylor said. Her parents said she’s disappointed in that fact, though 
Taylor doesn’t show it. Her perpetual smile betrays no lamentation or dwelling on that 
negative or any at all.
“Life is really good, so it’s hard to 
complain about a lot,” Taylor said. 
Her parents recall Taylor spending time 
with a neighborhood girl after cutting a 
practice short just to watch her play a few holes. Her generosity, her parents say, is her best quality.
“I don’t really think our most proud 
moments are the sports ones so much,” Tammy said. “I’m more proud of just who she is and the way she treats her teammates. She’s very conscious about trying to help everybody.”
“She’s very aware,” John David said. 
“She’s a triple-threat: She’s smart, she’s talented and she’s hard-working. And when she leaves UF, she’ll be really successful at something. It’s just a matter of what she chooses to be really successful at.”
Taylor has expressed an interest in 
turning pro and joining the LPGA tour after she graduates. In the meantime, however, Taylor seems perfectly happy with where 
she is.
“I have a really good support system at 
home,” Taylor said. 
With everything going on in Taylor’s life 
though, there will still be Sunday afternoons 
on the links with her family.
“You can do anything you want,” John 
David remembers telling his children, “but we always told them ‘You have to keep 
Sunday afternoon for family golf.’”
At the church of Tomlinson, they worship 
on the green and they repent in the sand 
traps. Bowing their heads can be substituted for cartwheels on the fairway.
They pray for that first hole-in-one, and 
blessings are counted with every caught butterfly or frog. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
J.D. T omlinson tees off during the 2014 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course.
Cortesy of UAA Communications
T aylor T omlinson surveys the green during the second round of the 2015 Cougar Classic at Yeamans Hall Club in Charleston, South Carolina.
Tomlinson couldn't picture herself going anywhere but Florida
•   •   •WOMEN'S GOLF
•   •   ••   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 30, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University AvenueSOFTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After Florida’s loss to Alabama 
in the ﬁ  rst game of the NCAA Super 
Regional on Thursday, the team knew what needed to be done to avoid missing the College World Series for a second consecutive season.
The Gators had just been shut 
out by the Crimson Tide 3-0 - the 
same score as last year’s game 
one defeat against Georgia - after allowing all three runs on back-to-back throwing errors from UF 
pitcher Kelly Barnhill.
But after falling into an early 
deﬁ  cit in the best-of-three series, 
Florida once again found itself in a win-or-go-home scenario, a 
situation that outﬁ  elder Amanda 
Lorenz said elevates her team’s 
performance.
“I think we play better with our 
backs against the wall anyway,” 
she said. “It’s over. We can’t do 
anything about it now. We’re just 
going to ﬁ  ght.”
Lorenz may not have known it at 
the time, but she was right.
Over the next two games, the 
Gators saw improvement in their hitting. 
After nabbing three hits and no 
runs on Thursday, the Gators had a combined eight hits and four runs on Friday and Saturday. 
It started with a Justine McLean 
bunt and a Lorenz bomb over the right-center ﬁ  eld wall. In game three, a strong ﬁ  rst inning at the plate boosted by singles from Lorenz and Aleshia Ocasio helped UF take an early lead it would never let up.
“Once (the home run) went over, 
I was just really excited because we’re ﬁ  nally able to get our amazing 
pitching staff some runs, and that 
really made me happy because they just work so hard for us each and every day,” Lorenz said on Friday. 
That pitching staff was a major 
factor in this Super Regional as well. 
Barnhill struck out 11 batters and 
allowed just one hit in the ﬁ  rst game, a good performance overshadowed by costly throwing errors in the bottom of the ﬁ  fth. In game two, the Gators turned to senior pitcher Delanie Gourley, who shut out Alabama with eight strikeouts and 
gave up four hits.
And on Saturday, UF went back 
to Barnhill in the elimination game. 
This time, she wouldn’t make the same mistakes.
Aside from the second inning 
where the Tide scored its only run of the game, the Marietta, Georgia, native struck out 12 batters and retired the side from the third to sixth innings.
“It was amazing to be able to get 
that out and then have everyone out there celebrating together,” Barnhill said. “It’s an amazing feeling to be able to be a contributor to help our 
team.”
With the win, the Gators now 
turn their attention to the Women’s College World Series in Oklahoma 
City. The last time Florida played 
a game in Hall of Fame Stadium, it 
won a national championship.
UF’s ﬁ  rst opponent is Texas 
A&M, a team it didn’t play this season. Just like the Gators, the 
Aggies dropped their ﬁ  rst game of the Super Regional in their matchup 
against Tennessee, but went on to win the next two by a one-run and two-run margin, respectively.
This is Florida’s eighth time 
making it to Oklahoma City, and after not getting there last season, the Gators will look to go as far as they did in 2014 and 2015 when they won back-to-back national titles. With a little bit of momentum and conﬁ  dence heading into the competition following the pair of 
wins over Alabama, the Gators have 
the talent to do so.
“We had this feeling today,” 
Gourley said after Florida’s win on 
Saturday. “When we came out, we 
knew what was going to happen. 
The way that we could just come out and do it, it was amazing.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
 UF relishes opportunity to reach Women’s College World Series
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz swings during Florida’s 3-0 loss against Alabama on Thursday in game one of the NCAA Super Regional at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
2017 WOMEN’S COLLEGE
WORLD SERIES FIELD
FLORIDA GATORS
OREGON DUCKSUCLA BRUINSWASHINGTON HUSKIESTEXAS A&M AGGIESOKLAHOMA SOONERSLSU TIGERSBAYLOR BEARS55-8
52-6
47-13
48-12
47-11
56-9
47-20
48-13