We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorTwo arrested in July 5 drive-by shootings
Police are still searching for a person of interest, pg. 4
Sen. Perry threatens to sue Alachua County
Perry brought his lawyer to the commission meeting, pg. 5UF baseball loses seven, adds 13 
to rosterVOLUME 111 ISSUE 160 THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
On Wednesday afternoon — in a ﬁ  nal at-
tempt to keep the Institute of Black Culture 
and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cul-tures two separate buildings — Jireh Davis marched.
Davis joined more than 100 other UF stu-
dents and alumni on a walk from Turling-
ton Plaza to the Reitz Union. Collectively, 
the group was protesting plans made by 
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs staff to 
combine the IBC and the Institute of His-
panic-Latino Cultures, commonly referred 
to as La Casita, in upcoming building reno-
vations.
Davis said that both black and Latinx 
students had to ﬁ  ght to have each institute built in the ﬁ  rst place — some of whom 
were kicked out of UF for protesting.
Plans for renovating the IBC and La Casi-
ta have started as early as April 2016, when 
it was announced that the institutes would 
be torn down and rebuilt due to a presence 
of mold, termites, moisture and structural 
damage, according to Alligator archives.
Davis, a UF African-American studies 
and political science junior, said since they were ﬁ  rst built, the buildings were meant to 
represent two separate cultures. Now, she 
said she feels as though MCDA is attempt-ing to combine the buildings, which would 
turn them into something else entirely.“I think sometimes it takes somebody 
doing something really wild to create a 
change, but I think this might be that thing,” the 20-year-old said about Wednes-
day’s march.
“The Controversy,” as some students 
have been calling it, began after a webinar 
June 28. At the meeting, MCDA staff and a renovation core committee presented its 
option of joining the two buildings in a “U” 
shape.
Students at the webinar accused MCDA 
staff of not taking their opinions into con-sideration during the renovation process, 
many of them expressing their dislike of the 
conjoined design.
In an effort to ensure their voices were 
heard, students took matters into their own hands, creating a public Facebook page en-titled “No La IBCita.” On Tuesday, students 
held a “teach-in” to present the individual 
histories of each institute and why it is so 
important to keep the buildings separate. 
“We didn’t ask for this,” Davis said. “We 
just wanted (the institutes) to be rebuilt and renovated into something better and greater 
than what they already are.” 
Although the march was originally in-
tended to start on Turlington Plaza and end 
at the IBC and La Casita, respectively locat-
ed at 1510 and 1504 W. University Ave, stu-
dent organizers decided to change course. 
The march instead commenced at the Students march against 
plans for the IBC, ‘La Casita’
Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff
Four “Spokesqueens” of Wednesday’s march told a crowd gathered on Turlington 
Plaza that the event will no longer end at the Institute of Black Culture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, but instead at the Reitz Union, where an advisory committee meeting discussing the renovations was taking place. 
SEE MARCH,  PAGE 3By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Three months after its grand re-
opening, Newell Hall will be UF’s 
one and only 24/7 study center.
Library West, which was open 
24/7 last year, will join Marston Science Library this Fall as a 24/5 study space.
Student Government told the 
university that it doesn’t have enough funding to keep both Li-brary West and Newell Hall open 24/7 next semester, UF spokes-
person Margot Winick wrote in an 
email Tuesday. Student Body President Smith 
Meyers said when SG approved 
the decision, the intention wasn’t 
to choose Newell Hall over Library West but rather to take time to gauge students’ opinions. 
Starting in Fall, SG will survey 
students at Library West, Marston and Newell Hall to ask in which facility they prefer to study and spend time. Meyers said the sur-
vey is part of a “pilot” program 
with the provost’s ofﬁ  ce.
“We do realize that students 
need to have a say in this matter,” 
Meyers said. “That’s why we’re 
launching the pilot program.”
SG did not have the $331,140 
required to keep both Library West and Newell Hall open 24/7 for Fall 
and Spring, Meyers said. Because 
of that, SG chose the cheaper move and adjusted Library West’s hours.
The cost to keep Newell Hall 
open 24/7 for the year is $198,140, of which Meyers said SG pays about 37 percent. The other 63 per-cent comes from a 10-cent charge 
each student pays per credit hour.
Keeping Library West open 
24/5 in Fall alone costs about 
$50,000, Winick said. 
After collecting its student-
survey data, SG will convene in November with ofﬁ  cials from both of UF’s libraries and the Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost to decide whether they 
will put more money toward Li-
brary West in the Spring, Meyers said.
“We’re going to use that infor-
mation to make the most respon-
sible decision possible for what to 
allocate our resources toward in the future,” Meyers said. 
Winick said SG kept enough li-
brary funding for Library West to be 24/7 in Fall during the week leading up to reading days, read-ing days themselves and the ﬁ  nal 
exam period.
For some students, the adjust-
ment will be an inconvenience.
Nineteen-year-old Matthew 
Burnette said Library West has a special place in his heart. 
The library saved his life back 
in April after he spilled Diet Pepsi 
on his laptop, Burnette said. With-
out Library West’s computers 
on the second ﬂ  oor, the UF pub-lic relations sophomore said he wouldn’t have been able to com-plete his taxes before April 15. 
“I tried going to Newell, but it 
just wasn’t a good spot for plain-old use,” Burnette said. “I like be-ing able to just sit there and do 
my work, and you really don’t get 
that with Newell Hall when you’re alone because it’s just loud all over the place.” 
Burnette said he’s aware that 
some of the things he loves about Library West — individual desks, quiet areas, computers and Star-bucks coffee runs — exist at Mar-
ston, but that at the end of the day, 
his loyalty lies with Library West.
“Marston smells like wet duck,” 
Burnette said. “I’ve been to Mar-
ston twice, and it was because I 
was meeting some people up, and they insisted on Marston.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
Library West to cut back hours from 24/7 to 24/5 in Fall
THE DECISION WAS MADE 
DUE TO LOW FUNDING, 
SG OFFICIALS SAID.
for the IBC, La 
Casita
The Gators 2018 roster took shape on Friday 
with the passing of the MLB Draft signing deadline, pg. 14Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Red, White & More Red’ 
The Gainesville Woman’s Club 
is hosting the seventh annual 
“Red, White & More Red” wine 
tasting benefit at the club, lo-cated at 2809 W. University Ave. The event will be today 
from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. and costs 
$25. The proceeds will go to Girls Place. Hors d’oeuvres will be served along with des-sert, and there will be door 
prizes and live piano music. 
For more information or to make a reservation, call 352-376-3901 or email gwcwoman-
sclub@att.net.
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista 
Joshua Broadhead, who goes by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for 
Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, 
visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@gmail.com.
Creative B Movie Series: ‘The 
Time Machine’Join a panel of scientists, artists and special-effects experts as 
you view and discuss the 1960 
movie, “The Time Machine,” at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Every Friday 
night in July, the museum and 
Creative B will host free mov-ie screenings and explore the 
balance between science and 
art. In honor of the museum’s 100th anniversary, this year’s films incorporate a time-travel element and include a discus-
sion with their expert panel. 
The event will be from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.  For more informa-tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/creative-b-time-
machine.
'The Wickerman' at the Hipp
The film "The Wickerman" 
will play at the Hippodrome 
State Theatre on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Wednesday and July 20. The film centers 
around pagan worshippers on 
a remote Scottish island. For more information on times and tickets, visit thehipp.org/event/the-wickerman.
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
The Delta Troubadours
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs department is hosting its an-nual series of free, family-friendly concerts in downtown 
Gainesville. Featuring local and 
regional musicians, the 2017 “Free Fridays” concert series will perform each Friday night 
from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. The 
series includes a diverse selec-tion of musical genres, with a mix of returning audience favorites and bands new to 
the series. This Friday’s show 
features the blues rock garage band The Delta Troubadours. The concert is hosted on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza, 
located at 111 E. University Ave., and is free and open to the public. For more informa-tion, visit gnvculturalseries.
org/free-fridays-concert-series.
Coffee Culture open mic night
Coffee Culture, located at 2020 NW 13th St., will have an 
open mic night Sunday start-ing at 7 p.m. Participants can do anything from singing to telling jokes to reciting poems. 
Anyone who wishes to perform 
must sign up by 6:30 p.m.
Florida Museum unveils 
‘Discovery Zone’The Florida Museum of Natural History will open the “Discovery Zone” on Monday. The zone is a new, interactive 
exhibit designed for children 
ages 8 and under. It includes an area for infants and tod-dlers, as well as a vast array 
of touchable objects. For more 
information, visit floridamu-seum.ufl.edu.
Vinyasa yoga at the Harn
Get in tune with your breath and follow it through stand-ing, flowing, seated and bal-ancing postures at the Harn 
Museum of Art. Every Tuesday 
and Wednesday through Aug. 2, the Harn will host a free vinyasa yoga class from 3:45 p.m. to 4:45 p.m. Please bring 
your own mat, and check in all 
personal items at the security desk. A water station will be provided. For more informa-
tion, visit harn.ufl.edu/blank-space.
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot 
Sale Event in July and August. The gallery features hundreds of quality, handcrafted fine arts and crafts created by re-
gional artists. The event will 
be held at the gallery, located at 201 SW Second Place. For more information, call 352-
378-1383 or visit artisansguild-
gallery.com.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at 
UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by 
Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-
lar street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of urban art. The show will in-
clude abstract photographs of 
layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-
tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  89° LOW  73°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy,
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 160Reitz Union, where the renovation 
advisory committee — which is 
made up of UF faculty, alumni and 
students — was meeting to discuss 
the building plans one last time be-fore making a ﬁ  nal decision.  
Students who marched Wednes-
day chanted phrases such as 
“Mama mama can’t you see what 
UF has done to me” and “When 
brown faces are under attack, what 
do we do? Stand up, ﬁ  ght back.”
Once inside the Reitz, about 40 
protesters proceeded directly into the meeting, which was open to 
the public. They presented MCDA and the advisory committee with a 
petition to keep the institutes sepa-rate. It had nearly 1,000 signatures. 
Christopher Wilde, a student 
member on the advisory board, said he felt a rush of support and relief when protesters interrupted the meeting. It showed that stu-
dents would not back down, he said.
“It was an amazing moment. It was solidarity again between the 
communities, and it was power-
ful,” he said.
Wilde said the executive direc-
tor of MCDA, Will Atkins, attempt-ed to adjourn the meeting as the protesters were coming in, claim-
ing they were disrupting business and behaving in an uncivil man-ner. Protesters, however, explained 
they would remain silent if the ad-
visory committee proceeded with the meeting.
Atkins said he is appreciative of 
the opportunity to have students share their opinions. He also added that it is important for everyone in the process to realize that MCDA staff and the core committee are 
listening to multiple perspectives.
“We have an obligation to hear 
various perspectives,” Atkins said.
Wilde said he thinks the meet-
ing continued only because it 
would’ve reﬂ  ected negatively on MCDA staff if students weren’t al-lowed to listen in.At the meeting, one of the big-
gest issues discussed was the proj-
ect’s $5.3 million budget. 
Wilde said that, in the past, 
MCDA staff has cited a lack of 
funds for joining the buildings to-gether — something he doesn’t be-
lieve.
“They’ve been using this idea 
that we can’t have two buildings 
because of money, but the two building design is actually cheaper 
than the ‘U’ shaped building,” Wil-
de said. 
In regard to building design, 
Wilde said the core committee is 
expected to make their decision by July 19.
Wilde said that although a ﬁ  nal 
decision is looming, the ﬁ  ght for La Casita and the IBC has been going on since 1971 — and likely won’t 
end anytime soon.
“I’m happy with how today 
went,” Wilde said. “But it’s just the 
beginning.”
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
MARCH,  from pg. 1Some students are using #NoLaIBCita in protest of ‘U’ shape
Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff
After marching, about 40 people crammed into an advisory committee meeting at the Reitz Union. They 
wanted to hear what the MCDA had to say before it made a ﬁ  nal decision about institute renovations.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A deputy with the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce was arrested early Wednesday morning 
by Gainesville Police and is accused of domes-tic battery against his girlfriend. 
Deputy Joseph Sperring 
faces charges of simple bat-tery and aggravated assault. 
Police arrived outside of 
Sperring’s girlfriend’s apart-
ment, where she told them 
Sperring had a gun and wouldn’t leave, according to a GPD arrest report. She told police they had been dating for 
about two months and that Sperring came to her apartment to spend the night Tuesday. 
Sperring and the woman were laying together 
in her bed after he took a sleeping pill, accord-ing to the report. She told police that she left to sleep in another room because Sperring began tossing and turning. 
That’s when she said Sperring became “er-
ratic,” according to the report. 
The two began arguing, and she asked 
Sperring to leave multiple times. According to 
the report, she called police while they argued 
but hung up after Sperring asked her to. 
She said he was worried he might get in 
trouble, according to the report.
The couple was arguing in the living room when Sperring grabbed his gun and said he “would use it,” according to the report. The woman told police that Sperring said he’d kill 
her and himself while placing the gun in his 
mouth. 
She then called the police for a second time 
and ran out of her apartment, according to the report.
After his arrest — and with a lawyer pres-
ent — Sperring told police that his girlfriend’s telling of events wasn’t accurate and that he wouldn’t elaborate any further, according to 
the report. 
Police found an upholstered loaded hand-
gun in Sperring’s bag, which his girlfriend 
identiﬁ  ed as the same gun he threatened her with, according to the report.  Sperring was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail, where he was released Wednesday after-noon on his own recognizance.
ACSO spokesperson Art Forgey said Sper-
ring was suspended and placed on administra-tive leave Wednesday amid a criminal inves-tigation. 
Sperring is the second ACSO deputy in-
volved in a criminal investigation in the past two weeks.
Clinton Ferguson, a former deputy, was 
ﬁ  red last week after the state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce 
dropped his charge of abuse June 27, accord-
ing to Alligator archives. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested two Gainesville 
men Monday in relation to back-to-back drive-by shootings that oc-curred hours after the Fourth of July.
On July 5 at about 3 a.m., three 
drive-by shootings occurred between 2 a.m. and 3:45 a.m., leaving two residents injured and one in serious condition, said Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. 
Jonathan Clyde Davis, 24, was arrested at about 7 p.m. Monday as the suspected shooter in the second drive-by shooting, which occurred at 
300 NE 11th St., Tobias said. Tarayvi-
ous T. Washington, 20, was arrested Monday after being identiﬁ  ed as the suspected driver in the same shoot-ing. 
At about 3:12 a.m. July 5, Wash-
ington and Davis pulled into the Circle K gas station, located at 20 NE Waldo Road, and began arguing 
with four people standing outside a 
parked white Buick Verano, accord-ing to a GPD arrest report.
At about the same time those four 
people drove away, two others — in 
a white vehicle that looked similar to 
the Buick Verano — pulled into the station, according to the report.
When the two drove away, Wash-
ington and Davis followed them to a stop at the intersection of Northeast 11th Street and Northeast Third Av-enue. According to the report, Da-vis got out of the car and shot nine 
bullets into the car’s passenger side, 
striking one of the individuals in the neck.
Washington told police he thought 
he was following the four individuals 
he argued with earlier at the gas sta-
tion, and that was who he thought Davis was shooting at, according to the report.
Police are still searching for a per-
son of interest, an individual they be-lieve was either at the scene of the shootings or has important knowl-edge on what happened.
Tobias said the vehicle that 
Washington drove — a white Buick Park Avenue — was located by po-lice and found to be registered under Davis’ wife.
As of press time, both remain in 
the Alachua County Jail. 
Davis is being held on no bond 
and faces two charges of premedi-tated homicide, shooting into an occupied vehicle and possessing a weapon as a convicted felon. Wash-ington is being held on a $1 million bond and also faces two charges of 
premeditated homicide and shooting 
into an occupied vehicle.
ACSO deputy arrested, accused of domestic batteryTwo arrested in relation to July 5 drive-by shootings
Sperring
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will soon be the ﬁ  rst public 
Florida institution to offer a doctor-
ate degree in occupational therapy.
The UF College of Public Health 
and Health Professions will offer 
the degree in Fall 2018, replacing 
the college’s current occupational therapy Master’s program. 
“Health care systems are be-coming increasingly complex, and there is a signiﬁ  cant need for prac-titioners who have the knowledge and skills to provide cost-effective, evidence-based services while serving as leaders and innovators,” said Christine Myers, the director 
of the occupational therapy Mas-
ter’s program.
She said the new program will 
be more expensive since it will take more time. The Master’s program took about 2 1/2 years, but the doctorate program will take about 3 1/2 years. 
“This will allow us to move 
beyond the Master’s degree by providing not only a high-quality clinical education, but also by pro-viding students with education in 
leadership and advocacy, inter-
professional communication and program development and evalua-tion,” Myers said.
The new program will also re-
quire students to complete a clini-cal capstone, which will provide them with more real-life experi-ence, she said. 
“Students will have the oppor-
tunity to reﬁ  ne their clinical skills while engaging in a project that is designed to advance clinical prac-
tice,” Myers said. “In addition to 
entering clinical practice, students who graduate from the OTD pro-gram will have opportunities to take on leadership roles, work as occupational therapy educators or engage in research activities.”
Sherrilene Classen, the chair of 
UF’s Department of Occupational Therapy, said students will learn skills such as how to utilize and apply research and how to make data-driven decisions.
“The students will be classiﬁ  ed 
as highly-qualiﬁ  ed personnel once they have their degree,” she said. 
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
UF to oﬀ  er occupational therapy doctorate degree in 2018
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
With a lawyer by his side, State 
Sen. Keith Perry took the ﬂ  oor of a Tuesday morning county commis-sion meeting as “Citizen Perry” to make one request.
Perry, a Republican representing 
Florida’s 8th district, wants to buy the Camp McConnell Outdoor Cen-ter. The problem, however, is that Alachua County just bought it.
An old YMCA summer camp in 
Micanopy, Camp McConnell, was bought by the county at a June 22 auction with a $1.03 million bid and 
$237,000 down payment, Alachua County spokesperson Mark Sexton 
said.
At Tuesday’s meeting, Perry and 
his attorney, Patrice Boyes, told county commissioners that there were “inconsistencies” with how the county purchased the 210-acre out-
door property.
Perry said his intention with the 
property would be to restore it to its 
original purpose of being a children’s camp to get kids outside, though he did not provide any further speciﬁ  c details. 
Boyes asked the board to con-
sider requesting a 60-day extension 
past its July 22 contract deadline so 
there would be more time for Perry to negotiate an acquisition. She said the alternative would be legal action.
“Our only mechanism to stop the 
clock and stop the process is to ask for an injunction, and that’s some-thing we would very reluctantly do,” Boyes said.  
After meeting with county attor-
ney Michele Lieberman, the board denied Perry’s offer, Sexton said.
“Anyone can sue anyone,” Sex-
ton said. “The county has followed all applicable law in acquiring the Camp McConnell property.”
Sexton said after the meeting that 
many groups took interest in acquir-ing the camp at the auction, includ-
ing the county, a group of former 
camp counselors and members from UF’s Institute of Food and Agricul-tural Sciences. 
The board directed county staff 
Tuesday to begin planning for pub-lic forums and an open house on the property sometime after August to get as much input from the public as possible in deciding how exactly 
to use the property going forward, 
Sexton said.
Sexton said the county looks for-
ward to hearing from “Citizen Perry” on how the camp should be used recreationally, as well as other resi-dents’ opinions. 
“Nothing that happened yester-
day is interrupting that process for 
us,” he said. “We are conﬁ  dent that 
there is no legal issue that will stop that.” District I County Commissioner 
Mike Byerly said he doesn’t like ne-gotiating with the threat of legal ac-tion hanging over everyone’s head.  
“I don’t like negotiating under 
this kind of cloud,” he said. 
District V County Commissioner 
Charles “Chuck” Chestnut raised is-sue with why Perry wants to acquire the camp when he wasn’t present at the June 22 auction.  
“I don’t know why Senator Per-
ry or his attorney was not there to participate in this process,” Chest-nut said. “I don’t understand why at this late date — after the process 
has been done — that one would ap-
proach us about this and question our intentions.”
Sen. Perry threatens to sue county over Micanopy propertyThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
I write to you today, dear reader, with a 
message that is as everlasting as Twinkies and as cliche as a joke about the shelf life 
of Twinkies. My message to you is to be 
grateful for what you have. This may all 
be banal in nature, but the sagacity behind this idea should never be missed.
Just two weeks ago, while riding home 
from class on my skateboard, I was pay-ing too much attention to a couple walking in front of me. As a student who skates to and from class, I tend to pay more attention to other 
students walking around than I should have to. As is 
customary for me, I yelled ahead to them, “On your left!” It’s an idiosyncratic phrase I developed to indi-cate — obviously — which side I am approaching from 
behind. Some people hear my skateboard bumps and 
already choose a side, some hear the bumping noises and continue to walk back and forth on the sidewalk like indecisive drunkards — my signal is for the latter.
Anyway, as is too common, the couple ahead of me 
heard nothing, so I focused on them to make sure I could make it past them. As I was leaning forward to turn the board, I placed all my weight at the front of it. Unbeknownst to me, there was a crack in the sidewalk 
large enough to engulf my entire wheel. It stopped my 
board on a dime as I flew through the air. Unluckily, I decided to prioritize the laptop in my backpack and, in my quick thinking, decided not to roll. The result: a broken left wrist — or so I thought.  
At the infirmary, the X-rays were inconclusive in 
showing what had actually happened to my wrist, but the damaged and tender area, my scaphoid (find it on your wrist if you’re taking anatomy, it’s good practice), 
had to be treated as if it were, at the very least, frac-
tured. So, for the very first time in my life, I had a cast that entirely restricted the use of my left hand.
For those of you with the full use of two 
hands, have you ever tried tying your shoes with one hand? Have you ever cooked, washed dishes or attempted to cut a steak with one hand? Do you know what it’s like to 
type out these words with one hand? Lucky 
for me, when I’m bored in class, I strike a position — that is terrible for my posture —  where I lean all the weight of my head on 
my left wrist and resort to typing things with one hand. 
Nevertheless, other things are still hard. I can’t enjoy 
my favorite sport, basketball, it’s impossible to play a console game and I can’t even work as a server.
For those of you telling me and my privileged self 
to calm down, you have a point, and, don’t worry, I’m just being dramatic for the flair needed to write in the Alligator. Like I mentioned earlier, the results were in-conclusive, and, just yesterday, I got to take off my cast. It’s most likely a bad, grade 2 wrist sprain.
However, in my times of introspection, I tend to 
think about my experiences in the context of others’ struggles. Of course, I would not dare to compare my-self to someone who has lost a limb, but I could under-
stand a drop of water in that specific bucket; this little 
injury gave me a bit of perspective I wouldn’t have gained otherwise.
Appreciate what you can do before you realize you 
can’t do it any longer. Appreciate what you have now 
before it disappears. Take advantage of this advice. 
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His 
column appears on Thursdays.Appreciate what you have before you lose itLiberals aren’t 
whiners, they are 
warriors
Liberals too often have been dubbed whiners, complainers 
and malcontents. This is something that has become espe-cially frequent after the last presidential election.
Here at the Alligator, we often receive comments and     
emails stating that our views are too liberal, that we com-
plain too much and that we need to get over it. These types of comments are ones many liberals across America have faced while voicing their opinions. 
These complaints are often misunderstood. Right now, liber-
als are not whining. They are demanding change, and they are calling their fellow Americans to action. 
Our current discontent with the country shows that we are 
strong. They show that we are not spineless, and that we will not back down and accept the things we believe are unjust. We won’t 
adapt to our current political climate and let our country become 
something disgraceful. Instead, we want to fight back. 
While a simple column or conversation might not seem like it 
does much, it has the power to inspire others. 
So much of the world’s history came from a single speech or 
conversation. People discuss what they are unhappy about, and other people join them on their quest to fight the injustices that surround them. 
They make plans. They solve problems. 
Conservatives want liberals to be quiet simply because their 
party is not in the Oval Office. They say that liberals lost and sim-
ply must deal with it. But what good is that going to do? 
In order to stop something bad or prevent something bad from 
reoccurring, we need to work together and animate America. We can’t do this by staying silent.
Many conservatives believed the women’s marches in Janu-
ary were pointless. Just a bunch of women in pink hats crying about how much they hate President Donald Trump. In actuality, 
these marches ignited additional feminist movements across the 
world. The people who were impacted by these marches and protests did not see them as pathetic pity walks. They saw the marches as a call to action.
People started donating to organizations like Planned Par-
enthood. They started calling their local representatives, asking them to protect their rights. They started demanding equality and pointing out injustices in their everyday lives. Women and men alike became “nasty” in order to show their support for women 
across the world. People became less alone.
Every time a person makes note of an injustice, they are do-
ing what they can to either end or reverse it. They are not simply 
complaining, they are offering the chance for change and for oth-ers who feel the same way to join them.
If everyone throughout history kept their opinions to them-
selves, we would still have slavery. We would still have segrega-tion. Women still wouldn’t be able to vote — or even show their ankles.
All great change comes from great complainers.Liberals, the so-called whiners, are not the sad, weak or frag-
ile-minded people that conservatives have recently made them out to be. Many of them are strong, social justice warriors calling Americans to act. Change happens when people come together. By acknowledging problems, people become united, and the power of unity is not only brass-bound but undeniable. 
The next time you reconsider voicing your complaint, do not 
back down. The capability of one complaint is unimaginable.James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTwo major issues have been dominat-
ing our national politics, health care reform and the Russian investigation. 
This is, to put it mildly, stupid.
Consider Sen. Chris Murphy, D-
Conn., who tweeted Tuesday that the ﬁ  rst 
three priorities for the country should be the 
effort to repeal and replace the Affordable 
Care Act, namely with the Republican mon-strosity that is the Better Care Reconciliation Act. The bill could decimate Medicaid in or-der to fund tax cuts for the wealthy and kick 
more than 20 million people off their health 
insurance. 
It’s an awful plan, and one that should 
outrage all Americans. If it passes, thousands 
will die.
Murphy said that only as a fourth prior-
ity should the American people focus on the 
ongoing legal investigations into the Trump administration, namely those involving Rus-
sia. Of course, the issues need not be in com-
petition with one another.
In the past few days, The New York 
Times has reported that Donald Trump Jr., 
the president’s oldest and eponymous son, 
held a meeting with a Kremlin-linked lawyer to discuss possible dirt the lawyer had on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The Times also 
reported an email that showed 
Trump Jr. was apprised that of the lawyer’s connection to the Russian government and insistence upon 
helping his father. Trump Jr. was 
enthusiastic. Sufﬁ  ce it to say, this is a pretty big deal.
The revelations come on top of the on-
going special prosecutor’s investigation, led 
by Robert Mueller, into President Donald 
Trump, senior advisor to the president Jared Kushner, former national security advisor Michael Flynn, Paul Manafort and so many 
others. Collusion with Russia, obstruction 
of justice, perjury, money laundering and violation of the Constitution’s Emoluments Clause are all on the table. Tuesday, Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., who was Clinton’s run-
ning mate, even raised the specter of “trea-
son.”
While former President Franklin Roos-
evelt wanted to make medical care a consti-
tutional right, the proposal of Trumpcare is 
not illegal. Collusion, obstruction of justice and the like are illegal. If Trump and his acolytes are able to skirt the rule of the law in this country, 
what does that say about us as a 
nation? What are the consequences of such a degradation of society?
When former President Rich-
ard Nixon ﬁ  red special prosecu-tor Archibald Cox in the Saturday Night Massacre, a scenario Trump 
may very well repeat with Mueller, Cox had choice words for the television cameras.
“Whether ours shall continue to be a gov-
ernment of laws and not of men is now for Congress and ultimately the American peo-ple,” Cox said at the time.
The American people are called again to 
answer that question. The mid-'70s surely had its share of seminal, culture-deciding issues of political import. Watergate was a distraction from none. The conduct alleged 
this time around is worse.
Watergate involved a botched attempt to 
steal documents from the Democratic Nation-
al Committee. This scandal involves a suc-
cessful scheme to do the same, though this 
time over the Internet. The leaked informa-tion arguably affected the result of the elec-tion. And most shamefully, the modern-day G. Gordon Liddy is the Kremlin. The ques-
tion of our time, among others, is whether 
Trump and his campaign collaborated and colluded with the Kremlin to steal from the DNC and taint an American election.
Such conduct, if occurred, is illegal. And 
so long as we are a government of laws, it is an affront to everything and anything that we hold dear if it is not zealously, fully and fairly investigated and prosecuted.  
To say we need to focus on Trumpcare 
to the detriment of this scandal is a dishon-est choice. It is absolutely possible to care about two things at once. Though people like 
Murphy do have a point that the press needs 
to devote more attention to the former issue, it needn’t be done to the detriment of this scandal.
This is not a distraction. This is about the 
rule of law and dignity of our system of gov-ernment.
A version of this column by Noah Horwitz 
originally ran in the Daily Texan.THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
This is not a distraction. This is about whether we still care for the rule of law.
Noah Horwitz
opinions@alligator.org
Column
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
In celebration of the Constans Theatre’s 
50th year of operation, director Russell 
Schultz has returned to his alma mater to direct a play written by Anne Washburn about the demanding 10 out of 12 non-con-
secutive hours per seven days that precede 
a stage show’s opening night. 
UF’s adaptation will likely mirror the 
real rehearsals that come before its July 20 opening, as Washburn’s goal was to pres-ent audiences with a realistic view of the misadventures playgoers do not see before 
the polished presentation when the curtain 
is lifted. 
One of a long list of Actors’ Equity As-
sociation rules for union members is that “rehearsals shall not exceed 10 out of 12 consecutive hours per day.” Rules like this are imposed in part to shelter the sanity of the production’s key players.
According to the press release, “10 out 
of 12” is loosely based on notes Washburn 
took during tech rehearsals she sat in on 
as a playwright. Her goal in her work is to 
“focus on the rituals that accompany the human condition.”
This controlled mayhem will become 
both entertaining and relatable even to au-diences unfamiliar with the trials and tribu-lations of a theater production’s tech week. During the show, the entire theater 
space will be utilized throughout the dura-tion of the production.
Sara Girard, who plays the stage man-
ager, Molly, has attended the UF School of Theatre and Dance for one year and ﬁ  nds being in “10 out of 12” different from other shows for one main reason.
“The most difﬁ  cult thing about this 
show has been getting used to walking all throughout the theater. Typically, actors are only seen on stage but in this show we are all over the place,” Girard said. “At some points, we will even be inches away from audience members.”
Audiences will also be able to hear side 
conversations among technicians that are normally only heard through their personal headsets. 
“The most signiﬁ  cant challenge was 
the technical aspect of this show,” Schultz said. “The audience must be able to hear all of the talk over the headsets between 
the designers and the crew."
She said usually the actors don't hear 
that talk, so it was challenging to ﬁ  gure out 
how they were going to sell it to their audi-
ence.
 
"In other words, how much of their dis-
belief could we willingly suspend? I think 
we landed on a solution that will give the proper effect to the audience,” Schultz said.Schultz graduated from UF in 2011 with 
his MFA in acting. Before then, he had been a professional actor since the '90s in New York City and Dallas. He was recently hired as an assistant professor of theatre at Santa Fe College. 
“I am very thankful for the opportunity 
to direct plays both at Santa Fe and UF, 
and am glad to have been given a chance 
to do what I feel I was called to do, which is teach,” Schultz said. “I am directing ‘War of the Worlds’ at Santa Fe in the Fall, so that’s what’s next on my plate.”
Jerry Dickey, the director of UF School 
of Theatre and Dance, said this play is dedicated to the various students, actors, designers, technicians and faculty who set foot in the Constans Theatre every day with the “collective goal of creating productions 
that are both entertaining and artistically 
rewarding,” according to the press release.
“10 out of 12” will have a 7:30 p.m. cur-
tain July 20 through July 22, while July 23 will have a 2 p.m. matinee. 
Tickets are $18 for the general public, 
$15 for seniors, UF faculty and 
staff and $13 for students. 
Tickets can be purchased at the University Box Of-ﬁ  ce, located at Gate 1 of the O’Connell Center, online at ticketmaster.com or over the phone at 352-392-1653.‘10 out of 12’ play to oﬀ  er a behind-the-scenes vantage 
THEATER
Photo courtesy to the Alligator 
From left, UF School of Theatre and Dance actors Sarah 
Bennett, Sara Girard and Jeff Drushal star in “10 out of 12, ” a play that gives the audience a behind-the-scenes look at the ﬁ  nal days leading up to a performance. 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
MATERIAL AND           MOVEMENTMATERIAL AND           MOVEMENTTONIGHT ! JULY 13, 6 – 9 p.m.
FREE FOOD AND ADMISSION
harn.ufl.edu
#HarnMuseumNightsImage: Suzanne Mars
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Eazybaked, an experimental, 
bass-heavy producer duo from Cl-
ermont, Florida, is set to perform yet another show in Gainesville this week. 
The group, made up of mem-bers Eric Ray and Andrew Principe, have brought their unique sound to Gainesville ﬁ  ve times before, 
all through the booking of Over 
Easy Creative, an event planning company based in Gainesville. Fri-day’s show will contribute to Hard Boiled, Over Easy’s monthly event that celebrates heavier sound. The Hard Boiled event came to 
be in summer 2016 after the Over Easy team decided to host more 
bass-heavy acts, Les Voss, owner 
of Over Easy Creative and resident DJ, wrote in an email. 
“We wanted to build a concept 
for a heavier styled party that was more than just the big room bass sounds that seem to be so preva-lent and focus on more forward thinking artists and styles,” Voss 
said. 
Eazybaked’s music is unusual, 
incorporating warbling bass, abra-
sive elements and more to create an exploratory signature sound. Voss said this style was a perfect ﬁ  t for Hard Boiled. 
“[Eric and Andrew] built a very 
loyal Gainesville following the past 
few years by being genuine to their 
sound and ideals and refusing to take what many would consider the easier, more mainstream path,” Voss said.
Eazybaked returns to Gainesville on FridayTHURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HIPPODROME THEATRE
CALL NOW! 352.375.44 77 OR VISIT THEHIPP.ORG
25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GAINESVILLE
HIPPODROME THEATRE
Welcome to the Ville, Gators!
Join the H ipp do wntown f or liv e
thea tre, indie cinema & full bar!
Student Discounts + Happy Hour
@hipptheatre | thehipp.org | 352.375.4477
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
UF 6 ft.SPORTSLOCKER
900 N.W. 76th Blvd.$25 at
Free Couples
Relationship Workshop
ELEVATE your relationship! Join Dr. Victor Harris, an award winning 
UF Associate Professor, and learn effective and proven SKILLS to increase love, manage stress, set financial goals, deal with differences, and maintain a friendship bond. 
The workshop will meet once a week for 5 weeks at McCarty Hall B,  
Rm 3096 from 6:00–8:30 pm.  
WORKSHOP 1  meets on July 25, August 1, 15, 22, and 29 
WORKSHOP 2  meets on July 26, August 2, 16, 23, and 30
WORKSHOP 3  meets on July 27, August 3, 17, 24, and 31  
A light MEAL will be served at each class and each registrant will 
receive a FREE USB drive.  You may also be eligible for GIFT CARDS. PRE-REGISTRATION is REQUIRED.  Contact Christina Collingwood at 352-273-3507 or ccollingwood@ufl.edu or go to the Classes & Events page at www.smartcouples.org to register.
Funding is provided by the United States Department Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Grant: # 90FM0079-02-00.  These classes are available to all eligible persons, regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Rarely do book-to-ﬁ  lm adapta-
tions do their job. Even more often, 
they fail to truly adapt the book to the audience who will see it. “The Beguiled,” however, is an adaptation 
that aims higher than most.
The ﬁ  lm is the second adapta-
tion of Thomas Cullinan’s book. The 
story is set three years into the Civil War in Virginia and tells of a school for girls in which one student stum-bles across a wounded Union sol-dier. She invites him to come to the house where he is greeted hesitantly by the other women. While at ﬁ  rst he seems gentlemanly, he soon turns 
volatile after he sustains a life-alter-
ing injury from one of the women. 
The ﬁ  rst adaptation, in 1971, is 
overwrought with sexism. The new adaption, directed by Soﬁ  a Coppola, while similar to the ﬁ  rst adaptation, differs in several key parts, which lend themselves to the ﬁ  lm’s current audience and political climate.  
Race is one of those key points. In 
the original story, Cullinan has one African-American slave and another biracial character, but in the current adaptation, the cast is completely white. The directorial reason for this, Coppola said, was that she didn’t 
want to depict women of color in the 
same troubling light that characters in the ﬁ  lm found themselves, espe-cially because of the impressionable viewers who will watch the movie. 
In an article on Vulture, Angelica 
Jade Bastién, an essayist, critic and  woman of color herself, tackles the issue of race in the ﬁ  lm with the line, 
“There’s a way to speak to racism 
and race itself without necessarily depicting the subjugation of people of color and the brutality we’ve ex-perienced.” Bastién didn’t laud Cop-pola for her choice or call her ﬁ  lm honest in its history; she identiﬁ  ed 
the story as a “white fairy tale that 
deserves to be examined closely.” 
Another issue the ﬁ  lm tackles is 
that of female empowerment. With an almost all-female cast and a fe-male director, the role of feminism in this ﬁ  lm should not be overlooked. The difference in the new ﬁ  lm is that instead of turning on each other, as 
in the original, the women unite to 
keep each other safe when the sol-dier’s charms turn to violence. 
You can’t talk about this ﬁ  lm without mentioning the pervasive-ness of sex within it. Sex has a palpable presence within the ﬁ  lm. 
Between the Union soldier’s seduc-
tion and the coyness of the women, sexual tension mixed with Southern manners creates an internal tug of war between base desires and con-vention.
“The Beguiled” is a slow burn 
that sometimes drags out pseudo-ex-citement and masks it through blar-
ing gunshots and slamming doors. 
The ﬁ  lm’s story depicts a fairytale, but its focus on unity among women is anything but fanciful. 
‘The Beguiled’ enchants viewers with feminist fairytale
REVIEW10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
In my last music review, I listed several 
great options for anyone’s summer playlist 
— from DJ Khaled to Calvin Harris to LANY. However, I left out a key part of what’s cur-rently dominating the charts — female talent. 
So, in this follow up, here are some female 
artists releasing amazing music for your soundtrack. 
“Something to Tell You”  by Haim
Even though catchy pop songs are at the 
top of the charts during the summer, it’s always good to throw in more alternative tracks, and that’s where Haim’s new album, “Something to Tell You,” comes in. 
The Los Angeles-based group, comprised 
of sisters Este, Danielle and Alana Haim — accompanied by keyboardist Tommy King and drummer Jody Giachello — revamps ‘70s music styles to bring you a girl group that breaks the mold. 
The 11-track album takes elements from 
across the music spectrum — from country, pop and folk — and can best be described as 
alternatively eclectic.
Danielle, who is the band’s lead singer, has a soft yet powerful soulfulness to her vo-cals, and the instrumentals are carefully lay-
ered to complement rather than overpower. The title track, “Something to Tell You,” has a delicate echo during the chorus that brings an old-school element to the song that is punctuated with supplemental beats. “Something to Tell You” is the perfect 
follow up to the group’s 2013 debut album “Days Are Gone.” If you’re looking to mix up 
your playlist and add some genre diversity, 
give Haim a listen.
“Praying”  by Kesha 
After making her debut with the chart-top-
ping party track, “Tik Tok,” pop star Kesha is 
taking her music to a softer side with her new track “Praying.” Without the overproduction, autotune, pointless lyrics and over-the-top out-
ﬁ  ts, listeners are able to fully appreciate Kesha 
for her abilities. 
This song documents her struggle following 
her fallout with music producer Lukasz Sebas-
tian Gottwald, or Dr. Luke. It has a true mes-sage that listeners can understand and relate to, making Kesha a well-rounded artist who 
audiences can take seriously. 
“I can thank you for how strong I have be-
come / ‘Cause you brought the ﬂ  ames and you put me through hell,” Kesha sings in “Pray-
ing.”
Anyone listening to this track who has been 
through strife or struggle can connect to her 
lyrics and feel the same emotions as the music swells and her vocal riffs strengthen. 
With more music on the horizon, listeners 
can look forward to an authentic version of Kesha that is not overshadowed by slapdash 
production.
“Sorry Not Sorry” 
          by Demi Lovato 
Despite a cringe-worthy lead in and ele-
ments that make this track slightly overpro-
duced, Demi Lovato’s new track “Sorry Not Sorry” is a great addition to your gym playlist. 
Throughout the song, it sounds as though 
Lovato and her songwriters tried too hard to separate her from her softer Disney image. This effort to further cement Lovato as a ma-ture and independent artist takes focus away from the concise message of the song.
The song would have been better executed 
had Lovato collaborated with an electronic dance music producer like Zedd or David Guetta, who are known for their upbeat tracks. 
However, Lovato’s powerful vocals and the 
clean, complementary beat in the chorus save the song from possible disaster. 
Although the track joins the ranks of an 
enumerated list of pop/EDM fusions, this song serves as an anthem, reminding listeners to stay unapologetically true to themselves. In the future, Lovato should tread lightly in order to prevent her songs from becoming unoriginal, 
even among her own catalog. Music mavens: bringing girl power to your playlist
 REVIEW
Photo via Wikipedia
“Something to T ell You, ” Haim’s 
sophomore album, dropped July 7.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
NC MOUNTAINSTwo new one-level cabins, one log, one ce-dar, each has 2+ ac. Mtn views, fpl, vaulted ceilings. Only $169,900 ea. 828-286- 1666      7-13-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
★MOVING SALE: ★
1246 NW 14th Ave  Saturday 10 a.m. - 7 p.m.
7-13-2-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-14-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
SOMETHING DIFFERENT!97 XR7 Mercury Cougar, 2 door, 6 cyl, new front end suspension, 4 new tires. 2 owners, garage kept 164K miles. $1800. Call 352-375-5585    7-25-17-4-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
** LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION **1 and 2 bedroom apartments all located close to UF and Downtown. All unique and some with paid utilities. Call 352-870-2760.    8-21-177-13-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.CARPET CLEANING TECH
WANTED - FT
Clean driving record, clean criminal history. 
Call 352-396-4207     7-13-17-5-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 Unit of heat
energy
6 Like wild boar
meat
10 Rock-in-pond
sound
14 Bit part
15 Matty of baseball16 Most
Rembrandts
17 Arabian’s head
covering?
19 “Concord
Sonata”composer
20 Nevertheless21 Cools quickly22 Physicist
Rutherford
24 Arequipa’s land
25 Pats dry26 Mounting
problem at
Churchill Downs?
31 Film that’s barely
shown?
32 Carry on33 2008 TARP
beneficiary
35 Bit that can be
split
36 Luges, e.g.38 Attracted
39 Sci-fi vehicle
40 Midwestern tribe
41 Prairie wanderer
42 Something well in
hand at
Waterloo?
46 Stole (in)47 Track piece48 “Wait, start again,
please”
50 Track event51 Horned viper54 Like wild boar
meat
55 Feature of 50-
Down?
58 Bollywood
garment
59 Help in a bad
way
60 Triage MD
61 Writer Waugh62 Bustle63 Symbols among
notes
DOWN
1 Frozen dessert
chain2 Overconfident
fable critter
3 Throw off
4 White alternative
5 “Le Misanthrope”
playwright
6 Allowed from the
mound
7 See 45-Down8 “You think I did
it?!”
9 Christmas
cracklers
10 Destination in a
simple itinerary
11 Has extravagant
ways
12 Fútbol cheers
13 Attractive sound?
18 Lampshade shade
23 Cad
24 Stuffy
25 “Ratatouille”
director Bird
26 Word with brim or
bean
27 Coach28 “My word!”29 Many a Belieber30 Refrain from
singing as achild?
34 Singer Stefani36 “Enough!”37 Room at the top
38 Kid’s tea party
attendee
40 Singles
41 “You bet!”
43 Like much humor44 Blue blood, for
short
45 With 7-Down,
bitter brews
48 “Play it once,
Sam” speaker
49 Spread, maybe50 ’60s TV
personality whowould especially
enjoy this puzzle
51 Supports52 Macbeth or
Macduff
53 Muscle Beach
display
56 “That price is
negotiable,” in
ads
57 Vein output
By Bruce Haight©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/13/1707/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ACROSS
1 Place for fuzzy
navels
4 Plots of land
10 Animated internet
pics
14 Whopper, but not
a Big Mac
15 Reconciled
16 “You said it,
sister!”
17 Safari find
18 *Annual kids’
competition aired
by ESPN
20 Kazan who
directed Marlon
in his first Oscarrole
22 Crème de la
crème
23 Neruda’s “__ to
Common Things”
24 *Excursion that
may require
permission slips
27 Not as well-done29 Not hidden30 Airfield fixtures31 Bridal bio term32 Reader at Mass36 Pigs out (on),
briefly
37 *Evacuation
exercise
39 Sergeant’s
address
41 Balkan first-timer
in the 2016Olympics
42 Vandalize
45 Oasis visitors47 Urbana-
Champaign“Fighting” team
49 What might make
a Cardinal anOriole
50 *Year-end hurdle
53 Wood cutter54 Maine college
town
56 Understands57 Group lawsuit ...
and what each
answer to astarred clue is?
61 Homeric outburst62 Dynamic leader?63 Crunchy
breakfast
64 “Just sayin’,” in
texts
65 Must have66 Out in a
hammock?
67 Empire St. paper
DOWN
1 Much sushi- and
sashimi-grade
tuna
2 Southwest, e.g.3 Take over for4 Corp. symbols5 Eschew the
doorbell
6 Like __ in the
headlights
7 Ma’s strings
8 Showy April
bloom
9 Shish kebab
holder
10 __ rule11 “There’s nothing
to do”
12 Birdseed buffets13 Contemptuous
looks
19 Fiddling emperor21 Liston opponent25 Where heros are
made
26 Sexy dance
moves
28 Mil. no-show30 “Jeopardy!” fare33 VIP with a corner
office, perhaps
34 NFL six-pointers
35 Guatemala gold37 Mister Rogers38 Take it easy39 Mrs. Smith’s rival40 “It’s not news to
me ... ”
42 Blended43 Gray area?44 Drummer’s sound
after a one-liner45 Med. imaging
procedure
46 Some summer
births
48 Triangle side50 Prepare to shoot
with a Canon
51 Maker of chips52 Cacophony55 Major Hindu deity58 Lawn roll59 Bullring cry60 Puppy bite
By Gary D. Schlapfer and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/12/1707/12/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 12, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design 
using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/AVIATION
Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and 
Others Start here with hands on training for 
FAA certification Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649       7-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305      7-13-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 andmake a REAL connection.        7-13-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"1.  Taste, try
1.  Trousers5.  Together (with)
2.  Place to dock a boat6.  ____ code
3.  Bags7.  Protect
4.  PackedPSAELM
AKLSSCGONLA
RMAAL
RAMOEGO
GEGALGUFEDNDE
MEDAJMANSWERS: 1A-Sample  5A-Along  6A-Alarm  7A-Defend
1D-Slacks  2D-Moorage  3D-Luggage  4D-Jammed  B-Jack Lemmon7-13-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TMS - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1400, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoytaol.com. @JUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
CLUE: This actor was voted “The 33rd Greatest Movie 
Star of All Time” by Entertainment Weekly.
BONUS1
62
53
74207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
1. MONEY: Who was the first U.S. 
president to appear on a circulating 
coin?
2. GEOGRAPHY: The Elbe River 
flows mostly through which European country?
3. GAMES: How much are black 
poker chips worth?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What major U.S. city is in the 305 area code?
5. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which can-
didate did Richard Nixon defeat in 1972 to win re-election?
6. A VIATION: How long did the 
Wright brothers’ first flight last on Dec. 17, 1903? 
7. U.S. STATES: The bluebonnet is 
the official flower of which state?
8. HISTORY: When did the French 
and Indian War end?
9. MOVIES: In which movie does 
Judy Garland sing, “Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas”?
10. COMICS: Brigadier Gen. Amos 
T. Halftrack is a character in which comic strip?
Answers
1. Abraham Lincoln2. Germany3. $1004. Miami5. George McGovern
6. 12 seconds
7. Texas8. 17639. “Meet Me in St. Louis”10. “Beetle Bailey”
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 10, 2017King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 14 Help Wanted
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
UF kicker Eddy Pineiro was named to the 2017 Lou Groza Award Watch List on Wednesday. The annual award goes to the top college football placekicker in the NCAA. Barnhill wins ESPY for Best Female College Athlete
Florida softball pitcher Kelly Barnhill won the 2017 ESPY Award for Best 
Female College Athlete on Wednesday night. The sophomore led the nation 
this season with a school-record 0.51 ERA and 13 strikeouts per seven innings pitched.BASEBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
From June 12 to June 14, eight 
UF baseball players were selected 
in the 2017 MLB Draft, the ﬁ  rst 
step in their long journeys to the 
major leagues.
Alex Faedo was taken 18th 
overall by the Detroit Tigers. 
Joining him was Dalton Guthrie 
(6th round, Philadelphia Phillies), Mike Rivera (6th round, Cleveland Indians), Mike Kolozsvary (7th round, Cincinnati Reds), David 
Lee (27th round, Pittsburgh 
Pirates), Frank Rubio (29th round, San Francisco Giants), Deacon Liput (29th round, Los 
Angeles Dodgers) and JJ Schwarz 
(38th round, Tampa Bay Rays).
Several members of UF's 
incoming freshman class were chosen as well.
But now that the MLB signing 
deadline has ofﬁ  cially passed, coach Kevin O'Sullivan knows for sure which drafted players are returning to Gainesville and 
which are headed for the pros.
The Returners
A pair of players selected in 
last month's draft decided to stick around for another year.
The Gators will see the return 
of catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz and second baseman 
Deacon Liput next season. 
Schwarz led the team in home 
runs last year with 12 and ﬁ  nished 
second in hits with 67. 
When Rivera missed 22 games 
with a broken hamate bone last season, Schwarz alternated between playing catcher and ﬁ  rst base, providing Florida with solid 
defense.
The Palm Beach Gardens 
native had a .259 batting average 
with 56 RBIs and should be a  Gators lose seven, add 13 to 2018 rosterMorgan Meets The 
Eye / Opinion
My crush is into something called 
“lateral-thinking puzzles”. They’re 
fun little riddles presenting an odd scenario that you have to ﬁ  gure out. 
For example: A man walks up to 
a bartender and asks for a glass of water. The bartender shoves a gun in the man’s face, the man thanks the bartender, then leaves. Why?
As irksome as it is trying to ﬁ  gure 
something like that out, I can do Don't buy the 
Mayweather-
McGregor  hype
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain walks by fans before Florida's 32-0 win against North 
T exas on Sept. 17, 2016, at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Alex Faedo pitches during Florida's 1-0 win against LSU on March 24, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The biggest storyline 
surrounding Florida’s football team 
this offseason is a simple one.
Who will be the Gators starting 
quarterback?
Redshirt freshman Feleipe 
Franks appeared locked in at the position this spring after putting 
on a strong showing at UF’s Orange and Blue Debut on April 7. 
However, the recent news of Malik 
Zaire’s transfer from South Bend to Gainesville puts the situation in 
murky waters once again.
Coach Jim McElwain attended 
the 2017 SEC Football Media Days 
on Tuesday and was asked about 
the competition under center.
The 55-year-old denied reaching 
a decision on who would start, stating he’d ﬁ  gured out "a lot 
of things" at his Montana lake 
house this summer, but “starting 
quarterback wasn’t one of them.”
“Who knows?” McElwain said 
about the position battle. “I’ll know who it’s going to be… when the times comes.”
McElwain’s claim that he hasn’t 
decided yet between Franks and Zaire contradicts a report from the Gainesville Sun’s Robbie Andreu. 
Andreu tweeted on Tuesday the 
third-year coach does know who his quarterback will be, but is “not ready to announce it” at this time.
Regardless of whether he’s 
already determined who will run 
the offense or not, McElwain said 
he is pleased with the depth Zaire 
adds to the position.
“Competition breeds excellence 
in whatever you’re doing in life,” 
he said. “Anytime you’re able to 
enhance competition, now you’ve 
got an opportunity to get a little bit better.”
Ivey ready to anchor offensive 
line
When the Gators kick off 
the 2017 regular season against Michigan on Sept. 2, Martez Ivey will ﬁ  nally be back at the position 
he played in high school: left tackle.
The 6-foot-5, 305-pound 
Apopka, Florida, native was moved to left guard his freshman year due 
to a lack of depth on UF’s offensive 
line.
Two seasons and 20 starts later,  
Ivey is ready to shift back outside.
The junior made the switch 
to tackle this spring following 
the departure of David Sharpe to the NFL draft. He’s continued to 
work on the position change this 
summer, and said on Tuesday he once again feels acclimated to protecting the blind side.
“At times it was kind of rough 
because I was used to playing 
guard the past two years,” Ivey 
said. “But I believe now it’s ﬂ  owing 
pretty well.”
Ivey and the rest of his linemates 
ﬁ  gure to make a big impact on UF’s 
offense this fall. McElwain dubbed 
the unit the “strength of our football 
team” on Tuesday afternoon, citing the improvements he’s witnessed 
at each position.
Redshirt sophomore T.J. McCoy 
and sophomore Jawaan Taylor 
appear locked in at the center and 
right tackle spots, respectively, 
while junior Fred Johnson, junior Tyler Jordan and redshirt freshman 
Brett Heggie are the frontrunners 
for left and right guard.
“We’re at the the point right 
now where, you know what, it’s time to go,” McElwain said on the 
offensive line playing a big role in 
2017. “It’s time to get this thing going.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Notebook: McElwain remains mum on starting quarterback
Morgan McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMufﬁ  nTHURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
focal point in Florida's lineup 
next year.
For Liput, the draft-eligible 
sophomore struggled offensively last season, but turned it around in the postseason, batting .260 in the NCAA Tournament.
The Oviedo, Florida, native 
was a driving force behind UF’s Super Regional win against Wake Forest, going 5-for-12 with three RBIs that weekend.
Both players should give 
Florida some veteran leadership next season as it defends its national title.
The FreshmenWhile the Gators lost some 
established players and highly-ranked recruits to the draft, 
they still boast the No. 2-ranked 
freshman class of 2018, according to Perfect Game. 
Florida has 13 newcomers  
joining the program next season, four of whom are ranked in the top-100 nationally. That includes shortstop Brady McConnell, the No. 5-ranked shortstop in the 
country, according to Perfect 
Game. The Merritt Island, Florida, native was drafted by the Reds in the 33rd round, but decided not 
to sign.
Rounding out the shortstops 
in the class are Shane Shifﬂ  ett 
and Jose Ciccarello, the No. 21- 
and No. 41-ranked shortstops, 
respectively.
Other position players include 
catchers Calvin Greenﬁ  eld and Brady Smith, the No. 6- and No. 
9-ranked backstops, respectively, 
and outﬁ  elder Justin Farmer, a native of Riverview, Florida.
With the departures of Faedo, 
Lee and Rubio to the MLB, O’Sullivan also brought in some pitchers who hope to make an immediate impact.
Florida added seven freshmen 
to its staff, led by a trio of right-handers in Jack Leftwich, Garrett "Hunter" Ruth and Tommy Mace, the 13th-, 18th- and 23rd-best 
pitchers, respectively.
Rounding out UF’s recruiting 
class are right-handers Hunter 
McMullen and Connor Churchill and left-handers Jordan Butler 
and Colton Gordon-Zimring. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
 BASEBALL,  from pg. 14UF has the No. 2-ranked recruiting class according to Perfect Game
2018 FLORIDA BASEBALL FRESHMAN CLASS
JORDAN BUTLER
LHP (ODESSA, FL)
CONNOR CHURCHILL
RHP (PALM HARBOR, FL)
JOSE CICCARELLO
SS (TAMPA, FL)
JUSTIN FARMER
OF (RIVERVIEW, FL)
COLTON GORDON-ZIMRING
LHP (ST. PETE BEACH, FL)
CALVIN GREENFIELD
C (JENSEN BEACH, FL)JACK LEFTWICH
RHP (MAITLAND, FL)
TOMMY MACE
RHP (TAMPA, FL)
BRADY McCONNELL
SS (MERRIT ISLAND, FL)
HUNTER McMULLEN
RHP (OCALA, FL)
GARRETT “HUNTER” RUTH
RHP (GAINESVILLE, FL)
SHANE SHIFFLETT
SS (VENICE, FL)
BRADY SMITH
C (NICEVILLE, FL)16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
one even better: Two men walk around a 
square platform for 48 minutes. They don’t do anything of value, but when they leave, they’re each hundreds of millions of dollars richer than when they entered. How?
If the second puzzle is infuriating to you, 
don’t worry. The fact that Conor McGregor and Floyd Mayweather Jr. can get away with robbing the country bumpkins who will pay to watch their “ﬁ  ght” is beyond all logic for 
most right-thinking people.
According to Forbes, Mayweather 
Jr. could make up to $400 million while 
McGregor would get $127 million, should the pay-per-view projections pan out. And holy cow, that is entirely too much for how this ﬁ  ght will ultimately go down.
Let’s be real, here’s how the majority of 
us will watch this ﬁ  ght: Through the power of Twitter and Instagram, we will see the 
few blows each ﬁ  ghter managed to land on 
the other person. And then?
Judge’s decision. How freakin’ fun.Just be aware that there are those among 
us who will gladly shell out the $99.95 to watch about three hours of advertisements leading up to the most disappointing ﬁ  ght since ‘Batman v. Superman.’If for some reason you decide to practice 
this exercise in self-masochism and actually watch the ﬁ  ght, then I can’t decide whether 
to pity you or laugh at you. Sure, it’ll be a 
once-in-a-lifetime event that promises to be the talk of social media for the evening and perhaps the next morning. And yes, there are bound to be countless memes and gifs that arise from this dance of debauchery.
But this is a media stunt. A public con 
job.
Mayweather is an excellent “defensive” 
boxer. That’s the rather generous term bestowed upon him by boxing analysts meaning that he hasn’t knocked out an opponent in nearly six years. It’s also because he tends to spend the majority of ﬁ  ghts dancing around the ring after landing a few punches for the judges. 
McGregor, on the other hand, has four 
knockouts (three by TKO) in the last two-
plus years. He is, however, ﬁ  ghting out of 
his element, so it’s a wash.
Just like this whole ﬁ  ght will be. The man asking for a glass of water 
from the bartender had the hiccups. The bartender, realizing this, used the gun to scare the man and thus rid him of his ailment.
I’m afraid that the outcome of August’s 
ﬁ  ght will be much less satisfying. COLUMN,  from pg. 14Forbes projects Mayweather Jr. to make up to $400 million
The Associated Press
Conor McGregor (right) taunts Floyd Mayweather Jr. while posing for photos during a press 
conference on July 11, 2017, in Los Angeles.
