We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator2,997 ﬂ  ags for the fallen 
The ﬂ  ags were to honor lives lost in 9/11, pg 3.
Animals headed north after Irma 
Local humane society is sending about 360 cats and dogs, pg 5.Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
Gators football team to take on 
Tennessee 
The Gators need a win Saturday to avoid start-ing the season 0-2, pg 13.
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
GPD IS INVESTIGATING 
THE OFFICER.
By Kaylee Kaestle 
Alligator Contributing Writer
One of the three “hot cops” in a 
viral selﬁ  e posted by Gainesville Po-
lice on Sunday is under investigation 
for anti-semitic comments he posted 
online.
The photo of GPD Ofﬁ  cers John Nordman, Michael Hamill and Dan Rengering received more than 183,000 comments and 292,000 
likes, as of press time, and a tweet 
from Ellen DeGeneres asking for more photos of the men, who had snapped the selﬁ  e before starting post-Hurricane Irma cleanup. Four 
days later, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben Tobias announced GPD would internally investigate Hamill and re-view allegations.Prior to their deletion, Hamill’s 
personal Facebook page showed that the ofﬁ  cer made comments about 
concentration camps and welfare.
“So I ﬁ  nd it funny that people 
will talk about how our govern-
ment needs to do something about our economy and in reality it’s YOU 
who needs to stop taking advantage 
of our system and get a life and do something with your life. Gotta love reality when it hits you in the face. Stupid people annoy me. Put them in an oven and deal with them the Hitler way. Haha,” read one August 
2011 post.
“Who knew that reading jewish 
jokes before I go to bed would not 
only make me feel better about my-self but also help me to sleep better 
as well. Here is one for everybody, 
‘What’s the difference between boy scouts and jews?’ Anybody know? Well it is because ‘Boy scouts come back from their camps,’” read anoth-er post from April 2013.
The details of the internal inves-
tigation are conﬁ  dential until the in-vestigation is complete, Tobias said. As of press time, it is unknown if Hamill will face any repercussions.
Eyal Abadi, a UF computer sci-
ence sophomore and the UF Chabad director of education, saw GPD’s original post of the “hot cops” and 
Viral Gainesville ‘hot cop’ in hot seat for Facebook posts Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
DANCING FOR DAYS
Student enrolled in the Fundamentals of Dance course at UF holds an arabesque position 
during class on Thursday afternoon. 
THE SENATOR ASKED 
CABLE PROVIDERS 
TO GIVE RELIEF TO 
HURRICANE VICTIMS.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite three hard days without 
power and water, 9-year-old Ali-cia’s face lit up Thursday after her U.S. senator bent down to hug and console her. “Those children,” Sen. Bill Nel-
son said after meeting Alicia, her older brother Jefrey, 12, and their grandfather, Danny Harrell. “The hope in their eyes.” 
Nelson visited a Salvation Army 
free lunch event Thursday in Ar-cher at about 1 p.m. at Maddox Park, located at 129th Place. The event was for residents still without power and water after Hurricane Irma passed over Alachua County early Monday morning with tropi-cal-storm-force winds and rain. For about an hour, the Salva-
tion Army’s four-man crew served more than 100 turkey and ham sandwiches to about 60 residents and prepared themselves to serve a hamburger dinner to more people at 4 p.m. 
Archer City Manager Zeriah 
Folston said he knew his city would need as much help after Hurricane Irma as they could get. 
“I have a lot of low-income 
residents, even compared to east Gainesville and Gainesville,” Folston said. “Their freezers are shot, they really needed food, pre-pared food.” 
The senator asked residents at 
the event about their stories, their hardships and pain during the week after Irma.  
For Harrell, 60, the senator 
taking time for people in a small town like Archer and listening to the fears of his two grandchildren means everything to him. 
“We need more people like 
him talking to us out here in the woods,” Harrell said. “This is the way it should be.” 
Nelson also drafted letters to the 
CEOs of nine top cable, telephone and internet service providers, in-cluding Cox Enterprises, Comcast and Verizon Wireless, asking for the companies to provide rebates and waive late fees for customers impacted by Hurricane Irma.
The senator requested a 60-day 
halt on late fees in the letter.
“It’s important that consumers 
Sen. Nelson visits Alachua County post-hurricane
SEE NELSON,  PAGE 4
SEE GPD,  PAGE 4BY THURSDAY, ABOUT 40    
STUDENTS HAD REACHED OUT.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When Hannah Rosenoff read an email 
announcing that UF was offering ﬁ  nancial 
aid to students affected by Hurricane Irma, 
she wasn’t surprised.
“I noticed it and thought, ‘This should 
be done,’” the 20-year-old UF wildlife and ecology conservation junior said. 
After the storm knocked down trees 
and ﬂ  ooded streets in Gainesville, UF an-nounced Wednesday it will provide mon-ey to students who had their possessions 
damaged.
Tammy Aagard, the associate vice pres-
ident for enrollment management, wrote in an email that as of Thursday night, about 
40 students had asked UF about the aid, and the ofﬁ  ce has issued fewer than 10 ap-
plications for more aid. Aagard said they’re putting together an announcement about 
funding sources, to be released later. 
“The University of Florida administra-
tion made the decision based on the seri-ous nature of this disaster and its impacts on our students,” Aagard said.
To apply, students must submit a spe-
cial disaster relief aid application by Oct. 20 to the ofﬁ  ce of Student Financial Affairs, 
which will review each application based 
on individual needs, Aagard said.  
Students requesting up to $500 must 
provide a signed statement outlining their needs and how the aid will help. If students request more than $500, they must provide 
photos of damaged items and estimates for 
replacements and repairs, she said. 
Students who already applied for ﬁ  -
nancial aid using the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, also known as FAFSA, can apply to be re-evaluated by the ofﬁ  ce.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgUF oﬀ  ers additional ﬁ  nancial 
aid to students after IrmaSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 10
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
HIGH  88° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING 
“Free Friday” concert series: The 
Imposters 
The Impostors will bring the Beatles to life Friday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. as part of the “Free 
Fridays” concert series on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza. The Gainesville group will be cel-ebrating the 50th anniversary of 
the release of the “Sgt. Pepper’s 
Lonely Hearts Club Band” album 
with selections from that record 
and songs from every part of the Beatles’ career. They’ll throw in some Jimi Hendrix and The Byrds, too. The event is free and open to the public.
Viva Museum
Celebrate South American cul-
ture from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Saturday at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Enjoy the musical groups Danzas PeruJax and 5 Notas as they perform tra-ditional Latino music and dance, and view seldom-seen Andean artifacts from the museum’s South American ethnographic collection. This is a bilingual, fun-for-all-ages event. For more information, visit floridamuse-
um.ufl.edu/event/viva-museum 
or call 352-273-2061.
English and citizenship classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program of-fers free English and citizenship classes at the Alachua County Library District Millhopper 
Library Branch, located at 3145 
NW 43rd St. English classes will be Tuesday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14, and citizenship classes will be Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more information or to register, visit latinawomens-
league.org or email info@latina-
womensleaguer.org. 
Pirate Murder Mystery
Celebrate National Talk Like a Pirate Day at the Florida Museum of Natural History with some murd-argh Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Come 
dressed in swashbuckling attire 
and join the museum for this pirate-themed interactive theater event. The experience includes a served buffet and a signature cocktail. Pre-registration is re-quired. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/murder-mystery or call 
352-273-2061.
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is 
hosting the Fall Study Abroad Fair at the North Lawn on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad program directors and independent pro-
gram providers will have table 
displays and be available to an-swer questions. Former study-abroad students will share their international experiences. The UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application process and to help students find the right program. 
Overseas internship opportuni-
ties are available. Study abroad can be used to satisfy Summer residency requirements, and most financial aid can be used. For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-1539. 
Hispanic Heritage month: Fiesta 
Fiesta is one of the seven inter-nal programming events dur-ing Hispanic Heritage Month. This social event will feature a Spanish music festival experi-ence. The theme is Vida en Color (which means Life in Color). With food, giveaways and a great outdoor vibe, all individu-
als can enjoy and learn about 
the Hispanic culture. Fiesta will be held on Flavet Field on Sept. 29 at 7 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Ride  Smarter! 
BIKE EDUCATION IN GAINESVILLE
Ride your bike safely, confidently, and legally.
The Gainesville Cycling Club has an educational program to 
promote best practices of street cycling. We offer workshops to help teens and adults improve their cycling skills as well as outreach presentations to inform participants about the rights and responsibilities of motorists and cyclists sharing the road. For more info  on the program, contact Stephen Perz, GCC Bicycle Ed. Director at Stephen_perz@yahoo.com  
or visit the GCC website at www. gccfla.org .
Message brought to you by the Alachua County-wide  
Bicycle/Ped Advisory Board ( BPAB)
(352) 393-8493 / www.cityofgainesville.org/bikepedLooking for Team 
Members to bring a 
European medical 
device to market  
in the USA.
• Full or part time,  
flexible hours
• Training and materials 
provided
• No quotas and excellent 
earning potential
• No experience necessary
• Work with UF MBA, 
Nationwide
Contact Gator Holistic Services
941-345-7705 to start immediately.
Have you been 
diagnosed with 
TMD (TMJ) or 
have experienced 
facial pain for at 
least 3 months?
•In this study, you will 
be randomly assigned to reciev e either study 
drug or placebo to determine if your TMD pain lessens.
•The drug being used 
•The drug being used 
for this study is approv ed by the Food 
and Drug Administration for other health conditions.
•The study requires 
•The study requires 
you to come visit our clinic for 6 visits for over a period of 12-15 
weeks.  Each visit will 
last approximately 2-4 hours.
For more information please 
contact:
352-273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hurricane Irma damage may cost 
the UF Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences millions of dollars.
“We did better than we feared,” 
said Jeanna Mastrodicasa, the IFAS 
associate vice president for opera-
tions.
Mastrodicasa said she worried 
IFAS, with more than 1,000 buildings and about 25,000 acres in Florida, would lose nearly everything in the storm. However, most facilities faced minimal damage.
But the damage IFAS did expe-
rience could still be costly. A de-stroyed greenhouse alone could cost $400,000, she said.
The exact cost of repairs is unde-
termined because IFAS is still listing damages for insurance claims and federal assistance, she said.
The Southwest Florida Research 
and Education Center and the Hast-
ings Agricultural Extension Center 
have some of the most drastic dam-ages and ﬂ  ooding, Mastrodicasa said. The Hastings center, west of St. Au-gustine, deals with farming practices, 
while SWFREC staff in Immokalee, 
Florida, research vegetables and cit-rus.
Mastrodicasa said all research 
ﬁ  elds at SWFREC were ruined, with citrus taking the hardest hit. The storm blew fruits off trees and into ﬂ  oodwaters
Faculty conducting research have 
to start over, she said.
Calvin Arnold, the Immokalee center director, said about 50 percent of crops and about 25 percent of the trees were lost.
He said it’s easier to recover from 
damage to faster growing crops like tomatoes or watermelons.
“Citrus is very difﬁ  cult because 
there will not be another crop until this time next year,” he said.
Monica Ozores-Hampton is a UF 
associate professor working at the Immokalee extension ofﬁ  ce, where 
she specializes in vegetable horticul-
ture.She said she could lose trees she 
planted around 2013 and may have to start her research over. 
“I’m not very hopeful,” she said.The two centers are expected to 
reopen Monday. 
Mastrodicasa said some staff are 
still without power or have a tree through their house, but they have been working to get IFAS up and running.
“It’s been difﬁ  cult times,” she 
said. “We’re trying to be as support-ive and realistic as possible.”
Irma may cost UF IFAS millions in building damages, cropsBy Heaven T aylor-Wynn
Alligator Contributing Writer
Horacio Ruiz-Lugo was young when 9/11 
happened, but even then he was scared.
“I was shocked that something like that 
can even happen,” the 19-year-old said. 
On Thursday morning, Ruiz-Lugo, a UF 
ﬁ  nance sophomore, admired the expanse of 2,997 American ﬂ  ags on the Plaza of the Americas, set up as a 9/11 memorial to honor those who lost their lives in the terrorist at-
tack. 
UF’s chapter of Young Americans for Free-
dom set up the display. Danny Weldon Jr., 
a UF political science and history junior and the club’s chairman, said the project is a ﬁ  rst for the chapter. Each ﬂ  ag represents some-body who lost their life in the terror attacks. The project was postponed from the initial date because of Hurricane Irma. 
About 15 club members set up the ﬂ  ags at 
6 a.m., which ﬂ  ew until about 10 p.m. It took about two hours to set up. 
Weldon said he thinks the memorial is 
an important part of being an American and goes beyond the organization’s conservative goals. 
“Sometimes there are things that tran-scend whatever your ideology is, and I think commemorating those lives is a big part of that,” he said. 
Members of the organization raised about 
$475 through outreach and a social media campaign to fund the memorial, Weldon said. 
“We really want to make sure that people 
remember this important day. The whole goal of this is to commemorate those lives that were lost,” Weldon said. Nearly 3,000 ﬂ  ags ﬂ  y to honor lives lost in 9/114   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
thought the comments were funny. On Thurs-
day, a friend shared Hamill’s posts with Abadi, and he felt disappointed.
“It made me proud to live in Gainesville, 
but with this, I don’t know,” the 19-year-old said. Abadi said GPD should conduct better 
background checks.
“Everyone looks up to the police, and they 
need to make sure to not let this happen,” Aba-di said. “As a university with one of the largest Jewish student populations, we shouldn’t see this happen.”
After the original viral post, Tobias said GPD would meet demands of enthusiastic commenters and release a calendar benefiting 
Hurricane Irma relief.
“Y’all should do a calendar, where you’re 
half dressed, for charity….” commented one 
person.
Angelica Williams, a 30-year-old Gainesville 
resident who has worked with GPD before, said she thought a calendar is a great idea.
After Hamill’s posts were released publicly, 
Williams said the calendar should still be made and Hamill should be careful about what he 
posts.
“It wouldn’t change my opinion about get-
ting the calendar because it goes to a great 
cause,” she said. “Jewish history is one of those things. It happened. It’s just really not 
something to joke about.”
GPD,  from pg 1He posted anti-Semitic jokes in 2011 and 2013David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
Sen. Bill Nelson chats with 9-year-old Alicia, her older brother, 12-year-old Jefrey, and their grandfather, 
60-year-old Danny Harrell, at a Salvation Army lunch event on Thursday at Maddox Park, located at 129th Place, for Archer residents without power or water after Hurricane Irma. 
not be saddled with late fees and other unnecessary costs.” Nelson said. “Now is the time to lend a helping hand to your fellow Americans.” Nelson and Sen. Marco Rubio also asked the head of FEMA to help restore wireless service to Florida in a letter sent 
Tuesday. 
In Alachua County, 5,191 
residents remain without pow-
er, which is about 5 percent of 
Gainesville Regional Utilities’ 
customer base, said GRU spokes-
person Lauren Munsey. 
For Marion County resident 
Ashley Hammer, the days follow-
ing Irma have been brutal. 
Hammer, 34, hasn’t had 
power since late Sunday with as 
many as eight people under her roof at any point — her husband, Sean, her grandparents and her five children. 
One of her children, 15-year-
old Brennan, has cerebral palsy, a movement disorder that result-ed from a birth injury, Hammer said. 
With one generator running 
on gas that is hard to find, a low supply of bottled water and dwindling food, Hammer said she’s unsure how much longer they can hold out.
She said Nelson’s proposal 
to cable and internet providers would go a long way. 
“There’s four weeks in a 
month; we haven’t been able to use our service for a week now,” she said. “We’re running on hope.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org NELSON,  from pg 1About 5,200 county   
residents without power FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
PHYSICAL PLANT IS NOW
FacilitiesServices.ufl.eduPREEMINENT FACILITIES ARE VITAL  
 FOR A PREEMINENT UNIVERSITY.
We’re moving UF forward, 
with every step you take.New utility upgrades installed under Gale Lemerand 
Drive over the summer will soon support dozens of buildings for years to come, including the head-quarters of the New Engineer — at the Herbert Wertheim Laboratory for Engineering Excellence.Our utilities teams are helping transform the heart of campus.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgClosing UF and our decision to reopen
Why is UF open today?  Why didn’t we 
announce before Hurricane Irma, like Florida State University, that classes won’t resume until Monday of next week?  Why was UF planning to re-
main open on Friday of last week as the storm bore down?  
Those are some of the questions I’ve received 
during the past week and some that you may wonder about as well. UF and the University of South Florida are the only large universities in the state that have classes today. UF reopened Wednesday, and classes resumed Thursday. Many members of our UF com-munity have experienced severe hardship due to the hurri-
cane. Some of those with family and friends in other parts of 
the state have seen them lose their homes and personal be-longings. Here in Gainesville, many employees and students living off campus still do not have power or even running water. Although our campus never lost power, and no build-ings suffered signiﬁ  cant structural damage, it will likely take more than a year for our natural environment to recover.
UF has an emergency operations team that closely moni-
tors weather-related threats, particularly potential hurri-
canes. When UF opens a shelter, the emergency operations 
team of nearly 40 people moves into a weather-hardened, 24/7 emergency operations center and does not move out until the last evacuee leaves UF’s shelters. 
When emergency operations becomes aware of a signiﬁ  -
cant threat such as a hurricane, the emergency policy group, consisting of more than 20 campus leaders including the president, is activated. It is this policy group that determines when the campus should be closed and when classes should 
be canceled. 
The ultimate responsibility for campus closures, how-
ever, rests with the president.
Our overriding concern is always the safety of our stu-
dents, employees and the people in our community.  If we 
believe our students and employees will be safe, then UF will usually open with normal class schedules — even when members of our community are experiencing personal hard-ships. The circumstances are always complex and the decision is inﬂ  uenced by dozens of factors — again, with safety as the primary concern.
There will be numerous students and employ-
ees who cannot be back on campus now that 
it has reopened and classes have resumed. For 
those individuals, we are committed to being as understanding and as ﬂ  exible as possible as everyone safely manages their personal circum-stances.
The State University System is discussing to-
day whether the semester should be extended for some uni-versities, which could impact holidays and December com-mencement. Unlike K-12 public schools, universities don’t 
have built-in make-up days for closures.
Here is some post-hurricane information you may ﬁ  nd 
helpful:
-Students who face ﬁ  nancial hardships caused by the 
storm may be eligible for ﬁ  nancial assistance and should 
contact the ofﬁ  ce of Student Financial Affairs at 352-392-1275 or visit Criser Hall, Room S107.
-Faculty and staff who are experiencing a temporary ﬁ  -
nancial hardship or who wish to donate to those who are, 
may participate in the Aid-a-Gator emergency funding pro-
gram, which has been established by UF Human Resource Services. For more information or to make a donation to the program, visit hr.uﬂ  .edu/aidagator. 
-Anyone wishing to volunteer or to help with hurricane 
recovery locally can ﬁ  nd out more through Volunteer Flor-ida, volunteerﬂ  orida.org/irma; Gators Volunteer, gatorsvol-unteer.uﬂ  .edu; or by donating food or becoming involved with the Field and Fork Pantry, ﬁ  eldandfork.uﬂ  .edu. 
As always, I welcome your input, both positive and nega-
tive. My personal email is kent.fuchs@uﬂ  .edu. If you have someone you would like to thank, please let me know and I will pass along the praise. So many in the UF community have personally sacriﬁ  ced for others and for this campus the past week. I am forever grateful. 
Kent Fuchs is the UF president.You pop your head out of your apartment door. It’s Mon-
day, Sept. 11, 2017 — the day after Hurricane Irma hit. You 
and your roommates decide now that the storm has passed, it would be fun to navigate the great outdoors and investigate 
the damage Irma left behind.
You’ve been watching Snapchat stories all morning posted 
by your more daring friends who rose along with the sun and 
ventured out to explore. You have already heard the devastat-
ing news of the tree outside the Physics Building and plan to 
pay your respects. Now, it was time for you to experience the effects of Irma ﬁ  rsthand.
After crossing through puddles that look more like lakes 
and trees that no longer stand tall and erect, you come across 
a rather unique pile of debris on the ground.
As you and your roommates come closer to the pile, you 
realize the collection of debris spells out a body of text. The 
debris reads:
Darts & Laurels
Well, dear reader, it would appear after several cases of 
bottled water and a superﬂ  uous amount of canned foods, we made it through Irma. Our city stands tall and with minimal 
damage, and for that we are forever thankful. Our luck during 
the storm was both surprising and appreciated.
Unfortunately, we are still weathering some of the damage 
Irma left behind. Many are still without power and Gainesville 
residents are still navigating around the new pools of water 
and clumps of debris Irma left behind. The wrath of Irma that still remains is our ﬁ  rst dart of the week.
Despite Irma’s impact however, it can also be seen as a 
laurel for the Gainesville area. Our community had no casu-
alties, and our city did not face any irreparable damage. Those 
who did lose power or face other difﬁ  culties had a wealth of support surrounding them. Club and organization leaders of-fered to lend a hand, and UF itself made sure every student 
was prepared during and before the storm.
Sure, Irma was bad, but a lot of people had it much worse 
than we did. For our luck, we should be thankful.
Now, enough about the weather, we’ve got bigger things to 
worry about. Namely, the impending visit of a certain Nazi/white supremacist. Although the news got somewhat over-
shadowed by the storm, it would appear that Richard Spencer still plans on visiting our beloved Swamp. 
Now, dear readers, we at the Alligator are big fans of free 
speech and don’t wish to impede Spencer’s right to speak free-ly. However, we are even bigger fans of keeping our Student Body safe. Although Spencer himself is not leading riots or harming innocent people, it would appear that these types of things tend to follow him wherever he goes. Spencer’s loom-
ing visit rightfully deserves a dart.
A ﬁ  nal dart goes to a Gainesville “hot cop” who got his 
15 minutes of fame this week. His beard may be attractive, 
but his vile anti-Semitic Facebook posts are deﬁ  nitely not. Just 
goes to show that beauty is only skin deep. Now can we move 
onto the next internet fad?
As usual, we want to leave you with a positive note to kick 
off your weekend. After years of tireless work by UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs and the rest of the UF community, we 
ﬁ  nally did it. UF is ofﬁ  cially a top 10 public university. We 
recently jumped ﬁ  ve spots up from our previous No. 14 spot, and we are now ranked  No. 9 in the nation for public schools and No. 42 for all universities. Not too bad of a laurel  with 
which to end the week.Column
ColumnFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
CUSTOM E-BIKES 
STARTING AT $1200
(352) 213-5815
1535 NW 6th St., Gainesville, FL
www.thebatteryland.com
As far as hurricanes go, Hurricane Irma 
was one for the history books. As the largest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean, it steadily grew in power as it meandered its way over 
warm ocean waters. For more than a week, Irma had the undivided attention of Floridians, as well as the entire country. The week prior, Hurricane Harvey caused billions of dollars worth of destruction in Houston.
In general, Floridians tend to seriously 
downplay the signiﬁ  cance of hurricanes. We have all grown up hearing about, going through and dealing with them. With so many 
false alarms many of us have developed a hab-
it of not caring about any storm until it reaches a Category 2 or 3 and has a projected path that goes directly through our backyard. Any other scenario we tend to put aside and forget.
All of this makes sense, too. From about 
May through September, Florida can experi-ence severe afternoon thunderstorms, the mag-nitude of which sends northerners cowering in 
fear. Virtually every afternoon over the sum-mer, even if for only 20 minutes, 
we experience torrential downpours and more lightning than almost any-where else in the world. The point is that, as Floridians, we have grown 
habituated to nasty weather. During 
much of the year, we have no other choice but simply to live with it and work around it. As with anything that occurs frequently, we get used to it, and so the concept of terrible weather actually being dangerous, or even life-threatening, starts to fade away.
Equipped with this attitude and the pride 
that comes from living in “the Australia of the USA,” we have a tendency not to give hurri-canes the respect they deserve. Just last week, a Category 5 hurricane was barreling toward the state, and much of the population was more concerned with whether certain football games would be played.
One week before Irma made landfall in 
Florida, my roommate and I saw a guy ﬁ  ll-
ing up a half-dozen canisters of gasoline and laughed at the sight. Irma, whose 
name we hadn’t even bothered to learn yet, was still a thousand miles away in the Atlantic, out of sight and out of mind. 
In the days before, during and 
following the storm, however, the state of Florida made me quite proud, as the government ran like a well-oiled machine. Gov. Rick Scott took no chances with Irma, and pre-
pared an environment as evacuator-friendly as possible: no tolls, plenty of time and warnings to get out, ample information being provided 
to the right areas and an abundance of ﬁ  rst-
responders at the ready.
I am writing this column on my back porch 
the day after Irma swept through Central Flori-da. More than 300,000 people in Orange Coun-ty are currently without power, and I am one of them. Over the past 24 hours, I have listened to the voices of my state’s leaders over the radio provide updates and instructions constantly. I 
can hear my neighbor’s chainsaw next door, clearing a path to the main road, and I can see 
the large white trucks of the electric company working on my town’s archaic power-line sys-tem. It seems like everyone has done their job and done it well.
Irma hit Florida and hit us hard, but we 
were as prepared as I’ve ever seen a state be in the face of a natural disaster, especially when given a week’s notice. Storms like Irma remind us just how little control we have over Mother Nature, but the proactive actions of the state’s government and its citizens minimized Irma’s destructive effects. The mass movement of people because of Irma has been a pain but 
it certainly beats whatever terrible outcomes 
might have occurred had the state not pre-pared in the way it did. All in all, I was thor-oughly impressed with the actions of the state government and truly believe the precaution-ary measures taken by them saved many lives.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
I have to give Ryan Murphy credit. I didn’t think there could be an “American Hor-ror Story” season worse than the fourth season, “American Horror Story: Freak Show,” but two episodes into “Cult,” I 
think I have to call it.
The thing that made “Freak Show” the 
weakest of the “AHS” seasons (until now) was that it simply wasn’t scary. Although the char-acters were interesting, the storyline, dragging a bit at times, still had momentum and direc-
tion. It just lacked the scare factor. I felt more 
like I was watching some particularly violent 
period drama about a circus than something 
that prides itself on horror. But I digress.
This current season of “AHS” doesn’t even 
have good characters and story to go for it, let 
alone any sort of scare factor.
"Cult" takes place in the months after last 
year’s election. The characters are painful ste-reotypes of sheltered liberals and fear-monger-ing President Donald Trump supporters, with almost no character, save for the little boy, 
who is remotely relatable. These aren’t stereo-
types that offer any sort of insight or commen-tary to the current political climate; there are ways to do that properly, but this isn’t one of them. For one, it’s too soon, honestly. This is the type of thing that could be poignant 
in a decade or so, but right now 
… it’s making me cringe because it’s trying so hard to be relevant. I think someone was hired to make sure each episode contained topical buzzwords — viral! Triggered! PC 
Police! Lesbians! Dark web! Immigrants! Lena 
Dunham! Twitter! Beyoncé!
There is no clear plot direction, other than, 
“The election happened and this is the reac-
tion.” All the other seasons had some sort of goal, some sort of clear plot from the very start. I can’t even tell you where this one is going — and not in a good way. There’s a difference between “Wow! What happens next?” and “Wow … what is even happening?”
Additionally, the strong point of “AHS” has 
always been its supernatural elements. The 
ﬁ  rst season, dubbed “Murder House,” was 
built on the concept of a haunted house. It is considered by most fans to be the best and the scariest of the seasons. The ﬁ  rst half of last season, which relied more on suspense and a good old-fashioned built-up scare, 
was much stronger than the lat-
ter half, which relied on the shock values of cannibalism and torture. The only suspenseful serial killer of the series was the second season’s Bloody Face. The ﬁ  fth season’s 
Ten Commandments Killer reminded me of a 
bad “Seven” knock-off, and the third season’s 
Madame Delphine LaLaurie ended up being a 
source of dark humor. Taking away the super-
natural from “AHS” strips the show of its most deﬁ  ning element. If it could pull off serial kill-ers well, maybe it could work, but the average 40-minute episode of “Criminal Minds” has more compelling and interesting serial killers than the ones who span these whole seasons.
“Cult” takes away the supernatural ele-
ments. It takes away this whole world and my-
thology of “AHS” which was the sole thing that 
redeemed “Freak Show.”The latter half of season six was hailed by 
Murphy to be an incredible plot twist no one would see coming. But, in fact, almost every-one predicted it by the end of the ﬁ  rst episode — that this “show within a show” would go 
behind the scenes. That, I think, is the main 
ﬂ  aw of this new era of “AHS”: The creators are treating the audience like they are stupid.
They think the half-ﬂ  eshed twists will keep 
us watching, that the shock value of the trypo-phobia and the clowns are enough to scare us 
and that we will look at these laughably bad 
stereotypical characters and be overwhelmed 
with some sort of epiphany about our political 
climate.
When I watch this show, I want to be 
scared. I don’t want to cringe at the 10th forced 
pop-culture reference or to yawn when creepy clowns start miming sex on kitchen counters. At the very least, I want to care about the plot and the characters.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.The preparations we made for Hurricane Irma probably saved our lives
Sorry, but 'American Horror Story: Cult' just isn’t all that scary
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgAndrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Wednesday 
night for violently threatening multiple people 
and violating his previous felony probation, Gainesville Police said. 
Antonio Devonte Foye, 20, was arguing with 
a group of people at Granada Apartments, lo-cated at 1800 NW Fourth St., at about 7 p.m. over social media posts, according to an arrest report. Police said witnesses heard Foye say he would be back to “shoot this s--- out.”
The people Foye was arguing with fled, 
locked themselves inside their apartment and called the police. Foye returned a short time later with a backpack, which the victims said was where Foye kept his firearm, wrote GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias in an email. When the officers confronted Foye, Tobias 
said they found a Hi-Point .380-caliber handgun in his front right pant pocket. Foye was arrested 
on charges of carrying a concealed weapon and 
aggravated assault, according to the arrest re-port. 
Foye is on felony probation for burglary of 
an unoccupied structure. His two-year proba-tion began in October 2016, with the condition that he does not have any new law violations, according to the report. 
“Our officers did an excellent job taking an-
other gun out of the hands of a criminal,” To-bias said. 
Foye was taken to the Alachua County Jail 
and, as of press time, remains in jail without bond. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgBy Courtney Mims 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will be able to get 40 percent 
off career clothing at JCPenney thanks to a UF partnership. 
The UF David F. Miller Retail Center and 
The Oaks Mall JCPenney have teamed up 
for the first Suit Up event. Students and fac-
ulty with a valid Gator 1 Card can shop from 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday, to purchase professional clothing, said Cecilia Schulz, the director of student programs at the Mill-er Retail Center.  
“Whether you are seeking an internship 
or a career, you need to dress professionally and professionally basically means wearing 
a suit,” Schulz said. “So, if these folks can 
help these students dress professionally in order to pursue their dreams, then more power to them.”
UF students can also borrow profes-
sional clothing through the Gator Career Closet, which opened in July. Holly Hagans, a 20-year-old UF criminology junior, thinks it’s better to own the clothes than rent them. She wants clothing for the upcoming career showcase  Sept. 26 and Sept. 27. 
“If you get a job that requires you to 
wear business clothes every day, you want to own them,” Hagans said. 
Joseph Gonzalez, a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science and philosophy junior, said this is a great opportunity for UF students to buy business clothing at an affordable price. 
“I consider our generation to be the chil-
dren of the Great Recession,” Gonzalez said. “We’re always on the hunt for a discount.”GPD: Man arrested for aggravated 
assault, violating probationUF, JCPenney help students buy professional clothingBy Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
After about 400 animals were 
taken in by the Alachua County Hu-
mane Society because of Hurricane Irma, about 360 cats and dogs will be sent off in cars and planes to 
make room for more animals.
The majority of pets that Alachua 
County Humane Society took in from 
local shelters in 10 Florida counties arrived Monday. Now, the humane society is sending these animals north to find their forever homes and to make space for animals that were displaced during the hurricane and needed to be evacuated from South Florida, said Margot DeConna, direc-
tor of development at ACHS.
“We did something totally crazy 
that has never been done before in 
our community,” she said. “We took in every animal, from every shelter, in every rural, surrounding county.”
Four staff members from the 
Charleston Animal Society arrived in Gainesville on Thursday morning to 
load 20 to 30 cats and up to 80 dogs 
into their transport van and a large trailer. After the animals’ northern journey, they will be guaranteed adoption, DeConna said.
While some animals are driven, 
others will be flown to their new 
northern homes. About 260 animals 
will be transported via two airplanes to Michigan and Wisconsin, she said.
The mass animal exodus is all a 
part of the humane society’s effort to make Alachua County a no-kill county.
By taking in animals from shel-
ters in the region, the humane soci-
ety freed up space in those shelters 
for all the animals they expect to be brought in because of the storm. The aim is to prevent local shelters from being forced to euthanize animals in order to meet the high demand after the storm.
“We think that no animal should 
be euthanized for lack of space,” she said.
David Dawson, a UF materi-
als science and engineering senior, considered bringing five kittens he found before the hurricane to ACHS but feared shelters would be too crowded.
The 21-year-old found the kittens 
huddled under a tarp covering a bike rack in his backyard. Instead of tak-ing the kittens to a shelter, Dawson and his roommates built a home for Charlie, Skyy, Toothless, Sophie and Bartholomeow in their bathroom out 
of old boxes and the new UF football 
T-shirts featuring Steve Spurrier.
“We didn’t think they were old 
enough to possibly survive the storm on their own,” he said.
With hundreds of animals leaving 
ACHS, there will be more room for kittens like Bartholomeow.
“Once you have one of them, you 
fall in love,” Dawson said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Humane society sends animals north to find homes FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9 
Congratulations, Gators.
TOP 10
UF RANKED 9TH AMONG PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES 
— U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT 2018
   It feels good to be recognized.
 
But we’ve been this good for a 
long time. Here in Gainesville 
and across the globe, we’ve 
been working hard to  help  
solve the greatest challenges  
facing the world.
Let’s celebrate this milestone  
as we look forward to all that
we will accomplish tomorrow.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-22-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Lake Property Foreclosure Resale $29,900Before foreclosure sold for $112,900.Award winning gated community.Priced for immediate sale!Video: www.LakeFrontCloseout.net1-844- 826-9565Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Florida Licensed Broker.         9-15-1-5
Western NC Mtn ViewsNew 2bed, 2bath one-level cabinon 2.88 level acres w/fpl, deckpatio, vaulted ceilings $169,900828-286- 1666                     9-15-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     10-2-17-12-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
GUITAR WANTED! Local musician will pay up to $12,500 for pre-1975 Gibson, Fender, Martin and Gretsch guitars. Fender ampli -
fiers also. Call toll free! 1-800- 995-1217.     9-15-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-15-17-
10-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join 
my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-27-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
BIG MILL'S CHEESESTEAKS
Now hiring line cooks, sandwich makers & 
counter personnel. PT, flexible hrs. Apply in 
person 2111 NW 13th St.     9-18-17-5-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for highly suc-
cessful Entrepreneur. Very attractive finan-cial package; must have vibrant personality. Housework, errands, office support, plan travel & social functions. Computer literate & willing to travel. Email resume' & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com  9-18-17-4-14
Wanted: Web Designer. Looking for stu-dent to help build a drop shipping web store. Pay $500 to get the site up and run-ning. Gainesville area students only. Text (352)226-6418.     9-15-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15
1.  Thunder sound
1.  Hurried 5.  ____ bottle
2.  Xylophone cousin6.  Back tooth
3.  Faithfulness 7.  Voice box
4.  Reeves flickUMEBLR
ERUSDHRASPY
AMRLO
RBMMAAI
TALOYYLNYXRLA
XARMTIANSWERS: 1A-Rumble  5A-Spray  6A-Molar  7A-Larynx
1D-Rushed  2D-Marimba  3D-Loyalty  4D-Matrix  B-Harry Truman9-15-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ survived an assassination 
attempt in 1950. BONUS13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
Complete Home Repairs,
Storm Damage Specialists24HR Emergency Services OfferedPreventative Maintenance PackagesRental Maintenance PackagesCall us @ 352-639-3208        9-15-17-3-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.      9-15-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      9-15-1-19
ACROSS
1 Alan of “Tower
Heist”
5 Partridge family
tree?
9 Eliot’s Bede
13 He shared the
AP Driver of the
Century award
with Andretti
14 Consumed16 Con __: tempo
marking
17 Museum figure18 Chat at the
supermarketcheckout?
20 Bigelow offering
22 “Utopia” author
23 Request on “ER”24 Marsh bird with
uncontrollableurges?
28 Oldest Japanese
beer brand
29 Discounted by30 Cut out31 Trivial amount33 __ science37 Paella veggie
38 Way into Wayne
Manor?
41 “Eureka!”42 Legendary first
name in skating
44 Northwest
Passage 
explorer
45 Cinco times dos46 Noodle bar order49 Fulfill51 Work of a major
opera housevillain?
55 Animal house56 Pertaining to57 SHO-owned
cinematicchannel
58 Attract ... or, as
three words,sequencechange with ahint about 18-,24-, 38- and 51-Across
62 Not at all tough65 Skye, for one66 Card worth a
fortune?
67 Stir up68 Slender
swimmers
69 Sweet tubers70 Winter coatDOWN
1 Laughlin in Tex.,
e.g.
2 He often batted
after Babe
3 Like “The Hunger
Games” society
4 Tackle
5 Wood fastener
6 Ringing organ?7 Physics class
topic
8 Cringe9 Youngest of the
“Little Women”
10 Article of faith11 Arcade giant12 Exxon follower?
15 Guts
19 Giant in little
candy
21 GI’s address24 Typical Hitchcock
role
25 Celestial bear26 Take from a job
27 Johannesburg’s
land: Abbr.
28 Finishes (up) the
gravy
32 Former SSR
34 Go ballistic35 Taking something
badly?
36 Unclear38 Mismatch39 __ Coast40 Repeated word in
the Beatles’ “SheLoves You”
43 National Ice
Cream mo.
45 Aids for romantic
evenings
47 Hedger’s last
words
48 42-Across’
homeland50 Vietnamese
holiday
51 __ Bauer52 Part of a song
53 Collectively
54 Anne of comedy59 Director Craven60 Danube Delta
country: Abbr.
61 Drying-out 
hurdle
63 __-mo replay64 Taxus shrub
By Mark McClain
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/15/1709/15/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 15, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Superhero attire
5 Six-footers at
parties
9 Parakeet
quarters
14 “You can say that
again!”
15 St. Paul’s
architect
16 Important fruit in
theMediterranean
diet
17 Novelist Morrison
18 Zaragoza’s river19 Harder to come
by
20 Place to mingle
on the slopes?
23 Legal deg.24 Big hand
measurement:Abbr.
25 Gobble (up)27 Octet since 200631 Shakespearean
call to arms
34 Misplace a
casual top?
36 “I saw the
opening __ ofhell”: “Moby-Dick”
37 “Straight Outta
Compton” role,
familiarly
38 Word with head
or roll
39 Take Rover to
Ruth’s Chris?
46 Dull
47 Run things?48 Doone of fiction50 NBA tiebreakers51 Balderdash53 Dinosaur family
drama?
59 Major mess61 Universal donor’s
type, briefly
62 Support person63 One with a strict
diet
64 Boring65 Pass the bouncer66 Respond to a
charge
67 Hearing things68 Singer James
DOWN
1 Subjects of many
viral onlinevideos
2 Mine, in Marseille3 The Quakers of
the Ivy League
4 Conundrums
5 “American Gods”
leprechaun Mad __
6 Metro areas7 Muppet with a
unibrow
8 Elitists9 Western pens
10 In the style of11 Sweetheart12 Robbie’s
daredevil father
13 Many a
Montenegroresident
21 One-fifth of a
limerick
22 Art school subj.26 Cheering sound27 Hair piece28 Relatively safe,
as electricity
29 Flap
30 Tidal peril during
a storm
32 More than asks
33 Board rm.
session
35 Bring up36 British racing cars40 Old name of
Tokyo41 Bad way to run a
ship
42 Unit of force
43 Low-pressure
systems
44 Cricket clubs
45 Performing49 Southwestern
brick
51 Invitation 
letters
52 Scott Turow
memoir54 Getting pictures
of the Hollywoodsign, say
55 Nectar flavor
56 Sidesplitter
57 Menu including
Cut and Paste
58 “Hercules”
character whogot her ownshow
60 Drone regulator:
Abbr.
By Clive Probert©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/14/1709/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
UF Olympian to lead pregame ritual vs. Volunteers
Gators senior swimmer Caeleb Dressel was named Florida's honorary "Mr. 
Two Bits" for the football team's home opener Saturday against No. 23 T ennessee. UF senior Anna Danilina  looks 
to lead the Florida women's 
tennis team to a strong fall season after coming off a national championship in spring. Read the story, pg. 15.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Chauncey Gardner Jr. felt 
disrespected. He had just seen a 
picture of UF legend Steve Spur-
rier’s statue outside the Swamp 
defaced with a bright orange Volunteers ﬂ  ag planted in his facemask, presumably by a Ten-nessee fan. 
“Even though a fan did it, 
that’s something you don’t do 
regardless of the rivalry,” Gard-
ner, UF's sophomore corner-back, said. “It’s our property. You don’t vandalize what we 
earned and what we did.”
Gardner didn’t take the ﬂ  ag 
down because he only saw a picture of it. 
But on Saturday at 3:30, he’ll 
get a chance for payback. 
As a team, the No. 24 Gators 
(0-1) are looking to right some 
wrongs against No. 23 Tennes-see (2-0). The Gators are look-
ing to appease fans that felt nau-
seous about a 33-17 defeat to Michigan in the season’s highly anticipated opener. 
The Gators are looking to 
avoid starting the year 0-2 for 
the ﬁ  rst time in 46 years. 
And the Gators are looking 
to make up for a second-half 
collapse in Knoxville last year, 
in which they coughed up a 
21-point lead to lose 38-28. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  BACK PAGEAlligator File Photo
The Gators (0-1), relying on defense, need a win against the Volunteers (2-0) to avoid starting 0-2 for the ﬁ  rst time since 1971.
Staff Report
It’s been 308 days since UF has seen a 
college football game played in the con-
ﬁ  nes of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
That’s a long time. That’s a really 
long time. That’s over 26.6 million sec-onds long if you want to get technical with it, which we here at alligatorSports love to do.
But in all seriousness, when the 
Gators take on the Tennessee Volunteers this Saturday at 3:30 p.m., it’ll mark the ﬁ  rst time since 1980 Florida is holding its home opener later than Week 2 of the regular season. #Throwback.
We know you fans are giddy with 
excitement to watch UF play in person. However, let us quickly remind you what happened the last time the Gators faced Tennessee: They blew a 21-0 lead and ultimately lost the game by 10 points.
Yikes.Now, on a brighter note, let's get to 
our game of the week. Sports editor Matt Brannon and sports writer Ethan Bauer are debating Southern California vs. Tex-as. Take it away guys.
Southern California (-15.5) will 
win because … 
It’s not so much that I’m picking 
the Trojans, it’s more than I’m picking against the Longhorns. Texas has been the NCAA’s consummate underachiever, having had only one season with more than eight wins since an embarrassing national championship loss in 2009. 
And while history hasn’t been too PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 14
SOCCER: UF 1, UM 0
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
Melanie Monteagudo lost her 
defender with a quick turn towards 
the goal line. She delivered a cross 
into the middle of the Mississippi 
box that found Mayra Pelayo’s left foot seven yards from goal. The ju-nior midﬁ  elder found the back of 
the net just ﬁ  ve minutes into play, 
scoring her ﬁ  rst goal of the season.
Pelayo’s goal was the ﬁ  rst and only of the match, as No. 7 Flor-ida (6-1) defeated No. 24 Missis-sippi (7-1-1), 1-0, in its ﬁ  rst match Thursday since Hurricane Irma. 
The Gators met the Rebels at home 
in its ﬁ  rst of nine SEC matchups.  
Monteagudo and Pelayo led a 
UF side that dominated Ole Miss 
more than the score reﬂ  ected.
The Gators completely con-
trolled the ﬁ  rst half, outshooting 
the Rebels 5-1. They exploited the width of the pitch and created the bulk of the half’s offense with six corner kicks and countless hori-zontal crosses deep in Rebel ter-ritory.
Just 12 minutes after opening 
the scoring, the Gators almost made it 2-0. Monteagudo met a Deanne Rose cross in the six-yard 
box, but skied the ball over the 
crossbar, keeping it a one-score game.
“I love the fast start and that 
was really important for us espe-cially coming off the week we just had,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “But still we’re leaving teams in games by leaving opportunities 
out there. We’re creating those op-
portunities, we just have to ﬁ  nish them.”
While the Florida offense 
wasn’t able to add to its tally, the defense made a signiﬁ  cant impact on the ﬁ  rst half. UF held the na-tion’s second highest scoring team to one shot in the ﬁ  rst period of play.  The Rebels boast 38 goals on the season and the nation’s top scoring player, Channing Foster (9), but couldn’t ﬁ  nd space behind 
the Gators’ back three marshaled 
by redshirt senior Gabby Seiler. The captain played the entirety of the match for UF and is celebrat-
ing her team’s victory along with 
her 23rd birthday.
The second half saw more com-
petitive action, as the Gators had 
 Pelayo's goal lifts Gators over Ole Miss in SEC opener
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE  20Playing for Pride
Gardner and the Gators 
look to lock down Tennesseekind to the Longhorns, things haven’t 
really improved since. Texas has two wins this year but in the ﬁ  rst they al-lowed Maryland to score 41 points before barreling pulling out what should’ve been an easy win. Then they blew out the completely irrel-evant team of San Diego State. (News ﬂ  ash: San Diego is not a state). 
USC on the other hand couldn’t be 
in better shape. The Trojans are the No. 4 team in the nation. Last week, they waltzed into then No. 14 Stan-ford’s stadium and nearly won by three touchdowns. USC’s offense has scored more than 40 points in each of their wins this year and are playing against a Texas team that barely broke a 30-point average in 2016. 
This one’s all USC. The Trojans 
may have fallen to a horse 10,000 years ago, but on Saturday they’ll have no trouble wrangling the Long-horns’ misﬁ  t crew of cattle. 
- Matt Brannon
Texas (+15.5) will win because There’s one vitally important rea-
son the Longhorns have the advan-
tage here. Tom Herman, Texas’ ﬁ  rst-year head coach, tracks his players’ urine coloration. Over all the toilets in Texas’ facility, there are charts that inform players that if their piss is dark yellow, then they’re a “bad guy!!!” Some might argue that this attention to detail is nonsensical, un-helpful and ridiculous. Maybe even insane. But if you can’t see the value in overseeing your team right down to the bathroom, I feel sorry for you. I mean, just think of how many scan-dals it avoids. Think of how much it improves the on-ﬁ  eld product. Texas may have lost to Maryland in Week 1 51-41, but imagine how much worse that could’ve been without the uri-nary oversight. The results spoke for themselves a week later when the Longhorns beat San Jose State 56-0, and they’ll speak again against the Trojans. 
- Ethan Bauer  
Now, our competitors:
Leading off in the standings with 
a record of 9-6 is the Orlando Senti-
nel’s Edgar “better late than never” Thompson. Edgar picked one game incorrectly last week, catapulting him to the top of the standings. How did he respond this week? By not in send-ing any picks at all, until we called him minutes before deadline. Smooth.
Tied for second in the standings 
with a record of 8-7 is the Alligator’s Matt “Just an all-around great guy” Brannon, who got stuck writing burns for every other writer this week, and did a great job. Except for the one burn he didn't write that sticks out as being way worse than the others. 
Also tied for second at 8-7 is the 
Alligator’s Ethan “tie-guy” Bauer, has been bending the rules of business ca-sual lately, wearing outﬁ  ts that aren't nice enough to be fancy, but not bad enough to make him look homeless. We'll let his loved ones break the news that jeans paired with a baby blue tie is a match made in hell.
Also tied for second at 8-7 is 
247Sports’ Thomas “I made these picks in 30 seconds” Goldkamp, who brags about how little effort he puts into picking eight college football games every week. We get it, Thom-as, we're all very proud that you have the ability to select one team over an other with no research. Although it'll deﬁ  nitely come back to bite you.
Also tied for second at 8-7 is the Ga-
torCountry’s Nick “Last question” de la Torre, who has developed a repu-tation for asking coach Jim McElwain a ﬁ  nal question even as the coach is leaving the podium. One of these days, McElwain is going to tackle you because he just wants to get back to riding horses, hanging out with family and talking about Montana.
Next up at 7-8 is the Alligator’s 
Dylan “Smells like a dorm room” Dix-on. Dylan either smells like a dorm room because he buys generic bulk cleaning products or because he has an imaginary girlfriend that lives in a dorm. Not sure which is better.
Tied with Dylan at 7-8 is the 
Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Doesn't know anything about music” Hall, who confused Mouse Davis with Miles Davis. Come on Graham, get your culture up.
Last and least is the Alligator’s 
Ian “I really suck at this s---” Cohen, whose record is so putrid and embar-rassing we’re choosing not to publish it. How is it possible for someone to get so many games wrong after only two weeks of action?14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
You’ve heard 
this before. You’ve 
heard it so many times that it has probably lost much of its meaning: Flor-ida’s next game is a must win.
But this week-
end, it has a differ-ent meaning.
Yes, if Florida defeats No. 23 
Tennessee on Saturday, it will move to 1-1 on the season and 1-0 in the SEC. But that doesn’t really matter. 
What matters is lifting the 
team’s spirit and boosting its morale. What matters is escap-ing from the funk that the pro-gram has been stuck in as of late. What matters goes deeper than football.
So I’ll just say it: Florida needs 
a win this Saturday. Badly.
In case you haven’t heard, the 
Florida football program has had a rough couple of weeks. The Gators suspended 10 of its play-ers for its season opener against Michigan on Sept. 2, nine of whom were reportedly involved in an alleged scandal involv-ing the improper use of school funds. Then the Gators lost that 
game to Michigan by 16 points. 
Then coach Jim McElwain grimly announced that freshman wide receiver James Robinson was dealing with a heart problem and would be out indeﬁ  nitely, declin-ing to explain further. Then they had to cancel their home opener against Northern Colorado. Then 
a hurricane hit. Then 60 players’ 
families were affected.
And then McElwain addressed 
reporters on Wednesday, and he looked downright downtrodden. He talked slowly and softly, tak-ing long pauses after questions to think about his responses. He looked unhappy. He didn’t joke. 
Usually jovial, he didn’t smile.
And how could he? After see-
ing what Hurricane Irma had 
done to parts of Florida? After hearing from his players, the ones he feels personally responsi-ble for, tell him that their families had been affected by the storm? Never mind 
the irregular start to the season, one that saw Florida play a nonconfer-ence game outside of the state for the ﬁ  rst time in at least 
25 years, and lose. 
Never mind losing two of its best offen-
sive weapons in receiver Antonio Callaway and running back Jor-dan Scarlett due to a suspension.
Never mind all of that. That 
would have been enough to de-ﬂ  ate the morale of any team, 
even before a natural disaster 
bulldozed through its home state. 
No, none of that mattered to 
McElwain. The only thing that mattered was the hurricane. And on Wednesday, you could hear it in his voice. You could see it on his face. He looked sad, and so he said what he thought was 
right. He called on his players to 
play for something more than themselves on Saturday.
“Hopefully (they) play with 
a little bit of passion and desire for the people of the state of Flor-ida,” McElwain said.
And then later: “I want our 
guys to understand that it’s so 
much more than just them,” 
McElwain said. “It’s an opportu-nity. It’s awful special coming off of what just occurred.”
Florida needs this win. It 
needs this win for reasons that go beyond simply earning its ﬁ  rst victory of the season, that go be-yond ﬁ  xing its lifeless offense.
It needs a win to move past 
its suspended players. It needs a win to lift the program out of the ﬁ  gurative mud it has been trudging through the past couple of weeks, unable to play football with the harsh inconveniences of real life at its doorstep.
It needs a win to make every-
one — fans and players — feel just a little bit better.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. 
Contact him at icohen@alliga-
tor.org and follow him on Twit-
ter @icohenb.
Column: Florida needs a 
win on Saturday. Badly.It's Cohen Down / Opinion
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb
Writer  Brannon  Dixon       Bauer  Cohen
Illinois @ USF (-18)  USF  ILLINOIS  USF   ILLINOIS
T enn @ UF (-5.5)  FLORIDA  TENN.   TENN.   TENN.
Kansas St. @ Vandy (+4)  VANDY   VANDY   VANDY   KSU
Idaho @ W Mich. (-20)  W MICH. W MICH. W MICH. W MICH.
Clem @ Lou (+3)  CLEM   CLEM   CLEM   CLEM
C. Carolina @ UAB (+2)  C. CAROLINA  C. CAROLINA  C. CAROLINA  C. CAR.
T exas @ USC (-15.5)  USC   USC   TEXAS   USC
Ole Miss @ Cal (+3.5)  OLE MISS OLE MISS OLE MISS CAL
Record  8-7  7-8  8-7  3-12
 Writer  Hall  De la Torre Thompson Goldkamp
Illinois @ USF (-18)  
USF   USF   USF   ILLINOIS
T enn @ UF (-5.5)  UF  UF  TENN.   UF
Kansas St. @ Vandy (+4)  VANDY   VANDY   KSU                   VANDY
Idaho @ W Mich. (-20)  W MICH.  W MICH.  W MICH.  W MICH.
Clem @ Lou (+3)  CLEM  CLEM   CLEM   LOU
C. Carolina @ UAB (+2)  UAB   UAB   UAB   UAB
T exas @ USC (-15.5)  USC  USC  USC  TEXAS
Ole Miss @ Cal (+3.5)  CAL   OLE MISS  OLE MISS  CAL
Record  7-8   8-7   9-6   8-78 Gators, writers 8 NCAAF games
Game Day at Blackadder 
Local Craft Beer
Tailgating Growler Fills
Open Early for Home Games
618-A NW 60th ST
(Newberry Rd by McAlister’s)
www.blackadderbrewing.com
352.339.0324
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
After only a few weeks of train-
ing together as a group, Florida’s 
women’s tennis team will split up to compete in fall’s season-open-
ing tournaments hosted in North 
Carolina and Rhode Island this weekend.
Head coach Roland Thornqvist 
will travel with seniors Brooke Austin and Peggy Porter, as well as freshman Victoria Emma to Cary, North Carolina, for the three-day Duke Bonk Invite. The 
Gators will face competition from 
teams including LSU and Georgia Tech. 
Assistant coach Dave Balogh, 
on the other hand, will travel with seniors Anna Danilina and Josie Kuhlman as well as fresh-man Katie Kubicz to Newport, Rhode Island, for the three-day 
Hall of Fame/ITA Grass Court In-
vitational. Florida will compete against teams such as LSU, Princ-eton and North Carolina.
Despite the fact the team is be-
ing split in half to compete this weekend, the tournaments will be UF’s first official match of play since the team won a national 
championship back in May. 
“I think we have digested the championship by now and every-
body’s super focused on the up-coming year,” Thornqvist said. “I don’t think that any of the play-ers were ‘satisfied’ with what they achieved individually last 
year, and that’s a nice building 
block upon which we can cre-ate a whole new scenario for this year.”
Thornqvist is also pleased 
with the progress that some of his players made individually while working over summer.
“Anna has come back the 
best…She hits the ball harder and played more tournaments in the summer than she normally has, so she’s certainly ready for her senior year,” Thornqvist said. “As for the returning players, I’m real pleased with what they were up to over the summer.”
But to an extent, Florida’s  
preparation for the tournaments in North Carolina and Rhode Is-land has been anything but ordi-
nary.
Only four weeks into the fall 
semester, there have already 
been some obstacles. Hurricane Irma impacted practices as well as a new NCAA rule stating that athletes must get at least an ad-ditional 14 days off from playing and practicing during the regular academic year.
“Most of those days, I actually 
built into the beginning of the sea-son,” Thornqvist said. “So, some of the players I’ve only seen hit maybe three or four days. We’re 
sort of going in blind really.”
Thornqvist said the part he is 
most looking forward to in the 
tournaments is the opportunity to compete again. 
“It’s just great to have some 
data and create a plan for the next couple of weeks,” Thornqvist said. “Playing tournaments is so 
much more fun than spending a 
weekend home practicing.” 
The goal for the fall season is 
quite simple: “Become a better team and better players by the conclusion of the fall,” Thorn-qvist said. 
“With six players, I think it’s 
going to be kind of nice because 
we can really spend a lot of time 
with them and playing in these tournaments is a big part of that,” Thornqvist said. “We just basi-cally wanna feel like we’ve im-proved at the conclusion of the fall.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
Gators kick off fall season in North Carolina, Rhode Island
Alligator File Photo
UF senior Anna Danilina is one of three Gators going to Rhode 
Island this weekend for a season-opening tournament.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
It’s been just under two weeks 
since the Florida volleyball team 
took the court for a meaningful 
game. After the cancellation of last weekend’s Active Ankle In-
vitational, the No. 3 Gators will return to the O’Connell Center 
to host a group of nonconfer-
ence opponents. 
Mary Wise, now in her 27th 
season as the Gators coach, said on Wednesday that this week-
end offers a great opportunity to play against a variety of teams. 
“It’s what you have to do in 
the NCAA Tournament,” Wise 
said. “Playing back-to-back matches, and we don’t play two 
matches in one day very often.”
This weekend, UF will look 
to stay undefeated on the sea-
son against the likes of Florida 
A&M, Northern Kentucky and 
Lipscomb. 
In addition to the three 
matches, Wise — who current-ly holds a total of 798 wins at 
Florida — continues to close in 
on the milestone of 800 wins at 
a single school.
Despite the impressiveness of 
the feat, Wise played it off on Wednesday, calling it a “round number” and crediting the talent 
that has come through the pro-
gram in past years.
“It’s just another number,” 
Wise said. 
“When we walk away and it’s 
all said and done and it’s time 
to give somebody else a chance to be in these shoes, then maybe 
we’ll look back and reflect. But 
not now, we have too much on 
the table.”
While Wise may be right 
about the amount of talent to walk across UF’s campus, fans 
shouldn’t downplay the effect 
Wise has had on the program. 
In the seven years prior to 
Wise’s arrival in Gainesville, the 
Gators only went to the NCAA 
Tournament once, falling in the 
Round of 16 to Texas in 1987.
Since her hiring in 1991, 
Wise has led the Gators to the 
NCAA Tournament in every sea-
son she has spent on the bench, 
coaching 37 All-Americans in 
the process and maintaining a dominance in SEC play as well.
With the milestone in reach 
and the team focused on its play, 
the Gators will look to bring that 
victory to Wise this weekend 
while attempting to maintain perfection on the season. 
Following the Gator Invita-
tional, UF will take on Florida State in a rescheduled match 
that was postponed this past Tuesday due to Hurricane Irma.
For senior libero Caroline 
Knop, this weekend and next week’s matchup against the 
Seminoles both offer a chance to 
finally get back on the court.
“Three games this weekend, 
three good opponents," Knop said. 
"(We’re) definitely not going 
to take anyone lightly.” “And then FSU on Tuesday, 
which is going to be really fun. I’m glad we got to reschedule 
that one,” Knop said. 
  @justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgCoach Mary Wise could earn her 800th Gators win tonight
Alligator File Photo
UF plays two matches Friday and one Saturday. Coach Mary Wise needs two wins to hit 800 at UF.
VOLLEYBALL20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2017
Tennessee torched Flor-
ida’s pass defense in Knox-
ville, completing 9-of-12 passes in the second half for 235 yards. Saturday, the 
Gators will have to do a bet-
ter job in the secondary than they did in 2016, despite los-ing top performers to the NFL in defensive backs Teez Ta-
bor, Quincy Wilson and Mar-
cus Maye.
UF veteran defensive back 
Duke Dawson will have to 
marshall a secondary full of 
inexperienced freshmen who gave up big plays against Michigan like Shawn Davis, who fell asleep on a 46-yard 
touchdown heave in the 
season opener, and Marco Wilson, freshman brother of Quincy Wilson. 
Then add that Tennes-
see’s receiving corps boasts their own intimidating pass catchers. 
“All of them got speed; 
they all can run,” Dawson said. 
You’ve got to act like ev-
ery snap, their receivers are going to attack, Dawson said. 
One of those pass catch-
ers is sophomore Marquez 
Callaway, who leads the Vol-
unteers in receiving yards and has already caught three touchdowns through two games. 
Florida will likely play 
without their own Callaway, one who streaked down the Swamp’s sideline in a fourth-quarter comeback on a 
fourth-down prayer to defeat 
the Volunteers in 2015. 
Florida’s top receiving 
threat, junior Antonio Cal-laway, is still slated to miss 
Tennessee’s game with an 
indeﬁ  nite suspension for re-portedly misusing school funds. Florida’s also missing 
its star running back in Jor-
dan Scarlett along with seven other players due to suspen-sions. 
Florida’s defense is pick-
ing up the burden of the team’s suspensions on of-fense, but it’s a challenge the Gators have been itching 
to tackle. Gardner, a starter 
who had to leave the Michi-gan game in a walking boot, understands the urgency. That’s why he says he’s good 
to play Saturday despite leav-
ing AT&T Stadium on crutch-es.
“Me sitting out is going to 
hurt (my teammates) and it’s going to hurt me,” Gardner said. “I’m back. Time to go ball.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 13UF lost to UT in 2016 
after 2nd-half struggles
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff.
Mayra Pelayo scored the only goal of the night on Thursday in Florida's SEC 
opener against Ole Miss.
to call on goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese to make a couple key saves to solidify the win 
in her ﬁ  rst match of the sea-
son.
Marckese played the match 
with a splint underneath her 
glove on her right-pinky ﬁ  n-
ger.
“It felt natural,” Marckese 
said. “I don’t know if it was the adrenaline or the ibupro-fen I took before the game, but it feels good.”
The second half also saw 
an increase in offensive pro-duction from Rose and sub-stitute Cassie Owens. Rose, who seemed to have a Rebel 
defender on her back at all 
times in the ﬁ  rst half, rattled off three shots, two on target, in the match’s second phase.
Owens scored a goal that 
was called back due to offside and struck crossbar late in the second half from 20 yards out.
“Her aggressiveness just 
causes problems for the other team,” Burleigh said. “She’s going to track down every ball, she’s going to get after it. And sometimes that’s very 
problematic.”
The aggressiveness that 
Owens brings to the match will be vital as the team 
makes a quick turnaround to play at Iowa State on Sunday. The Gators will play the Cy-
clones in an afternoon match-
up set for 1 p.m.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg. 13GK Marckese makes return from injury
INSIDE
T.J. McCoy’s journey to Florida wasn’t the most conventional one. Read 
how his father’s battle with cancer brought him to The Swamp.
ONLINE
For updates and analysis from Florida’s home opener with T ennessee, 
make sure to visit alligator.org/sports.
SNAPPED 
BACK TO 
HEALTH
UF center T.J. McCoy watched 
his father battle cancer. 
Now, his father is watching T.J. 
continue his on-field legacy.PROBABLEBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Tony McCoy had never experienced any-
thing like it before in his life.
Drenched in sweat as he trudged across the 
field of South Lake High School, the former 
NFL defensive lineman suddenly collapsed to 
one knee in a state of exhaustion, gasping for 
air as fatigue overwhelmed him.
It was a hot October afternoon in Groveland, 
Florida. Tony had just run two 50-yard sprints at the end of South Lake’s football practice.
It was a ritual for him – a volunteer assis-
tant coach at the school – to participate in team conditioning drills with the rest of his players. But on this particular day in 2011, something 
was gravely wrong.
Tony’s body throbbed and ached with every 
stride he took. The pain was unique, piercing 
his chest like an arrow striking a target.
As he fought through his second sprint and 
turned around for another, his shortness of breath became too debilitating. He stopped for a moment to regain his composure. When it never returned, he reluctantly sprawled onto 
the ground in defeat.
“It was the first time in my life I felt like I 
quit something,” Tony said. “I came to do that 
third sprint and I was like ‘I can’t.’ I just laid there on the field on my back.”
South Lake’s players crowded around their 
assistant coach to see if he was okay. Among the group was his oldest son, T.J., a freshman offensive lineman concerned about the condi-
tion of his father.
“I’m alright,” Tony insisted. “Everything is 
fine.”
Unbeknownst to him, everything was not 
fine.
It took Tony almost three hours to finally 
catch his breath. He was so worn out he asked 
T.J. to drive him home.
Bewildered over his lack of stamina from 
that day’s conditioning drills, Tony scheduled a doctor’s appointment to undergo blood testing.
Several days later, the office called back 
to inform him of the results. As Tony looked down at his phone and prepared to answer, he had a gut feeling the news wasn’t going to be good.
Little did he know, it was about to change 
his family’s lives forever.
The responsibility of fatherhood is some-
thing Tony has never taken lightly.
His dad wasn’t in the picture when he grew 
up in Orlando in the 1970s. The two never even met.
So when Tony and his wife, Jodie, had their 
three children, Khrystyna, T.J. and Isaiah, the defensive tackle worked around his hectic 
schedule to spend as much time with them as 
he could.
After finishing his senior season of college 
at Florida in 1991, Tony and his family spent eight years in Indianapolis while he played for the Colts as well as one year in Arizona while he was a member of the Cardinals.
Tony kept his kids involved as much as pos-
sible throughout his career, frequently bringing 
them to practice and allowing them inside the 
locker room.
T.J. in particular enjoyed shadowing his 
dad. Tony still remembers watching his oldest son waltz into the Colts’ weight room while he and other players were in the middle of a workout.
“T.J., show me your muscles!” Tony’s 
teammates yelled. The 3-year-old T.J. obliged, 
raising his arms and flexing his biceps as he 
flashed a grin at Marshall Faulk and Jim Har-baugh.
Another time, during an exhausting day at a 
Colts practice, Tony was preparing to complete his final drill of the afternoon when he looked over his shoulder and spotted T.J. galloping to-ward him.
As T.J. reached him, he grabbed his dad’s 
finger and asked if he could do the drill too. Tony was ultimately excused from the end of practice instead, receiving permission to head to the locker room early with his son.
“I looked at (T.J.) and said ‘Man, you saved 
me from that one last drill,’” Tony said with a laugh. “Anything that had to deal with me, he wanted to be around.”
Indianapolis’ team facility wasn’t the only 
place T.J. had begun developing an interest in football.
He was just as enthusiastic about it at home, 
where he’d dart around the kitchen wearing a Colts helmet before rushing into the living room to tackle stuffed animals.
“I did see him as a little man,” Tony said. 
“Just as a little guy that was looking at me and said ‘I want to mimic you.’”
T.J. was homeschooled through eighth 
grade and wasn’t allowed to play organized 
KICK OFF
Editor: Matt Brannon   Photo for Cover Illustration: Max Chesnes
Alligator, Friday, September 15, 2017
FLORIDA defense vs. TENNESSEE offense
Jashon 
RobertsonCQuinten DormadyQBJohn KellyRB
Jabari ZunigaDE
Marco WilsonCB
Duke DawsonCBKhairi ClarkNT
T aven BryanDT
Jeremiah 
Moon SAM
David 
ReeseMIKE
Vosean 
JosephWILL
Nick Washington S
Chauncey 
Gardner Jr.SJack JonesLG
Drew 
RichmondLT
Brandon 
JohnsonWR
Trey SmithRG
Brett KendrickRT
Marquez 
CallawayWRFLORIDA offense vs. TENNESSEE defense
T.J. McCoyC
Feleipe FranksQB
Lamical Perine or Mark 
ThompsonRBMartez IveyLTBrett HeggieLG
Fred JohnsonRG
Jawaan T aylorRT
DeAndre
Goolsby or 
C’yontai LewisTEColton 
JumperMIKE
Kendal VickersDT
Reginald 
McKenzie Jr.NT
Jonathan 
KongboDE
Emmanuel 
MoseleyCBCortez 
McDowellWILL
Daniel 
BituliSAMNigel WarriorS
T odd Kelly Jr.S
Tyrie ClevelandWR
Brandon 
PowellWRJosh HammondWRDarrell T aylorDE
Justin MartinCB
CeCe JeffersonDEEthan WolfTE
Josh PalmerWRMax Chesnes / Alligator
UF center T.J. McCoy prepares to snap the ball to quarterback Feleipe Franks during Florida’s 33-17 loss to Michigan on Sept. 2 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, T exas.
INJURY
REPORTOUT
S Marcell Harris (leg)
WR James Robinson (heart)
LB Kylan Johnson (leg)S Quincy Lenton (leg)DOUBTFUL
RB Jordan ScarlettWR Antonio CallawayWR Rick WellsOL Kadeem T elfortOL Richerd Desir-JonesLB James HoustonLB Ventrell MillerDL Jordan SmithDL Keivonnis DavisSUSPENSIONST.J. McCoy’s 
emotional 
journey with 
his ailing 
father
TE DeAndre Goolsby (leg)TE Kemore Gamble (foot)     
“It’s a great way for us to really break down 
what he’s doing and get those tendencies in 
his head,” Tony said. “It allows me to stay on 
top of him.”     Whether the two are thoroughly studying football or casually chatting about life, the frequent visits from his dad gives T.J. some quality bonding time, something that was put into jeopardy several years ago.     “It’s a weight off my shoulders,” T.J. said on Tony’s improving health. “I feel like it’s 
really good because I feel like it gave me just a 
sense of like, ‘Man, I know my father’s doing good.’ That way I can kind of just really focus on what I have to do as a football player.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgfootball by his mom until he turned 13.
When he finally joined a youth team and 
began competing against other kids his age, his love for the game grew even more. In his first season playing in a junior league, his team 
went undefeated, winning all 10 of its contests.
“That got him hooked from that point on,” 
Tony said.
T.J. continued on to high school football 
once he enrolled at South Lake. He mostly 
played offensive tackle and guard his first three seasons with the Eagles before transitioning to center his senior year.
In September 2014, he officially committed 
to NC State as a two-star recruit, telling the Or-lando Sentinel he felt the Wolfpack was “the best team” for him.
The future looked pretty bright for T.J.He was on a full scholarship to play at a Di-
vision I college. He was joining a program that was excited to have him. He was even elevated from fourth-string center to second-string cen-ter following his first semester in Raleigh.
But after receiving some unexpected news 
later that summer, everything changed. T.J. re-alized he didn’t have a choice. He was going to have to leave school.
Tony picked up the phone and heard the 
voice of his doctor.
“Tony, you need to come into my office as 
soon as possible,” he recalls being told.
The father of three knew a demand like that 
wasn’t a good sign. He and Jodie woke up the 
following morning and drove to their medical 
center, only to learn that Tony’s white blood cells weren’t functioning properly.
He most likely had cancer, according to his 
doctor, but it couldn’t be confirmed without undergoing a spinal tap.
When he went in for the procedure later 
that week, the prognosis was even grimmer than anticipated.
The specialist was unable to extract any 
fluid from Tony’s spinal canal, confirming he had leukemia. Doctors gave him a 30 percent chance of survival and said he needed to go to the hospital immediately.
“My kids were floored,” Tony said. “But 
they stayed strong. It was a very challenging time for us.”
Tony began undergoing chemotherapy 
treatment near the end of 2011 at Florida Hos-pital in Orlando. He was restricted from leaving the facility during his chemo cycles.
“It wasn’t like I’d get treated and go home,” 
he said. “Your white blood cells are wiped out. Your platelets are down. That makes you sus-ceptible to any virus or any breathing in the outside air. You could catch a cold and die.”
With Tony unable to venture into the outer 
world, T.J., Khrystyna, Isaiah and Jodie spent countless days at the hospital over the next few years. It wasn’t an easy endeavor for the four-some, especially T.J.
In one instance, Tony became gravely ill fol-
lowing a round of chemo and was rushed by 
doctors into an emergency room. He was given 
medication to help numb the pain, but it was so strong it caused him to cry.
When T.J. caught a glimpse of the tears 
streaming down his father’s face – something he’d never seen before – he began to weep as well.
“He doesn’t deserve to be in this room,” 
Tony recalled T.J. saying. “He’s fought too 
hard. If he’s crying, it must be pretty bad.”
It was pretty bad for the retired NFL vet-
eran. The man once regarded as one of pro-
fessional football’s most physically imposing defensive tackles was suddenly in the midst of a battle for his life.
After receiving treatment in Orlando for 
close to 12 months, Tony decided to switch doctors and relocate to Shands Hospital in 
Gainesville. His inpatient room overlooked 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, his college stomping ground from 1987 to 1991.
Tony continued to undergo chemotherapy 
for another two years at Shands. His family still visited him every day despite being an hour and a half away from home.
But at long last, following dozens upon doz-
ens of weeks of endless discomfort, Tony was 
finally given some uplifting news from his phy-
sician, Dr. John Wingard.
The former Gator could once again return 
back to his wife and kids. His leukemia was heading into remission.
There was just one small catch. He wouldn’t 
be allowed to travel under any circumstances. Even for something as important as T.J.’s first college football game.
T.J. sat down and stared at his parents, 
dumbfounded by what he’d been told.
The 18-year-old had just come home after 
attending NC State’s Spring 2015 semester as an early enrollee.
He’d been looking forward to returning to 
Raleigh for the second half of the summer and competing for playing time on the offensive line.
But after learning his father wasn’t well 
enough to attend Wolfpack games despite his recent release from the hospital, T.J.’s excite-ment for his freshman year quickly dissipated.
“I don’t want to do this. If you can’t be 
there, I don’t want to be there at all,” Tony recalled T.J. telling him. “If you aren’t going to come to my games, that’s not what I want to do.”
Despite protests from his dad, T.J. didn’t 
budge on his stance. Unless both his parents were able to sit in the stands every Saturday, he had zero interest in ever returning to North Carolina.
After explaining the situation to NC State 
coach Dave Doeren, Doeren granted T.J. his 
release from the team.
“I was contemplating just going to college,” 
T.J. said in an interview last season. “Not even 
playing football.”
New Florida coach Jim McElwain had other 
ideas, however.
McElwain, who’d been hired earlier in the 
year to replace Will Muschamp, inherited a team with only four scholarship offensive line-
men on the roster.
When he learned T.J. was available and 
wanted a school close to home, he invited the 
McCoys to Gainesville and offered their son a scholarship.
“To see that door open in that moment was 
just surreal,” Tony said.
T.J. enrolled at Florida for the second half of 
the summer semester and ultimately redshirted 
his first year with the Gators.
But in 2016, he made his mark.
Opening the season as the third-string cen-
ter on the depth chart, T.J. was thrown into action after starter Cameron Dillard suffered a season-ending knee injury against Arkansas on Nov. 5 and backup Tyler Jordan hurt his ankle on the first play of the following week against South Carolina.
The redshirt sophomore played the rest of 
the game against the Gamecocks and hasn’t missed a snap for UF ever since.
“I think T.J. McCoy was kind of a lightning 
rod for us from a transformation piece,” McEl-wain said on the center’s insertion into the lineup. “The care, the want, being a legacy and playing in The Swamp for him, that’s real.”     Tony still occasionally takes trips to 
Shands to receive treatment for his leukemia, 
but he remains in remission and continues to improve on a daily basis.
     “He’s feeling way better,” T.J. said. “He’s 
starting to work out again, getting back in the 
gym. Something I did this offseason was just 
working out with my dad, having him teach 
me some stuff.”     The father-son duo has also continued a tradition it began last season: in-depth film 
sessions every Thursday and Sunday evening. 
Tony drives up to Gainesville from his home in Clermont and meets with T.J. in UF’s video room.     On Thursdays, the two analyze every play from that week’s practices and give T.J. a grade on his effort and technique. On Sun-days, the two evaluate every offensive snap from that weekend’s game, once again giving 
T.J. a grade on his effort and technique.
•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •