We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Halloween in Gainesville 
Check out what’s happening on campus and in town, pg. 4. 
GAU, UF still at standstill 
Voices were raised at last contract negotiations, pg. 5. Who will UF hire as its next 
football coach?
Mississippi State coach Dan Mullen is a popular candidate for the job, pg. 14.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 29
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain was ﬁ  red Sunday after UF lost, 42-7, to Georgia. Athletic director Scott Stricklin said UF’s search for next year’s coach begins now. “I like coach Mac, ” Stricklin said. “I think he is a good man. I want to thank him for his time and his effort serving as our football coach. ”
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
After a third consecutive loss and a media 
circus surrounding Jim McElwain’s claims 
that death threats were leveled against mem-bers of the UF football program, Florida ﬁ  red McElwain on Sunday. He ﬁ  nished with a 22-
12 record over two and a half seasons.
Defensive coordinator Randy Shannon 
will ﬁ  nish the season as the interim head 
coach, UF athletic director Scott Stricklin said. 
“I appreciate coach McElwain, the way he 
has handled this,” Stricklin said Sunday. “I like coach Mac. I think he is a good man. I want to thank him for his time and his effort serving as our football coach. 
“I’m conﬁ  dent coach Shannon and our 
staff will provide the guidance our program needs these next four weeks. We have four games left.”
In McElwain’s last news conference after 
a 42-7 loss to Georgia, he seemed to sense the decision was imminent. 
“I know what I was brought here to do,” 
McElwain said. “Look, we haven’t been good 
on offense. I get it. We’ve won a few games, 
but we haven’t won enough, haven’t won a championship. That’s real. That’s life. That is this business, and I take full responsibility for all of it.”
On Dec. 4, 2014, UF’s athletic director at 
the time, Jeremy Foley, hired McElwain to re-pair a woefully underperforming offense. 
McElwain seemed like a good ﬁ  t with an 
SEC pedigree and head coaching experience. He came from an offensive coordinator posi-tion at Alabama before serving as Colorado State’s head coach and leading the program to its ﬁ  rst 10-win season in over a decade. FIRED: Jim McElwain out as Gators football coach
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
MORE THAN 310 BANDS PLAYED 
IN 20 DOWNTOWN VENUES.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The Festival
Steve Wozniak has been to seven Fests as 
an attendant, an employee and a performer. 
“The Fest, for me, has been my greatest 
weekend of the year for the past seven years 
now,” the 29-year-old said.
The Fest 16, Gainesville’s 16th annual punk rock festival, brought more than 310 bands in 20 downtown venues from Friday to Sunday, said Wozniak, Fest’s app developer, web designer and registration team leader.
Seven Fests later, Wozniak said the com-
munity is what keeps him coming back.
“I found this community that I always 
hoped existed, but never knew about,” Woz-niak said. “Everybody can be really happy and be really proud of who they are all in one place.”More than 2,600 people 
attended punk rock festival 
UF WILL HOST MEMORIAL 
SERVICES FOR IAN BURNS ON 
THURSDAY FROM 1 P .M. TO 3 P .M.
By David Hoffman and 
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writers
Ian Burns was a tenor.
Whether it was church hymns, the 
soundtrack to his favorite Disney movies or even Kanye West, Ian was always sing-ing from the bottom of his heart, said his mother, Monique Burns.
“You always knew when Ian was in a 
room, you always knew when he was sing-ing,” she said. “He could hit the highest C note. So many people loved to hear him.”
His voice was hardly the only thing that 
shined, she said. It was his smile. It was hosting all-night video game sessions with up to 15 friends from completely different cliques Friday nights in their Palm Beach Gardens home. ‘He radiated wherever he 
went’: A UF student honored
SEE FEST,  PAGE 8 SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 8Florida 7 Georgia 42
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
HIGH  69° LOW  42°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Apply well before the dead-line to ensure the federal pro-cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-sistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid ad-viser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Trick-or-Treating at Kimber 
HollowCome trick-or-treating Tuesday at Kimber Hollow Haunted Graveyard, located at 2700 NW 50th Place from 5:30 p.m. to 11 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Kimber Hollow’s haunted display is family-friend-ly and open to all ages. The spookiness will include bone-chilling tombstones, rolling fog, a witch’s apothecary and an apocalypse pumpkin patch. Feel free to bring a camera and snap photos with Mr. Creeper Reaper, any resident ghosts or next to your favorite tombstone. For di-rections and more information, visit kimberhollow.com. 
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to become more comfort-able speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology and Nematology building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to the public. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
English Classes
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program of-fers free English classes at the Alachua County Library District Millhopper Branch Library, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. Classes will be Tuesday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14. For more information or to register, visit www.lati-nawomensleague.org or email info@latinawomensleague.org. 
Stand-up comedy at Rockeys 
Dueling Piano Bar Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, lo-cated at 112 S. Main St., hosts live stand-up comedy and drink specials every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. A lo-cal comedian will start the show, 
and open-mic will be available 
after the main show. The price is 
$5 per person. 
UF Organ & Carillon Studios 
Halloween Concert
The UF School of Music is host-
ing the UF Organ and Carillon 
Studios Halloween Concert 
on Tuesday from 7:30 p.m. 
to 9:30 p.m. in the University 
Auditorium, located at 333 
Newell Drive. The concert is free 
and open to the public. 
Ray Bradbury’s ‘Fahrenheit 451’ 
at Buchholz High School
The Buchholz Players are open-
ing their 2017-2018 season with Ray Bradbury’s “Fahrenheit 451.” Opening night is Thursday 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Buchholz 
High School, located at 5510 NW 
27 Ave. Performances are Nov. 2 to Nov. 4 and Nov. 9 to Nov. 11 at 7 p.m. Matinee performances 
will be held Nov. 5 and Nov. 12 
at 2 p.m. Tickets are $8 in ad-
vance and $10 at the door. For more information, call 352-955-6702. 
Drink with the Extinct
The Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting Drink with 
the Extinct to share science with 
the community. Sip brews in 
the shadow of the mammoth, 
sample local fare beside the mastodon and enjoy live music 
Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at 
the Florida Museum. Proceeds 
benefit the museum’s Pop-up 
program. Participants must be 21 and older. Tickets are $30 or 
$25 for museum members. For 
more information, visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/drink-
with-the-extinct or call 352-273-2047.
Tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. Whether 
you’re a beginner or a seasoned 
dancer, everyone is welcome. No experience, partner or special shoes are required. Just bring a thick pair of socks. Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., followed by advanced level lessons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A. Find  the UF Argentine Tango Club on Facebook for more details.
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plications
Do you make cool stuff? 
Gainesville’s largest indepen-
dent craft show is looking for 
artists and crafters who make 
unique, giftable goods for the 
upcoming Dec. 3 holiday shop-
ping event at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, located at 
1220 NE Veitch St. Apply online 
by Wednesday at glamcrafts-
how.com/apply.
Housing Fair 
Student Government’s Fall 
Housing Fair is Nov. 17, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the North 
Lawn. As the largest housing 
event at UF, students can engage 
with a wide variety of Gainesville community representatives and gain a better understanding of 
what off-campus housing com-
munities have to offer. This is 
the easiest way to get familiar with off-campus living options and a great way to stock up on 
promotional giveaways. UF re-
sources such as Off-Campus Life 
and Student Legal Services will also be on hand to help answer questions. For more information, 
visit sg.ufl.edu/housingfair.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 29
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 4 
p.m. from now until Wednesday, November 8. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, 
November 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the 
new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Thursday 
November 30 at 3 p.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to 
be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:
MEDICAL
amnesty
BE SMART, CALL 911MAP encourages you to: 
Call 911!
Stay with the person needing
assistance until help arrives. 
Be prepared to give the 
emergency medical personnel as much information as possible. 
Will I get in trouble?
MAP applies to the UF Student Code of Conduct, Housing and Residence Education Community Standards, and Greek Life policies. 
The person calling for help and the person 
in crisis will not be referred for Student Code of Conduct charges regarding the alcohol or drug use. 
Medical Amnesty Policy incidents will 
not be entered on the student’s oﬃcial academic record.
UPD and other law enforcement agencies still 
have the right to enforce the law. Why did UF create a Medical Amnesty Policy (MAP)?
MAP was created to promote a healthy and safe environment for all UF students.
UF encourages all students to make 
responsible decisions and seek medical attention in serious or life-threatening 
situations that result from alcohol and/or 
other drug abuse. GATORS, TAKE CHARGE!CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911CALL 911
gatorwell.ufsa.uﬂ.eduTHE RUN COST $1,000 TO 
PUT TOGETHER.
By Julia Renner
Alligator Contributing Writer
Over the chatter of runners min-
gling and the “Ghostbusters” theme 
song playing on the speaker, Anthony 
Sanchez gathered the crowd for the 
Gator Zombie 5K on Saturday morn-
ing. 
The Inter-Residence Hall Associa-
tion and the National Residence Hall 
Honorary hosted the race. The 100 
participants wore ﬂ  ag football belts 
and ran for 3.1 miles from volunteers dressed as zombies, trying to steal their ﬂ  ags. 
“It’s something different at UF,” 
said Sanchez, the IRHA president. “There are always 5Ks where it’s about how fast you can get there, but this one really is just about the experience.”
The creepy clown zombie, who looked like Pennywise from Stephen 
King’s novel “It,” would scare runners 
the most, the 21-year-old UF advertis-ing senior said.
Chris Mann, 18, said he had been 
training for the race, which was his 
ﬁ  rst 5K. 
“You can train on a treadmill, but 
you can’t train for people trying to grab 
at you,” Mann, a UF freshman, said. 
The registration fees for runners 
were $10 before the event and $15 on-site, which included a T-shirt. Gator Dining Services donated after-race snacks, and RecSports provided the 
ﬂ  ag football belts. The race cost about 
$1,000, he said. Proceeds from the race beneﬁ  ted the Cathie Ponikvar Memo-rial NRHH Scholarship, he said.
Sanchez said he hopes to make the 
event an annual tradition.
“We planned it three months ago 
to be around Halloween,” he said. “I think it just got more hype that way.” Gator Zombie 5K run 
draws 100 students
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Contributor
Leeson Chen, a 21-year-old UF computer science sophomore, chases Isabelle Lady, a 20-year-
old UF biology junior, as she ﬁ  nishes the last leg of the Gator Zombie 5K. Participants wore ﬂ  ag football belts as they ran while volunteer zombies chased them and tried to pull them off.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
By Shelby Cohron 
Alligator Contributing Writer
An “American Horror Story” actress will 
speak at UF on Monday and introduce  her-
self to students.
Naomi Grossman, who plays Pepper 
in “American Horror Story: Asylum” and “American Horror Story: Freak Show,” will speak at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom at 7 
p.m., said Emily Harrell, the speakers and 
comedians committee director for the Reitz Programming Board.
Grossman will speak about how she 
made it in Hollywood, how she started her 
career and what it’s like being a woman in 
the entertainment world, Harrell said. 
Grossman will be paid $5,700, which 
includes the cost for her to perform, travel 
expenses and her lodging, Harrell said. Dif-
ferent committees within the Reitz Program-ming Board are covering the cost, she said.
Harrell said Grossman coming ties into  
Halloween. 
“We thought it would be really cool,” she said. “Especially because ‘American Horror Story’s’ new season premiered recently, and it is a popular TV show.” 
The event is free for everyone, Harrell 
said. 
The ﬁ  rst 40 students who arrive will get 
a chance to meet Grossman, the 20-year-old said. 
After the speech, those ﬁ  rst 40 students 
will be ushered into another room where the meet and greet will occur, Harrell said.  
Lauren Deutsch, a 19-year-old UF Eng-
lish sophomore, said she will try to attend the event because she loves “American Hor-ror Story” and admires Grossman’s acting abilities. 
“I am hoping Naomi will talk about 
‘American Horror Story’ and how she got to where she is in the acting industry,” Deutsch said. “Although she has only been in two seasons and has played the same 
character, both of her performances were 
amazing.”AN OFFICER SAW HIM STUMBLE 
TO HIS CAR FROM A BAR.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua County jail captain was ar-
rested early Sunday morning for driving drunk, Gainesville Police said.
Michael Donovan, who is the support 
services division captain at the county jail, was walking out of Xclusive Cafe and Lounge, located at 1221 E. University 
Ave., when a Gainesville officer patrolling 
on foot saw Donovan, 51, stumble to his car at about 2 a.m., according to an arrest report. Donovan started his car and tried to back out of his parking space to leave, 
but the officer stopped him.
The GPD officer talked with Donovan 
and noticed the smell of alcohol on his 
breath and slurred speech, according to 
the report. Police said Donovan’s eyes 
were bloodshot and his face was flush. The officer also said Donovan struggled to sit up in his driver’s seat. 
He stumbled and swayed, the officer 
noticed, according to the report.
Donovan refused to give a breath 
sample and was arrested on the charge of driving under the influence. He was trans-ported to the jail where he was released 
on his own recognizance Sunday.
Donovan was placed on paid adminis-
trative leave pending an internal investi-
gation, said Sgt. Chris Sims, an Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office spokesperson.
The support services division captain’s 
responsibilities include tracking the in-
mate population and acting as a liaison between the facility and the community 
mental health provider and other crimi-
nal justice agencies, according to the jail’s website. 
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org‘American Horror Story’ 
actress to speak at UFGPD: ACSO jail captain arrested for driving drunkBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Hawthorne man was arrested Friday 
for a September shooting in the down-
town Checkers and Rally’s parking lot that wounded one bystander. 
Gainesville Police said Deshawn Mon-
tez Sanders, 20, was identiﬁ  ed by witness-es who saw him and a raised white truck he was in during a shooting Sept. 15. The shooting happened as bars were closing down-town near Rain Nightclub 
& Lounge, located at 238 
W. University Ave., ac-cording to a sworn com-plaint.
Half an hour later, an-
other shooting between two groups at the parking 
lot of Checkers and Rally’s and Taco Bell, located at 826 W. University Ave., wound-ed a 17-year-old, who was not involved in the confrontation. The victim was taken to UF Health Shands Hospital and survived the 
fragmented bullet in his head.
The victim said the altercation start-
ed when a group in the truck played “No 
Smoke,” a rap song, as an insult to another group, according to the sworn complaint.
The driver, who was identiﬁ  ed by wit-
nesses, and a passenger in the truck told police Sanders got into the truck with a gun.
Sanders told the passenger he was sorry for getting involved in the Checkers shoot-ing, but he was upset a friend of his was hurt during the earlier shooting that night, 
according to the sworn complaint.
Sanders was arrested on a charge of 
attempted murder and taken to Alachua 
County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $250,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org GPD: Suspect in September downtown shooting arrested
A 17-year-old victim survived a gunshot wound
By Renee Castro
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can trick or treat Tuesday for Hal-
loween at Library West, no costume required.
Library West student ambassadors will 
host their ﬁ  rst trick-or-treat event Tuesday 
from noon to 2 p.m., said April Hines, a fac-
ulty adviser.
More than 1,400 pieces of candy have 
been purchased, and any student can partici-pate, Hines said.
At the library entrance, students will be 
given a bag and a map to guide them to the locations of ﬁ  ve trick-or-treating stations 
throughout the library. The stations were chosen to highlight places in the library with 
resources students may not know about, 
Hines said. 
One of the stations with candy will be the 
one button studio, she said.
“A lot of students don’t know about it,” 
the adviser said. “It’s the video recording stu-
dio that we have on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor.”
Hines said each station will have candy 
and prizes. In order to receive the candy, students must listen to two facts about the library from an employee at the station.
After visiting each trick-or-treating loca-
tion, students will turn in their maps with their contact information on the back. Each 
completed map will be entered in a rafﬂ  e for prizes like Starbucks gift cards, Hines said.
The Library West student ambassadors 
wanted to put on a fun Halloween event and familiarize  students with different aspects of 
the library, Hines said.
“I think that everyone loves the idea of 
trick-or-treating and has those memories of doing that,” Hines said. “I think everyone will 
love the idea of having a break and will get to be a kid again.”
Megan Pitt, a 19-year-old UF economics 
and political science sophomore, said she ﬁ  rst heard about the event on Facebook.
Pitt said since she’ll be at the library al-
ready, she’ll take a break to trick or treat. She is excited to receive the treats from the library 
and hang out with her friends.
“I love free swag,” she said. “If it’s free, it 
must be good.”Library West to give out 
candy, prizes for HalloweenSanders
On campus:
Trick-or-treating event at Library 
West on Tuesday from noon to 2 p.m. 
Students can visit five different sta-
tions to get candy. Those who visit all 
stations will be entered in a raffle.
Organ & Carillon show. An organ 
show in the University Auditorium 
will begin at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, fol-
lowed by a show at Century T ower 
from the carillon player. The event is 
free.
GatorWell tank tops. All students 
in a costume who stop by the main 
office in the Reitz Union on Tuesday 
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. will get a free 
shirt.
Star Wars event at the UF Book-
store on Tuesday from noon to 3 p.m. 
There will be games, trivia and a raf-
fle to win a laptop.
Lakeside Residential Complex 
haunted house will be Thursday from 
7:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. There will be 
free food and drinks in the common 
area. It is free for Lakeside residents.Off campus:
Bass Pro Shops Halloween event 
Tuesday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. There will 
be a pumpkin toss, crafts, a trick-or-
treating event and a costume parade. 
There will also be a pet costume con-
test at 6 p.m. Prizes for ﬁ  rst, second and 
third place.
The Swamp Restaurant will have a 
“Stranger Things”-themed Halloween 
party Tuesday at 9 p.m. The ﬁ  rst 250 
people get a free T-shirt. There will be 
Eggo wafﬂ  e shots.
Costume contest at the Hardback 
Cafe on Tuesday at 9 p.m. There will be 
a costume contest with prizes.
T aco Tuesday Halloween at Elixir 
Lounge Smoothie and Juice Bar on 
Tuesday at 9 p.m. There will be a cos-
tume contest, $50 for the winner.
Trick-or-treat event at Lucky’s Mar-
ket on Tuesday at 4 p.m. People can 
walk around the store to get treats and 
participate in a coloring contest for a 
$20 gift card.
Halloween Party at Main Street Bar 
& Billards on Tuesday at 9 p.m. There 
will be Halloween drink specials and a 
costume contest.MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE GROUP GIVES BLOOD 
PRESSURE SCREENINGS ON 
BO DIDDLEY PLAZA.
By Benjamin Cabral
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of UF students spends their Sun-
days taking blood pressure and giving health 
information to Gainesville’s homeless popula-tion. 
Mary Cobty, a 19-year-old UF communica-
tion sciences and disorders sophomore, start-ed a UF chapter of Hearts for the Homeless after hearing about the impact the organiza-tion had in her hometown of Orlando. The 40-member group has provided medical care on Bo Diddley Community Plaza every Sun-day since September.
Cobty said she was inspired to start the or-
ganization at UF despite having trouble ﬁ  nd-ing clinics and food banks to partner with.
“I did not like the sight of people not re-
ceiving the same medical treatment as me,” she said. “The least we could do is help give 
awareness to them through blood pressure 
screenings and directing them to a free clinic, if needed, while trying to break the stigma of the homeless to UF students.”
Jim Mossell, a UF aerospace engineering 
junior, said he likes the organization’s focus on heart disease, since it’s one of the leading causes of adult death in the U.S.Mossell said helping out is rewarding even 
though he’s not a pre-health student. 
“My favorite part is just getting the chance 
to talk to these people and hear the amazing stories they tell,” Mossell said. “It amazes me how people who may be having a hard time at this point in their life can still have such a positive outlook.”
Leon Bradley, a homeless man who was 
born and raised in Gainesville, said he’s at-tended the screenings since the organization started working on the plaza, he said. 
“I have had my blood pressure checked 
with them several times,” Bradley said. “My issue is cholesterol, but it was good to know I had a normal blood pressure.”
Steve Mclain, a Gainesville resident, said he knew of his high blood pressure before the screenings. 
“I was put on medicine for it a few months 
ago,” Mclain said. “Getting my blood pressure checked again lets me know if the medicine is working.”
The organization’s presence in Gainesville 
has provided people like Mclain with a health opportunity that was not previously there, 
Cobty said.
“Seeing my work come to life, seeing all 
of the volunteers that show up and seeing all 
of the people willing to take their blood pres-sure really warmed my heart,” Cobty said. “Those memories help motivate me to do bet-ter and expand on this organization within Gainesville.”
Student organization aids homeless with heart healthBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Tensions ﬂ  ared at a Graduate As-
sistants United bargaining meeting  
Friday, held months after the Sum-mer deadline to resolve contracts.
The union, which is negotiating 
graduate assistant stipend raises, pro-posed a clause Friday to let it review any raises above a graduate assis-
tant’s minimum stipend.
GAU bargaining chair Bobby 
Mermer said GAU made the proposal 
to ensure UF’s plan to give $1 million 
to graduate assistants in 2018 and 2019 won’t be unfairly distributed. 
“It allows us to monitor where the 
money is going between the different 
departments so we can ensure it’s eq-uitable,” Mermer said.
When the proposal was brought 
up, Bill Connellan, UF’s chief nego-
tiator, said he could take the million off the table entirely. He said it takes away jurisdiction from management.
Connellan gesticulated toward the 
document in front of him and at one point put his hand forcefully down on the table. Mermer raised his voice to talk over Connellan.
“I will not accept what you just 
proposed,” Connellan said.
When Mermer asked what Con-
nellan could offer in return, Connel-lan said he would stick to UF’s pro-posal.
Mermer said he wouldn’t accept 
it.
“Fine,” Connellan said. “I guess we don’t have a contact.”
At the threat of an impasse, where 
the negotiations would stop and have to be mediated, the groups scheduled another bargaining session, where Connellan said UF would present its best and last offer.
After the meeting, Connellan said 
anything could be taken off the table, but he doesn’t want to remove the $1 million proposal because he feels UF 
is making a good investment.
“I was disappointed, obviously, 
but I’m convinced we can get there,” 
he said.
Mermer said the proposed $1 mil-
lion has made it hard to negotiate stipends for their current graduate as-sistants.
“Transparency has been an is-sue throughout this,” said Josh Pa-pacek, GAU’s communications chair. 
“We’ve consistently harped on want-
ing to know where this money went, which we think is fair if they’re going to put this on the table and make it part of the package.”
Mermer said to move forward, he 
would need a breakdown of the pay scale detailing where the money is placed, or for UF to agree to GAU’s 
previous suggestion of a $700 raise 
for the ﬁ  rst year, a $300 raise for the 
second year, raises for incoming em-
ployees and fee relief in August.
“We’ve helped make this a top-10 
university now, and we expect to be treated in kind,” Papacek said. 
@romyellenbogen 
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF, GAU continue to push stipend contract past deadline
UF:
-Intends to distribute $1 
million among departments for 2018-2019 graduate students
-Would speak with deans 
about departmental minimum stipend of $16,000
-Proposed $600 total raise for 
ﬁ  rst year, $300 total for second year
GAU:
-Proposed review of any 
additional raises beyond minimum stipend
-Wants fee relief moved from 
January to August
-Wants $700 total raise for 
ﬁ  rst year, $300 for second yearThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialMONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORLast week, I went to a show at High Dive 
featuring two Florida-native bands: The Hails and Surfer Blood. This was not my 
ﬁ  rst High Dive show, nor will it be my 
last. Not only is it a blast to hear great 
live music, but it’s also awesome to give your love and support to local businesses, especially 
the art and culture hubs around Gainesville.
For one, when you contribute to different 
Gainesville locales, those places support the 
community around them, too. Take the Surfer Blood show, for example. According to the venue’s Face-
book page, using proceeds generated from ticket sales, 
High Dive and Surfer Blood were able to donate more than $1,500 to Grace Marketplace, located at 3055 NE 28th St., which offers substance abuse counseling, showers, shelter 
and storage for those who need it in the Gainesville area. 
It makes my heart happy to see some of the proﬁ  ts 
taken from such a fun concert directed toward a cause that 
genuinely offers assistance and support. As a college stu-dent at UF, I think it can be tragically easy for us to mini-
mize the broader Gainesville community and the needs 
of its members, especially those in neighborhoods with fewer resources. Supporting local businesses and chari-ties, whether through monetary and material donations or 
volunteered time, helps nurture the town we all call home.
On that note, I think it’s intrinsically valuable to sup-
port spots around Gainesville — to support them simply 
for being native and organic to this community. Small businesses can thrive with the support of a large college 
fan base, particularly during the academic year. But it’s 
important to remember many of us leave town on breaks, short and long, and it can prove much more difﬁ  cult for a mom and pop shop to stay aﬂ  oat during those weeks than 
for a chain market.
Keeping this in mind, I believe we should emphasize 
visiting local restaurants while we’re in Gainesville — and, to be quite honest, I think the native plac-
es can be way better than the chains, anyway. Just look at The Top, Southern Charm Kitchen 
or Daily Green, some of my favorite restaurants 
in this area (and also of all time). They’re all within 10 minutes from my apartment, serve high-quality food with plenty of vegetarian and 
vegan options and have a strong love for the 
community. They even source ingredients from local farms and gardens, further demonstrat-ing mutual respect and support time and time 
again.
Beyond restaurants, Gainesville boasts a diverse vari-
ety of gems ranging from locally owned bookstores and art kiosks to record stores, bars and music venues. A quick glance through upcoming Facebook events can quite 
honestly show you the world: Downtown is essentially 
a bounty of indie rock shows, rap battles, dance parties, wine tastings and poetry readings. 
We should support the artists, musicians and hosts 
who put on these events by hearing, watching and buying 
their work. Putting out quality material demands time and 
resources, and the beauty they bring to this town feeds right back into the community when we help these inno-vators create more. Art beautiﬁ  es our neighborhood and 
allows both artists and viewers to express and feel. It’s a 
win-win.
So next time you’re looking for a new study spot, a 
quick bite to eat or a place to browse and lounge for hours on end, think locally. Meet the people behind the counter. 
Buy a used book or a new piece of art just because you 
like it. Soak up what Gainesville has to offer — and give back in the process.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Keep it local and support Gainesville businessesColumn
If you’ve read or watched the news at all over the past 
few weeks, chances are you’ve seen the words “sexual assault” multiple times. After news dropped about Har-vey Weinstein’s appalling past, more and more women from Hollywood have been coming out and sharing their 
stories. Following suit, millions of other women and men have felt empowered to share their history with sexual as-sault through the social media campaign #MeToo.
Although many people have dubbed themselves as cham-
pions of overcoming sexual assault through this campaign and preached the importance of consent and respect, we haven’t had a chance to see a lot of concrete action or change as a result. This Tuesday, we hope we will.
As we’ve grown older, Halloween has become less syn-
onymous with sugar comas and trick-or-treating and more so with binge drinking and wild parties. Don’t get us wrong, we love Halloween. The costumes, the decorations and, yes, even the parties. But we recognize parties, especially ones on days like Halloween, can easily become breeding grounds for sexual assault. 
College Halloween parties usually have a few staples. Ex-
cessive amounts of alcohol, skimpy costumes, recreational drugs, dark spaces and loud music are typically part of the 
so-called fun. Absolutely none of the factors, by any means, 
make sexual assault acceptable or excuse anyone’s actions. However, we can’t ignore the fact that when all of these conditions come together, it creates an environment where sexual assault is more likely to occur. Dear reader, we want you to realize you have the power to break that unfortunate normality.
No one should have to think to themselves while picking 
out their costumes, “Will this make me more susceptible to 
being raped?” No one should have to stop themselves from 
drinking at a party solely out of worry that someone will take advantage of them. No one should have to be worried their drinks are going to be drugged by some stranger with the intention of assaulting them or the candy they eat is going to be laced with some type of drug they had no intention of taking. Everyone deserves to enjoy themselves without fear of assault and without fear those around them cannot control themselves or their actions.
That being said, we feel the need to clarify the idea of 
responsibility when it comes to sexual assault. It does not only apply to men. Too often men are pegged as the only attackers and women as the only victims in cases of sexual assault. We recognize sexual assault has no gender, and any-one can easily become a victim or ﬁ  nd themselves becoming the perpetrator. We urge you, no matter your gender, to take responsibility for your actions.
This Halloween, please stay vigilant. We aren’t going to 
pretend sexual assault is not an issue on this campus, and we aren’t going to pretend we don’t expect men and women to fall victim to it this week. All we can hope is you, dear reader, can stay accountable for yourself and practice what you preach. More so, we urge you to go the extra mile and stay accountable for those around you and stop things that don’t seem OK. 
We have the power to make our campus a safe place. Let’s 
start using that power.We all deserve a 
Halloween free of 
sexual assault
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Over the past few days, 
I have seen multiple articles detailing the lives of middle school students who chose to 
end their lives by killing them-selves. Suicide is always tragic. Suicide should always draw our attention and ignite a desire for action and change. When those who choose to end their lives are not even teenagers yet, it can capture our at-tention in a particularly intense way.
In the articles and blog posts I’ve read, 
many people have attributed the students’ choices to end their lives to something that has plagued society and humankind for centuries: bullying. Bullying isn’t some-thing often talked about in college. It domi-nated conversation from elementary school through high school, but once we reached college, it seemed to trickle out of the dia-logue. It may be off our minds at the mo-ment, but the problem is far from gone.
Something I found interesting was a phe-
nomenon one of the parents of a student re-ferred to as “not my child syndrome.” She thinks parents tend to believe their children are not the ones participating in bullying, and anything negative they hear about chil-dren’s behavior may apply to other kids but certainly not their own. Of course, we can understand why a parent would not want to think their kid is the bully, but logically, if every parent thinks this, at least a few of them have to be wrong.
You may be wondering why I’m talking 
about parenting in a column for a college newspaper. I recognize this may not seem applicable at the moment. However, we are at a unique state in our lives in which we can plan for a better future for kids by vivid-ly recalling our past when we were kids. We can decide now who we want to be. Who we are now plays a role in who we want to spend our lives with and how we want to raise our kids, should we decide to have them. We are also going to be the ones who make the newest social media, who make policy and who are teachers and ad-ministrators working with kids.
Similarly, we may adopt a phi-
losophy of “not me syndrome.” Maybe you’re out of that stage of your life or wouldn’t call your-self a bully and therefore think this whole thing doesn’t really 
have to do with you. However, I can assure you it has everything to do with all of us.
Our parents had more resources than 
their parents did to help our generation be better than the last, and we have even more. We have history, we have stories of success and stories of tragedy, and we have our own experiences to help the next generation do better than we did. When I say do better, I do not simply mean achieve more, make more money or be more successful. I mean treat each other better. I mean help other people feel welcomed, like they belong in this world. I mean help each other be the best, happiest and most loved they possibly can.
When we learn of kids ages 11 or 12 end-
ing their own lives, we are forced to ask why. Sometimes, it could be due to issues adults deal with daily but are able to cope with thanks to a lifetime of experience. It can be due to the way they are treated by other people. The way we treat others does not just surface from nowhere. Behavior is learned and observed. Our behavior is among that which younger people observe and wish to emulate, and the truth of this will only grow with time. We cannot forget how hard it was to be in middle school, and we cannot assume the problem has nothing to do with us. Even if you don’t think you have any power in this area, you do.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column appears on Mondays.
We have power across generationsColumn
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org“If you see something, say 
something.” This slogan 
can apply to suspicious 
activity monitored by the Department of Homeland 
Security, but it should also apply to our everyday interactions.
If you hear a friend say some-
thing racist but don’t say anything, 
who will?
White supremacist Richard 
Spencer coming to our school showed us it 
can be easy to criticize an outsider who comes 
to campus while ignoring your own prob-
lems. We need people to step up and call out what they see instead of deluding themselves into thinking racism is only a problem when a white supremacist comes to town. I stand 
by what I said two weeks ago: while Spencer 
came and went, there’s still a clear presence 
of white supremacy on campus. Embrac-
ing the TogetherUF campaign does not really mean anything. While the Panhellenic Council 
and the Interfraternity Council pushed for the 
campaign — even displaying tarps from their houses — there is still much for them, and the 
rest of campus, to work on.
This is clear in organizations like Kappa 
Alpha Theta Sorority, of which a member of 
was recorded talking about an apparent haz-ing incident with racist language. There may be even more examples on campus which are just good at hiding it. Rather than complain-
ing about how Greek organizations are being 
unfairly targeted for the action of one chapter, 
do something about it.
The Panhellenic Council and Interfraternity 
Council don’t have the best track record of be-ing inclusive, yet they didn’t hesitate to jump 
on the “Gators not Haters” bandwagon. They tout unity but cry foul when someone calls 
them out for not living by it. 
I understand involvements are deeply cher-
ished. Your fellow members become your friends, and it might be hard to call them out.  
But is it worth compromising your ideals to be in an organization that touts togetherness 
and unity one day and abuses members for 
interracial dating the next? Criticizing racism or even upholding the System within Student Government is not anti-Greek, it’s calling out privilege. Racism and 
bigotry contribute to exist as a toxic 
culture within many organizations, and standing by it is not OK. If you 
think it’s wrong, you have to decide 
whether it’s worth salvaging or if 
you should leave.    
Toxic cultures don’t just exist 
within sororities or fraternities. They 
exist in other organizations on cam-
pus. It’s easy to dismiss Greek life and say this toxicity does not affect you on a daily basis, but 
what’s even better is having the introspection 
to assess how your own involvements stack up in terms of inclusivity. Greek life is just one of the most entrenched campus institutions. 
Instead of focusing on “not all sororities and 
fraternities are racist,” how about we focus on making none of them racist? Being offended 
by being called a racist just deﬂ  ects from the 
real problem. If someone in your organiza-tion brags about slapping someone for kissing 
a black man, your biggest problem isn’t being 
made fun of on the “Swampy UF memes for top ten public teens” Facebook group. 
College students aren’t paid to be involved 
in organizations, they do it because they be-
lieve in a cause or they want experience in 
their ﬁ  eld for a resume. Surround yourself with causes and people who are worthwhile. If you don’t stand by an organization’s ideals, it may be time to condemn it and move on. 
As much as I hope this is taken seriously 
and investigated accordingly, that might not 
happen. But it’s on the sisters of Kappa Alpha 
Theta and others who are involved in organi-zations that aren't inclusive to do something 
rather than waiting on others to make the ﬁ  rst 
move.
Be more conscious of the organizations you 
take part in. Chances are if you are having a negative experience, others are too. Chang-ing UF might be ambitious, but start with the 
people you choose to surround yourself with. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. Speak out against unjust organizationsColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgAs of Friday, about 2,600 tickets were sold, 
said Tony Weinbender, the owner and curator 
of Fest.
One of the highlights of the festival was 
the Gainesville punk rock band Against Me! 
performing its entire first album, “Against 
Me! Is Reinventing Axl Rose,” on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., on Saturday, Weinbender said. About 3,000 people attended the show, which was 
the biggest crowd Weinbender has seen for a 
Fest performer.
Weinbender said he’s been planning Fest 
16 since December 2016.
“It’s very different because we’re not a big 
production,” Weinbender said. “We’re just a bunch of people who love this genre and scene 
of music and put it on for the love of it. This is definitely a labor of love.”
Yoga for Punks
On the last day of Fest 16, about 60 festival 
attendees practiced yoga at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave., on Sunday.
After a weekend of hardcore punk music, junk food and drinking, Nicole Nussbaum was looking forward to practicing yoga.
“It’s nice to have a moment to reconnect 
and recenter,” the 26-year-old Brooklyn, New 
York, resident said. “Yoga feels like it’s a really 
good support for this particular weekend and for this energy.”
Nussbaum and other attendees practiced 
gentle flows and breathing exercises.
For the third year in a row, 32-year-old 
Miguel Chen hosted the free event. Chen said the crowds at Fest have received the yoga class 
well.
“People usually seem pretty stoked,” Chen 
said. “It’s nice because punk rock tends to be 
an open-minded community and so the people who get up and make it to Yoga for Punks are 
always grateful.”
Chen, who owns yoga studios back home 
in Laramie, Wyoming, said yoga is like his sec-
ond music.
“I really love playing music, and I really 
love teaching yoga, because I love kind of help-
ing people get in touch with themselves how-
ever I can,” Chen said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Fest 16 attendees wait in a line outside The Wooly on Sunday. They were waiting to see the artist Into It. Over it.
FEST,  from pg. 1About 2,600 tickets were sold to the music festival 
It was dressing up in full Snow 
White garb — blue blouse, yellow gown, tiara and all — during his senior year Homecoming Day at Suncoast Community High School as part of the Disney-themed event. 
“Ian was a performer,” she said. 
“He knew he was, he was always joking. Some of the girls were like, ‘Wow, you look better in that dress than we do.’” 
But now, his mother, his twin 
sisters, Caitlin and Devin, 23, and all those he touched can only turn to memories to hear his voice and see his smile once again. The 20-year-old UF mechanical engi-neering and music sophomore died Oct. 21 after falling from the third floor of 13th Street Apartments, otherwise known as University House apartments, located at 725 NW 13th St. Gainesville Police is still investigating what caused Ian’s death but ruled out foul play.
UF will host a memorial service 
Thursday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Baughman Center, located at 982 Museum Road.
St. Mark’s Episcopal Church 
& School at Palm Beach Gardens, where Ian started singing in the youth choir in first grade, held a viewing Friday afternoon and a livestreamed funeral service Satur-day at noon. 
Above all else, Monique Burns 
said she wants her son to be known for his spirit. 
“He always had a smile and ca-
maraderie and empathy, he had no meanness,” she said. “He had love to share, and I hope that’s what people remember: Always be true to yourself.” 
Waverley Lim couldn’t bear the pain after checking Facebook on Oct. 28. 
After two years of choir and 
theater at Suncoast Community High School with Ian, all she felt while reading about her old friend and role model’s death was gaping emptiness and a lump building up in her throat, the 18-year-old high school senior said.
“I couldn’t even wrap my mind 
around it,” she said. 
Lim remembers his effortless 
sense of humor.He auditioned for their Fall 2015 
theater show, “A Grand Night for Singing,” dressed in a German le-
derhosen outfit, which he put to-
gether with leather breeches and 
suspenders, and sang his audition song, “Do Re Mi,” replacing each syllable with a reference to beer.  
At their end-of-the-year show, 
James Lapine’s “Into the Woods,” he owned the stage as the lead character. Lim, the head choreog-rapher, taught Ian the dance. Danc-
ing wasn’t his strength at first, but he worked at it again and again, 
never giving up, she said.
She thinks back to his solo at 
the climax of the show’s second act, “No More.” Listening to old re-cordings of their shows, reminisc-ing in the fun they had, is what’s gotten her through the past week. 
“Every time I get in the car, if 
I’m going to an audition or going to class, I’m listening to all the songs he sang from senior year,” she said. “It’s on repeat now, that’s what’s making me have a lot more light in my days, just thinking about the positive and the wonder-ful memories and just how much talent he had.”
Abhinav Komaravelli, a UF 
computer science sophomore, took Advanced Placement classes with Ian, who he said was one of the smartest students at Suncoast Community High School.
“He was one of those people 
who didn’t have to much put work into his classes,” the 18-year-old said.
In British literature class, Ian ex-
plained “Beowulf” to Komaravelli. He said he wasn’t the only class-mate Ian took time to tutor. One of his best qualities was his helpful-ness, Komaravelli said.
“I always think about the times 
he helped me, especially now that he’s gone,” he said. “He was prob-ably one of the nicest people I know.”
As the St. Mark’s choir led the 
church in “Amazing Grace” and emotional hymns, more than 100 gathered and filled the chapel room to honor Ian in Palm Beach Gar-dens on Saturday. 
Phil Marshall, a close friend of 
the Burns family, told stories and memories given to him by family 
members and friends of Ian. Rev. Jim Cook, the chief pastor 
of the church, watched Ian grow up 
in the 11 years he’s led St. Marks, he said in his sermon.
“We shouldn’t have to talk 
about Ian when only a week ago we were talking with Ian,” Cook told the crowd, his voice shaking. “Yes, we miss Ian, he is receding this day from our side — but he is not diminished in death, his life has changed, not ended.”
Monique Burns remembers the 
last conversation she had with her son. 
It was shortly after his birthday, 
Oct. 5. He had just bought a bike to ease his commute to and from 
campus, and she asked how it 
was working out. They ended that quick phone chat the same way the 
Burns family ends any and every 
conversation they have.
“I love you.”
Those were their last words.While Monique and the rest of 
the Burns’ family and community 
grieve, she stresses looking up. At 
the St. Marks service Saturday, she approached a group of Ian’s friends from high school and UF and told 
them to focus on what he did that 
made them laugh. 
“Remember the positive things,” 
she said. “Whenever you see Snow 
White, if you take your future kids 
to Disney, you’ll think of Ian.” 
The way he worked nonstop 
to be better, never resting on his 
laurels – that’s what Lim said she’s 
focusing on for her own dreams in 
theater and acting. 
“He radiated wherever he 
went,” Lim said. “I’m so glad that 
I was able to listen to him sing while I could; it was hardly enough 
time.” 
@hoffdavid123 
dhoffman@alligator.org  
EPILOGUE,  from pg. 1Ian was known for singing, performing and helping others 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ian Burns, 20, saw the Fairy Pools tourist attraction in Scotland on 
May 30. Burns, a UF mechanical engineering and music sophomore, took a six-week trip to Europe over the summer with his twin sisters, Caitlin and Devin, 23. 
•   •   ••   •   ••   •   •MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd. • www.bojangles.com
SW 34th St
SW Archer Rd
We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m. Proudly Serve breakfast All day!We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m. Proudly Serve breakfast All day!BREAKFAST COMBOS
ALL DAY, EVERY DAY!
YOUR CHOICE
• Bacon, Egg & Cheese Biscuit
• Sausage & Egg Biscuit• County Ham Biscuit• Steak Biscuit
Combos served with 1 fixin’ & a drink.LIMITED TIME ONLY$4
EACH
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.net
MICANOPY FALL FESTIVAL
The Micanopy Fall Festival lasted for two days and hosted 
a number of booths with food and crafts for visitors to enjoy. This was the 43rd annual festival, and it took place on Cholokka Boulevard.
Above:
The crowd ﬁ  lls the street at the Micanopy Fall Festival 
on Sunday. 
Right:
Singers from the Micanopy Christian Fellowship sing “Every Praise” at the Micanopy Fall Festival on 
Sunday. There was a small stage at the event where 
various groups performed.Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
By Anna Cappelli
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Brittany Harvey hugged 
her 6-pound, 10-ounce newborn 
in 2005, she couldn’t imagine her daughter being anything less than healthy.
“We had no idea in utero that Ka-
tie was sick in any way, but when she was first born she flatlined, and we were in the (neonatal intensive care unit) for over a month,” Har-vey, 37, said.
At 3 months old, Harvey’s daugh-
ter Katie was diagnosed with pyru-vate dehydrogenase complex defi-ciency (PDCD), a congenital disease affecting the mitochondria, the en-
ergy powerhouse of the cell. As one 
of her many medications, Katie took dichloroacetate, also known as DCA. UF researcher Dr. Peter Stacpoole is currently working on a $2 million federally funded project to determine if DCA is a safe and effective drug to give to children with Katie’s disease.
“Katie only received this medi-
cine for the last 2 months of her life but I 100 percent feel that if it was administered her whole life it would have made a huge difference,” Har-vey said.
Before Katie died in 2014, she went through 26 surgeries and took too many medications to count, Har-
vey said.
Children with Katie’s disease 
generally die young of neurological 
failure and complications developing cognitively and physically, Stacpoole said. The disease is so rare there are only about 300 children with it living in the U.S.
The Harveys went to hospitals all 
over the country, seeing several spe-cialists. Katie required 24-hour care, and had a feeding tube and oxygen machine to help her weak lung ca-pacity.
When Katie was 8 years old, she entered a hospice program due to her untreatable lung failure. Ten 
days after her ninth birthday, Katie 
passed away peacefully at home with her family.
Stacpoole hopes his trial, which 
is in phase III, will help other sick children.
“Phase III is the ultimate test,” 
Stacpoole said. “If you can show your trial is positive, you can apply 
to the (Food and Drug Administra-
tion) for approval of that administra-tion.”
Stacpoole said although the bulk 
of research done on DCA is for chil-dren with metabolic diseases, he is also interested in continuing studies in adults, primarily those with glio-
blastoma, a type of brain cancer.
“It has a diversity of potential ef-
fects,” Stacpoole said. 
DCA stimulates an enzyme in 
the mitochondria, he said. Although 
it will not cure the disease, it might alleviate the effects of the disorder, he said.
“It may mean a better quality of 
life, reduction of hospitalizations and complications,” Stacpoole said. “Depending on how quickly we can treat them after they’re diagnosed, we may contribute significantly in their overall health.”
UF researchers hope to find drug for rare child diseaseBy Iesha Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
Under a pitch black sky, Maureen Malles 
put her eye to a telescope and saw the moon’s craters in new detail.
More than 2,000 people observed the sky 
through professional-quality telescopes during 
the annual Starry Night event at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull Road, on Friday at 6 p.m.
The event organizer, Chelsea Collison, set up the free event with the UF Astronomy de-partment, the Alachua Astronomy Club, the Santa Fe College Astronomy Program and the 
Kika Silva Pla Planetarium.
“It’s an event for everyone,” Collison said. 
“I think everyone can enjoy looking through 
the telescope and seeing the moon and plan-ets.”
The event has been going on for about 10 
years, Collison said.
Participants were given a passport to 
the universe, where they could collect eight 
stamps throughout the night for a prize. The prizes included space-themed stickers, posters 
and magnets.
Stamps could be collected from any of the 
22 activity tables located inside and outside the museum. All of the activity tables were educa-tional and space-themed. The tables included Ask an Astronomer, Cosmic Time Tunnel, Telescope Clinics and the Starlab Planetarium Show.
The event also featured NASA astrophysi-
cist Amy Mainzer, who gave presentations for children and adults throughout the evening.
Collison said to prepare for the event, orga-nizers placed the telescopes behind the build-ing where the sky would be least obstructed.
“We moved all of the telescopes this year so 
they have more darkness, and that’s been a big plus,” Collison said.
Malles, a UF law student, said she attend-
ed the event after hearing about it from her friends. She was fascinated by a recording of noise from space, which all participants could listen to.
“There were guys transmitting noise from 
space,” the 26-year-old said. “I didn’t under-
stand any of it, but it was interesting.” Florida Museum hosts night of astronomy, stargazing
By Olivia Sahnger
Alligator Contributing Writer
In January, the Florida Science Olympiad 
Northern Regional competition will be host-
ed at UF for the first time.
The tournament brings in more than 
300 middle and high school contestants and pushes students to find their passion for sci-ence, said Mohona Ahmed, the co-director for UF’s Science Olympiad chapter. The 
tournament consists of 23 different events in 
science, technology, engineering and math. 
Ahmed, one of the seven freshmen and 
sophomores chosen to plan the event, said she fell in love with the tournament in high school, skipping her graduation ceremony to attend the national competition in 2017. 
“Our goal for this regional tournament is 
to be the competition that we would want to attend,” the 18-year-old UF materials sci-ence and engineering freshman said.
Kevin Hao, a UF mechanical engineering 
freshman and the founder of the UF chapter of Science Olympiad, said he’s nervous, but excited, about planning the competition.
“This tournament is probably the biggest 
project I’ve ever undertaken,” the 18-year-old said.
Hao is a Science Olympiad five-time re-
gional and state champion and a four-time national medalist.
Hao said it will help the contestants to 
know the director has been in their shoes before. He said the most important part about the tournament is learning more about science.
“They put a lot of pressure on them-
selves to succeed,” he said. “But at the end of the day, everybody is winning.” By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF Health Shands Hospital unveiled a private 
room for sexual assault survivors Wednesday. 
The new room gives sexual assault victims 
a place to be examined that’s removed from the main emergency department, said Dr. Cristina Zeretzke-Bien, the medical director of the sexual assault nurses examination program. Shands used $32,000 from the Alachua County Commis-
sion to create the safe space. 
“It will also give them a private area that’s go-
ing to be a lot more quiet,” Zeretzke-Bien said. 
“We also focused a lot more on the decor of this room to make it feel not like a hospital room.”
The room has beach-themed decor, walls 
painted a softer color than most hospital rooms, includes artwork that reads, “You are safe here,” and has images of flowers, hearts and hands ex-tended upward.
Zeretzke-Bien said she hopes this newly dedi-
cated space will provide comfort while survivors 
are dealing with the aftermath of a traumatic ex-
perience. 
“We’re really trying to validate this issue that 
they’re facing with respect and dignity,” she said. 
Zeretzke-Bien also hopes the room will lead 
to more convictions in sexual assault cases, as the room gives survivors a safe place for forensic evidence to be collected. 
Livia Ledbetter, a UF sociology and women’s 
studies junior, said she feels a room like this has been needed for years but is thankful it has fi-nally come to fruition.
The 20-year-old thinks the funding provided 
by the Alachua County Commission proves local government is committed to helping.
“I think it says that they really do have their 
priorities in order,” she said. Science tournament to be 
hosted at UF next yearShands dedicates room for sexual assault survivorsBy Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cognitive researchers will no 
longer have to drive their subjects 
in golf carts across campus to use an MRI scanner.
Two new laboratories in the UF 
McKnight Brain Institute expand the space for different researchers to use, centralizing them in one building, said Dr. Steven DeKosky, a neurologist and the deputy direc-tor of the McKnight Brain Institute.
The institute, located at 1149 
Newell Drive, will conduct re-search on memory loss in aging adults, neurodegenerative diseases and more.
Along with the two new labora-
tories, old conference rooms on the ground floor of the institute were refurbished into assessment rooms, an electrophysiology lab and an electrical brain stimulation lab. A new phlebotomy lab, or blood-drawing lab, was also added.
The renovation cost about 
$400,000 and was funded by the institute, DeKosky said. 
DeKosky said the new space in 
the institute was convenient and let the board of the institute design the space for the most efficient work. 
“We were lucky that we had the 
space,” DeKosky said. “We were 
able to bring it down to exactly the 
specifications that the researchers need.”
The goal of the new labs was 
to place assessment rooms close to the MRI scanners, DeKosky said. 
“If you’re going to test people in 
a reasonably easy fashion, it’s al-ways nice to have them only come 
to one place,” DeKosky said.
The Center for Cognitive Aging 
and Memory, which is funded by 
the McKnight Brain Research Foun-dation, examines brain changes in aging adults and neurodegenera-tive diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease, said Dr. Ronald Cohen, the 
director of the center.
The center’s researchers had 
trouble with the lack of space for 
their patients. It was hard to com-pete for rooms in their previous building, Cohen said. Now, with the new labs, they have more space for their research.
“It was important to have space 
right (in the McKnight Brain Insti-tute) that was a part of the institute as opposed to some other loca-tion,” Cohen said.
Having assessment rooms close to scanners and a blood-drawing lab made the transition into the new center positive, Cohen said.
Cohen said the new research 
center will contribute to transla-tion of successful cognitive aging, which adapts studies on animals and applies it to human subjects.
“We’re studying people who are 
showing cognitive changes associ-ated with aging that are more typi-cal and try to understand what’s 
contributing,” Cohen said. “We 
want to understand what contrib-utes to age-related brain changes and also to do something about it.” 
New labs open in the UF McKnight Brain InstituteBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Palms of Archer mobile home good condi -
tion 3 bed 2 bath great location convenient to UF and hospitals $10k obo; bus stop at park entrance enquire 352 219-3766 or see craigslist post      11-6-17-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 - 20 hours / week. Fast & accurate typ-ing required. Send resume to combehserv@gmail.com    10-30-17-5-14Elder and special needs law firm seek-ing a receptionist for a part-time position. Candidate should be familiar with Microsoft Office, be comfortable on the phone, and have reliable transportation. Please email resume and cover letter to amandam@millerelderlawfirm.com.     10-30-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
1. Who was the last Boston pitcher 
before Rick Porcello in 2016 to open a 
season 10-0 at Fenway Park?
2. In 1956, the home-run champion 
of each league faced each other in the 
World Series. Name them.
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that the Atlantic Coast Confer -
ence had six ranked football teams in The Associated Press weekly poll?
4. In 2016, Anthony Davis set a 
New Orleans Pelicans record for most points in a game (59). Who had held the team mark?
5. The 2017 NHL Stanley Cup 
Finals featured two American-born 
head coaches. Name them.
6. In 2017, FC Dallas’ Roland 
Lamah recorded the second-fastest 
hat trick from kickoff (31 minutes) in Major League Soccer history. Who has the fastest?
7. Thoroughbred trainer Todd 
Pletcher has seen his horses win five Triple Crown races. What is the only Triple Crown race in which he has not had a victory?
Answers
1. Don Schwall had a 10-0 start at 
Fenway Park in 1961.
2. Mickey Mantle (52 home runs for 
the New York Yankees) versus Duke 
Snider (43 home runs for Brooklyn).
3. It was 2006.4. Jamal Mashburn had 50 points in 
a game in 2003.
5. Peter Laviolette (Nashville Pred-
ators) and Mike Sullivan (Pittsburgh Penguins).
6. Bradley Wright-Phillips (New 
York Red Bulls), inside of 27 minutes.
7. The Preakness.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 30, 2017King Features Weekly Service
1.  Jammed
1.  Dove relative5.  Circumference 
2.  Small bouquet 6.  ____ Doubleday 
3.  Improve 7.  ____ sticks
4.  PowerCKDPAE
GNOPEITIGHR
RANBE
GACRESO
HCNNEEAYREECL
GEEYNRANSWERS: 1A-Packed  5A-Girth  6A-Abner  7A-Celery
1D-Pigeon  2D-Corsage  3D-Enhance  4D-Energy  B-Gregory Peck10-30-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor was a recipient of the Presidential Medal
of Freedom (awarded by Lyndon Johnson 1969).
BONUS
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted MONDAY, OCTOBER 30   ALLIGATOR   13
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 10/30- 11/2 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.   10-30-17-4-20
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Press (down), as
pipe bowl ash
5 Life-saving proc.
8 Collect $200 in
Monopoly
14 Top poker pair
15 Feel remorse for
16 Brewpub fixture17 *Palestine, to
many
19 Soccer game
shout
20 St. plagued by
wildfires in 2017
21 Leaves out
23 Colorado resort
24 Other side in a
fight
26 Monterey County
seat
28 *Slam-dance
area
30 Spontaneous
notion
33 Classic Ford
36 One of eight Eng.
kings
37 Cola, e.g.
38 Actress Longoria39 Vienna’s country:
Abbr.
41 Gobble up43 Do sales work
(for)
44 Baseball glove46 Baseball throw48 Multi-room
accommodations
50 Praiseful verses
51 *What “blows no
good”
53 More geeky
55 V-shaped carving59 Happy
expression
61 “Six __ 
a-laying ... ”
63 Yokohama yes64 Descartes’ 
“I think”
66 “Spring forward”
partner (a
reminder for
November 5th) ...
and what the last
word of each
answer to a
starred clue canliterally have
68 From boat to
beach
69 Island strings70 Pre-deal wager71 Poker player, e.g.
72 ’60s hallucinogen
73 Enjoys 23-AcrossDOWN
1 Nevada border
lake
2 Bit of a squirrel’s
stash
3 Messy fight4 Future therapist’s
maj.
5 Study at the last
minute
6 Say “You’re
grounded” to, say
7 Administrative
complications
8 Kung __ chicken
9 Edgar __ Poe
10 Up-and-down
playground
fixtures
11 *Jam on the
brakes
12 More than a
breeze
13 Ready for
customers
18 Common Jesuit
school name
22 Playground fixture
25 Sra., on the Seine27 Formal “My bad”
29 Dumb
31 Camille’s concept
32 Route providers
33 Note to the staff34 Exiled Roman
poet35 *Regular dinner-
and-a-movie
evening
40 Former MLB
commissionerBud
42 Way under a
river
45 “Cats” poet47 Full of joy49 About-to-be
spouse’s words
52 Inflicts, as 
havoc54 Nostalgically
trendy
56 Say “Much
obliged” to
57 Desert plants58 Walks with
backpacks
59 Picket line violator60 Jazzman Allison62 Word with bob or
dog
65 Poetic “above”67 Eng. majors’
degrees
By Jake Braun©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/30/1710/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Takes a risky leap
10 Teensy bit
15 Baked fruit
dessert
16 Actress Campbell
of “Martin”
17 Florida locale
whose beach is
ranked byTripAdvisor as #1in the U.S. in2017
18 Furry fish eater19 Drink with a polar
bear mascot
20 Mag wheel?21 Let loose22 Dishonorable sort23 Without breaks,
as a tennis set
25 Degree of
uncertainty
26 One hanging
around in theforest?
28 Eurasia’s __
region
29 Cantina snack30 Tombstone
shootoutparticipant
32 Natural home
34 Domino’s
competitor
37 Fruits often
cubed
38 Hopeful
40 Acted like41 Lighting hrs.?42 Eye care brand44 City on the Shatt
al-Arab river
48 Hawaiian
yellowfin
49 String around the
collar?
51 Harley
Davidson’sNYSE symbol
52 Prayer string54 British society
page VIP
55 Tiny particle56 Interim ruling
group
57 Entertainment for
the whole gang
59 Many a Pacific
resident
60 Insect world
raiders
61 Tears62 Ceremony with a
Best Female Hip-Hop ArtistcategoryDOWN
1 First things to
learn
2 Forming a
summit
3 Tight-fitting suit4 If-then-__:
programmer’sflow
5 Fast flier
6 Roseanne Barr,
for one
7 Partner of kisses
8 Choose over,
with “to”
9 Farm dwelling
10 It may be skipped11 Talking Trans Am
of classic TV
12 Repeated
melodic pattern
13 Bit of bakeware14 Construction
protection
21 Tanning aid, for
short
23 “Ten North
Frederick” authorJohn
24 Motivational
speechcomponent?
27 Beach birds29 “Michael Clayton”
Oscar winnerSwinton31 Whisky cocktail
garnished with
skewered cherries
33 Early bathysphere
user William
34 Curse deterrent
35 Safe haven for
cave dwellers?
36 “Delta of Venus”
author
39 Sushi fish40 Early fast-food
eatery43 Unpopular sort45 Instrument made
from a ram’s horn
46 Stout
47 Spies49 Fiber-rich cereals
50 Spanish vacation
island
53 Minimally
55 Avian motormouth
57 Swell
58 Like a carefully
kept profile
By Daniel Nierenberg©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/28/1710/28/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 28, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Malik Davis, UF’s leading 
running back, injured his right knee Saturday. After the game, he used crutches to walk off the field and wore a long, black brace. His status is unknown. Gators volleyball team beats Mississippi State
Florida swept the Bulldogs in straight sets in Starkville, Mississippi, on 
Sunday to improve the team’s season record to 18-1. Read about Florida’s win online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
But after three years without 
cracking the top 99 teams in terms 
of scoring, Stricklin let McElwain go.
That’s not the only reason Florida 
(3-4, 3-3 SEC) is moving forward 
without McElwain.
Last Monday, McElwain shocked 
fans, reporters and UF administra-
tors by claiming threats, including some death threats, were leveled against players, coaches and their families.
McElwain had a moral and per-
haps legal obligation to report those 
threats to the university, but didn’t. 
“Monday created a different story 
line and caused a lot of distractions,” 
Stricklin said Sunday night. “It’s hard to speculate on what would have happened had last week not occurred.”
Instead of headlines about how 
the program is preparing for a 
matchup with No. 3 Georgia, Florida 
saw headlines of a coach who failed to notify police and staff about a po-tentially life-threatening situation. Two days later, McElwain made it clear that he regretted bringing up the threats in the first place.
“It’s just something that came up 
and obviously was on my mind,” McElwain said Wednesday.  It doesn’t make it right to air that laun-dry.”
It was too late. The claims of 
death threats were already national news and featured as a top story on ESPN. And while he didn’t say it,  Stricklin led on that it played a role in McElwain’s departure. 
“This is more than just wins and 
losses, and I’ll just leave it at that,” Stricklin said Sunday. While early reports of McElwain’s 
firing Sunday went unconfirmed, multiple Florida players tweeted re-marks that made it seem like McEl-
wain’s tenure was over.
“Gotta love finding these things 
out through twitter … a heads up 
would’ve been nice,” UF quarter-back Luke Del Rio posted around 2 p.m. “No, we weren’t told before-hand. Hence the previous tweet.”
At 5:30 p.m., Stricklin held a 
team meeting and confirmed what the players had seen on Twitter. 
“They were quiet, but they made 
eye contact and they shook my hand on the way out of the room,” Strick-lin said.
For Stricklin, the next step is be-
ginning to search for a new coach 
and settling McElwain’s massive 
buyout clause, estimated at over $12.7 million. 
“We have reached a settlement in principle. We just don’t have it signed yet,” Stricklin said. 
Stricklin said McElwain didn’t 
talk to his players on Sunday, but the 
opportunity is “still available.” 
@MattB_727 
mbrannon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Jim McElwain fired one day after 42-7 loss to Georgia
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
“We haven’t won enough, haven’t won a championship ... I take full responsibility for all of it, ” Jim McElwain said Saturday after UF’s loss. 
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer
1. Dan Mullen, head coach, Mississippi 
State
Dan Mullen has roots at the University of 
Florida. He was the offensive coordinator un-
der Urban Meyer when UF won two of its three 
national championships. He was hired away 
after the 2008 title to be the head coach at Mis-sissippi State, where he’s stayed since. He has amassed a 67-44 record with the Bulldogs in his eight-plus seasons in Starkville. 
There was some friction with Mullen and 
Florida when Jim McElwain hired MSU defen-sive coordinator Geoff Collins to take on the same role at UF. Mullen called it a “lateral 
move” at the time. However, Florida athletic 
director Scott Stricklin came from Mississip-pi State to Florida last year. Even though he didn’t hire Mullen at MSU, they know each other well. 
“I enjoyed working with Dan,” Stricklin 
said Sunday, “and I would say he’d probably say the same.”
2. Matt Campbell, head coach, Iowa 
State
Matt Campbell is one of the biggest names 
on the college-coaching circuit right now. In his second year at Iowa State, his team has upset two top-five teams — No. 4 TCU and No. 3 Oklahoma — and sports a 6-2 record. ESPN analyst Kirk Herbstreit tweeted recently, 
“Dear AD’s thinking of making a new hire I’ll 
save you your coaching search firm fee-go DI-RECTLY to Ames, IA and get Matty Campbell FAST!!”
Campbell was the head coach at Toledo be-
fore making the jump to ISU ahead of the 2016 season. He’s 37 years old. 3. Scott Frost, head coach, UCFFlorida may not have to look far to find the 
next head of its program. About two hours south in Orlando, UCF’s Scott Frost is generat-
ing buzz. 
The second-year coach of the Knights has 
his team undefeated after being hired to turn 
around a team that lost every game in 2015. He reached a bowl game in his first season before putting his team on a possible path to a New Year’s Six bowl. 
He’s also a fan favorite among the Florida 
fan base because his offense currently ranks 
fifth nationally in yards. Before taking over at 
UCF, he was the offensive coordinator at Or-egon. 
4. Mike Norvell, head coach, MemphisMike Norvell inherited a program in good 
shape at Memphis thanks to former head coach Justin Fuente, who left for Virginia Tech. But in two seasons, Norvell has produced a 15-6 record including a 7-1 mark this season. His of-fense also ranks 11th in yards nationally. 
He was the offensive coordinator at Arizona 
State before being lured away by Memphis. 
5. P.J. Fleck, head coach, MinnesotaFleck spent four years at Western Michi-
gan, where he turned around a cellar-dweller Broncos program from 1-11 his first year to 13-1 with a Cotton Bowl berth in his final year. He was arguably the hottest commodity on the college-coaching market a year ago, and even 
though he’s only in his first year at Minnesota, 
Stricklin could still make a call to gauge his in-terest.
Fleck is only 36 years old.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
With McElwain out, five candidates stand out for UF job:MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
CAREER FAIR
November 1, 2017
10 am - 2 pm
Tower Club Ballroom
8000 NW 27 Blvd., Gainesville, FL 32606Please apply online
www.thevillageonline.com/careers
email: talentacquisAssisted Living and 
Home Health
Companions
Certified Nursing AssistantsNursesActivities CoordinatorDining Services
Servers
Kitchen Porter
Cook IIServerAdditional Open 
Position
Hairdresser
ManicuristPedicurist
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Nothing has gone according to plan for 
Florida’s football players in 2017.
They weren’t expecting nine of their team-
mates — including All-SEC receiver Antonio 
Callaway — to be suspended indeﬁ  nitely from 
all team activities before the season began.
They weren’t expecting to then kick off 
the year losing four of their ﬁ  rst seven games, 
the program’s worst start to a campaign since 1986.
And they certainly weren’t expecting to 
ﬁ  nd out that their coach, Jim McElwain, had been ﬁ  red on Sunday when they logged onto Twitter and scrolled through their notiﬁ  ca-tions.
”Wait...what just happened” freshman 
linebacker Nick Smith tweeted at 11:22 a.m.
”Bruh What the f---!” redshirt sophomore 
linebacker Kylan Johnson wrote 15 minutes 
later.
It was a shocking morning for the Gators’ 
players, one that came less than 24 hours af-
ter their worst performance of the season: a 42-7 loss at the hands of Georgia.
UF surrendered a season-worst 292 rush-
ing yards to the Bulldogs and only put togeth-er two offensive drives that gained more than 30 yards.
Now, Florida is ofﬁ  cially out of the SEC 
title race with one month remaining on its schedule, and the man who led it to 22 victo-ries over the past two and a half years is gone.
“This isn’t something I (wanted to) see,” 
cornerback Duke Dawson said of the loss on 
Saturday. “But hey, life has its turns. We just 
have to deal with it and move on.”
UF’s players said after Saturday’s defeat 
that they were “embarrassed” with the per-formance they put forth against the Bulldogs, but also pointed out there is still a lot left to play for.
The Gators conclude the regular season with back-to-back road games against Mis-souri and South Carolina followed by a pair of home matchups against UAB and Florida State.
With Florida sitting at 3-4 and a bowl game 
appearance still a possibility, its players are focused on ﬁ  nishing the year strong.
“Got to keep going. Got to keep pushing,” 
safety Chauncey Gardner Jr. said. “Just keep playing football. The outsiders, we’re not worried about them. We’re going to keep do-ing what we’ve got to do.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org  Florida football players react to ﬁ  ring of Jim McElwain
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2017
Grand  Opening
THE9GAINESVILLE.com •  1404 W UNIVEr SITy A VE, SUITE 10, GAINESVILLE, FL  
TExT NINEGAINESVILLE T o 47464 T o STAy Up To dATE! 
@THE9GAINESVILLE • 352.389.5383 •Live Life to 
the 9’ S
1404 W University Ave 
Suite 10 Gainesville,  
fl 32603
free food!NoV 1ST
12–7pm
Nov 1st, 12–7pm
Waived fees 
+ $200 Giftcard 
for first 25 to Sign
$2500 worth of prizes, 
eDC orlando tickets, 
and Uf vs fSU tickets!• coffee Bar with 
complimentary Starbucks
• Bowling Alley
• pool Volleyball
• community Fire pit 
• Lounge Hammocks
• corn Hole
• Luxury Spa
• private pool cabanas
• Zero Entry pool
• imac computer Station• Gaming lounge with pool Table, ping pong, 
Air Hockey
• 18' Jumbo-Tron
• Two-Story Fitness Facility
• TV Lounge with  
xbox one and pS4
• Tanning Bed &  
Tanning Booth
• Ultra-High-Speed Wi-Fi in common Areas• Fitness/yoga Studio with Fitness on demand
• 50" 4k Flat-Screen TVs
• robust cable package
• Located in the Heart of Sorority row 
• Walk-In closets in Select Units
• private Balcony in every Unit
• BBQ Grills• Electronic Unit  
Entry Locks 
• ceiling Fans in Living room & Bedroom
• Granite Kitchen & Bathroom countertops 
• private Ultra-High Speed Internet
• private Study rooms with 60" Touchscreen monitors
• And so much more!A look at the biggest accomplishments, biggest failures of McElwain’s tenureIt’s Cohen Down / Opinion
Worst Moments Best Moments
Jim McElwain is out as Florida’s football coach. What were some of his best and 
worst moments during his time at UF? Let’s take a look: 
Back-to-back SEC title games:
This goes at the top of the list.There was no better indication of McElwain’s early success at Florida than the fact 
he won the SEC East twice in his ﬁ  rst two years with the team, earning back-to-back 
trips to Atlanta and the SEC Championship Game.
And McElwain knew it.
Whenever reporters criticized UF’s lackluster offense 
— the side of the ball McElwain was hired to help ﬁ  x — 
the coach constantly referred to the fact that he was also 
brought here to win, and his teams had done that. Just look 
at where they ended the last two years, McElwain would say. 
Yes, McElwain lost both times to Alabama, ﬁ  rst 29-15 
in 2015 and then 54-16 the year after. However, the fact still 
remains: earning two consecutive trips to the title game was 
an impressive feat.
30-3 win in Outback Bowl:
McElwain’s ﬁ  rst and only bowl win came in January, 
when the Gators defeated an 8-4 Iowa team in Tampa.
On the surface, the win doesn’t appear very impres-
sive. 
But at the time, it was.
McElwain had been embarrassed in Florida’s 
previous bowl game — a 41-7 loss to Michigan — to 
end his ﬁ  rst season.
And while Iowa was nowhere near as talented as 
that Michigan team, which would go on to have a 10-3 
season the following year, the Gators proved that Iowa 
was clearly outmatched by defeating the Hawkeyes by 
27 points.The death threats:It’s difﬁ  cult to pinpoint one exact moment that began McElwain’s downfall, but 
Oct. 23 seems to be as good of a place as any.
On that day, a Monday, McElwain walked into his usual weekly press conference 
and announced, unprompted, that players and coaches on his team and their family 
members had received death threats, but provided almost no other information. 
Later that day, the University Athletic Association released a statement saying that it had spoken with McElwain but the coach “offered no additional details,” essentially distancing itself from McElwain while making it look like the coach was either not forthcoming or wasting everyone’s time.
That was the start of a tension-ﬁ  lled week for 
McElwain and Florida, one in which rumors began to surface that the UAA was seeking a buyout of 
McElwain’s contract.
The UAA and McElwain appeared out of sync, and 
the entire week was a bad look for both.
42-7 loss to Georgia:
On Saturday, Florida suffered its most embarrass-
ing defeat under McElwain, a 35-point loss to Georgia, one of its biggest rivals. Florida barely avoided being shut out thanks to a last-minute drive in the fourth quarter led by 
backup quarterback Malik Zaire.
During the game, McElwain’s body language said it all: 
He constantly paced the sideline, his hands on his hips as 
he stared at the turf.
And after the game, McElwain looked like a man re-
signed to his fate, resting casually against the lectern while answering questions about his job security.
One reporter asked: Would it surprise you if you lost 
your job tomorrow?
“Nothing in this world surprises (me),” he said.
it had spoken with McElwain but the coach “offered no 
additional details,” essentially distancing itself from 
McElwain while making it look like the coach was 
either not forthcoming or wasting everyone’s time.
That was the start of a tension-ﬁ  lled week for 
McElwain and Florida, one in which rumors began 
to surface that the UAA was seeking a buyout of 
The UAA and McElwain appeared out of sync, and 
the entire week was a bad look for both.
On Saturday, Florida suffered its most embarrass-
ing defeat under McElwain, a 35-point loss to Georgia, 
one of its biggest rivals. Florida barely avoided being shut 
out thanks to a last-minute drive in the fourth quarter led by 
During the game, McElwain’s body language said it all: 
He constantly paced the sideline, his hands on his hips as 
And after the game, McElwain looked like a man re-
signed to his fate, resting casually against the lectern while 
answering questions about his job security.
One reporter asked: Would it surprise you if you lost 
“Nothing in this world surprises (me),” he said.
trips to Atlanta and the SEC Championship Game.
And McElwain knew it.
Whenever reporters criticized UF’s lackluster offense 
— the side of the ball McElwain was hired to help ﬁ  x — 
the coach constantly referred to the fact that he was also 
brought here to win, and his teams had done that. Just look 
at where they ended the last two years, McElwain would 
say. 
Yes, McElwain lost both times to Alabama, ﬁ  rst 29-15 
in 2015 and then 54-16 the year after. However, the fact still 
remains: earning two consecutive trips to the title game was 
an impressive feat.
30-3 win in Outback Bowl:
McElwain’s ﬁ  rst and only bowl win came in January, 
when the Gators defeated an 8-4 Iowa team in Tampa.
On the surface, the win doesn’t appear very impres-
sive. 
But at the time, it was.
previous bowl game — a 41-7 loss to Michigan — to 
end his ﬁ  rst season.
that Michigan team, which would go on to have a 10-3 
season the following year, the Gators proved that Iowa 
was clearly outmatched by defeating the Hawkeyes by 
27 points.
