We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 142 TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
The house Mandee built
Florida’s lacrosse coach has turned UF into 
a national power in a short amount of time, pg. 13
Newell Hall opens its doors
The 24/7 study center’s renovations cost about $16 million, pg. 3
City breaks ground for new ﬁ  re station
It will be located at 525 S. Main St., pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorBy Emily Cochrane  
Alligator Staff Writer 
Averie Johnson considers every-
one at the Copper Monkey family. 
But after seven years as general 
manager, Johnson is one of several 
locals mourning after owners an-nounced the sale of the bar and res-taurant, located on West University 
Avenue, on eBay earlier this month. 
Johnson conﬁ  rmed Monday that 
the owners of the Rowdy Reptile, a 
bar next door, purchased the res-taurant for $80,100.01. Thirty-six 
bids were placed before the auction 
ended Thursday. 
“Gainesville just lost a piece of 
its heart,” he said. 
Johnson said he knew there was 
a possibility the Copper Monkey would join the handful of restau-rants closing their doors in the wake of skyrocketing rent and construc-
tion on West University Avenue. 
When the landlords raised the 
rent prices in January, demanding $8,500 monthly instead of $7,000, it 
became too difﬁ  cult for the owners, the Zeller family, to keep proﬁ  ts up, Johnson said.
For Rigel Straehlow, a regular at 
the Copper Monkey, the bar was al-ways a place to meet new people or 
study for his UF classes. 
“I don’t regret my time here,” 
the 26-year-old alumnus said. “I ac-
cept that it has to eventually come to an end.”
The new owners will take over 
April 30, and Johnson knows he isn’t staying, even though he can’t say for sure how the restaurant will change. 
“They’re going to lose a real 
down-home place,” he said. “I’m just going to take the knowledge, the memories Copper Monkey’s giv-en me — and a few regulars.” 
@escochrane
ecochrane@alligator.org   Local bar sold on eBay
HIS ARRAIGNMENT IS 
SCHEDULED EIGHT DAYS 
AFTER HE TAKES OFFICE.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Fewer than two months after 
Smith Meyers’ arrest for allegedly 
pushing down two motorcycles while drunk on Spring Break, he is set to take ofﬁ  ce as UF’s Student 
Body president on Wednesday.
On March 7, Key West Police ar-
rested Meyers on a charge of crimi-
nal mischief at about 2 a.m. after a witness reported seeing Meyers, 22, drunkenly attempt to start and knock over two Harley-Davidson motorcycles, according to an arrest report.
In footage of the arrest, Meyers 
appears to strike a witness.
Eight days after he takes ofﬁ  ce, Meyers is scheduled to appear in 
court for an arraignment.
Christina Cory, a state attorney 
prosecutor on the case, said she 
pushed back previous arraignments three times to pin down the exact cost of damages from the incident.
“I wanted to have a better idea of 
which direction this case is headed and know kind of what we’re look-
ing at for restitution,” Cory said in a 
voicemail.
Cory could not be reached for fur-
ther comment.
The owners of the motorcycles 
said Meyers caused at least $6,000 in damages, according to Alligator archives.
Meyers did not respond to mul-
tiple attempts for comment.
On April 12, Meyers pled not 
guilty to the charges and asked for a jury trial, according to Monroe A UF STUDENT HAS 
ALEXANDER HAMILTON 
TATTOOED ON HER LEG.
By Ariana Figueroa
 Alligator Staff Writer
Blood. Flesh. Ink. History.All these mark Caitlin Kantner’s 
body.
Her seven tattoos — scattered 
across her back, leg, ankle and 
behind her ear — include a U.S. 
Founding Father, American Revolu-tion seals and an epic 18th century battle between a pirate and a British Navy ship.
The tattoos aren’t just a tangible 
history lesson. The tattoos are a trib-ute to LGBTQ+ ﬁ  gures throughout the 18th and 19th centuries — a 
topic that’s considered taboo in the 
history community and one that Kantner plans to get her doctorate in and create classes for.
As she sifts through hundreds 
of ﬁ  rst-person documents to make LGBTQ+ history more accessible, she’s continuing to tell the unknown and often forgotten stories of queer 
historical ﬁ  gures on her body.
“Your body is a canvas,” the 
20-year-old said. “I’m telling a story 
with my tattoos.”
•   •   •
History has always been a part of 
Kantner’s life.
When she was 6, she was en-
amored with Egyptian history and begged her mother to take her to see 
the traveling King Tut exhibit in Fort 
Lauderdale.
When she was in middle school, 
she chose to play the ﬂ  ute because it was made by William S. Haynes, the founder of one of the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  ute companies in America.
Since the UF history sophomore 
moved to Gainesville from Boca Raton when she was 3, she’s deco-rated her bedroom with furniture and knick knacks from various time 
periods.
Kantner has a suitcase from the 
1950s she fashioned into a night-
stand and a dresser from the 1860s she bought from a strange man off Craigslist. On top of that dresser, she keeps her collection of vintage coins that hail from African countries, the Caribbean, France, Germany and 
American time periods.
The only window in her room is 
covered with shutters to protect the 
delicate photographs from the 1930s that are taped on her wall. In the photos, there is a lineup 
of newspaper boys from Gainesville and a portrait of a young girl. A rep-lica of the Mona Lisa hangs under a ceiling painted like the sky.
Copies of “Common Sense” and 
“The Federalist Papers” are stacked 
next to her bed, which is crafted 
with raised wooden planks that run slanted to resemble a pirate hide-away, but she keeps her stack of treasured books tucked away.
Among her 23-piece collection of 
rare books, which range in age from 1820 to 1950, is a leathery ﬁ  rst edi-tion of “Little Dorrit” and a copy of 
“The Republican Party.” She cradles 
each book close to her body and uses both hands to examine and ﬂ  ip through the yellow and weathered pages.
Pink butterﬂ  ies hang below a 
mural of a golden road that becomes obscured by hills and trees that her mother painted for her when she was 10.
“When I was younger I was 
obsessed with roads leading to no-where, which seems like a meta-phor for my life,” Kantner said.
A career path as a historian nev-
er seemed like a possibility for Kant-ner who excelled in mathematics and was pushed by her peers and teachers toward careers in medicine and science.
“Why am I forcing myself to do 
something that makes me miser-able?” she said. “I want to wake up and look forward to every day and 
love what I do.”
Deciding between choosing a 
ﬁ  eld that interested her and one 
that was ﬁ  nancially secure, she struggled with expressing herself in eighth grade. Confused about her at-tractions she had toward girls and 
 Meyers to take oﬃ   ce 
amid legal proceedings  An ink-stained history
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Capture of the William, a tribute to the Golden Age of Piracy is 
depicted on Caitlin Kantner’s back. The tattoo, which depicts a battle between a pirate ship and a British warship, cost $1,000.
SEE TATTOOS,  PAGES 8-9 SEE MEYERS,  PAGE 4“They’re going to lose a real 
down-home place. I’m just 
going to take the knowledge, 
the memories Copper Monkey’s 
given me — and a few regulars.” 
Averie Johnson
Copper Monkey General ManagerLOCALSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Florida Museum to host National 
Geographic photographer 
Joel Sartore Friday
Join National Geographic pho-
tographer Joel Sartore for a free presentation Friday from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts. 
Afterward, attendees are invited to stay for a dessert reception from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Both events are free and open to the 
public. Tickets will be available 
at the Phillips Center box office Friday at noon. For more infor-mation, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/cal-
endar/grid/lecture or call 352-
846-2000.
UF Argentine Tango Club tango 
weekendJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for a tango weekend 
Saturday and Sunday. On 
Saturday, there will be a potluck at Lake Wauburg with music, 
free food and good conversa-
tion. On Sunday, there will be a formal tango event with a lot of dancing. If you want to learn 
tango, there will be a crash 
course an hour before the event. Dancers and non-dancers are always welcome. For more in-formation, visit facebook.com/
groups/uftango.
Law in the Library 
The Alachua County Library 
District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar 
Association to present Law in 
the Library: Elder Law — What it Means for You and Your Loved Ones on May 8, from 6 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at Millhopper 
Branch Library, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. Judith B. Paul, Esq., will explain who elder at-torneys can help and what ser-
vices they provide. She will also 
discuss when power of attorney and asset protection are needed. This presentation is free and 
open to the public. Registration 
is not required.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
NEWS IN THE WORLD
Bubbles, teddy bears greet kids 
after school shooting 
SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. (AP) 
— A performer blew bubbles, a man handed out teddy bears, 
and parents shared hugs and 
prayers Monday outside a California elementary school as students returned to classes 
a week after a gunman opened 
fire in the special education classroom of his estranged wife, killing her and an 8-year-old boy.
Students on buses rolling up to 
North Park Elementary School in San Bernardino saw a large banner that read: “We love 
you.”
Dr. Dale Marsden, school dis-trict superintendent, said the reopening of the school was the first step toward healing after 
the deadly attack.
“We are all feeling the pain that comes with a tragedy like this,” he said. “Together, we will 
move forward.”
North Park had been closed since April 10, when police said Cedric Anderson killed Karen Smith and Jonathan Martinez, 
then fatally shot himself.
Police said Anderson had been targeting Smith, but the bul-lets hit Jonathan and 9-year-old 
Nolan Brandy, who was wound-
ed and later released from a hospital.
North Korea accuses US of cre-
ating situation for nuclear war 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) — 
North Korea’s deputy U.N. am-bassador accused the U.S. on 
Monday of turning the Korean 
Peninsula into “the world’s big-gest hotspot” and creating “a dangerous situation in which a 
thermonuclear war may break 
out at any moment.”Kim In Ryong told a news con-ference that “if the U.S. dares opt for a military action,” North 
Korea “is ready to react to any 
mode of war desired by the U.S.”He said the Trump administra-
tion’s deployment of the Carl Vinson nuclear carrier task 
group to waters off the Korean Peninsula again “proves the U.S. reckless moves for invad-
ing the DPRK have reached a 
serious phase of its scenario.”Kim stressed that U.S.-South Korean military exercises being staged now are the largest-ever 
“aggressive war drill” aimed 
at his country, formally the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Turkey’s president Erdogan 
fulfills ambition, but at a cost 
ISTANBUL (AP) — Turkish 
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has finally fulfilled his long-held 
ambition to expand his pow-
ers after Sunday’s referendum handed him the reigns of his country’s governance. But suc-
cess did not come without a 
cost.His victory leaves the nation deeply divided and facing in-creasing tension with former al-
lies abroad, while international 
monitors and opposition parties have reported numerous voting irregularities.
An unofficial tally carried by the 
country’s state-run news agency gave Erdogan’s “yes” vote a narrow win, with 51.4 percent approving a series of consti-
tutional changes converting 
Turkey’s political system from a parliamentary to a presidential one. Critics argue the reforms 
will hand extensive power to a 
man with an increasingly auto-cratic bent, leaving few checks and balances in place.Opposition parties called foul, 
complaining of a series of ir-
regularities. They were particu-larly outraged by an electoral board decision to accept bal-
lots that did not bear official 
stamps, as required by Turkish law, and called for the vote to be annulled. International monitors from the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe, who also listed numer-ous irregularities, said the move undermined safeguards against 
fraud.HIGH  88° LOW  59°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 142TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
CAMPUS
By David Hoffman
Alligator Contributing Writer
With ﬁ  nals week looming and 
the struggle to ﬁ  nd study spaces on 
campus intensifying, students were 
introduced to UF’s new 24/7 study 
space Monday.
Newell Hall, which previously 
served as an agricultural research 
laboratory, opened its doors for the 
ﬁ  rst time in ﬁ  ve years to a crowd of students eager to step foot inside. 
The hall, which was closed in 
2012 due to old age, has been under-
going renovations since Fall 2015, ac-
cording to Alligator archives. 
At the opening ceremony, about 
150 people wandered the four ﬂ  oors 
of the study hall and listened to 
speeches from those involved with the building’s development.
Former UF President Bernie Ma-
chen, who donated $5 million to-
ward the $16.6 million renovations 
while he was president, spoke to those crowded into the ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor lobby during the ceremony, which 
began at 11 a.m. 
“First time in this building since 
it was condemned, so it feels pretty 
good,” he joked. 
By 7 p.m., the hall was ﬁ  lled with 
students.
They were greeted by lounge 
chairs, private rooms, marker boards and ﬂ  at-screen panels. For those who want to relax, there’s a pingpong ta-
ble and puzzle structures, palm trees 
located outside for hammocks and a new Au Bon Pain bakery and cafe on the ground ﬂ  oor.
About 85 percent of the furniture 
in the hall has an outlet attached, said Anthony DeSantis, UF’s associ-ate dean of students. He said the out-lets were a top request from students. 
The hall contains a space for UF’s 
Center for Undergraduate Research and University Police.
On the fourth ﬂ  oor, Ben Ham-mack used a ﬂ  at-screen TV to play a muted 15-hour YouTube clip of 
Gandalf, from Lord of the Rings, nod-
ding to rhythmic saxophone music during a ﬁ  nals study session with his friends.
“I thought this place needed some 
good vibes,” the 21-year-old UF com-puter science senior said. “I’m doing this for the kids who’ll be here till three, four in the morning.”
Hammack said while his favorite 
study spot is Library West, his friend prefers Marston Science Library. 
He said the newly opened hall 
may change the other’s minds about 
the libraries. 
“This is going to be a good demili-
tarized zone in the war between Mar-
ston and West,” he said. 
 As students walk up the central 
staircase, they can learn about the building’s history through artwork and a timeline, DeSantis said.
The ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor lobby has the same 
concrete of the original Newell Hall, which was built in 1910, he said. The second-ﬂ  oor lobby is themed after the building’s ﬁ  rst renovation 
in 1944, and the third-ﬂ  oor lobby de-
picts when the building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1978. The fourth ﬂ  oor rep-resents Monday’s reopening, he said.
“Each ﬂ  oor tells, like, a story,” 
DeSantis said. After $16.6 million renovation, 24/7 study center opens
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
David W. Parrott, Christina Bonarrigo Villamil, Susan Webster, Blake Murphy and Charlie Lane 
(not pictured: Bernie Machen and Joseph Glover) cut the ribbon for the Newell Hall Grand Open-ing Ceremony on Monday morning.
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
County court documents.
UF law professor Kenneth Nunn said during 
an arraignment, defendants are presented with 
charges and the cost of damages.
Nunn said it’s standard for defendants to 
plead not guilty at first appearance because no 
evidence has been presented.
Nunn said Meyers will likely plead not 
guilty again at the arraignment and request a trial date.
“My guess is Mr. Meyers does not have a 
criminal record, so this would be his first-time offense,” Nunn said. “Most likely, he’s going 
to wind up with something called a deferred 
prosecution agreement.”
The agreement is a contract between the 
defendant and the state, where the defendant agrees to pay a fee, complete community ser-vice and/or go on probation in exchange for the prosecution to stop pursuing the case, Nunn said.In the agreement, the prosecutor could re-
quire Meyers to step down from Student Body president or be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, but Nunn said that’s not likely.
In a statement following his arrest, Meyers 
apologized for representing UF negatively and promised to be as transparent as possible. 
Since then, he has declined further com-
ment.
Valentina Varela, a 21-year-old UF psychol-
ogy senior, said she doesn’t mind that Meyers was arrested.“As long as he learns to control himself in 
the future, especially since he’s more in the UF public eye, then it’s fine,” she said.
But Diana Fridel, a 23-year-old UF fine arts 
junior, said she felt uncomfortable with Meyers taking office while going through legal proce-dures. She said his arrest questions his trust-worthiness.
“I think it’s a lot on his plate, if he is going 
to school, taking office and dealing with the legal issues,” she said. “It’s a lot for anyone to handle.”
MEYERS,  from pg.1He will likely be presented with charges and cost of  damagesIT TOOK THE UNIVERSITY 
MORE THAN A MONTH 
TO PROPOSE A COUNTER 
OFFER.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
After more than a month without 
a counter offer, UF offered Graduate 
Assistants United a new proposal for their health care plan Monday.
GAU, a union representing grad-
uate assistants, has been negotiating the health care portion of their con-
tract since Jan. 30, when UF made 
the initial proposed changes. These changes included a $10 monthly 
premium, higher deductibles and 
copays. In UF’s revised counter 
offer, the premium remained, but 
deductibles and other costs were lowered.Bill Connellan, UF’s chief bar-
gainer, said if GAU chooses to keep 
the premiums in place, he can be 
more flexible with the rest of the 
contract. Previously, the graduate 
health care plan had no monthly premiums.
“We like Gator Care, Gator Grad 
Care,” Connellan said, referring to 
the health care plan. “I see my job 
as to save it and make it sustainable into the future.”GAU’s health care chair, Bobby 
Mermer, said he was glad UF of-
fered a counter proposal so they 
can begin to move forward. He said 
there are still concerns with the of-
fer, including costs for dependents.
He said dependents, which can 
include spouses and children of graduate assistants, bear a large 
portion of the cost. It can be espe-
cially difficult for international stu-dents’ children, he said, who don’t qualify for federal Medicaid.
Mermer said the union looks for-
ward to further reviewing the con-tract with UF.
“Despite sometimes being paint-
ed by some of the administration as spoiled brats, we are very reason-
able people,” he said. “So every-
thing’s up for negotiation.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After a man intimidated two members of 
UF’s African American studies program, stu-
dents and faculty attended a teach-in on Mon-day to heal and educate others about black history.
Members of the program discussed Black 
Thursday, a sit-in demonstration organized by the Black Student Union on April 15, 1971, to express its discontent with the university. 
About 40 people gathered on Turlington 
Plaza for the 45-minute talk, which happened 
days after police removed a man from cam-
pus who had been expressing racist views and preventing two faculty members from leav-ing their office. The man, Thomas Kelly, was banned from campus.
Patricia Hilliard-Nunn, an African American 
studies professor, said she planned the teach-in to commemorate the recent 46th anniversary of Black Thursday, not because of the confron-tation.
“We just want to teach and move on,” she 
said. During the talk, professors spoke about how 
students in 1971 refused to leave former UF President Stephen C. O’Connell’s office after he would not listen to their demands regard-ing the university’s treatment of black students and faculty. The protest ended in the arrest of 66 students, 60 of whom were placed on aca-
demic probation, according to UF’s website. 
African American studies program Director 
Sharon Austin, one of the women Kelly con-
fronted, said the incident shows the need to educate people about the African-American community. 
“Everyone benefits from diversity, not just 
people of color,” she said.
Since the beginning of the semester, UF 
has been the scene of several racially charged incidents on campus, including the discovery of a noose in a auditorium and the knocking down of the sign in front of Walker Hall, which houses the African American studies program, 
UF President Kent Fuchs in a campus-wide 
email on Monday condemned Thursday’s in-cident. 
“There is no room for threats and fear tac-
tics on our campus,” he wrote.
A GROUNDBREAKING 
CEREMONY WAS HELD 
MONDAY.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
After nearly 10 years of planning, 
the construction of Gainesville Fire 
Rescue’s new Station 1 has finally begun.
In about nine months, a state-
of-the-art fire station in downtown Gainesville, located at 525 S. Main St., will replace the original, outdat-ed Station 1, located at 427 S. Main St., which was built in 1962. In to-tal, the project will cost about $11.7 million, Deputy Fire Chief JoAnne Rice said.
Early Monday morning, city 
leaders gathered at the construction site to officially break ground on the project. 
“One small scoop of dirt, one gi-
ant step for Gainesville,” Gainesville Fire Chief Jeff Lane said as firefight-ers, city commissioners and other community members dug shovels into a symbolic pile of fresh dirt.
In 2013, after about eight 
years of negotiations between the Gainesville City Commission and GFR staff, the commission voted to relocate and modernize Station 1, according to Alligator archives. 
“This project is about 10 years in 
formation,” Lane said. “It’s passed through at least three fire chiefs’ desks to get here.”
The new station was designed 
by Bentley Architects and Engi-neers, Inc. and will be constructed by Gilbane Building Company, Rice said. The facilities are expected to open near the end of February 2018.
Rice said the city and GFR ini-
tially had trouble finding a suitable location for the station, which is why the project was delayed for so long.
“It’s been a long time coming,” 
she said.
The new station will include 
three firefighter poles, something Station 1 hasn’t had since they were removed during 1990, Rice said. 
“For me personally, it was very 
exciting to know we were finally go-ing to get this started. This is really a once-in-a-career thing for a fire chief, a deputy chief and anyone in the fire department,” she said. “For me to be intimately involved in the design and development is really rewarding.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgUF extends counter offer in GAU health care negotiation
Event honoring UF’s black 
history aims to spread word
Construction of downtown Gainesville fire station beginsEmily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
Patricia Hilliard-Nunn, an adjunct associate professor for UF’s department of African 
American studies, addresses ways in which black students and faculty want increased presence on campus on Monday. About 40 people gathered to honor Black Thursday, a sit-in demonstration organized by the Black Student Union on April 15, 1971.
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meg Schloss
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers have found that patients 
with obsessive-compulsive disorder who 
otherwise wouldn’t have access to in-person treatment can beneﬁ  t from video therapy. Patients with OCD, a disorder charac-
terized by recurrent and persistent obses-sions, can be treated with cognitive behav-ioral therapy by talking with a therapist through telephone calls or video confer-encing, said Carol Mathews, the director of UF’s Center for OCD, Anxiety and Related 
Disorders. Mathews helped review and an-
alyze information from medical databases for the research. 
Cognitive behavioral therapy is a form 
of hands-on psychotherapy treatment that aims to change people’s patterns of think-ing or behavior. 
“Given that (OCD is) quite treatable, 
it’s important to review what the treatment options are for the general practitioner,” Mathews said. 
She said OCD patients can be treated 
through cognitive behavioral therapy with exposure and response prevention. Video conferencing, which is nearly as 
effective as in-person therapy, is becoming more common in remote areas, Mathews said.
Ryan McCarty, a clinical research assis-
tant on Mathews’ team, said UF physicians 
can use video conferencing to provide care 
to those unable to travel to clinics. 
“We have people all across Florida com-
ing to get this treatment because where they are from, they don’t have this type of 
treatment,” McCarty said. 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Last March, Gail Hodge hoped 
for a good harvest. But within a 
month, 40 percent of her family farm’s watermelon crops had gone bad.
“Sometimes it’s not an issue,” 
the Hodge Farms co-owner said. “Other times, it can be devastating.”
Over the past ﬁ  ve to seven years, 
Fusarium wilt, a deadly watermelon disease caused by a pathogen in the soil, has increasingly appeared in farms throughout North Central Florida, said Nicholas Dufault, a UF Institute of Food and Agricultural and Sciences assistant professor. 
With summer approaching, 
farmers looking to harvest their crops are once again faced with the disease.
Florida is among the top four 
watermelon-producing states in the U.S., according to the Agricultural Marketing Resource Center’s web-site.
Until a feasible solution is found, 
Hodge said her family will put more attention into other crops and cattle — or move to ﬁ  nd uninfected soil.
Researchers and growers can use a process called grafting to cure the disease. Squash rootstock, often unaffected by the soil-born disease, can be merged with a scion plant for 
resistant watermelons to be grown 
from them, said Xin Zhao, a UF IFAS associate professor.
But solutions like grafting are 
expensive and can cost up to four times as much as planting water-melons normally, she said.
Dufault said he’s optimistic that 
he and other researchers will ﬁ  nd a 
solution, but he said the pathogen 
will only continue to evolve.
“We’ll always be looking to 
ways to ﬁ  ght this disease,” he said. By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
By now, nearly 2 million peo-
ple have seen the YouTube video 
of a wild horse and an alliga-
tor squaring off in the middle of 
Paynes Prairie State Preserve Park.
An Ocala nursing student cap-
tured the footage on her iPhone 
— depicting the horse stomping 
on the unsuspecting gator — and 
posted directly to YouTube.
In less than a week since the 
April 12 incident, the footage has 
circulated across the globe and calls have ﬂ  ooded the park.
“Only in Florida,” reads the 
video’s title.
But David McCorquodale, a 
Paynes Prairie park ranger, said ﬁ  ghts between different species of 
wildlife happen every day.
“That’s just life on the prairie,” 
he said.
McCorquodale said the horse 
was most likely angry that the alligator was encroaching on his 
territory: grassy, elevated land away from the water. The horse was also likely protecting a nearby 
colt, or young male horse, he said.
McCorquodale said he doesn’t believe either the horse or the al-
ligator was seriously hurt after the encounter.
“From what I’ve heard, this 
horse is walking around,” he said. “If it had a cut, it’s probably healed.”
Krystal Berry, who ﬁ  lmed the 
encounter, said in her countless trips to Paynes Prairie, this was the ﬁ  rst time she ever saw an in-
teraction like that.
Berry said she was shocked at 
how fast her video went viral.
“It’s really funny to see ev-
eryone’s response to the video,” Berry said. “Some people actually 
said we should have intervened, but we don’t exactly get trained in alligator-horse combat in nursing 
school.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org  UF researcher shows video therapy beneﬁ  ts OCD patients
W atermelon disease irks farmers Ranger: Horse-gator 
clash not uncommon 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
PRIDE AWARENESS MONTH ENDS
Ari Fitz, RJ Aguiar, Dylan Marron and Kat Blaque, all YouTubers, speak to an audience during the Closing 
Ceremonies event organized by Pride Awareness Month in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Monday. 
It may increase therapy use
“Some people actually said 
we should have intervened, 
but we don’t exactly get 
trained in alligator-horse 
combat in nursing school.”
Krystal Berry
Nursing student from OcalaThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnCondemning hate 
isn’t enough
A thank you letter from one nostalgic graduate
Nearly two years ago, I received a text 
from the newly appointed Alligator opinions editor while on a Greyhound 
bus full of potential sorority girls bar-
reling down Museum Road toward Pi 
Beta Phi. It read, “Hey. Do you want to have a column in the Alligator?” Immediately, I 
thought to myself, “Hell no.” Yet for some un-
beknownst reason, I texted back, “Sure, when do I start?” 
Fifty-one columns, one terrible Alligator 
headshot and countless references to my mom 
later, I am now left with one ﬁ  nal column, one ﬁ  nal op-
portunity to have my thoughts circulated to thousands of readers. I considered all of the potential column topics I had written down but never completed, with titles like “An 
ode to interstate pro-life billboards” and “Era of the sad 
boy: Your self-deprecation isn’t cute.” I considered writing about my fear of post-grad life for the millionth time, but I ﬁ  gured I had already beaten that topic to death long ago.
But in the end, I decided to use this ﬁ  nal column as a 
way to thank all the people, places and things that have played an instrumental role in not only my time as a col-umnist, but also as a student at UF and resident of this charmingly bizarre college town. 
Thank you to all the editors I have had the pleasure 
of working with over the years: Zach, other Zach, David and Petrana. You all have given me unending freedom to write about whatever outlandish topic I could think of, from Midtown to “Making a Murderer,” and for that I am 
eternally grateful. 
Thank you to anyone who has ever told me that you 
read my column. It means more than you could ever imag-
ine and has given me the strength to continue writing even 
when I thought I couldn’t do it anymore. Despite my con-
stant assertion that only three people ever read this col-umn, knowing that maybe more, like, eight people read it has served as my main motivation for the past two years.
Thank you to the countless Gainesville 
coffee shops where I’ve camped out, written essays upon essays and ingested unhealthy amounts of caffeine. I’m looking at you, Volta Coffee, Tea & Chocolate.  
Thank you to the readers who have openly 
disagreed with my columns. No, I’m serious, thank you. You’ve forced me to learn how to take criticism, open myself up to other perspec-tives and grow a thick skin. Because of you, 
I’ve grown and am probably better prepared for the tough, mean, real world. 
Thank you to the English department for allowing me 
to pursue my passion for four years and giving me an ex-
cuse to spend an inordinate amount of money on books. 
Even though I complain constantly about the lack of de-partment funding, its location in the grotesque monolith that is Turlington and the pain of class registration, I’ve cherished our time together. 
Thank you to my sorority for teaching me what true sis-
terhood looks and feels like. Being supported by so many strong, intelligent, hilarious and honestly, kind of weird women has been a life-changing experience. You all have 
taught me to be comfortable in my own skin, to passion-
ately go after what I want in life and to take the time to get to know people. And how to properly shotgun a beer. 
Thank you to my best friends for supporting me through 
my highs and lows, being my unpaid therapists and being 
so damn selﬂ  ess. When I came to UF four years ago, I was 
genuinely concerned I would spend my undergraduate ex-perience friendless, and now I can’t imagine how I’ll make it without constantly being in a two-mile radius of every-
one I care about. Thank you to UF. You will be missed. 
Marisa Papenfuss is holding onto her last days as a UF 
English senior. Her columns once appeared on Tuesdays. We’re not going to wait until the end of this editorial to 
cut to the chase, so here it is: UF needs to do more than just condemn hate after the fact.
Following seven racially charged incidents on UF’s 
campus this semester, the Alligator has reported on all 
of the incidents — and the subsequent condemnations by UF’s administration and UF President Kent Fuchs. It has become al-most routine.
Weimer Hall. Turlington Plaza. Anderson Hall. Beaty Towers 
East. Walker Hall. McCarty B. And now Walker Hall again.
Since the new year, every single month has brought along with 
it a new incident. April got its ﬁ  rst last week.
For those who don’t know, a man was trespassed from cam-
pus Thursday after he confronted two members of the university’s 
African American studies program in their ofﬁce and expressed 
support for a racist ideology while blockading the ofﬁ  ce’s door.
Four days later, Fuchs released a statement calling for a cam-
pus with “no room for threats and fear tactics.”
While we’re glad UF is at least acknowledging these incidents, 
it feels like that’s all they are doing. And while we can understand the university trying to be politically correct in its response to this, it comes off as lackluster and contradictory.
Calls for diversity and inclusion mean little if these incidents 
are still happening and at an alarming rate. We can’t think of an-other university in Florida — even the country — that has been the scene of incident after incident, every month this year without fail.
What would have happened if the man who trapped the two 
UF faculty members in their ofﬁ  ce Thursday had a weapon? What if he had been there with violent intent? We hate speculating, but with a racially charged climate both across the nation and on our own university, we cannot turn a blind eye to what happened 
Thursday. Or what could have happened.
Our campus should be a haven for everyone, including faculty 
and staff. But when one of our own feels threatened, we must re-
evaluate what we are doing to ﬁ  x it. Security measures have been taken to let the staff at Walker Hall feel more safe, but why is it more reactive than proactive?
We can’t allow the situation to escalate to the point where real 
people are in real danger; we cannot let UF become another head-line.
UF has taken steps toward addressing increased tension, with 
Fuchs holding a town hall meeting last month to address concerns from black students and UF colleges hiring inclusion ofﬁ  cers.
But more needs to be done. UF must acknowledge the unique 
and troubling situation it ﬁ  nds itself in. It cannot risk to bury these incidents as isolated. There is a clear pattern in play here, and there is no easy solution.
We suggest Fuchs and other school ofﬁ  cials, including mem-
bers of Student Government, host additional town hall meetings 
to listen to students and faculty members from all backgrounds as 
a way to foster inclusion and build community. Faculty members and students should receive training on how to deal with these incidents if they continue happening, and it appears they will.
We also suggest replacing What is the Good Life?, a mandatory 
course for incoming students, with a course centered on diversity, inclusion and the history of minority experience in the U.S.
But suggestions are powerless unless they get into the right 
hands. We urge you to organize, collaborate and let your voices 
be heard. Email or call in your complaints and suggestions to the 
people who have the power to implement change.
People like Fuchs, incoming Student Body President Smith 
Myers — who will be sworn into ofﬁ  ce on Wednesday — and Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw are beholden to you.
Keep them accountable.
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinionsTUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7 
Due to the increasing pervasiveness 
and equal awareness of obesity as 
a health problem, especially in the 
U.S., it has become a truism today 
to inform the public about caring 
for themselves and their bodies. I’m quite 
aware of this beneficial trend in fitness, and 
I’m a firm believer in the idea that “your 
body’s a temple, and you should worship 
it.” However, in a quasi-paradoxical fash -
ion, I also believe you should go out into 
the great unknown and destroy yourself if 
you must. 
How can I hold two dichotomies in my 
head as ideology, yet still exist without constant ambivalence? Well, it’s simple: I 
take care of my body with fitness, good nu -
trition and maintain mental health. When 
the opportunity arises, I also risk my life to 
do the things I enjoy. 
This risk could be something as simple 
as cruising around on my skateboard. I use 
it mostly for transportation, but I can’t get 
away from the exhilaration of going as fast 
as I possibly can. Sadly, the best way to 
go about this is to skate the roads inhab -
ited by cars — an endeavor I was informed 
by an officer the other day is illegal. Who 
knew? I’m not an idiot, nor do I want to 
ruin anyone’s day or anyone’s car, so I 
don’t always skate in the road. If you un -
derstand skateboarding, you’d agree that 
skating on the sidewalk is, most of the 
time, more dangerous than skating in the 
road, so I can’t really avoid it — and about 
a month or so ago, I was hit by a car. 
It wasn’t a big deal though. Albeit I was 
illegally skating in the road, I was staring 
at this girl in a car indicating I was going 
straight ahead, but she didn’t see me and 
cut me off. I reacted quickly enough to pop my board away from the car, vault over it 
and land safely with nothing damaged. I 
still skate down that same hill, around the 
same cars and have the same risk. 
Another risk for my enjoyment is my 
odd fascination with heights: Climbing 
things I have absolutely no reason to climb. 
Around the end of my senior summer 
of high school, I decided to climb over a 
200-foot crane in my hometown. The crane 
was situated next to — what is to become 
— one of the largest skyscrapers in my 
town. I had already explored the skyscrap -
er-in-construction with a few friends, but 
one night, for some dumb reason, I was 
divinely inspired to climb to the top of the crane: A place none of us even consid -
ered going. It was indescribable. The wind 
never stopped blowing. I could see farther 
than ever before. It was a sunrise I could 
never experience again. 
Of course, in the hour it took me to 
muster up my courage and procedurally 
make my way to the utmost top — there 
were three plateaus — I almost fell off five 
times. It had rained earlier that same day 
and the crane wasn’t in the best shape. 
I would still go back and do it again.  
Maybe you’re not an idiot like me, and 
your version of risk isn’t so significant. Re -
gardless, never let risk stop you from doing 
what it is you love. The worst thing in this 
world is regret. How do you know the risk 
isn’t worth it unless you go out there and 
try it? A healthy lifestyle is cool and all, 
but what’s the point of a healthy body if 
you don’t use it? Go out into this beautiful 
world, forget your fears and do what you 
love.  
James Hardison is a UF English sopho -
more. His column appears on Tuesdays.My contradictory life: Balancing nutrition, health with death-defying stuntsColumn
James Hardison
opinions@alligator.org“When the opportunity 
arises, I also risk my life  
to do the things I enjoy.”8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
3rd Annual Garden Show and Spring Festival
May 6th 9:30 am - 5:00 pm, May 7th 9:30 am - 4:00 pm
Adults: $8, Children (6-13): $4, Children under 6: Free
4990 Northeast 180th Avenue, Williston, FL 32696Cedar Lakes Woods & Gardens Presents
www.cedarlakeswoodsandgarden.com 352.529.0055
Alligator Advertisers Alligator Advertiser/s.endAttention
Display 352-376-4482
Classiﬁed 352-373-3463The Alligator will not be publishing from
Thursday, April 20th
to Monday, May 8th
The deadline for Tuesday, May 9th 
is Friday, May 5th by 4:00 p.m.
for Display & Classiﬁed Ads boys, she was never exposed to any 
queer people until her U.S. history teacher introduced her to Alexander Hamilton.
The primary documents Kantner’s 
teacher gave her showed evidence that Hamilton, who married Eliza Schuyler, had relations with fellow revolutionary soldier John Laurens.
Learning about Hamilton helped 
Kantner identify as pansexual, which 
is a more ﬂ  uid sexuality where her 
preference of sexual partner is not limited by gender.
Hamilton ignited Kantner’s pas-
sion and desire to study the Ameri-can Revolution and bring to light queer ﬁ  gures in history.
“That’s why he’s memorialized 
on my leg,” she said, referencing the 
colored tattoo on her left thigh.
She even paid her respects to 
Hamilton’s grave in Trinity Church 
Cemetery when she went to see the popular broadway musical, “Hamil-ton,” based on the founding father in New York City last December.
Standing in an empty cemetery in 
early winter, Kantner couldn’t speak 
as she looked at Hamilton’s marble 
grave.
She thought about saying some-
thing to the man who has inﬂ  u-enced her life even centuries after his death, but she decided against it. She doesn’t believe in ghosts. Hamilton is either gone for good, or he has been reincarnated, she said.
What matters to her is how she 
can pay her respects to the father of the national banks through her re-search and studies.
“He was a real person,” she said.
•   •   •
Kantner has planned her body  art 
since she was 13.
But you would never know she 
has seven tattoos if you see her in a T-shirt and jeans. Her sparkled winged eyeliner and seven piercings that line each ear seem like the only accessories on her, but ink lurks be-
neath her clothing.
In the past two years, she’s under-
gone about 20 hours under a tattoo 
needle and paid about $2,000 for all her artwork. Before she sits down for each tattoo session, she eats a few Starbursts and some black licorice.
Tucked behind her right ear is a 
seal of the East India Co., the ﬁ  rst charter company to colonize Ameri-ca.
Her ankles are left as tributes to her favorite history video games. Her left ankle sports an Assassin’s Creed symbol, an homage to the vid-eo game that introduced her to the 
Golden Age of Piracy, and her right 
is marked with an Infamous Second Son symbol, another action adven-ture game.
Her right hip is given to the pi-
rates with the Queen Anne’s Revenge ﬂ  ag and the Jolly Roger ﬂ  ag, which is a skull above two crossed swords. Her left leg pays homage to Alexan-
der Hamilton with his portrait — the 
one found on any $10 bill.
The most recent and elaborate is 
a colored tattoo that covers her entire back and depicts a scene from the Capture of the William where Cap-tain Calico Jack’s pirate ship and a British war ship battled off the coast of Jamaica.
Kantner said the pirate captain 
was known for his Jolly Roger ﬂ  ag design and for having two female pi-rate crew members, Mary Read and his lover Anne Bonny who also had sexual relations with Read.
“Mary Read and Anne Bonny 
dressed as men, and Mary was docu-mented as being bisexual,” she said.
Kantner still has one more session 
to complete the scene where her art-ist will add lighting strikes to the bat-tle. Even though it’s the ﬁ  nal piece for her scene, Kantner said she’s not looking forward to her tattoo session.
“White ink hurts the most,” she 
said.
Her mother, Catherine Kantner, 
nods her head in response. The stay-at-home parent is the one who helps her daughter change her bandages and keep her skin clean after each session.
Catherine Kantner said she was 
not fond of the idea of her daughter wanting tattoos at ﬁ  rst, but she’s ﬁ  ne with them now.
“It’s your body; you do with it 
what you will,” the 52-year-old said, “and she’s telling a story.”Caitlin tugs on her long, wavy 
brown hair that is fashioned into pig-tails with pink and blue bows. 
Her brown eyes fall to her Alex-
ander Hamilton tattoo that’s covered by denim.
“I thought tattoos were just an-
other form of expression to show what you believe in and what you feel dear to,” she said.
•   •   •
Not everyone agrees with Kant-
ner’s ﬁ  ndings.
She’s been warned by her profes-
sor, Matt Gallman, about her modern LGBTQ+ labels of historical ﬁ  gures 
such as Abraham Lincoln, Alexander 
Hamilton and John Laurens.
Gallman said he’s told her about 
his colleagues who have been shunned for their attempts to identify and study queer ﬁ  gures in history. But these warnings don’t scare Kant-ner because she said her research proves her theories.
“It’s pretty ignorant to assume 
people (back then) could not iden-tify with our modern LGBTQ terms,” she said. “We tend to distort history through our textbooks in order to communicate our values.”
This is why Kantner wants to go 
to Columbia University and earn her master’s and doctorate so she can 
make LGBTQ+ history more accessi-
ble to students. She even plans to cre-ate an advanced-placement course so high-school students have access to LGBTQ+ studies.
“I would want LGBTQ students to 
realize that they are validated,” she said.
•   •   •
Kantner still has a long journey 
ahead of her.
She’s got two more years to collect 
more rare books, write LGBTQ+-related research papers and design 
another American Revolution tattoo TATTOOS,  from pg.1Before tattoos sessions, she eats Starbursts and black licorice
SEE TATTOOS,  PAGE 9Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Caitlin Kantner stands in front of her nightstand fashioned from a 
suitcase, which her dad made.
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
“I’VE BEEN RUNNING IN 
THE INDEPENDENT FLORIDA ALLIGATOR SINCE I OPENED IN 2006. IT’S LOCAL AND A GOOD PLACE TO ADVERTISE. WE GET GOOD RESULTS BECAUSE THE STUDENTS FOLLOW IT ON A DAILY BASIS.”
- B.J. WEBSTER
Downtown Barber Shop
15 West University Avenue 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Above: Caitlin Kantner stands 
in front of her book chest where she keeps her 23-piece rare book collection.
Right: Caitlin Kantner holds 
“The Vicar of Wakeﬁ  eld, ” a book published in the 18th century. She said she likes the outside of the book the best.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Caitlin Kantner looks through letters from John Laurens, which she has gathered for her honors thesis.
that ﬂ  ows down her sternum to her 
stomach. She has decided that she won’t plan out any tattoo sleeves un-til she has tenure at a college, prefer-ably one with a rich history such as 
the College of William & Mary, Princ-
eton University or Cornell University.
As a historian, she’ll continue to 
interpret primary documents and give queer people recognition — that’s why she said history is so im-portant.
“History is personal,” she said. 
“We’re looking to tell our own sto-ries through the people that we do study.”
She said the bridge between past 
and present can be blurred because of the immersion that is required when studying a person.
You learn every detail about 
them, she said. You listen to the mu-sic they listened to, you eat what they ate and you can even dress how they dressed, she added. And she’s often brought to the same realization after 
learning about her subjects. 
“They’re painfully human,” she 
said. “No matter where the person 
you’re studying came from, at the end of the day, they faced struggles that we face.” 
@arianalﬁ  gueroa
aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.orgTATTOOS,  from pg 8
“They’re painfully human. 
No matter where the person 
you’re studying came from, at 
the end of the day, they faced 
struggles that we face.”
Caitlin Kantner
UF history sophomore
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
About three years ago, Caitlin Kantner tattooed her upper left leg 
with a portrait of Alexander Hamilton, which cost $400.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2BR/2.5BA Furnished Townhouse for Rent 
Starting August 11 year lease, $950/mo. plus utilities. Off street parking. Small pet OK.Call Ben at 305-982-7218     4-19-17-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-25 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      5-9-17-16-2
3 bedroom /1 bath house close to Shands 
& Vet School. 1,100 sf plus 10x20 Florida room. Carport, washer/dryer, fenced & pri-vate backyard w/ patio. Central heat/AC, 
hardwood & tile floors, ceiling fans. $900/
month. Pets negotiable. Call (352) 318-1053    
4-18-17-7-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ENCLAVE APARTMENTS
1/1 in 2/2, female. May to August.$540/mo - DISCOUNTED from $640/moCall 352-317-4164         5-9-17-4-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/
PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
I SELL AVONSKIN-SO-SOFT
Call 601-493-3285                 4-19-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed5 Real Estate 8 ElectronicsTUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    5-18-17-16-14
The Village will be holding a Career Fair
April 26th (2:00pm - 4:00pm).
The Career Fair is open to the community.
Hiring Managers will be on-site interviewing. 
The Village at Gainesville is located at 8000 
NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL 32606
(security guards will direct visitors on campus). 
Apply online at:
www.thevillageonline.com/careers
Hiring Part-time and Full-time for:
Nurses (RN & LPN)
Assisted Living CNAs
Companions
Servers
Kitchen Porters
Cooks
Security Guards
Transportation Drivers
Activities Coordinators
4-19-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-17-73-15
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Valuable stone
4 Hamilton and
Burr, notably
8 Find incredibly
funny
14 Word for a Latin
lover
15 Cookbook author
Rombauer
16 Not certain
17 Mom-and-pop
stores
20 Vietnam’s capital21 Part of MST:
Abbr.
22 FDR’s successor23 Serpent’s tooth26 Irreverence29 Alfalfa, Darla and
friends, with “the”
33 Biblical verb
ending
34 Quick hellos35 Curbs, with “in”38 Blackjack half39 “God bless us,
every one!”Dickenscharacter
42 Wedding notice
word
43 What hares and
mares do
45 Long, long time46 La Brea __ Pits47 Game with
windmills, rampsand such
52 Coiffures
54 Move, in real
estate lingo
55 Part of MST
56 Tango maneuver58 Higher than62 Waterspout
climber of song
67 California’s San
__: Hearst Castlelocale
68 Filming locales69 401(k) kin70 Six times cinq71 VCR insert
72 Gov. Cuomo’s
domain
DOWN
1 Deep cut
2 2016 Best
Actress Stone of“La La Land”
3 Pained sound4 Like a child’s love
for a parent
5 Heavenly sphere
6 Grounded bird
7 Fresh talk
8 Pioneering hip-
hop trio from
Queens
9 Single
10 Beast of burden
11 Does without
much thought
12 “Give it __!”13 Cantankerous18 Barn storage
space
19 “How sweet __!”
24 Classic grape
soda
25 Smile that may
be silly
27 Eggplant __:
Italian entrée,
briefly
28 L’eau land?
29 Shakespearean
king with three
daughters
30 Nagging desire31 College
freshman’s
comment aboutwhy his parentscall so often32 Until now
36 Patricia of “Hud”37 Medieval laborer39 Take care of40 Vacation option41 Memo heading44 Defunct Soviet
space station
48 First-aid fluid49 “__ happens ... ”50 Pass, as time51 Mongolian desert52 Bank holdup53 No longer
sleeping
57 “Hey, get a load
of this”
59 Chief Norse god60 Quite61 Significant
periods
63 Kyoto cash64 Droid65 Positive vote66 Gas additive
brand
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/18/1704/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com15 Services 18 Personals
Designated drivers are the greatest20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Baseball freshman wins SEC award
OF/P Austin Langworthy returned to Florida's lineup this week after re-
covering from a broken hand and hit .412, notched five RBIs and scored five 
runs. His performance earned him SEC Freshman of the Week.Bridget Sloan was an All-
American gymnast at Florida. But like most athletes, her college eligibility eventually ran out. Find out where she went from there in Wednesday's paper.GYMNASTICS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida lacrosse team wasn’t 
supposed to make it this far.
For a program in its third sea-
son, a 19-3 record was impressive. A 
win over No. 1 Northwestern for its first American Lacrosse Conference Championship was impressive. An 
NCAA Tournament first-round win 
over Albany was impressive.
But then UF faced Penn State in 
the quarterfinals. 
Never before had a team won 
two games in the NCAA tournament within its first three seasons. A 15-2 win over the Nittany Lions, howev-er, changed that.
“I think it took a lot of people by 
surprise,” coach Amanda O’Leary said. “There was a little bit of a sur-prise that we were able to get to the Final Four in our third season.”
To those outside the program, the 
Gators’ convincing win over Penn State was a surprise because of how young the program was. Other new 
lacrosse programs didn’t see nearly 
the same level of success.
But to O’Leary and those within 
the program, UF’s win was expect-ed. O’Leary, nicknamed Mandee by her players, had been training the Gators for the last three years and knew better than anyone what her team was capable of.
“That season was a real testa-
ment to the hard work and effort those girls put in to lead up to that,” O’Leary said.
After Florida’s Final Four run, 
the team emerged onto the national scene, where it has remained ever since. 
It's a team O'Leary has built up 
from nothing to become one of the nation's most dominant. But despite how much the Gators have been tested and how much success they 
have had in conference play, there's 
still something missing.
•   •   •
Former Gators athletic director 
Jeremy Foley made Amanda O’Leary a promise when she was hired as the first head coach of the Florida la-crosse team.
“We’re not going to build you the 
Taj Mahal of facilities,” Foley told her, “but it’s going to come pretty close.”
While O’Leary was out on the 
recruiting trail preparing a team for the Gators’ inaugural season in 2010, Foley was busy getting Florida’s la-crosse facility up and operational. 
By the time the Gators were ready to 
play Jacksonville on Feb. 20, Donald R. Dizney Stadium was ready.
“I think this is the Taj Mahal of 
lacrosse facilities,” O’Leary said.The grounds were equipped with 
a 12,000 square-foot athletic facil-
ity, which included locker rooms, a 
training room, an equipment room, a conference room and two lacrosse fields — one for games and another for practice. 
Once it was ready, O’Leary need-
ed to prepare her team.
Before coming to Florida, O’Leary 
was the head coach of Yale, where 
she coached for 14 seasons. But 
upon completing her final year with the Bulldogs, she heard about a new opportunity.
The University of Florida was 
starting a lacrosse program, and it was looking for a coach to spearhead the creation of a team that could compete on a national level.
“I think it’s one of those dream 
jobs,” O’Leary said. “They don’t come along very often, and I thought to be able to compete at the highest level at an institution that supports athletics at such a high level, it was a no-brainer.”
O’Leary submitted her applica-
tion and received a call from the 
school for an interview.
In June 2007, O’Leary was con-
tacted again by UF.
She had the job.
She accepted immediately.“The ability to come in here and The House that Mandee Built  
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
The Florida lacrosse team huddles together during its 15-8 win over Denver on March 25 at Donald 
R.  Dizney Stadium.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Though the Gators fell short of 
a national title on Saturday, there 
were still many memorable mo-
ments throughout their run to the 
NCAA Championships. Here are the three that stood out above the rest:
1. Rachel Slocum’s vault 
celebration.
Rachel Slocum was the gym-
nast often referred to as the “danc-
ing girl” throughout the season. 
The junior transfer from Eastern Michigan dabbed her way into the hearts of Florida fans in her first 
season at UF. She put those moves 
on display during the NCAA Gainesville Regional on April 1. After sticking her unique vault — a front handspring pike-front half 
twist — Slocum sprinted down 
the runway furiously dabbing be-fore leaping into the arms of coach Jenny Rowland. 
“When we were at the end of 
the vault, Alex (McMurtry) was wondering what she should do 
on the way back,” Slocum said following the meet. “And then the 
gears started turning in my head. I had to dab. So then I finished, and I was like, ‘Of course.’” 
Not only was the celebration 
memorable, but so was the vault. It earned Slocum a 9.95 — a team high on the event — and a share of the vault title, helping the Gators 
secure a spot in the NCAA semi-
finals.
2. Kennedy Baker gets a 
perfect 10 at the Link to Pink 
Meet.
 The stage was set. Sophomore 
Alicia Boren had just delivered a 
career-high 9.95 on floor in front 
of a pink-clad crowd of 9,108 dur-
ing Florida’s meet against Auburn. 
It was time for the last floor rou-
tine of the night, which came from Kennedy Baker. Baker stuck her first tumbling pass. And then her Top moments from 2017
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
SEE LACROSSE,  PAGE 15THE FLORIDA WOMEN'S 
TENNIS TEAM IS PREPARING 
FOR POSTSEASON PLAY.
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
It looked all too familiar 
for the Gators women’s tennis team. 
Having lost the doubles 
point, Florida struggled to fight back in singles, gave up a win-ning streak and got handed an 
unexpected loss. 
It first happened earlier 
in the season during UF's in-
famous loss to Georgia that ended its historic 163-game 
home-winning streak. That sit-
uation recreated itself on Sun-day against Vanderbilt, as the Gators registered their second loss of the season. 
However, Florida will like-
ly experience deja vu this 
Wednesday when it heads to 
Nashville for 
the SEC Tour-nament. Just 
as the Gators 
used their loss 
to Georgia as motivation,  they plan to do 
the same with 
their loss to the Commodores. 
“The Georgia match kind of 
woke us up a bit, and we felt that sting of losing the streak,” 
senior Kourtney Keegan said. “Hopefully we’ll get to play our best tennis in May.”
Fueled by frustration, coach 
Roland Thornqvist said the Gators motivated after 
tough loss to Vanderbilt
SEE W-TENNIS,  PAGE 14O 'Leary has led UF lacrosse to national prominence“And then the gears started 
turning in my head. I had to 
dab. So then I finished, and I 
was like, ‘Of course.’”
Rachel Slocum
UF gymnast
Keegan
14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
Gators are eager to get back 
on the court and redeem them-selves. 
As Florida prepares for the 
postseason, Thornqvist said his players need to have short mem-ories in order to rebound from 
Sunday’s loss.
Thornqvist also thinks the 
team’s attitude needs to change. 
“When we played at the Na-
tional Indoor Championships, we played that to win it,” he said. 
“And a few times this year, we’ve played not to lose. Yesterday was for sure one of them. And it bit 
us in the back.”
Thornqvist said the loss 
helped identify the team’s weak-
nesses and gave it something to work on this week before head-
ing back to Nashville for the SEC 
Tournament. 
He said the Gators need to 
start stronger in doubles so they don’t get themselves into the sit-uation they did on Sunday. 
However, Florida now has an 
opportunity to redeem itself. 
While the team is ranked No. 
1 in the country, it enters the tournament as the No. 3 seed behind Vanderbilt and Georgia. 
Thornqvist said this speaks to 
how good the conference is this season.
“Whoever wins this tourna-
ment is going to be the favorite to win the NCAA title, in my opin-ion,” he said. “What you have to go through here on consecutive days to win, it tells you whether 
you’re ready or not.”
The Gators will be able to as-
sess their readiness when they 
face either Alabama, Tennessee 
or Mississippi State on Friday 
in the quarterfinals of the SEC Tournament.
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.orgW-TENNIS,  from pg13Gators enter SEC Tournament as No. 3 seed behind Vanderbilt and Georgia
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Roland Thornqvist looks on during Florida's 4-2 win over Oklahoma State on Feb. 18 at the Ring T ennis 
Complex.
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.have the opportunity to start a pro-
gram but also start a program at a university that was competing at such a high level across the board at all sports,” O’Leary said, “that was 
pretty exciting.”
Her biggest challenge was ﬁ  nding 
players who bought into what the 
Gators and O’Leary were selling.
“We didn’t have anything to 
show,” O’Leary said. 
Florida did have a lot to offer, 
however.
It offered the chance for recruits 
to be a part of a new program that O’Leary and Foley’s administration had extremely high hopes for. A team that, on paper, could become one of the top programs in the na-tion.
The 29 players Florida had at the 
start of 2010 saw that opportunity and took it. The 24 freshmen on the roster saw the success of UF’s other women’s teams, and they bought into the dream.
“They were all in,” O’Leary said. And they showed promise early 
on.
The Gators went 10-8 in their ﬁ  rst 
season, taking down ranked teams like Johns Hopkins and Penn State.
Then they ran into defending na-
tional champion No. 2 Northwestern, a team that reigned over the Ameri-can Lacrosse Conference in the years before Florida came around.
It was O’Leary’s ﬁ  rst major test as 
the coach of the new program.
“I don’t know if we even got the 
ball over the 50-yard line but a cou-ple times,” O’Leary said.
The Gators were down 14-0 at 
halftime. Northwestern trounced 
Florida 19-5 that game. But O’Leary 
was optimistic, using that game as motivation for where she wanted to see the team eventually rise to.
“That was the level we wanted 
to be able to play at in the future," 
she said.
And that future was closer than 
she thought.
•   •   •
In 2014 the ALC was disbanding, 
and that year’s conference tourna-ment was the last.
From 2011 to 2014, Florida made 
every championship game. Its oppo-
nent in each game never changed: Northwestern.
But Florida had only won one 
conference tournament title since its creation.
And now, in the ALC’s last tour-
nament, the championship came down to one last battle between the conference’s two best teams.
The game was decided by one 
goal, a shot by UF's Mollie Stevens from eight meters out. Florida bat-
tled back from a 7-2 halftime deﬁ  cit 
to secure a 9-8 victory and earn Flor-ida’s second tournament title.
Northwestern was leaving for the 
Big Ten, as was Penn State and Ohio State. Johns Hopkins went indepen-dent for a year but ultimately went to the Big Ten the next season.
That left Florida and Vanderbilt 
as the only two teams left.
“We wanted to join a conference. 
We didn’t want to go independent,” O’Leary said. “I thought it was im-portant for us to be a part of a con-ference.”
O’Leary believed that in order for 
the Gators to succeed on the national level, being part of a conference rath-er than being independent would go 
a long way come time for the NCAA 
Tournament.
The ALC disbanded after the 
conference championship game in 
May. The following month, Florida announced it would join the Big East conference starting in 2015.
When it came time to change 
conferences, O’Leary said the team was looking forward to continuing the success it had over its ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve 
seasons in the ALC.
Since joining the Big East, the Gators have been the team to beat. 
Florida has lost just one conference game since making the move and has won both the regular season and tournament titles every year.
The impact of the move, how-
ever, meant O’Leary had to push a tougher nonconference schedule. 
The 2017 season alone featured 
Florida playing the preseason No. 1, No. 2, No. 4, No. 5 and No. 6 teams.
But for O’Leary, this isn’t an is-
sue, and as for playing in the Big East, she is pleased with how things turned out.
Since 2015, the Gators have 
boasted two Big East regular-season titles, two Big East tournament titles and a 20-1 conference record.
“I would say it’s worked out,” 
O’Leary said.
•   •   •
Caroline Fitzgerald was playing 
in a tournament in New Jersey for the Long Island Yellow Jackets when her coach, Carol Rose, got a text.
There was a lot of excitement buzzing around the UF lacrosse team following its ﬁ  rst Final Four appear-ance, and the Gators was interested in having Fitzgerald play for them. 
“I was really excited when I ﬁ  rst 
heard that Florida was interested in having me come here,” Fitzgerald 
said. “Just seeing what their sports 
programs altogether have accom-plished, and then seeing how quick-ly their lacrosse program rose to be-ing a top program was really exciting and drew me in."
The Mount Sinai, New York, na-
tive was drawn in by the same ideas presented to Florida’s ﬁ  rst class: the 
coaches’ commitment to building 
the best team possible and the em-phasis on academics and athletics.
Fitzgerald’s recruiting class 
served as yet another test for O’Leary. Now that Florida was es-tablished, how well could it recruit to remain that way?
O’Leary answered back with a 
signing class of 11 players, which included four future team captains: Fitzgerald, Stevens, Taylor Bresnah-an and Sammi Burgess. Burgess and Stevens have over 100 career goals each, and Fitzgerald and Bresnahan are UF's all-time leaders in caused turnovers.
It’s a testament to how well 
O’Leary can not only build a pro-gram, but also maintain one.
O’Leary showed, just like with 
that ﬁ  rst team in 2010, that her fresh-men can make an impact right away.
“They deﬁ  nitely paved the way 
for us, and they left that legacy be-hind and what we wanted to do was keep it going,” Fitzgerald said. “Ev-
ery year, we work towards getting 
better. The ultimate goal is to win a national championship.”
Seven years after Florida’s inau-
gural season, the Gators still have that goal in mind: a national cham-pionship. 
For a program as dominant as 
Florida's, that ﬁ  rst national champi-
onship has eluded it.
It’s the house O’Leary built, and 
the only addition left is a title.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org LACROSSE,  from pg13Florida has won two consecutive Big East titles under O'Leary
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Amanda O'Leary paces along the sideline during Florida's 15-8 win over Denver on March 25 at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium.
“Every year, we work towards 
getting better. The ultimate 
goal is to win a national 
championship.”
Caroline Fitzgerald
UF lacrosse player 16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 2017
second. And as she stuck her third 
pass, it was clear that Baker wasn’t just performing a routine, she was putting on a tumbling clinic. The judges agreed. As soon as the score ﬂ  ipped around, the crowd erupted and the O’Connell Center seemed to 
shake with excitement. It was a 10. 
Baker put her hands over her heart in shock before being swarmed by her teammates. “Kennedy earned it that night,” Jenny Rowland said on Monday. “She did a performance of 
a lifetime, and the judges couldn’t 
deny her of that.”3. Alex McMurtry wins the 
SEC all-around title.
Going into the SEC Champion-
ship, Alex McMurtry already had 
three perfect 10s on the season in 
three different events (vault, ﬂ  oor, bars). There was only one thing that she was missing  — an all-around title. The junior had previously 
struggled to put together a complete 
meet during the three times she competed in all four events. She had a fall on ﬂ  oor in her ﬁ  rst attempt, 
fell off bars in her second and barely 
avoided another fall on bars in her third try. But on the conference’s biggest stage, all of her routines ﬁ  -nally came together. McMurtry delivered with an all-
around score of 39.7, earning her the ﬁ  rst SEC all-around title of her collegiate career. She also became 
the ﬁ  fth Gator in the last six years to 
claim the SEC all-around title. 
“Positive, amazing, wonderful,” 
Rowland said. “I don’t have enough adjectives to describe this young 
lady.” 
McMurtry’s win in Jacksonville 
would start a trend, as she went on 
to win the NCAA Gainesville Re-
gional and NCAA all-around titles 
in the following two meets.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg13McMurtry became the ifth Gator in six years to win SEC all-around title
Grace King / Alligator Staff
(Above) Kennedy Baker leaps during her ﬂ  oor routine at the NCAA Gainesville Regional on April 1 at 
the O'Connell Center. (Right) Rachel Slocum jumps onto the vault during Florida's win over Georgia on Feb. 10 at the O'Connell Center.
Grace King / Alligator Staff