We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorSynthetic marijuana
An outbreak in spice has sent at least 21 people to the ER,  pg. 3
Working out at Library West
In hopes of reducing student stress, the library has installed “Fit-
Desks, ” pg. 4UF Softball kicks oﬀ   College 
World Series today
Gators play T exas A&M at noon in 
Oklahoma City, pg. 14VOLUME 111 ISSUE 151 THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
ABOUT 400 CITIZENS 
LOST ACCESS TO WATER 
FOR 18 HOURS.
 Trafﬁ  c was delayed on West 
Newberry Road after a 60-foot 
sinkhole collapsed the eastbound 
lane early Wednesday morning.
At about 5 a.m., Newberry 
city ofﬁ  cials were made aware of 
a water-pressure problem. New-
berry City Manager Mike New said 
shortly after that the utility director found a sinkhole that plummeted 20 feet into the ground.
In addition to consuming more 
than half of the eastbound lane, the sinkhole damaged the city’s main water pipe, which transports near-ly 600 gallons of water to Newberry 
citizens per minute. 
When ofﬁ  cials found the dam-
aged pipe, it was leaking water 
into the hole. New said from the time they received the notiﬁ  cation 
that the water pressure dropped to 
when they found the leak, it had only been about an hour.
New said although they had to 
replace about 40 feet of the main pipe Wednesday, it will take much Newberry Road damaged by 60-foot sinkhole
Adam Turner / Alligator Staff
Construction workers from Newberry utilities pour concrete to fill a 20-foot deep sinkhole that 
opened on West Newberry Road on Wednesday morning.
SEE SINKHOLE,  PAGE 4By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Associate Vice President 
and Dean of Students Jen Day 
Shaw has resigned.
UF decided 
not to renew her 
appointment  after learning 
that Day Shaw 
provided a pos-itive reference for a former student affairs 
ofﬁ  cial who was ﬁ  red from UF last year for using his work com-puter to purchase pornography, UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
wrote in an email. 
On Tuesday, because of UF’s decision, Day Shaw resigned.
“The university decided not to 
renew her appointment due to a 
critical error in judgment when she gave misleading and incom-plete information in providing a positive reference to another uni-
versity,” Winick said.
The reference, which Day 
Shaw sent to Florida Polytechnic 
University in March, was for for-
mer UF Title IX coordinator Chris 
Loschiavo. 
Loschiavo, who was ﬁ  red in 
August, reported to Day Shaw during the time he worked at UF.
“Fantastic. Incredibly knowl-
edgeable. Amazing work ethic. Superb supervisor. Strategic. Great collaboration. My very 
highest endorsement!!! Hope you get him,” Day Shaw wrote 
in a March 17 reference email to 
Florida Polytechnic’s vice pro-
vost for student affairs.
Day Shaw, who has served as 
UF’s dean of students since Feb-ruary 2010, knew that Loschiavo 
was ﬁ  red because of the pornog-
raphy incident before she wrote his reference, Winick said.
Winick said Day Shaw, whose 
annual salary was $179,275, will be paid for unused vacation time.
Day Shaw declined to com-
ment.
Associate Dean of Students 
Anthony DeSantis will now be the point person in the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce, Winick said.
Loschiavo was hired as Flori-
da Polytechnic’s Title IX coordi-nator April 17, but he was ﬁ  red a month later after his new em-
ployer learned of his full history, 
Florida Polytechnic’s Director of External Affairs Maggie Mariucci wrote in an email.
“The University became 
aware of issues related to por-nography during his employ-ment at UF on the afternoon of May 18,” Mariucci said. “The 
next day, his employment was 
terminated for non-disclosure of information.”
Mariucci said Florida Poly-
technic is currently meeting to 
determine who will ﬁ  ll their Title 
IX coordinator position.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org UF Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw resignsUF decided not to renew appointment because 
of ‘critical error in judgment’
UF Student Body President 
Smith Meyers waived his right to a 
speedy trial and instead faces up to 12 months probation, according to Monroe County court documents ob-
tained by the Alligator.
On May 25, Meyers and the Key 
West State Attorney’s Ofﬁ  ce reached 
a pretrial interven-
tion agreement, in which he must re-port once a month 
to supervisors with the Florida 
Professional Pro-
bation Services.
If Meyers, 22, 
completes all the 
terms of the pretrial agreement, the state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce can agree to dismiss charges.
According to the records, Mey-
ers must report his employment and courses of study monthly to the pro-gram supervisor and complete 100 hours of community service.
The UF food and resource eco-
nomics senior may not consume or be in possession of alcohol while in the program, according to the records. Meyers will be required to take part in substance abuse treat-ment and submit random urine sam-ples for analysis. 
Key West Police arrested Mey-
ers on March 7 during Spring Break after a witness reported seeing him drunkenly knock over two Harley-Davidson motorcycles, according to Alligator archives. In video footage of his arrest, Meyers appears to strike a witness. He faces two charges of criminal mischief, according to court records.
If the ofﬁ  ce determines that he 
violated any law or part of the agree-ment during the probationary period, the agreement will end and his pros-ecution may resume, according to the records.
Neither Christina Cory, a state at-
torney assigned to the case, nor Mi-chelle Cates Deal, Meyers’ defense attorney, could be reached for com-ment after multiple attempts. 
Meyers also could not be reached 
for comment. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Meyers 
placed on probation 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Meyers
Day Shaw
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 151
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanesssa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonWHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘River of Dreams’
The Matheson History Museum’s 
new exhibition, “River of Dreams: the St. Johns and Its Springs,” runs from now until 
June 24. This original exhibi-
tion examines Floridians’ past, present and future relationship with the St. Johns River and its springs. The exhibition and all re-lated programs are free and open to the public. The exhibition in-cludes original work by photog-rapher Anne Ledbetter and Bruce 
Mozert; artifacts from Kingsley 
Plantation; a model of the Silver Glen Springs shell mound; docu-ments and images on loan from Smathers Library, Special & Area Studies Collections, and the Florida and Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper project; and images of the St. Johns River, Ocklawaha 
River and Silver Springs from the 
Matheson’s photographic, stereo-
graphic and postcard collections. 
It will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m. For more information, visit mathesonmuseum.org/events-1.html.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until 
Sept. 22. The exhibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a 
popular street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of ur-ban art. The show will include abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint 
chips of different sizes and other 
artifacts. An opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu/universi-ty-galleries.
‘Forever Plaid’ at the Hippodrome
Join the boys of “Forever Plaid” on a humorous journey through close-harmony songs of the ‘50s during the new musical at the Hippodrome State Theatre. With one final chance to give the con-cert they never gave, The Plaids 
sing nostalgic hits like “Rags 
To Riches,” “Love is a Many Splendored Thing,” "Three Coins In A Fountain” and many more. The musical is a mix of ‘50s and ‘60s rock ‘n’ roll, popular show and dance tunes, blended with comedy. The show will run from now until June 25. To buy tickets 
or to find more information, visit 
thehipp.org/event/forever-plaid.Author series presents Nathan 
HillThe Alachua County Library District’s 2017 Author Series pres-ents Nathan Hill on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the Alachua County Headquarters Library, located at 
401 E. University Ave. Hill, a new 
literary talent, kicks off the sum-mer at the library program. He will talk about his debut novel, “The Nix” and sign books after-ward. “The Nix” is a book about ‘60s-era politics and strained mother/child relations. It was named the No. 1 Book of the Year 
by Audible and Entertainment 
Weekly, as well as one of the year’s best books by The New York Times and The Washington Post. For more information about the series, visit aclib.us/author-series.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  92° LOW  70°
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Courtesy to the Alligator
Above: A bad batch of spice, or 
synthetic marijuana, has sent at least 21 Gainesville residents to local emergency rooms since Saturday night, said Paul Myers, an administrator for the Florida Department of Health in Alachua County. Police are still looking for the source of where the batch is being sold.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Law enforcement is still trying to ﬁ  nd the 
source behind what city ofﬁ  cials describe as 
an “outbreak” in spice, or synthetic marijuana, that has sent at least 21 residents to the emer-gency room since Saturday night.
As of Tuesday morning, two people needed 
further hospital treatment after the emergency room, and at least one faced life-threatening conditions, said Paul Myers, an administrator for the Florida Department of Health in Ala-chua County.
The synthetic drug can result in anything 
from extreme agitation to seizures to uncon-sciousness, and sometimes even heart attacks, 
Myers said.
“These are very serious effects,” he said.
Of those admitted to local emergency rooms 
as of Tuesday, the oldest was 72 years old, and the youngest was about 18 years old.
“It really has encompassed a wide demo-
graphic,” Myers said. “The hospital noticed the trends and really is to be commended for con-necting the dots.”
The drug is a form of synthetic marijuana, 
made more dangerous by chemicals that a sec-ondary dealer or supplier will add to make it stronger, said Gainesville Police spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ryan Foster.
“The best course of action is to encourage 
all to avoid ‘spice’ or similar related products 
altogether,” Foster wrote in an email.
He said police are currently increasing pa-
trols near Haisley Lynch Dog Park, located at 
414-424 S. Main St., which is central to where they say many of the recent spice-related inci-dents have happened.
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst spice outbreak Gainesville 
has seen in recent years, Myers said. In May 2014, over the course of a single weekend, 
more than 30 spice-related incidents popped 
up. 
For Land O’ Lakes, Florida, resident Desi 
Krell, spice is more than a drug — it’s a major factor in her divorce and how she lost touch with her future ex-husband.
“It’s like his ability to reason was messed 
up,” she said. “It’s almost like he became a grown-up 3-year-old”
Krell, 36, who lived in Gainesville during 
the last major outbreak, said even when her husband, Duane Elkins, gave up the drug after about 10 months of frequent use, she could no-tice its effects lingering.  
“It was almost like he was in a permanent 
state of anger,” she said.
After about three days during the May 2014 
outbreak, police found where the spice was be-ing sold and shut down the operation, he said.
Myers said the solution three years ago — 
and what he and police are hoping will be the solution this time — was public awareness.
“As soon as we put out the alerts, the case 
count dropped precipitously last time,” he said. “So that’s why we’re hoping for the same re-sults this time.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org21 people taken to hospital in recent ‘spice’ outbreak4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Based on the 2016 GatorWell 
Healthy Gators Survey, stress and 
anxiety are the greatest health 
concerns facing students. 
In an effort to minimize those 
feelings while studying, Library 
West installed 10 FitDesks. 
FitDesks look like cycling ma-
chines you would see at a gym, but they also come with a stand on which to place your com-puter, textbook or notes. Stacey 
Ewing, the associate chair of Li-
brary West, said light exercise and movement have been known to help reduce stress or anxiety 
and enhance a student’s ability to 
concentrate. 
“Most people that I’ve seen 
using them are just slowly cy-cling away while reading mate-
rial for their classes or studying,” 
she said.
Ewing said FitDesks have 
been placed in university librar-
ies throughout the country and 
have had great success. 
After receiving a grant for $2,500 in January, Library West began their plan to install the Fit-Desks, she said.
Although the library has not 
made any public announcements about the installment of the Fit-Desks, Ewing said she has seen a lot of students using them.
“It seems like every time I’m 
walking by on the second ﬂ  oor there’s usually someone on it,” she said. 
The installment of the Fit-
Desks during Summer was just a “soft launch,” Ewing said. She said she is hopeful that in the Fall, more students will be able to utilize and appreciate them.
Kim Styple, a 20-year-old UF 
criminology junior, said she plans to use the FitDesks and thinks it would be a good idea for UF to 
add more.
“I think the (FitDesks) are a 
great way for students to multi-
task and exercise while getting ahead on their studies,” she said.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgLibrary West installs FitDesks in 
hopes of reducing student stress  
longer to repair the road itself.
“The greater damage is just to the state road,” New said. 
“There’s a hole there that’s 20 feet deep and 60 feet in diam-
eter. That’s pretty extensive repair from the state’s perspec-
tive.”
Alongside deputies from the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce, ofﬁ  cials from Florida Department of Transportation 
helped assess the sinkhole’s damage and helped direct trafﬁ  c 
around it.
FDOT is considering the incident a washout, which occurs 
when a damaged water pipe washes away the sand and soil in the area, causing the land to cave in on itself.
Before proceeding with any repairs, however, Newberry of-
ﬁ  cials turned off the main water pipe’s valve, a process which took four hours in total. Once off, FDOT was able to help as-sess the damage.
“The area that is being worked on this afternoon is a wash-
out,” said Tracy Hisler-Pace, FDOT’s northeast Florida public information director. “Currently, the city and FDOT are work-ing on ﬁ  xing the sinkhole together.”
For about 18 hours Wednesday, citizens of the western 
quadrant of Newberry — nearly 400 people — did not have ac-cess to water. As of 6 p.m. Wednesday, they regained access.
According to state law, citizens will be under a boil warn-
ing until city tests don’t pick up any bacteria in the water for 
two consecutive days.
“They’re going to be advised to boil the water they’re go-
ing to be utilizing for consumption until we can clear it,” New 
said. “It probably won’t clear until Friday morning.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgSINKHOLE,  from pg. 1It was 20 feet deep
Catie Wegman / Alligator Staff
Library West installed 10 FitDesks to help 
students manage stress and anxiety while studying through exercise. The FitDesks were paid for with a $2,500 grant.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Brenda Cassels still wears her 
daughter’s favorite pink T-shirt. It 
was a special tradition they shared.
“Sometimes I’d borrow a shirt 
from her,” Cassels, 49, said. “We 
always traded clothes, just what-
ever we felt like wearing that day.”
Now, she wears them to re-
member her youngest daughter, Christin, to feel close to her.
“Now I guess it’s comfort for 
me,” she said.
The Cassels family lost 23-year-
old Christin on April 21, just four 
days before her birthday. She was 
shot while at her boyfriend’s house late at night, Cassels said. 
On Saturday, the lone suspect 
in Christin’s murder, Blake Car-rington Jackson, 21, was admitted into the Putnam County Jail. He was ﬁ  rst identiﬁ  ed as a suspect in the case after he was arrested in 
New Jersey on May 5 for separate 
drug-related charges out of Putnam County, according to Alligator ar-chives.
With Jackson now in a Florida 
jail, Cassels said she hopes her family will ﬁ  nally get closure. 
“I hope and pray every day that 
my baby gets justice,” she said. “Right now they’re still walking the streets doing their thing, and my baby is underground.”
The fact that Jackson is behind 
bars doesn’t heal all of her wounds, 
Cassels said. At the end of the day, 
she knows that nothing will bring Christin back.
Cassels currently lives with her 
husband, Randy, 51, who she fell in love with when they both at-tended Hawthorne High School in the late ‘80s. Besides Christin, they are parents to 28-year-old Brittany, 
33-year-old Brandi and 35-year-old 
Joe.  
Even with the support she gets 
from family and friends, Cassels said the pain hasn’t gone away. Sometimes at night when she’s laying in bed, she said she’ll hear what sounds like Christin walking in the kitchen.
“It’s been really hard,” she said, 
ﬁ  ghting back tears. “I couldn’t al-ways protect her.”
Cassels said Christin was a helper. She said her late daughter, a Gainesville City College Branch 
Campus  alumna, wanted to be 
a medical assistant — and even watched after her grandmother when she was on her deathbed in 2015.
“She’d do anything for any-
body,” she said. “Everybody loved her.”
As of Wednesday, Jackson re-
mains in the Putnam County Jail in lieu of a $500,000 bond. He faces three separate charges for selling cocaine within 1,000 feet of a spec-iﬁ  ed area and two others for selling synthetic narcotics and opium or derivatives within 1,000 feet of a speciﬁ  ed area.
Jackson also faces a charge of 
grand theft auto in Broward Coun-ty from a March 3 arrest, according to county court records.
Above all, Cassels said she just 
wants justice for her daughter and for her family.
“We want whoever did this be-
hind bars, whoever it was,” Cassels said. “If my baby’s not gonna walk 
these streets, neither will they.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By David Street
Alligator Staff Writer 
This Summer, UF’s student 
and faculty portal, One.UF, will 
undergo changes to become more 
user friendly.
During Tuesday’s Student Sen-
ate meeting, members from COM-
PASS (Campus-wide Moderniza-
tion Program to Advance Student 
Services) gave a presentation that explained what changes the web-site will see starting June 10.
Through One.UF, students 
can access information regard-ing their schedule, transcripts and holds on their account, said Jacob Prater, a UF information 
technology application developer 
analyst.
Changes will include a new 
public landing page as well as student and staff workspaces.
“This is our ﬁ  rst step to pro-
viding separate workspaces for the different types of users we have on campus,” Prater said.
During the presentation, COM-
PASS members said a new mobile-friendly landing page will feature an improved search system and allow for easier navigation.
Prater said system changes 
were made because UF’s Student Self Service and myUFL will also be updated by Spring 2019. He said Student Self Service will be 
gone, while campus ﬁ  nances will 
move from myUFL to One.UF.
Plans to make changes to One.
UF started about a year ago, Prat-
er said. He added that upcoming 
alterations are an opportunity to provide an entirely new set of ser-vices to students and faculty.
Brendan Barany, a 20-year-old 
UF ﬁ  nance junior and Student Government business administra-tion senator, talked about what he thinks will be the biggest impact 
the changes will have on campus.
“I think it allows those that 
maybe wouldn’t pay attention to 
the requirements that UF has for them in terms of either graduat-
ing or ﬁ  nancial obligations to re-
ally stay on track,” he said.
@dstreet177
dstreet@alligator.eduUser friendly changes 
planned for One.UFSuspect in Hawthorne homicide being held in Putnam County Jail
HE WAS ARRESTED MAY 5 
IN NEW JERSEY ON 
DRUG CHARGES.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 151 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
I’d like to preface this by saying that by no 
means am I attacking Watson Realty Corp. I am merely recalling events and experiences with Watson Realty that my roommates and I had throughout our 15-month contract. I 
have attempted to avoid as much hyperbole as I can, so the facts in this column may remain facts, regardless of storytelling.  
Anyway, 15 months ago, my two roommates 
and I decided to rent a three-bedroom, three-bathroom apartment with Watson Realty last year, and our lease ended Tuesday. A quick Google search of “Watson Realty” netted me a 2.3-star av-erage rating and some nasty comments. I’d like to avoid 
being subjective in my rating of my experience with Wat-
son. 
Of the three of us, I was probably the most realistic 
in my expectations of the experience we were going to receive from Watson. I had just moved from another place that neglected to fix my ceiling fan as it hung from a single cord at the height of my head for six days. Or, when the previous place had neglected to fix my air-conditioning unit, and I was without air conditioning for the fall, winter 
and a portion of spring. So, when I walked into Watson 
Realty’s office, I wasn’t expecting much, and, for the most part at least, Watson Realty didn’t lie to me. The previous place had emphasized service and experience, and Wat-son Realty seemed to be more about business than ser-vice. And honestly, that made sense. The previous place was a gated apartment complex where each building was owned by the company — a community. Watson Realty was individually leasing an apartment separate from the 
building; they did not own the building. Technically, they 
also did not own the apartment. Watson Realty was a li-aison between us, the tenants and the landlord — that’s what I really want to discuss.  
As a liaison, they did not, from my viewpoint, do their 
job well. There was a period where our air-conditioning unit continued to break, be repaired and break again. Essentially, I believe we spent about six to seven weeks without an air-conditioning unit. Some of those days were during the summer, some during the fall, winter and spring. However, that’s not their fault, the air-conditioning unit is the re-sponsibility of the landlord. The problem was communication and foolish connections.  
When we originally placed a maintenance 
request for the air-conditioning unit, we were contacted by Watson Realty. We were told to schedule a date when the air-conditioning re-pairman could stop by and check the unit. The catch was the company they were using was 
situated in Jacksonville. Jacksonville is more than an hour drive to Gainesville, and the company had to come by many times to check the unit, bring replacement parts, 
repair it, etc. You can imagine the frustration from both 
parties whenever the repairman forgot an item and had to schedule to stop by the next week because his schedule was already full. Or, after a hurricane passed, when trav-el between Jacksonville and Gainesville was halted and we were without an air-conditioning unit through a hur-ricane; in other words, our home was filled with sweat, humidity, heat and discomfort.  
On top of that, other appliances broke, the ceiling 
leaked and again, that’s the fault of the owner, but Watson Realty’s communication with us was subpar, if there was any at all. There was a portion of time when — my room-mates and I figure — our direct contact (leasing agent) quit or was fired and another person took his or her posi-tion. This new person neglected to contact us, and when he or she did, we had no idea who this person was. We were in the dark for about three months, wondering why no one answered.  
As for my rating, I don’t really know how many stars 
I’d be willing to give Watson Realty. Before I do that, I’d need the remaining unanswered maintenance requests to be answered.  
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
A review of my experience with Watson RealtyThere is no such 
thing as a 
‘bad feminist’
Someone has to say it, so it might as well be us: There 
is no such thing as a “bad feminist.”
Merriam-Webster defines feminism as “the theory 
of the political, economic, and social equality of the sexes.” By its very definition, the only requirement one 
has to have to be considered a feminist is that they support the idea of equality among all genders. For some reason, how-
ever, feminism has become synonymous with rejecting gender 
norms at all costs. This, in no way, shape or form, is what feminism currently is or should be.
The main idea of feminism is that no woman should be 
forced to conform to gender norms — not that she isn’t allowed 
to if she wants. This means a woman shouldn’t be forced to be 
a stay-at-home mom, but, if she wants to, she certainly can. It means she shouldn’t be forced to wear makeup every day or dress to the nines just to go to the grocery store. But, if she 
wants to, she absolutely can.
A woman who loves the color pink and actively updates 
her future wedding’s Pinterest board probably still believes in 
equal pay. A man who wants to go to work and provide for his family doesn’t necessarily believe himself to be a more valu-
able asset to society.
We believe this new criteria for feminism has had an ad-
verse effect on feminism and is starting to diminish its overall 
goal. Society has been pushing feminists to believe that do-
ing anything that would be considered traditionally feminine 
makes them a bad feminist. This in turn forces many women to become something they aren’t, which is the exact opposite of what true feminists are trying to accomplish.
Consequently, women have started to believe that wanting 
a family one day or looking forward to getting a mani-pedi or going on a shopping trip makes them set back the feminist agenda. They thus dub themselves “bad feminists.” It’s our opinion that there is no such thing as a bad feminist. If you 
consider yourself a feminist, you are probably a great one.
Sure, there are different degrees of being a feminist. Some 
extraordinarily active feminists spend their time at protests and 
rallies, advocating for equality. Others, those who don’t shy away from an aggressive Facebook battle or a heated class de-
bate, openly discuss the oppressive nature of the patriarchy. 
Some feminists remain silent. They do what they can to further the agenda in their daily lives, but they tread lightly when they do so. While they are devoted to the cause, they might not con-
sider it worthy of putting their life at risk at a protest or getting 
into a social media fight with friends and family.
Feminism can range from extreme to subdued. Neither ap-
proach is the right or wrong way to be a feminist, and wherever you feel comfortable on the spectrum is where you belong. The 
intensity of one’s feminism shouldn’t matter. All feminists are 
good feminists. If you truly believe in the intentions of femi-nism, to create a world where all genders can be seen as equal, then you are a damn good feminist.James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Can’t-miss Gainesville events: 
Find out what’s happening in town this Summer, pg. 10Netﬂ  ix’s latest true-crime docuseries
Why you should watch ‘The Keepers, ’ pg. 8By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Turn to page 72 if you want to ﬁ  ght. Turn 
to page 26 if you want to run.
You’ll have to turn the page to ﬁ  nd out 
what happens next. With “Choose Your Own 
Adventure” books, that’s usually the case. 
Making a decision to control the outcome of a story can make you feel god-like. Now, 
that familiar feeling can be felt with a new, interactive play at UF’s Black Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion.
The play, brought to UF by Tilted Wind-
mills Theatricals, a New York City-based 
theater company, will have audience mem-bers make decisions to steer the course of 
the play. The play is written by Matt Cox and 
directed by Kristin McCarthy Parker. 
“The Magniﬁ  cent Revengers in … A 
Choose Your Own Tragedy — A Comedy!” will premiere June 7 and run until June 11 in 
the Black Box Theatre, according to a press 
release. 
This is the third year that Tilted Windmills 
Theatricals has worked with the UF School of Theatre and Dance to collaborate with stu-
dents to put out interesting plays, said David 
Carpenter, the play’s producer and a manag-
ing partner of the theater company. 
Last summer brought “Puffs; or, Seven In-
creasingly Eventful Years at a Certain School of Magic and Magic,” also written by Cox 
and directed by McCarthy Parker. “Puffs” 
started at the Peoples Improv Theater in New 
York City but became a hit after its time at 
UF, going back to the city in an off-Broadway 
stint at the Elektra Theatre. Carpenter said 
members of the company enjoyed collaborat-ing with the students. 
“The level of talent with the students is 
just out of this world; they’re just on the cusp 
of stepping out into the working world,” he 
said.
With this new play, the theatre company 
came in with only an outline, not the whole 
script. The School of Theatre and Dance had 
to trust that with a little time, it would turn 
into something special. Carpenter said he 
thought they were intrigued with the idea.
“We said, ‘Trust us, we’re going to come 
in and bring a new show for you,’” he said. 
“It’s unlike anything we’ve done before. 
Very few people have wandered into this ter-ritory.” 
Going with an immersive play wasn’t an 
original idea with the theater company. This 
type of play has been gaining traction in New 
York City in recent years among young peo-ple. Carpenter said their idea was focused on 
a way to incorporate technology into a live 
performance. 
Through the collaboration of corporate 
partners in the business and video game in-
dustry, the theater company is working to 
create an interactive technology called Pan-za. The program will allow audience mem-
bers to use their phone to vote on different choices within the play, which could poten-tially give the show six different endings.
The show is set in the later days of the 
Wild West, and it centers around a female 
protagonist who is seeking revenge for her 
brother’s murder. Even though the West-
ern setting is thought to be predominantly 
male-dominated, McCarthy Parker said Cox 
enjoys creating leading roles in the point of 
view of women. 
“It has been in many instances problem-
atic in terms of not having a lot of strong 
female characters, if any,” she said.
Because of the genre, the potential for 
violence is high; the audience will have to make some tough decisions during the per-
formance.
“In some ways asking people to be par-
ticipants makes them a little bit responsible in some ways. It has the power to raise com-plicated feelings, but that’s not a bad thing,” 
she said. 
As the director, she has to rehearse each 
potential ending to the play, and the cast has 
to keep those fresh in their minds. 
“The level to which it’s integrated in the 
show is really high and really exciting,” she 
said. “The audience deﬁ  nitely has a huge 
role to play in what the outcome of the show is.” 
Some decisions are fun and harmless, but 
others decide who lives and who dies. The 
show would be impossible without an active 
and engaged audience. 
It seems almost unthinkable to encourage 
an audience to have their phones out during 
a performance considering they are typically banned from theaters. They can disrupt the 
actors and distract the audience from what’s going on. 
Because he loves technology, Carpenter 
said he wanted to see what would happen if they turned the no-cellphone-use policy on 
its head.
“What if we invited the disrupter in? 
We’re going to ﬁ  nd out what this means; 
we’ve never seen theater that embraces this 
in this way,” he said. 
Some potential drawbacks to having 
people use their phones is making sure ev-
erybody has enough power, dealing with notiﬁ  cations and making sure everyone has 
connection to Panza. Carpenter said they won’t know the real problems until the play 
is put before an audience.Incorporating technology into a produc-
tion will change more than just how the au-dience reacts. It will also change how char-
acters develop and adapt to a new storyline. 
With the choices potentially killing off cast 
members, Parker has to be open to the fact 
that a scene with three people could end 
with two, which could change lighting and 
blocking.
“It’s a lot of forethought and a lot of going 
back and tweaking to make sure it works no 
matter what,” she said. 
Directing the play has been a balancing 
act for McCarthy Parker. She said she has made sure the audience knows that they are 
witnessing one story in one world. She said 
it’s not six different plays — it’s one play with six different endings. 
Being innovative is important, but not as 
important as working on things that get you out of bed in the morning, Carpenter said. Working on what you are passionate about 
with people who you are passionate about only adds to the journey of fostering new, 
innovative plays, Carpenter said.
“The creative process is beautiful and 
messy at the same time,” he said. Choose-your-own-adventure-style play comes to theater 
Courtesy to the Alligator
“The Magniﬁ  cent Revengers in… A Choose Your Own Tragedy — A Comedy!” will allow audience members to decide the 
characters’ fate via their smartphones.
•   •   •
•   •   •8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Netflix’s latest true-crime 
docuseries (a documentary 
in the form of a series), “The 
Keepers,” is a little more than 
seven hours of heart-wrench-ing and intriguing suspense. The series chronicles the 
case of murdered nun and 
teacher Catherine Cesnik in Baltimore, Maryland, as well as the uncovering of sexual abuse within the Catholic 
school where she used to 
work.
The series presents dif-
ferent potential suspects and questions the watcher’s im-pressions of these people. What the series does best is tell real, impactful stories 
about women who prevailed 
in the face of torment. Some 
of these women suffered 
abuse at the hands of priests among others, while other women strived to uncover 
the truth behind the murder 
of Sister Cathy, their favorite English teacher. 
Originally, I wasn’t inter-
ested in watching the series. 
When I saw it suggested on 
Netflix’s “Recently Added” queue, I saw a ghostly pic-ture of a nun and closed the 
tab. Watching or reading true 
crime isn’t something I en-joy putting myself through: It’s difficult, demanding and sometimes demeaning.
But I ended up watch-
ing it because someone rec-ommended it to me. That someone, now a friend, was once my high-school English teacher. She, a true-crime 
connoisseur, said I should 
watch it, calling it “heavy” 
but “well done.” I conceded 
tentatively at first, because I didn’t know what I was get-ting myself into. It seems triv-
ial to be nervous to watch a 
television show, but, like any compelling story, delving into it, mind and imagination, can change you at the end.
Blazing through the seven 
parts was almost imperative, but knowing the conclusion to the story wasn’t necessar-
ily satisfying. In many ways, 
justice wasn’t met for Sister Cathy, her family or those women and men who were abused in their youth. The 
conclusion wasn’t a conclu-
sion at all. The series overall serves an important lesson though: Watching these sto-
ries will make you cry, fo-
ment and wonder in disbelief how things like this could happen.
Watch the series, not be-
cause it’s a fun summer show to make you laugh or help you forget about your problems. Watch the series, because 
the stories that these people 
bravely shared deserve to be heard and gleaned from.Why you should watch 
Netflix’s ‘The Keepers’
TELEVISION
Photo via IMDb.
“The Keepers, ” which many are comparing to the popular series 
“Making a Murderer, ” is Netﬂ  ix’s newest true-crime docuseries. 
“Watching or reading true crime isn’t something 
I enjoy putting myself through: It’s diicult, 
demanding and sometimes demeaning.”
Janiece Sebris
Avenue WriterTHURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
3157/3175 SW 42nd Street •  352.372.1301
Bring in this ad for FREE Hummus!
One coupon per person per visit. Offer expires 08-25-2017.By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
Heartwood Soundstage, Gainesville’s 
newest music venue located at 619 S. Main 
St., is hosting its ﬁ  rst live poetry event Wednesday. 
The event, “The Power of Words: Five 
Poets Speak,” will feature published local poets Eric Diamond, Roger Reep, Eddie Sug-gs and special guests E. Stanley Richardson and J.N. Fishhawk. 
Suggs, who is originally from Ocala, will 
be reading from his upcoming poetry book 
“Back on this Side/A Second Chance at En-
lightenment.” Suggs said his poetry is in-
spired by his activist efforts, his childhood experiences and the struggles he has faced 
in life. 
“I’ve had a lot of tragedy in my life, and 
it’s how you respond to it that makes the dif-
ference,” Suggs said.
Now 58, Suggs has been writing poetry 
for about 40 years and initially pursued the medium as a means of escape. 
“Being able to go into a different world 
was so important to me because of how I grew up,” Suggs said. “I could express my-
self very well on the page.”
Suggs was ﬁ  rst approached for this event 
by Diamond with the idea of originally do-
ing a three-person show including Reep, but the idea expanded to feature Richardson and Fishhawk. Suggs said it’s important to fea-ture local talent because this is the ﬁ  rst po-etry event of this size in Gainesville.
“Just to be on the same stage with some 
of these people is just an experience itself,” 
Suggs said. “So many different styles of po-
etry there that night. A goal is just to get the public aware of the kind of voices we have in this town before they get away from us — because we have a very transient town.”
Fishhawk, who has been writing poetry 
since he was 13 years old, was ﬁ  rst inspired 
to write poetry by reading the works of both 
classic and contemporary poets and the spo-
ken word movement during the ‘90s. 
Fishhawk said he hopes that hosting 
an event like this at Heartwood will raise awareness for the art itself and establish po-etry as a live art that can happen at a venue 
of that scale. 
“It’s an exciting new venue … I love the 
combination of a live venue and a recording studio,” Fishhawk said. “I hope this will in-
spire people to bring poetry into their lives. Anyone can learn how to write a poem and write it well.”
Doors open at 7:00 p.m., and the poetry 
readings will last from 7:30 p.m. to 9:45 p.m. 
Tickets are $8 through eventbrite.com or $10 
at Heartwood for presale and at the door. Re-
freshments will be provided at the event. For more information, go to heartwoodsound-stage.com.‘Power of Words’ poetry event to be held at Heartwood
Courtesy to the Alligator
“The Power of Words: Five Poets Speak” will be the ﬁ  rst event of its kind to be held at Heartwood Soundstage.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
LOCAL
FIVE EVENTS YOU WON’T WANT TO MISS IN GAINESVILLE THIS WEEK
by Isabelle Resnick
UF’s Summer A may 
never kick the stigma that, at this time, the greater Gainesville area is a desolate and dull college town controlled by a tediously slow clock, one that will restore sunshine and social lives to the city only when Summer B arrives. 
Little do the town’s 
residents know that, thanks in part to UF, Gainesville is a hub for culture and entertain-ment. The following are ﬁve events happening this week guaranteed to provide maximum distraction from the not-so-monotonous countdown to Summer B.On Friday, High Springs Playhouse will take audience members on a suspenseful journey via its own 
rendition of murder-mystery theatre. At 8 p.m., audience members will be held captive by the tragic tale of a playwright widower, left hungry for clues that lead to the culprit of the unsolved murder. “Rehearsal for Murder”
Every Friday from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. on Depot Park’s Promenade, the Allied Capoeira League’s profes -
sor Mestrando Mico will teach locals the art of Brazilian Martial Arts for $5 a person. This centuries-old practice combines elements of acrobatics, dance and music. On July 15, professor Mico will teach a summer leisure course workshop in capoeira at the Reitz Union from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.Capoeira at Depot Park 
The Harn Museum of Art’s Curator of Photography Carol McCusker will introduce photography enthusi -
asts to the museum’s newest exhibit, “The Same But Diﬀerent,” which features more than 80 photo -
graphs from the Harn’s collection. The event will take place at the Harn on Sunday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Photo Curator Talk: Carol McCusker 
From June 7 until June 11, UF’s School of Theatre and Dance will continue its partnership with New York City production company Tilted Windmills Theatricals. The play, which begins at 7:30 p.m., takes place in the Wild West, and the audience will have the power to dictate how the show will unfold by selecting character traits and deciding the direction of the show’s twists and turns. “The Magniﬁcent Revengers In … A Choose Your Own Tragedy – A Comedy!
For those looking for guaranteed laughter, every Wednesday Rockey’s Dueling Piano Bar hosts live stand-up comedy, featuring local comedians who open the show for a diﬀerent nationally touring head -
liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m., the show begins at 9 p.m., and drink specials are oﬀered all evening.Rockey’s Comedy Boom 
Although Gainesville may seem like a ghost town during Summer A, all of these events and 
more are certain to get you through to Summer B just ﬁne. Avenue WriterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
3BR/2.5BA new upscale condo in Haile 
Plantation Market Square. Modern finishes throughout: custom cabinetry, granite coun-tertops, stainless steel appliances, wood floors in open living area, tile bathrooms. On bus route, walking distance to Publix, restaurants, shopping, tennis courts, and more. Two units available. Each unit is ap-prox. 1450 sq/ft. Private balcony avail with one unit. $1875/month for each unit. Avail July, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.      6-27-17-5-2
3BR/3BA Beautiful Home with Vaulted 
Ceilings, Laminate Wood Floors. Located 
Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hospital, 
and VA Medical Centers. Screen Porch, 2 
Car Garage, Fenced Yard, Energy Efficient. 
W/D, Lawn Main, and Pest Control all 
Included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus 
Route. Avail Aug. $1875/month. Contact 
tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.    
6-27-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
Auction YMCA Camp McConnell 211± Acres
Family Lodge, Horseback Riding,Nature Trails & More!Thur, 6/22 10AM ET Micanopy, FLUnited Country Auctions of the SouthStephen Burton, FL LIC# AU 649 / AB 3416United Country Land & Lifestyle PropertyJib Davison, Broker 10% BPVisit website for complete termsAuctionsOftheSouth.com 800-448- 2074     6-1-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-6-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-6-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-6-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-6-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Twenty-One speed 27” Schwinn Cross 
Trek Bicycle. Cro-Mo frame, Alivio derailer, 
Shimano Brakes, TekTro Handlebar, Etc. Too 
old to ride. Asking $150 Call 352-514-1406.    6-1-17-2-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
Apt for rent 720 NW 19th Ave. Available July 
1. 2BR/1BA, W/D, completely remodeled, large backyard. Monthly rent $685, $800 security deposit. Call 352-371-3473. Please leave message  6-6-17-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
1966 FORD THUNDERBIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $8500. Call 352-213-
3901    6-13-17-8-12
2010 Acura TL *NAVI**REAR CAMERA* 
3.7L V6 Gas Automatic AWD White 70k miles 4.300$ (352) 388-7246     7-6-17-10-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Ground Floor Opportunity forMD/DC/PA/ARNP/AP - New Integrated Medicine Clinic.PT/FT. All inquiries strictly confidential. eMail: groundfloor2016@gmail.com    6-1-17-5-14
ACROSS
1 Wines that can
be white or red
7 Greetings
10 Lighthouse view
13 Widely
recognized
14 Sleep on it16 Immediate
caregiver, briefly
17 Highlighted
publication part
19 “All Things
Considered” airer
20 Mongrel21 Brest bestie22 Howe of hockey24 Singer DiFranco25 Halves of some
master-servantrelationships
27 Little pitchers
have big ones,
per an old maxim
28 Pioneering
computer
30 Stick-in-the-mud33 Cabbage
35 Insect stage
36 Quarterback
Roethlisberger
37 Nice and easy40 Degree for Dr. Oz43 Southwestern
lizards
44 Traveling from
gig to gig
46 Score keeper?51 Takes care of52 Boss of fashion53 Procedures
involving suction,familiarly
55 FDR agency56 “How nice!”59 Bridge, e.g.60 Dandy61 Sought office62 What narcs may
do ... or what canliterally be foundin three pairs ofpuzzle answers
66 “Microsoft sound”
composer
67 Meanies
68 Result of a big hit69 Circle div.70 Vicious of the
Sex Pistols
71 Levels of society
DOWN
1 Short movie?2 Quebec Winter
Carnival race
vehicle3 Like some
workers in an
open shop
4 Seeking
exoneration, in away
5 Deadlock6 Skinny sort7 “I found the
place!”
8 Wrath9 Deer fellow
10 “Where the Wild
Things Are”author
11 Rome, once12 Not moving14 Chiropractor’s
concern
15 Bother18 Fish-eating duck23 Truckee
Meadows city
26 Pioneering PCs
28 Diplomatic HQ
29 “Oh, be quiet!”31 Composer
Schifrin
32 Secret Service
title
34 Fighter Holly who
ended RondaRousey’sundefeatedstreak38 Schlep
39 Given as
homework
40 African capital
named for an
American
president
41 Capital on the
Danube
42 Horace’s “__
Poetica”
43 Natural sci.45 “Copy that”46 British counties47 Compassionate
48 Creamy quaff49 Popular tablets50 Show up
54 Some Croatians
57 In the past
58 Ballpark fare
63 The Rams of the
Atlantic 10 Conf.
64 Old PC
component
65 Blues-rocker Chris
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/01/1706/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
ACROSS
1 Resorts with
body wraps
5 Hook-shaped ski
lift
9 Canon setting
14 Formal
agreement
15 Deep sea
predator
16 PEN/Faulkner,
for one
17 Wastes away
19 Beantown team
20 2010 Best
Picture Oscar
winner
22 Env. insert23 Former
Mississippisenator Trent
24 Post-J.D. 
degree
27 Become born-
again, perhaps
33 Ready for a kick,
with “up”
35 Society page
word
36 City bonds, for
short
37 United Nations
gathering
41 Layer with a hole42 Pocatello sch.43 “The Da Vinci
Code” priory
44 Self-publishing
option
48 Health products
chain
49 One who may
converse in Erse
50 Top bond rating52 Source of the
freedoms found
at the ends ofthis puzzle’s fourother longestanswers
59 Argue with
60 One selling
wheels
61 Online party
notice
62 Pelee Island’s
lake
63 Zilch
64 Decreases in
strength
65 Phone-answering
asst.
66 Social sci. majorDOWN
1 Cross words
2 Way to go3 Farm fraction4 Feed with fuel
5 WWE wrestler in
the film
“Trainwreck”
6 Naval lockup7 Pocket rockets,
at the poker table
8 Fight, in the sticks9 Video chat option
10 Trees with
fragrant sap
11 Gymnast’s powder12 Straight: Pref.13 Troopers’ gps.
18 Troubling engine
sound
21 D.C. figure
24 No. 2 at the
statehouse
25 Talk show host
who won “TheCelebrityApprentice” in2015, familiarly
26 Runners
occupying bases
28 No. in a contacts
list
29 Broadcast again30 With a lot at stake31 Rub __: lubricate32 “Bye Bye Bye”
boy band
34 Bad-mouth38 Samples again,
during cooking
39 Memphis-to-
Mobile dir.
40 “The Partridge
Family” actress
45 To date46 Pre-curtain call47 “Smooth
Operator” singer51 Floor52 Broad bean53 Triumphant shout
54 Stable mother
55 Old Norse
explorer
56 Util. bill57 Detective Wolfe58 1982 sci-fi film
with a 2010
sequel
59 Passover
observer
By Samuel A. Donaldson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/31/1705/31/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, May 31, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedTHURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   .13 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     6-8-17-80-14
Farm Help Wanted:Experience operating yard/farm mainte-nance equipment required; 8-10 hrs per week (Fridays and weekends) ; private farm in Alachua, Florida; must provide own trans-portation. 352-258-3571    6-6-17-5-14
Farm Help Wanted:Experience operating yard/farm mainte-nance equipment required; 8-10 hrs per week (Fridays and weekends) ; private farm in Alachua, Florida; must provide own trans-portation. 352-258-3571    6-6-17-5-14w
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-1-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles.Call 855-334- 7726 and make a REAL con-nection.      6-1-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
Heavy Equipment operator training in
as little as 3 weeks!
Backhoe, Loader, Dozer,
Excavator, & Crane.
VA benefits eligible.
(877) 636-9995 or visit
careers.heavyequipmentcollege.com     6-1-
1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
MALE ENLARGEMENT PUMP
Get Stronger &amp; Harder Immediately!Gain 1-3 Inches Permanently &amp; Safely.Guaranteed Results. FDA Licensed.Free Phone Consultation: 1-800- 354-3944www.DrJoelKaplan.com     6-1-1-16Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Very fast paced law office in search of a paralegal. Must have a college degree. Well developed organizational, communication, and analytical skills required. Must have ex-cellent computer, verbal and written skills. Employee insurance is provided by employ -
er. Paid holidays and vacation time is also provided by the employer. Email resume to PCD@nabjr.com.     6-8-17-4-14
Scola Podiatry now hiring front desk and 
medical assistant positions. Full time and 
part time available. Transportation is re-
quired and some experience is preffered. Please email your resume to jere.scola@gmail.com     6-29-17-14-14
1. MOVIES: Which 1974 movie fea-
tured a character named Jake Gittes?
2. LANGUAGE: What are three let-
ters of the Greek alphabet that begin 
with the letter “p”?
3. HUMAN ANATOMY: What part 
of the brain regulates body tempera-
ture and controls the autonomic ner -
vous system?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is a hussar?
5. MYTHOLOGY: Which figure in 
Greek mythology possessed the gift of 
prophecy?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What artificial 
structure connects the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea?
7. TELEVISION: Who played the 
lead role in the drama “Columbo”?
8. MUSIC: What Barry Manilow 
song started with the line “”Her name was Lola”?
9. GOVERNMENT: What amend-
ment to the Constitution authorized federal taxes on income?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What shape is 
the pasta called farfalle?
Answers
1. “Chinatown” (Jack Nicholson)2. Phi, pi and psi3. The hypothalamus4. A horseman in a European light 
calvary unit
5. Cassandra
6. Suez Canal 
7. Peter Falk8. “Copacabana”9. Sixteenth Amendment10. Bows or butterflies
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 29, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 15 ServicesTHURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
With the NBA Finals set to 
begin tonight, sports writer Andrew Huang looks back at former Gators to win the Larry O'Brien trophy, such as Udonis Haslem. Read the story, pg. 15.UF men's basketball to compete in PK80 Invitational
The Florida men's basketball team will participate in the Phil Knight 
Invitational starting on Nov. 23 in Portland, Oregon. The Gators will face 
Stanford in their ﬁ  rst game and either Gonzaga or Ohio State in their second game.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsBASEBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Mike Rivera was doing his 
best to stay positive given the 
circumstances of his injury.
He was continuing to be a good 
teammate, serving as the heart 
and soul of Florida’s baseball 
program, just as he’d always 
done.
He was continuing to display 
a strong work ethic, showing up to practice every day and leading by example, just as he’d always done.
He was continuing to smile, 
joking and laughing with his teammates, just as he’d always done.
But ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz could see it in Rivera’s eyes. UF’s starting catcher wasn’t happy to be sitting out game after game 
with a broken hamate bone.
In fact, it was eating away at 
him inside.
“It was tough to watch,” 
Schwarz said. “He wanted to be out there so badly with us. He 
spent a lot of time in the training room. Whenever I was in there, I could see him doing all the rehab 
stuff he needed to do. He was 
doing whatever it took to get out on the ﬁ  eld as fast as he could.”
Rivera broke the hamate bone 
in his right hand on April 11 
following a check swing in the 
seventh inning of a game against FSU. The injury kept the junior from Venice, Florida, off the ﬁ  eld for the ﬁ  nal month and a half of the regular season, causing him to miss 22 games.
Rivera had only sat out ﬁ  ve 
games in his ﬁ  rst two seasons with the Gators, playing in the other 133 contests to serve as a mainstay in coach Kevin O’Sullivan’s lineup.
So when the catcher suddenly 
lost his ability to play the sport he loves on an everyday basis, it took a toll on his psyche.
“It was rough for me,” Rivera 
said. “It made me appreciate the little things that sometimes get taken for granted.”
Luckily for Rivera, after a 
month of dedicated rehab, his time on the bench ﬁ  nally came to a close last week.  Rivera returns from injury when Gators need him most
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera throws to the pitcher's mound during Florida's 2-0 
win against Miami on Feb. 25, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
It’s no secret the Gators haven’t 
had a consistent starting quarterback 
since 2009 with Tim Tebow.
The last seven seasons under 
center for UF have been full of busts, 
injuries and transfers, so when 
Feleipe Franks announced he  was decommitting from LSU and would be attending Florida, Gators fans were hopeful that their QB woes were ﬁ  nally behind them.
Then, Franks played poorly in 
the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut, throwing three interceptions in 
his ﬁ  rst four pass attempts, before 
ultimately redshirting his freshman year and sitting behind Luke Del Rio and Austin Appleby on the depth chart.
He then showed improvement in 
this year’s Spring game, completing 8-of-14 passes and one touchdown to take a commanding lead in Florida’s 
quarterback battle.
“He’s ahead,” coach Jim 
McElwain conﬁ  rmed after the game. 
“No doubt about it.”
However, reports surfaced on Talks of Zaire transfer paints murky picture for UFJakes on a Plane / Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SOFTBALL
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
May 28, 2015: the last 
time Florida began play in the 
Women’s College World Series.
In the all-too-pivotal 
opening game, the Gators 
squared off against SEC rival 
Tennessee, swiftly taking down 
the Volunteers 7-2. The win stemmed from both the hitting and pitching efforts of Lauren Haeger, the 2015 USA Softball 
Collegiate Player of the Year.
In her ﬁ  rst game since being 
crowned with the award, she 
proved her dominance by 
allowing just one hit in the 
victory. 
But now, it’s 2017. Haeger has 
graduated, her time complete.
Instead, it’s sophomore 
pitcher Kelly Barnhill who will step into that commanding role in this year's Women's College World Series. 
On Tuesday, she was granted 
the 2017 USA Softball Collegiate Player of the Year, just the second Gator ever to receive it after Haeger.
The Marietta, Georgia, native 
is also the second sophomore to ever be given this award, with Texas pitcher Cat Osterman receiving it in 2003.
“It’s really amazing to be 
chosen for this award as just a sophomore,” Barnhill said in a press release Tuesday. “There 
are so many amazing players out 
there and to be chosen at such a young age is really a special accomplishment.”
Barnhill is ﬁ  rst in the nation 
in ERA (0.36), hits allowed per seven innings (2.74) and strikeouts per seven innings (13.4).
For coach Tim Walton, her 
award also signals the hard work his entire team exhibited throughout the entire season.
“Kelly winning this award is 
an accomplishment for everyone on our team,” Walton said in a release. “We have a lot of pride and a great work ethic, but I’m 
just so proud of Kelly embracing 
her role head on and working really hard.”
Now, two days after receiving 
what is arguably the most 
prestigious award in NCAA 
softball, Barnhill will also have an opportunity to showcase her talents on one of the biggest 
stages imaginable.Barnhill read y for WCWS
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Feleipe Franks surveys the ﬁ  eld during Florida's 
Orange and Blue Debut on April 7, 2017, at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJakeTHURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
With the 2017 NBA Finals set to 
kick off tonight at 9 p.m., this season 
marks the ﬁ  rst time in seven years a former Gator won’t be competing for the Larry O’Brien trophy.
Overall, nine Gators have 
played in one or more ﬁ  nals series, combining for 13 NBA championship rings.
Leading the way is power 
forward Udonis Haslem.  The 36-year-old veteran has played his entire career in Miami and has been to ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nals, winning three of them.
The Heat defeated the Dallas 
Mavericks in 2006 by a score of 4-2.  Five years later the teams clashed again, with Miami losing the rematch in six games despite the additions of LeBron James and Chris 
Bosh to its roster.
Haslem and the Heat would then 
win back-to-back titles in 2012 and 
2013, downing Kevin Durant and 
the Oklahoma City Thunder before stealing the following year’s series against Gregg Popovich and the San 
Antonio Spurs.
San Antonio would get the best 
of Miami in a 2014 rematch.
Shooting guard Mike Miller is 
next on the list with four trips to the ﬁ  nals.
Miller played with Haslem 
in Miami for his ﬁ  rst three 
appearances. In the Heat’s 2012 closeout victory over Oklahoma City, Miller exploded for 23 points behind 7-of-8 shooting from behind the three-point line.
Three years later, he faced 
Golden State with former Heat teammate LeBron James, this time 
in a Cleveland uniform.
Point guard Jason Williams, 
known for his ﬂ  ashy style of play, 
also won his only trip to the ﬁ  nals in 2006 with Miami.
The veteran duo of big men 
Marreese Speights (2015, 2016) and David Lee (2015) both made it to the ﬁ  nals with Golden State.  The Warriors took down short-handed 
Cleveland in 2015, but lost when the 
two teams met again a year later.
San Antonio has also brought 
two Gators to the ﬁ  nals. In 2007, 
center Matt Bonner and shooting guard James White were on the winning side of a sweep against Cleveland.
Bonner also was a part of the 
2013 team that fell to the Heat, and 
the 2014 rematch that San Antonio 
won in ﬁ  ve games.
Corey Brewer played for 
the Dallas Mavericks’ 2011 
championship team.  The Mavs 
defeated Miami for the title that 
season, giving the small forward his 
only ring.
The ﬁ  nal player on this list is also 
the ﬁ  rst former Gator to reach the 
NBA Finals.
Houston Rockets shooting guard 
Vernon Maxwell emerged from the 1994 and 1995 ﬁ  nals victorious, 
taking advantage of Michael 
Jordan’s two-year absence from the 
NBA with teammate and Hall of 
Fame center Hakeem Olajuwon.
While there are no Gators in the 
2017 NBA Finals, there are a few 
who could make it a year from now.
Center Al Horford helped take 
Boston to the Eastern Conference Finals this season, and Bradley 
Beal has become one of the better 
shooting guards in the league for a 
Washington team on the rise.
Neither has been to the NBA 
Finals before.
In the Western Conference, 
Speights—now with the Clippers—and Lee—a recent Spurs pickup—
are both in position to provide 
depth and experience for potential 
contenders.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org   Gators in the NBA: A review of past NBA Finals appearances
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Former UF men’s basketball players Udonis Haslem (left) and Mike Miller compete during the 2011-12 
NBA regular season. Haslem and Miller have combined for ﬁ  ve NBA championships.
FORMER GATORS TO
REACH NBA FINALS
MATT BONNER
(2007, 2013, 2014)
COREY BREWER
(2011)
UDONIS HASLEM
(2006, 2011, 2012,
2013, 2014)
DAVID LEE
(2015)
VERNON MAXWELL
(1994, 1995)
MIKE MILLER
(2011, 2012, 2013,
2015)
MARREESE SPEIGHTS
(2015, 2016)
JAMES WHITE
(2007)
JASON WILLIAMS
(2006)16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
1728 West University Avenue • Live DJ Fri & Sat 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LUNCH SPECIAL
$8.99 Cajun 
Chicken Pasta
LADIES NIGHT 
SPECIALS 7pm-12am
$2 Long Necks, 
Wells and Wine
$5 Flatbreads $3 Tequila Shots
$3 Cocktail on Tap
$4 Swamphead Drafts
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAY FRIDAY LUNCH SPECIAL  
$9.99 Siracha Redfish Sandwich
SATURDAY NIGHT$3 Margaritas
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Magnitude DraftsFRIDAY NIGHT$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  7pm-12am
7pm-12am
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells start at 25¢
Pitchers start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
FREE WELLS
+ LIVE DJ
UF’s backstop returned 
to action in time for the SEC 
Tournament, starting all three 
games and hitting 1-for-7 at the 
plate with three runs scored.
While he hasn’t had a 
tremendous season offensively - 
batting .252 on the year with two 
home runs and 19 RBIs - his grit and leadership make him one of the most valuable members of 
Florida’s roster.
“Mike is Mike. He’s a tough 
kid,” third baseman Jonathan 
India said. “He does everything 
right. He’s always hustling around 
the ﬁ  eld, works very hard. A lot of kids look up to him because of his work ethic. It’s good to have him back.”
Rivera’s return to game action 
comes just in time for the start of the NCAA Tournament, which begins on Friday at 7 p.m. against 
Marist.
The Gators are hosting the Red 
Foxes, as well as South Florida 
and Bethune-Cookman this 
weekend in the bracket’s regional 
round, a double-elimination-style round that Florida has advanced through six of the past eight years.
Sophomore Jackson Kowar 
will get the starting nod on Friday night with Rivera expected to be behind home plate.
While his wrist isn’t back to 
100 percent health, Rivera said it had healed enough to the point where he couldn’t say no to 
playing in the postseason.
“It does feel better every single 
day,” he said. “I’m still doing a 
lot of rehab… and stretching it out, but it’s feeling a lot better.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Rivera is batting .252 this season with 19 RBIsSunday that Notre Dame redshirt 
junior quarterback Malik Zaire has decided to transfer to UF as a graduate student, sparking a huge debate at the SEC spring meetings 
in Destin, Florida. Under a current 
rule, schools in the SEC can’t sign a graduate transfer for three years if its previous grad transfer doesn't meet certain academic requirements.
You know, the whole student-
before-athlete thing.
Unfortunately for the Gators, 
former offensive lineman Mason 
Halter violated this rule in 2015, 
leaving UF in a state of limbo.
Consequently, McElwain is in 
Destin arguing the rule should be 
changed, and if it does, Florida could be one of the earliest schools to beneﬁ  t from it. But Florida’s coach ﬁ  ghting so hard to put Zaire in an orange and blue jersey prompts a thought: McElwain must not be sold on Franks being his guy, at least not yet anyway.
If he was, there's no reason for 
him to pursue a graduate-transfer quarterback.
It doesn't make any sense for him 
to do so.
Zaire only has one year of 
eligibility remaining, while Franks has four years left, assuming he doesn’t declare for the NFL Draft or 
fall victim to injury.
Bottom line: If Franks is ready 
now, there's no reason to put him 
through another competition for the starting spot.
This situation also raises questions 
about McElwain as a recruiter.
If Zaire ends up at Florida, he 
will be the sixth quarterback under 
scholarship on its roster. That means 
that, assuming Zaire won the starting job, the ﬁ  ve quarterbacks UF has aren't living up to expectations. 
While getting the Notre Dame 
transfer might turn out to be the answer the Gators were looking for, it only buys them time for one season.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Florida’s run in the Women’s 
College World Series in Oklahoma 
City will begin today against No. 9-seeded Texas A&M. 
Even though the Gators boast 
the No. 1 overall seed in the tournament, the Aggies will pose a large challenge to overcome.
Both squads have posted 
similar stats in the regular season 
and postseason.
Since postseason play 
started  on May 11 with the SEC 
Tournament, Florida has gone 
5-3.
Texas A&M, on the other 
hand, is 5-2 in postseason play 
and is coming off a three-game Super Regional victory against Tennessee.
When comparing each team’s 
batting average, the numbers are nearly identical, with both sitting right around .300.
But where the Gators pose 
their biggest threat is their pitching staff, claiming the lowest ERA in the country at 0.69.
It’s a threat catalyzed by 
Barnhill.
And even though she has yet 
to play in Oklahoma City, several teammates have been there before.
In Florida's opening game 
in 2015, then-freshman Kayli Kvistad hammered a two-run homer. Nicole DeWitt, also a 
freshman at the time, homered 
in the next game against LSU.
Then-sophomore Delanie 
Gourley’s pitching helped clinch the ﬁ  rst game in the championship 
series versus Michigan, a series 
Florida eventually won.
But with UCLA and LSU 
positioned on Florida’s side of 
the bracket, the experience from 
upperclassman will be necessary.
Today’s opening pitch against 
the Aggies is set for noon.  
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Florida's team ERA of 0.69 is best in the nation
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill pitches during Florida's 3-0 loss against Alabama in 
game one of the NCAA Super Regionals on May 25, 2017.
