We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 79 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
Florida beats Alabama in Tuscaloosa
The Gators gave up an 18-point lead but held on 
to win 80-67,  pg. 13
Local organization oﬀ  ers free citizenship classes
It expects a surge following Trump’s election, pg. 8
The Hub ﬂ  oods after pipe breaks Monday night
A UF ofﬁ  cial said no water damage is suspected, pg. 4English majors face limited courses
The department needs more faculty members to meet demands, pg. 5
English majors face limited courses
By Paige Fry                            
and Mary-Lou Watkinson 
Alligator Staff Writers
By the end of Spring, UF stu-
dents will be able to search for clothes from the Gator Career Clos-et using an online database.
The closet, which opened in 
July 2016 on the third ﬂ  oor of Pea-body Hall, provides clothes for UF students to borrow for professional interviews, said Ambre Hobson, an assistant director for student success. The new database will al-low students to search and reserve clothes for free before stepping into the on-campus closet.
An exact date for the opening of 
the online database has not been set, but it’s in the ﬁ  nal develop-ment stage, Hobson said.
“They’re going to love it,” Hob-
son said. “I think it will make it much easier to use the service.”
The website will have photos 
of every item in the closet, which can be searched by color, size and style. The service is free for stu-dents, but they’ll have to pick up clothes at the on-campus location.
Although the closet has had 
about 1,200 donations, small, mas-culine-style clothes are still needed. Money donations are the most use-ful so the closet can buy in-demand clothes, Hobson said.About 847 items have been bor-
rowed since the closet opened, she said.
“It’s something I haven’t ex-
pected,” Hobson said.
Lindsay Culbertson, 20, said 
that while she’s never heard of the Gator Career Closet before, she thinks it’s a great resource for UF students.
“With this age, we have a lot of 
interviews and headshots and stuff 
 Gator Career Closet to open online database for wardrobeBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Gov. Rick Scott an-
nounced his goals to reduce col-
lege tuition and fees Tuesday.
His plans to promote new 
policies under “Finish in Four, 
Save More” should reduce the 
cost of college for Florida stu-dents, according to a press re-lease from the governor’s of-ﬁ  ce. Scott also plans on passing 
legislation to cut taxes on col-
lege textbooks.
Florida ofﬁ  cials will also 
consider freezing tuition and fees to prevent state colleges from increasing prices, along with expanding Bright Futures, Scott announced in Tampa.Cheryl Etters, a Florida De-
partment of Education spokes-person, said the department 
would have no issue supporting 
Scott’s proposal if it becomes law.
“We implement (Bright Fu-
tures) based on what the law says,” Etters said.
Dylan Ramos, 25, said he 
works at the restaurant BJ’s Brewhouse as a server to cov-er the $2,000 he spends out of pocket for school.
“It’s the only job you can do 
where you have the money to pay for school and have ﬂ  exible hours,” the Santa Fe College electrical engineering junior 
said.
The proposals also include 
an extension of Bright Futures 
to pay for Summer classes, ac-cording to the press release.
Diana Rodas, 19, said she is considering taking Summer classes this year and will have  to work more to cover the cost.
She buys online textbooks to 
save money, instead of buying from the UF bookstore, the UF zoology sophomore said.
“I spent a couple hundred 
on books last semester, even though I shopped online,” she said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
 Gov. Scott proposes new college tuition plans
THE FIRST EPISODE 
AIRED MONDAY.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A fan of ripped jeans and base-
ball caps, Tracy Fanara admits most 
don’t peg her for a scientist.
But myths are meant to be bust-
ed, or so she has learned.
Fanara, a triple-degree Gator 
alumna, is hoping to become the 
Science Channel’s next TV-show host, facing off against nine others on “MythBusters: The Search.” The competition’s ﬁ  rst episode aired 
Monday.
“Just being in a position to inspire 
people to take interest in science is 
really important to me,” she said.
She was chosen for the show, 
in which popular myths are scien-
tiﬁ  cally — and sometimes dramati-cally — tested,  after Science Chan-nel producers watched a YouTube video she made for her dissertation about storm-water runoff. Someone — Fanara doesn’t know who — sent 
the video to the 
producers in July, 
and they imme-diately contacted 
her. Three weeks later, she was on her way to San Francisco to start ﬁ  lming the show, the 32-year-old 
said.
“I was really scared and excited 
at the same time,” she said.  
Fanara received a bachelor’s, 
master’s and doctoral degree from UF, all in environmental engineering. Currently, she works at Sarasota’s Mote Marine Laboratory and Aquari-
um, but still lives in Gainesville with 
her husband.Gator hopes to  host 
‘MythBusters’ showScott
Fanara
SEE MYTHBUSTERS,  PAGE 4
SEE CLOSET,  PAGE 4
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
ROUGH AWAKENING
Students are blocked from the main walkway in the Hub after a pipe burst between the entrance to the 
Hub and Chick-ﬁ  l-A some time between Monday night and Tuesday morning, ﬂ  ooding the hallway.He wants to reduce tuition, fees and taxes 
So far, 847 items have been borrowed
““I think it will make it much 
easier to use the service.”
Ambre Hobson
Assistant director for student suc-
cessWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Back To School Poster Sale at the 
Reitz Union outdoor tabling 
areaThe Reitz Union is hosting a Back To School Poster Sale. From now 
until Friday, lasting from 9 a.m. 
to 6 p.m., there will be a table outside the Reitz Union featuring posters, the majority of which are  priced between $5 and $9.
Learn basic Arabic at the 
Headquarters Library starting January 
Arabic for Adults will be taught at 
the Alachua County Headquarters Library starting Wednesday. A native speaker will conduct classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Wednesdays. Registration is not required. These classes offer adults the chance to learn the basics of the language. For more 
information, visit aclib.us/events 
or contact Nickie Kortus at 352-334-3909 or nkortus@aclib.us.
UF School of Art + Art History 
presents Visiting Artist Lecture Series with Arthur Ou on ThursdayThe UF School of Art + Art 
History is presenting artist 
Arthur Ou on Thursday as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artist Lecture Series. Ou will present at 6 p.m. in the Music Building, Room 101. He will give a lecture about contemporary art and cul-ture as it relates to national and international trends. For more 
information about the Visiting 
Artist Lecture Series, visit arts.ufl.edu.
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to the University Gallery in Gainesville Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, will be held 
from January to March. Cuban 
muralists, dancers, musicians, authors and academics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery 
and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. 
All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Jan. 21Collectors from across the region 
will share their personal treasures 
with Florida Museum of Natural History visitors during the 38th Collectors Day on Jan. 21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the museum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to interact with collectors and learn about the context and his-torical significance of their collec-
tions. The registration deadline 
to display collections is Saturday. For more information on registra-tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/events/collectors-day-registration or call 352-273-2061.
Free Citizenship Classes offered 
by the Latina Women’s League
From Jan. 26 through March 
9, the Latina Women’s League will be offering citizenship classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Thursdays at the Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. People who want to register need only attend the first class. It is open to the com-
munity.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28
Beginning Jan. 28, Florida Museum of Natural History visi-tors will be able to see big  and even poisonous  frogs in the museum’s new featured exhibit 
“Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” 
Showcasing various species of frogs and toads, “Frogs!” is the most advanced traveling frog ex-hibit in the country. The museum will host a public opening cele-bration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early reg-
istration through Jan. 24 or $15 
for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registra-tion is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to regis-ter for the race, visit fl mnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents, seniors and 
college students; $5 for children 
aged 3 to 17; and free to museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. The Florida Museum will display “Frogs!” through Sept. 4.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge
On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the 
Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, informa-tion and giveaways, including a live SEXpert panel, free food and 
free tank tops will be featured. 
The event will also feature the Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-de-sign-challenge.352Creates Leadership Team 
OpportunityThe Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join their 352Creates Leadership Team for 
a 60-hour apprenticeship to work 
with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with a short let-ter of interest and a resume. For more info: 352Creates.com.
Lecture on Health Policy
On Jan. 18 at 3 p.m. at the Music 
Building, Carol S. Weissert, the 
director of the LeRoy Collins Institute at the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy at Florida State University will pres-ent a lecture titled, “Looking for Other Models: What the U.S. Can Learn From Australian Politics.” Health care policy and access 
to affordable health care is un-
der discussion nationwide and expected to experience major changes. The lecture is free and open to the public.
GatorNights: Nightmare on Gale 
Lemerand StreetThis Friday, GatorNights is 
hosting “Nightmare on Gale 
Lemerand Street.” In the Rion Ballroom at 9 p.m., comedy mind reader Eric Dittelman, who has been featured on NBC’s “America’s Got Talent,” will per-form. The event will also have an escape room, open all night in the Matthews Suite. Coffee from the 
Global Coffee House will also be 
offered, along with free bowling and billiards at the Game Room from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. GatorNights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 79
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris   
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
A UF OFFICIAL SAID NO WATER 
DAMAGE IS SUSPECTED.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Workers at the restaurants in the Hub ar-
rived to work Tuesday morning to find water 
where it shouldn’t have been.
Some time between Monday night and 
Tuesday morning, an overhead pipe fitting — 
the space where two pipes connect — broke, 
and water began flooding in the hallway be-tween the main entrance to the Hub and Chick-
fil-A, near the downstairs bathroom, said UF spokesperson John Hines.
The UF physical plant division’s mainte-
nance department was called at about 6:45 a.m. to stop the leak and mop up the water, Hines said. Chick-fil-A, the Hub and the P.O.D. Market remained open throughout the day, but the downstairs bathrooms were closed, and ac-cess to Chick-fil-A was limited.
“The hot water leaked down through the 
roof into the facility,” he said. “They repaired 
the hot water fitting but they have to let the full area dry before it’s sealed up.”
Hines said he didn’t believe the broken pipe 
caused water damage.
Maintenance didn’t shut off the onslaught 
of water until about 8:30 a.m., said a P.O.D. 
Market employee who declined to give his name for fear of work repercussions. A UF cus-todian, who also declined to be named for the same reason, said the burst caused part of the ceiling to fall.
“It was coming down hard early this morn-
ing when I got to work,” the P.O.D. Market 
employee said. UF journalism professor Mike Foley said 
he walked over to order a coffee with cream 
and breakfast bagel from Einstein Bros. Bagels when he saw the aftermath of the burst pipe. 
About four workers were mopping up 
a “thick coat of water” when he walked in around 9 a.m., he said. He had to enter Ein-stein Bros. Bagels from another entrance. 
“It was an inconvenience,” he said. “That’s 
not something you want to come to work and see.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgPipe bursts inside Hub, complicates morning routines
THE COUNTER-
INAUGURATION BEGINS 
JAN. 20 AT 11 A.M. AT  
CITY HALL.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
As a new president is sworn 
in later this month, disgruntled 
Gainesville residents will make their dissatisfaction with Donald Trump known by protesting in front of City 
Hall.
But not before a moment of si-
lence — dedicated to everyone who 
the residents feel will be victimized by a Trump presidency.
Details of the Jan. 20 counter-in-
auguration were finalized Tuesday, said Jeremiah Tattersall, a union li-aison for the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition and volunteer for organiza-
tion leading the protest, Gainesville: City of Resistance. Speakers, musi-cians, artists and community mem-bers will join in the protest the in-auguration on the steps of the city’s downtown government building, along University Avenue. The event will begin at 11 a.m., he said.
“The biggest thing that people 
need to know is that even under the Trump presidency — that sounds weird saying — we can still create 
an inclusive community that serves 
all of its people,” he said.
Some of the volunteers went to 
Tallahassee on Dec. 19 to protest the Electoral College’s official election of Trump, said Eli Earrett, the group’s communications organizer. And a day after the inauguration, a group of residents will travel to Washing-
ton D.C. to participate in the Wom-
en’s March on Washington.
Earrett, a 20-year-old Santa Fe 
College political science student, said he wants more students to par-ticipate in the resistance.
“For there to be any sort of mean-
ingful opposition to Trump, I think you have to personally oppose every 
facet of what he stands for,” he said.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgUpset residents plan 
counter-inauguration
Before she was contacted, Fanara said 
she rarely watched the show. In order to 
make up for lost time, she binge-watched as many episodes as she could on You-Tube and On Demand.
During the first episode, she and the 
other contestants caught footballs to test “Deflategate,” referring to Tom Brady’s football-deflation scandal in the 2015 NFL playoffs.
Afterward, contestants were divided 
into teams to test if they could eject a pas-senger out of a car without using explo-sives. Her team completed the challenge 
successfully.
What viewers saw on TV was nothing 
compared to her team’s hard work, she 
said.
Fanara wanted to show that there is no 
stereotype for being intelligent. 
She especially wants to prove that 
women, no matter their age, can be en-gineers.
When Fanara told her former profes-
sor, David Mazyck, about her TV spot, he wasn’t surprised at all.
The UF environmental engineering professor said he would never forget the day she pulled out a speaker after her pre-
sentation on water treatment and began 
to rap about carbon to a 60-person class.
A decade later, it’s still a running joke 
between the two of them. Mazyck said he threatened to rap at Fanara’s Ph.D. defense but decided the other committee members wouldn’t like it.He said he knew she was going to do 
something big after graduating.
“She’s really good at thinking outside 
of the box,” he said. “It wouldn’t surprise me at all for her to pick up a welder and put something together.”
   @paigexfry
  pfry@alligator.org
MYTHBUSTERS,  from pg. 1She hopes to become ‘MythBusters’ host
like that that you need nice clothing for,” the UF marine sciences junior said.
She believes more students will use the closet once 
it’s online and more accessible.
“I think that’s a better option, that way people don’t 
waste their time coming in, and they can see what op-tions they have,” Culbertson said. “Now that I know about it, I’ll be using it.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.org CLOSET,  from pg. 1The service is free
Courtesy to the Alligator
Tracy Fanara, a 32-year-old UF alumna, sits on top of her team’s car in the first episode of the Science Channel’s new show “MythBusters: The Search. ” She is one of 10 contestants on the show.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
MORNING GOODIES
Priya Goyal, a 22-year-old UF computer engineering graduate student, stops by to get some free coffee at the Jewish Heritage Month Kickoff event on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday afternoon.
ITEMS THAT CAN BE BORROWED AT 
THE GATOR CAREER CLOSET
• Shirts
• Jackets
• Pants• Shoes
• Belts
• DressesWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
During the rescheduled joint 
Student Senate and Gainesville 
City Commission meeting Tuesday, senators asked commissioners how they can improve bicycle safety in 
the city.
The meeting was held after com-
missioners canceled the original 
meeting at the last minute during Fall, according to Alligator archives. Senators asked the commission, in-cluding Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, questions about student life and the Gainesville strategic devel-
opment plan.
Senator Ethan Hudgins (Impact, 
Architecture) asked how the city 
plans to expand on bike safety af-ter the death of UF student Abigail Dougherty, who was hit while rid-ing her bike on University Avenue in Ocotober.
“She was a friend of mine,” he 
said. “Cycling deaths are prevent-able by design.”
Poe said the Gainesville com-
munity never wants to see a cyclist 
death. He added students can alert 
the city to problems with cross-walks by downloading the mobile application “GNV311” to take a photo of problems. The photos are automatically sent to the appropri-ate city department.
“It’s not a quick ﬁ  x because 
some of our roads were built very 
dangerously,” Poe said.
Commissioner Helen Warren 
said cyclists, in addition to drivers, 
should pay attention and follow trafﬁ  c laws. Students should edu-cate each other about the dangers of texting and driving to reduce the risks of accidents, she said.
When it came to discussing the 
strategic development plan, which aims to develop the area around the university, Poe said he wants to hear from students.
“I would love to see all of you 
show up and participate in (stra-tegic development plan) meetings and advocate for what you want,” Poe said.
During the meeting, Budget and 
Appropriations Chairman Charlie Brown, Jr. (Impact, Agriculture-01) also announced he was resigning to apply for graduate schools.
During his farewell speech, he 
said when he ﬁ  rst joined Senate, new senators wrote about 33 per-cent of new legislation but that per-
centage has decreased since, which 
Senate should work to improve.
“My time in this chamber has 
been extraordinary,” he said. “It has taught me to love harder and work harder.”
Senators also approved 
$1,265.20 in funding for Alpha Omega, a Christian student organi-
zation, and $264.51 for Skin Cancer 
Prevention Force, a student organi-zation raising awareness about skin 
cancer.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  GNV Commission, Student Senate 
talk strategic plan, bike safety 
THE 2008 RECESSION 
HOBBLED THE FL. 
EDUCATION SYSTEM
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Hanna Clayton plans to graduate 
in three years, but after having trou-
ble registering for upper-level Eng-lish classes, she’s starting to stress about whether that will happen.
Clayton, a 19-year-old UF Eng-
lish sophomore, hasn’t been able to enroll in any English classes this se-mester. By the time it was her turn to register, all of the classes were full. 
“You can’t deny someone their 
education if they’re paying for it,” she said.
Clayton’s not the only one. Eng-
lish majors have issues securing spots in upper-level courses, often 
settling for classes they don’t want 
— or not being able to register al-together. John Cech, the associate chair and undergraduate coordina-tor of the UF English Department, is all too familiar with students’ gripes about the limited courses, having received many a midnight email to get into crucial classes. But with lim-
ited resources, he said, his hands are 
tied.
For Clayton, difﬁ  culty registering 
for classes has forced her to recon-sider her major. She has only been able to enroll in one upper-level Eng-
lish course during her time at UF.
“I love English just too much to 
let it go,” Clayton said. “I’m hoping 
it gets better at some point.”
Cech said the department needs 
more faculty, which would open up more classes. The 2008 ﬁ  nancial crisis hit Florida’s education hard, and the department is still recover-
ing, with less money for additional 
instructors.
“When you have a limited num-
ber of faculty it just limits everything you can do,” Cech said.
Dealing with limited courses has 
made Jordan Donohue, a 21-year-old UF English senior, lose faith in UF.
“It makes me feel like the English 
department isn’t a priority for the University of Florida,” she said.
Cech said in the past, it did look as if Florida was more focused on STEM majors, but recently, UF Presi-dent Kent Fuchs and Provost Joseph Glover have encouraged develop-ment of the humanities.
Cech said the department added 
a new faculty member this year and hopes to add three more next year.
“Things are getting better, and 
we look forward to being able to help everyone with this problem, everyone who has this problem, get through it.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org 
 Limited courses available frustrates UF English studentsBy Meg Kinnard                   
and Jeffrey Collins
The Associated Press
An unrepentant Dylann Roof 
was sentenced to death Tuesday for fatally shooting nine black church members during a Bible study ses-sion, becoming the ﬁ  rst person or-
dered to be executed for a federal 
hate crime.
A jury deliberated for about three 
hours before returning with the de-cision, capping a trial in which the 22-year-old avowed white suprema-cist did not ﬁ  ght for his life or show any remorse. He served as his own attorney during sentencing and nev-
er asked for forgiveness or mercy or 
explained the massacre.
Hours earlier, Roof threw away 
one last chance to plead for his life, telling jurors, “I still feel like I had to do it.”
Every juror looked directly at 
Roof as he spoke for about ﬁ  ve min-utes. A few nodded as he reminded them that they said during jury selection they could fairly weigh the factors of his case. Only one of them, he noted, had to disagree to spare his life.
“I have the right to ask you to 
give me a life sentence, but I’m not sure what good it would do any-way,” he said.
Roof told FBI 
agents when they arrested him af-ter the June 17, 2015, slayings 
that he wanted 
the shootings to 
bring back segre-gation or perhaps start a race war. 
Instead, the slayings had a unifying effect, as South Carolina removed the Confederate ﬂ  ag from its State-house for the ﬁ  rst time in more than 
50 years. Other states followed suit, 
taking down Confederate banners and monuments. Roof had posed with the ﬂ  ag in photos.  Dylann Roof 
sentenced to death
Roof
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORWhy we must all resist the post-truth society
Truth is an elusive and abstract con-
cept. Maybe Pontius Pilate understood it best when he looked at Jesus and 
asked, “What is truth?” This past year 
has been an echo of that question. Last 
year was a time of ineffable emotion, like that of a disgruntled spouse who has bottled up her 
marital frustration for years. It was only natu-
ral that democratic decisions — Brexit, Trump — would be made in order to spite the political establishment. It was the year that statistics, journalism and facts were cast down from their thrones. 
The populace no longer looks to news in search of truth. 
Rather, we understand every news outlet to have a pre-disposed bias or slant, so we abandon the notion of ﬁ  nding objective truths.
Thus, millions ﬁ  nd themselves in Pilate’s position, 
muttering to themselves, maybe out of irony, maybe cu-riosity, “What is truth?”
The Oxford English Dictionary’s 2016 word of the 
year is, naturally, “post-truth.” The deﬁ  nition is as fol-
lows: “Relating to or denoting circumstances in which 
objective facts are less inﬂ  uential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief.” In other words, there is no lying in the public square, 
only subjective beliefs and personal truths. So what 
may ring true to me, though you disagree, could not be argued or disproven, because there would be no truth to which you could appeal. Pilate today would, I think, be utterly confused — he certainly questioned what the 
nature of truth was, but he never doubted its existence.
A post-truth age, though, does not even ask the ques-
tion, “What is truth?” but afﬁ  rms before the question is 
raised that no such thing exists. “You mean to tell me,” 
a post-truther would say, “that, even though I believe 
no truth exists, I am still wrong? That things are true no matter what I think, feel or believe? Nonsense.”Imagine a post-technique NBA, where all 
notions of proper dribbling, shooting and rebounding have been denied. Any and all 
forms of playing are accepted and none are 
judged or open to critique. We might call this sport basketball as long as people aim to score and prevent others from scoring. But it 
would be a devolved form of what the NBA 
normally is. Is it right to say that kicking the ball into the hoop is just as good as Stephen Curry’s outside shot? 
Likewise, a society which feels it has exhausted 
truth debases itself. In a post-truth society, all speech, thought and action collapses with the phrase, “There is no truth, only truths.” A person, according to this philosophy, can point to a dog and say it’s a cat, and I 
cannot correct them. I have nothing to which I can ap-
peal and say, “I’m sorry, friend, but you are wrong.” The person is simply living out their inner truth. I think, however, that truth makes sense only when objectiv-ity is assumed and agreed upon. We assume the words 
and phrases we communicate to one another mean 
something objective. All of human activity is organized around this assumption, namely that what I say or write conveys a message that corresponds to real things in 
the world, and this message is not dependent on per-
sonal preference. Being post-truth really is being post-thought, post-discussion, post-language — in short, it means being post-human.
The statement itself — the post-truth creed, “There 
is no truth, only truths” — does what it purports not to do: make a truth claim about reality. Not only does a post-truth society debase itself, but it also creates a contradiction. What can we speak meaningfully about 
if we cannot speak without contradiction?
Scott Stinson is a UF English and philosophy sopho-
more. His columns appear on Wednesdays.Diversity in sci-fi: 
To move forward, 
look back
For the past decade or so, fans of science ﬁ  ction have 
been pegged as a speciﬁ  c type of person — picture the central cast of “The Big Bang Theory.” Though attrib-uting science ﬁ  ction to the stereotypical pasty, white male nerd may seem like a long-standing tradition, it is 
interesting to note that this has never been an accurate de-piction of science ﬁ  ction fans. In fact, much of the sci-ﬁ   cul-ture we see today — conventions, fan ﬁ  ction, online forums — was sparked by female fans. It’s sad though; whatever it was exactly that designated science ﬁ  ction the genre of the intelligent, white man ignored a history of diversity and progress in ﬁ  ction far beyond that of other genres. It’s sad to see science ﬁ  ction reduced to such a small demographic, considering its past and the actual origins of the phenom-
enon of a fan base.
Speciﬁ  cally, dear reader, we are going to be talking about 
the original “Star Trek” series, though we could expand on 
other examples. Those not familiar with the nuances of sci-ence ﬁ  ction tend to at least know of “Star Trek,” and its fan base’s depiction in pop culture, and associate it with the intelligent, white male stereotype. But what a lot of us don’t realize today is how diverse the original “Star Trek” series was, especially compared to its contemporaries. It starred 
a black woman in a commanding position and a Japanese 
man in a pilot role less than two decades after World War 2. That may not seem like much, but try thinking of a popular show in the early 2000s with that much diversity. One of the biggest things we don’t realize is that the fan base of the original “Star Trek” series was made up of a lot of women.
A lot of basis of the science ﬁ  ction community came out 
of “Star Trek.” Most of these things were largely driven by women. One example being that the ﬁ  rst few conventions 
were attended mainly by women. The whole idea of a pas-
sionate science ﬁ  ction fan base came from a show that high-lighted scientiﬁ  c exploration and a diverse future population — one that featured the ﬁ  rst interracial kiss on daytime tele-vision in the U.S. and one with actors who are now outspo-ken about diversity and progress. 
And yet, somewhere along the way, science ﬁ  ction fans 
were reduced to that intelligent, white male stereotype, and for some reason, it stuck. It’s not clear when that happened, 
but the common notion of science ﬁ  ction now depicts a 
white man saving the galaxy, possibly accompanied by a cool black friend or a hot, mysterious woman. 
But things are starting to look up. Looking back on re-
cent sci-ﬁ   hits, “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” features a trio of heroes comprised of a woman and two men of color. 2015’s “Mad Max: Fury Road” — which was nominated for an Oscar in the category of best picture — was less about the titular Mad Max and more about Imperator Furiosa and the 
ﬁ  ve women she rescued from an abusive captor. In the most 
recent “Star Wars” movie, “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story,” the core heroes were a woman and three men of color. 
Unlike what some would have you believe, this isn’t 
new from science ﬁ  ction, this isn’t science ﬁ  ction diverting from its fans or stealing the story away from its fan base — it’s simply reverting back to its roots, representing the vast world we live in and the galaxies that we — all of us, not just those with fairer skin — could one day live in.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
What does it mean to be “smart?” 
When someone recalls obscure facts, we say that person is smart. If someone demonstrates an unusual perspective, drawing from many 
sources to reach a conclusion, we may won-der how they are able to perform such mental gymnastics.
I think it is important to make a distinction 
between knowledge and intelligence. Knowl-edge is a measure of the amount of information someone is able to recall at will. Someone with a great deal of knowledge tends to have two things: experience and memory. Intelligence, 
on the other hand, is the ability to synthesize 
information into a useful conclusion. This in-cludes drawing on premises to make a logical argument and using data to make a calculation. In computer terms, this is the distinction between memory and processing. In psychology, this is comparable to the concepts of 
crystallized and ﬂ  uid intelligence.
I'm fascinated by the work of 
brilliant people, and I want to use 
these distinctions to distill the prac-tices these people have in common. I want to teach you how to be smart.
Let’s start with knowledge. Be-
coming knowledgeable is a two-step process: Recognize when you do not understand some-
thing, and then look it up. 
When you encounter a subject, ask yourself 
if you could thoroughly explain it to someone else. If the answer is no, there’s no 
shame in that. No single person can know everything, but you can make an effort to expand your knowledge. To do that, you need to know how 
to research. Don’t know how an 
engine works? Go online, and ﬁ  nd a video explaining it. Research un-til you understand how everything works together. If you can build this habit, you’ll already be halfway to becoming the smartest person you 
know. But what's the other half?
The other half is intelligence. It’s what you 
do with that knowledge and how you form ideas. If you want to build this skill, you need to learn to pay attention to the world around you, asking one question: Why?
Start with things that interest you. Have 
you noticed men’s bikes and women’s bikes have differently shaped frames? Why is that? Can you think of a reason? Spend a minute to 
try to decide the most likely reason. Now look 
it up. If you came up with the right reason, you're in the mind of the person who designed those bikes. If you were off, don’t worry. This isn’t something you learn in a day. When you need a brilliant idea, you’ll know how smart people think, and you can use the same meth-ods to turn your own knowledge into some-thing entirely new.
That makes you a pretty smart person.David Billig is a UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Knowledge and intelligence: a few steps you can take to become smarterColumn
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
THE CLASSES START JAN. 26.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
In the wake of Donald Trump’s presi-
dential campaign, one in which immi-
gration reform was a key platform pitch, 
Gainesville citizenship classes are expect-
ed to see a spike in enrollment.
For the past eight years, the Latina 
Women’s League in Gainesville, a non-
proﬁ  t, has offered classes to immigrants 
seeking naturalization. But now, with 
Trump’s inauguration set for Jan. 20, 
many prospective students fearing depor-
tation are likely to enroll, said Ileana Mc-
Cray, vice president and educational pro-
grams coordinator for the group.
“I think it’s a need we have seen in our 
community,” McCray said. 
The next batch of classes, to take place 
at Millhopper Library Branch, will begin 
Jan. 26. The class, which usually has be-
tween six and 10 students, costs $100 and 
focuses on the rights and duties of citizen-
ship.
McCray said a pro-bono lawyer meets 
with the students to go over questions they 
may have about the citizenship process.
After taking a seven-session class that 
broke down the U.S. citizenship test in 
2015, Polish immigrant Mateusz Buszko 
felt prepared.
“To have a human being to help inter-
pret this document, which was black and white and scary, was an incredible help,” 
he said, adding he waited more than 20 
years before applying for U.S. citizenship.
Before taking the classes, Buszko said 
he didn’t know where to begin the whole 
process.
“I’ve been in America for a really long 
time, and I was intimidated by the experi-
ence of the citizenship test,” the 35-year-
old Gainesville resident said.
The class prepared him and his class-
mates for taking a 10-question citizenship 
test and other parts of the application pro-
cess, he said. A facilitator who spoke Span-
ish to those not ﬂ  uent in English helped 
his classmates understand the material.
“I think there’s a sense of shared pur-
pose and, honestly, a sense of shared 
fear,” he said.
Sol Ortega, 21, said her family struggled 
ﬁ  nding answers to the questions they had 
during the 14 years it took them to wade 
through the citizenship process. The UF 
political science and Spanish senior be-
came a citizen in October, after leaving 
Peru in 2003.
“One thing I wish could change would 
be the access to resources,” Ortega said. 
“My parents had to ﬁ  gure it out just by 
word of mouth. There wasn’t a place they 
could go and ask questions without being 
afraid they would be deported.”
Buszko said he valued the help the 
class gave him in ﬁ  lling out the applica-
tion packet and acquiring the documents 
he needed.
“I deﬁ  nitely owe my citizenship to the 
class,” he said. “This is one of the greatest 
resources they have in Gainesville.”  
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org  C i t i z e n s h i p  c l a s s e s  e x p e c t s  
to see surge in Trump era
Step 1 -  Determine if you are eligible to apply for citizenship
Step 2 -  Complete the 10-page N-400 form 
Step 3 -  Send in the completed N-400 form with $725 fees
Step 4 - Submit your ﬁ  ngerprints
Step 5 - Attend an interview that includes questions about your  
 background and eligibility
Step 6 - Take a test to show proﬁ  ciency in English and a test on 
civics knowledgeHOW TO BECOME A 
NATURALIZED CITIZEN“I think there’s a sense of shared 
purpose and honestly, a sense of 
shared fear.”
Mateusz Buszko
Gainesville residentWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Fri., Jan. 13, from 2 to 5 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Staff Writers, Staff Photographers, 
Copy Editors, Sports Writers, Sports 
Copy Editors, Contributing Writers 
and Contributing Photographers.
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
VISIT US AT 
EITHER LOCATION
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
IT’S RANKED NO. 1 IN THE 
NATION AMONG SIMILAR 
PROGRAMS.
By Jimena T avel
and Madeline Harlow
Alligator Writers
The UF College of Education’s 
online graduate program trumped 
262 other U.S. universities to claim the top spot two years in a row.The U.S. News and World Report 
magazine released its 2017 rankings Tuesday, naming the program the best in the nation. In affordability, the college’s online master’s pro-gram in educational leadership was also highly ranked, placing 23 out of 
231 accredited universities, per The 
Best Master’s Degrees website.
In its ranking, U.S. News judged 
universities’ student engagement, student services and technology, ad-missions selectivity, faculty creden-tials, training and peer reputation.
Tom Dana, the college’s associ-
ate dean of academic affairs, said students are one reason for the high rankings.
“We try to recruit students who 
are going to show us that they are 
going to beneﬁ  t from having a de-
gree because it will help them in-crease their salary, or get a better job, or get a raise or promotion,” Dana said.
About 90 percent of the 1,700 students across the world enrolled in the online program in 2016 have full-time jobs, Dana said.
The online programs allow pro-
fessionals to conveniently advance their careers while working, added Bruce Mousa, coordinator of the ed-
ucational leadership program.
“The ability of the College of Edu-
cation at the University of Florida to 
offer programs like these is essential, because in today’s world, students who are working at master’s degrees have jobs, they have families, they have lots of activities,” Mousa said.
The affordability rankings were 
published in January.
The UF program’s total tuition is 
$26,424, according to the College of Education’s website.
“The rankings are a recognition 
of our ability to offer a quality educa-tion at a reasonable price,” he said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org 
 College of Education’s online program ranked best in USBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
For extra motivation on Tuesday, 
students wore New Year’s hats and exercised in front of a giant “2017” sign, which may have served as an incentive to keep up with pesky res-olutions.
Inside the Reitz Union Rion Ball-
room, the “Kick in the New Year” 
kickboxing class hosted a group 
of about 33 students. Reitz Union Board Entertainment hosted the event, said Jessica Madera, an event coordinator. At the head of the group, a RecSports instructor led the students who practiced punches and kicks. They were given noisemakers 
and black and gold necklaces be-
fore the workout. Afterward, some posed for photos in front of the New Year’s sign.
“A lot of New Year’s resolutions involve ﬁ  tness, and our past ﬁ  tness events have been successful,” said 
Madera, a UF applied physiology 
and kinesiology junior.
The 20-year-old said the event 
cost about $100 to put together.
She said the goal of the event 
was to bring students together and to help them be more active.
Maya Punjwani, 18, said her 
friend convinced her to join in the fun Tuesday, but last semester she attended four kickboxing classes at the Student Recreation & Fitness Center, so she was familiar with the routine.
“I came because I needed to work 
out this week,” the UF political sci-ence and journalism freshman said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
 Students participate in UF-led New Year’s exercise class
They wore party hats, took photosWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Available August 1st. 5BR/2BA house. New kitchen, fireplace, game room, W/D provid -
ed, huge yard. Close to bus, 1803 SW 43rd Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1700/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-13-16-10-2TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
● SLEEPER SOFAQueen mattress, like new. Navy fabric.$190 - negotiable.● Mirrors 3'x5'7", coffeepot, pictures & more.
Call 352-372-4600    1-17-17-4-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
MOVING SALE!!!! Items include: Kenmore 
Washer/ Dryer set $225, Glass dining table set $150, Dresser with mirror $200 AND LOTS MORE. For more details, Contact 561-329-3781.       1-12-17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatest
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
Help Wanted! Now hiring all shifts for a 
new Taco Del Mar location coming soon. 
We serve coastal Mexican cuisine in a 
quick-service setting. We will be opening 
very soon in the Williston Plaza Shopping 
Center on the corner of SW 34th Street and 
Williston Road, next to Publix and across 
from Nationwide Insurance. Please send an 
email to tacodelmargainesville@yahoo.com 
saying "I'm interested." We will respond by 
sending you an application.
1-17-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-11-17-5-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
PART TIME SALES ASSISTANT needed for local Audio/Video retail store. approx. 15-17 hrs per week.Thurs & Fri 12-6pm and Sat 10am-3pm. Ideally, applicant should be tech savvy, have some retail experience, be organized and posses good communica -
tion skills. Position starts at $10 per hour. Applicants can email resume to mark@elec -
tronics-world.net.    1-13-17-5-14
Work from ANYWHERE AnytimeText 352-281-7145 for DetailsMust be friendly & motivated       1-19-17-7-14
GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!Copytalk Business Services is hiringemployees to transcribe audio files.- 60+ wpm required- Competitive pay rewarding production- Located close to UF campus- Create your own scheduleApply at www.ctscribes.com       1-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
ACROSS
1 Bowling alley
button
6 European
cheese town
10 Puddle jumper
trip
13 Wedding figure
14 ChapStick
container
15 Fix up16 Newspaper
reporter’scompensation?
18 Big star19 “I’m with ya”20 Threatening
words
21 Farming prefix22 “Wheel of
Fortune” buy
23 Smooth, as
transitions
25 Wise29 DOJ bureau30 Dry as dust31 Speaker’s spot34 Get out of bed
37 “__ who?”
38 Chiropractor’s
compensation?
40 N.L. player
whose home
games include a
Presidents Race
41 Brownish-green
43 Greenish-blue44 Some
prosecutors:Abbr.
45 “Selma” director
DuVernay
46 Drops in48 Medical
emergency alert
53 Baby fox
54 Soon, to a bard
55 Kibbutz setting57 Actress Thurman60 Cooling meas.61 Comedian’s
compensation?
63 Bass’ red
triangle, e.g.
64 Moran of “Happy
Days”
65 Flared dress66 New Testament
bk.
67 German
battleship Graf __
68 Connection pointDOWN
1 Former NYC
mayor Giuliani
2 Seesaw sitter of
tongue twisters
3 Send in a box
4 Sushi selection5 “Taste this”6 French I verb7 Stereotypical
dawn challenges
8 Take down a peg
9 Scorned lover of
Jason
10 Landscaper’s
compensation?
11 Aromas
12 Shirts named for
a sport
15 Theater district
17 Lee who was the
top-charting
female soloist ofthe ’60s
22 Helping hand
24 Painter Cassatt25 Over-the-
shoulder band
26 Square statistic
27 Domino’s
delivery driver’s
compensation?
28 Diplomatic skill
32 ’50s prez33 Health resorts
35 Swedish
automaker
36 Internet crafts
marketplace
38 Spill the beans39 PC feature only
used incombinations
42 “All the same ... ”44 Fitting47 TV’s J.R. Ewing,
e.g.48 Part of CNN49 Winning50 “__ Been Good”:
Joe Walsh hit
51 Take over52 Bath-loving
Muppet
56 Novelist Rice57 Windows
alternative
58 Drop-down list59 Yes votes62 Chihuahua cheer
By Robert E. Lee Morris©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/11/1701/11/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 11, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
WILD GATORS, LLC     Offeringdorm, apt & house cleaning services.Prices starting at $50.Gainesville & surrounding areas.Licensed, insured & bonded. 352-257-1517     1-19-17-10-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.GENERAL LANDSCAPING
Flowerbed design, yard clean-up, thatching & aerating. Call 508-463-8022    1-17-17-8-
15
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is a bibli-
cal name for Lake Tiberias, located in 
Israel?
2. INVENTIONS: In what century 
was the first commercially sucessful steam engine invented?
3. ART: Which 17th-century Flemish 
artist was known for painting full-fig-
ured, voluptuous women?
4. GOVERNMENT: What famous 
South Pacific island is under the con-
trol of France?
5. MEASUREMENTS: How long is 
the Chunnel, the underground tunnel between England and France?
6. MOVIES: What 1990s Coen 
brothers movie featured the tagline, “A lot can happen in the middle of nowhere”?
7. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in 
our solar system has a moon named 
Phobos?
8. SCIENCE: What is the name for 
the condition in which the air tem-
perature reaches 100 percent relative humidity and condensation occurs?
9. SUPERHEROES: Which super -
hero is more commonly known as Lin-da Lee Danvers?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What month is traditionally associated with the opal birthstone?
Answers
1. Sea of Galilee2. 18th3. Paul Rubens4. Tahiti5. 31 miles6. “Fargo”7. Mars8. Dew point9. Supergirl10. October
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 9, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
15 Services 15 Services 18 Personals 24 Pets 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Amelia Hundley is a burgeoning star for the UF gymnastics team. Read the story, pg 14Florida football receives ﬁ  nal AP ranking of season
The UF football team ﬁ  nished the 2016-17 season ranked No. 14 in the 
season's ﬁ  nal Associated Press T op-25 poll, which was released Tuesday. 
The Gators concluded the season with a 30-3 win over Iowa in the Outback Bowl, propelling them up the rankings six spots. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
It was all too close in Coleman Coliseum.
With under 20 seconds left in No. 23 Florida’s 
gritty battle with Alabama, UF guard Kasey Hill stood at the top of the key with the ball. The 6-foot-1 senior tossed up a shot as the shot clock expired and clanked it off the side of the rim.
It didn’t matter anyway.Hill did everything for his team as the Gators 
(13-3, 4-0 SEC) defeated the Crimson Tide (9-6, 2-1 SEC) to extend their winning streak to six games.Hill, who tested positive for strep throat on 
Monday, scored 13 points, grabbed ﬁ  ve rebounds, 
dished out four assists and snatched ﬁ  ve steals 
in 35 minutes of action to seal the 80-67 win on Tuesday night in Tuscaloosa.
“Our guys are growing up. Our culture’s  Gators escape Tuscaloosa with sixth straight win
Staff Report
Last Spring, only the Florida track and ﬁ  eld 
team brought a title home to Gainesville. But expectations are higher for some teams this season, and with several sports about to start up, staff writers Patrick Pinak, Ian Cohen, Matt Brannon and Ethan Bauer debate which UF team will have the most success this Spring season. 
Pinak: Softball should return to 
dominance
Let’s be honest: 2016 was a ﬂ  uke.At 56-5, the Gators were the clear-cut No. 
1 team in the nation and looked poised to run through the NCAA Tournament and repeat as National Champions for a third straight year. 
Until they ﬂ  opped against Georgia. The Bulldogs, down to their last strike in the second of a best-of-three Super Regional series, used a pinch-hit walk-off homer to knock UF out of the NCAA Tournament. 
The unthinkable took place: Powerhouse 
Florida lost two straight and missed the Women’s College World Series for the ﬁ  rst time since 2012.  
But this season will feature a different fate.Just why, exactly? Pitching. The trio of Aleshia Ocasio, Delanie Gour-
ley and Kelly Barnhill all return and will al-most surely dominate the way they did in 2016.
Ocasio (.77) and Gourley (.80) ﬁ  nished 
with two of the top three ERAs in the nation, and Barnhill (1.36) followed closely behind at the No. 11 spot. Florida nearly joined FSU’s 1993 squad as the only team in NCAA history to ﬁ  nish the season with three pitchers in the top 10. But the success won’t all come from the 
circle.
At the plate, Florida also returns the bash 
sisters: Kayli Kvistad and Amanda Lorenz. 
The two lefties powered UF all season, 
combining to hit .388 with 19 homers and 108 RBIs.
Despite losing key offensive weapons in 
Kelsey Stewart and Kirsti Merritt, Florida should score enough to once again earn a WCWS berth. 
Now go take home the trophy, Tim Wal-
ton. 
Cohen: The baseball team is due for a 
national championship
It’s difﬁ  cult to argue against Florida 
baseball.
Yes, the Gators lost two of their starting 
 Which UF team will have the best Spring?Following Clemson’s last-second victory over Alabama in Monday’s championship game, coach Dabo Swinney was overcome with emotion. 
“It’s indescribable,” he told an 
ESPN reporter after the game. “I mean, you can’t make it up… only God can do this.”
Quarterback Deshaun Watson was 
similarly overwhelmed and gave a similar response in his post-game in-terview. 
“It’s what God wanted,” Watson 
said. “He picked us for a reason.”
This is hardly uncommon in sports. 
It’s become almost cliche for athletes to, before taking any questions or giv-ing statements about any game, thank God for their on-ﬁ  eld triumphs. 
And every time it happens, I’m 
reminded of my seventh-grade religion teacher. 
Back then, he would have us say a 
prayer at the beginning of every class. Before the prayer began, he would ask us for our “intentions,” or things we speciﬁ  cally wanted to pray for. 
Someone would usually say an 
ailing grandmother or other relative. Someone else would bring up a student who was home sick. And inevitably, someone would bring up whatever school sports team was playing that day.
However, they would never say, 
“I’d like to pray for the football team to win this afternoon.” The teacher had established early on in the semester that, in his view, God does not give a damn about the outcome of football games. 
So instead, people would pray for 
nobody to get injured in the game.
Of course one teacher saying 
that God doesn’t care about athletic  Does God, if 
he exists, care 
about football 
games?
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14 SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 14SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16SWEET AND BAUER
By Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
ROUNDTABLEThe Associated Press
Florida guard Kasey Hill drives with the ball against Alabama forward Jimmie T aylor during the ﬁ  rst half of Tuesday's game. 
14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
pitchers — Logan Shore and A.J. 
Puk — to the MLB Draft last year.
But if there has been one 
constant under coach Kevin O’Sullivan and UF baseball over the last several years, it’s talented arms. And, this year, UF has plenty of ammunition to reload for a deep postseason run.
Junior Alex Faedo, Baseball 
America’s No. 1 college draft prospect, will likely be UF’s Fri-day night starter. He’s backed by a bunch of young, talented arms in UF’s bullpen, including sopho-mores Jackson Kowar and Brady Singer, who will undoubtedly see their pitch count increase this sea-son.
Meanwhile, Florida’s lineup 
returns some experienced start-ers, including former freshman All-American JJ Schwarz and 2016 All-SEC Second Team members Dalton Guthrie and Mike Rivera, to name a few.
And, as is usually the case for 
Florida baseball, a few freshmen will make their names known dur-ing the regular season. According to PerfectGame.org, UF’s incom-ing 2017 class is the second best in the nation, with seven top-100 
prospects.
Finally, one last reason has me 
believing that the baseball team 
could go further than any other UF team in the Spring: the fact 
that it has never won a national 
championship. 
The Gators have made it to the 
College World Series 10 times, 
including the last two years, and 
have finished as the runner-up 
twice.
They’re due.
Brannon: New year, new 
arena, new chance for Gators in 
March Madness
When point guard Kasey 
Hill was a freshman, the Gators basketball squad was UF’s premier 
sports team.
They ripped off a 30-game win 
streak.
They took the court against 
powerhouse Kentucky three times, and three times they won. 
They fought through four March 
Madness matchups and earned a 
spot in the Final Four. 
But now Hill is a senior, and he hasn’t been back to the NCAA Tournament. 
Coach Mike White and the 
Gators can change that in 2017. 
Don’t let their No. 23 ranking or 
13-3 record fool you. Florida is one of the best teams in the country. 
The NCAA’s RPI rankings — 
which take home vs. away games and strength of schedule into ac-count — have the Gators ranked third in the country and rightly so.
All three of Florida’s losses have 
come against AP Top-10 teams. 
Losses to No. 5 Gonzaga and 
No. 7 Duke on neutral courts and a defeat in Tallahassee against No. 9 Florida State are the only blemishes on an otherwise impressive record. 
And a handful of Gators have 
contributed to Florida’s most explosive offense since 2012. 
SEC Player of the Week 
KeVaughn Allen is leading UF with 14.7 points per game and is shooting 42.7 percent from beyond the arc. 
Junior Devin Robinson has been 
a consistent contributor for the Gators, scoring in double figures in eight of UF’s last 10 games. 
Canyon Barry, son of Hall of 
Famer Rick Barry, has been a sparkplug off the bench and is averaging 12.3 points and shooting 52 percent from the field vs. SEC opposition. 
And Justin Leon, labeled the 
team’s “mad dog” by coach Mike White, is the SEC’s fourth-best three-point shooter, converting on 45.5 percent of his attempts from deep. 
But offense isn’t even the 
Gators’ strong suit. 
Only two SEC teams have 
allowed fewer points than the Gators (66.5 per game). 
Defensive prowess, offensive 
weapons and a battle-tested team are the perfect ingredients for a potent punch at the Big Dance. 
So while Florida’s baseball, 
softball and track squads are perennial NCAA title contenders, the basketball team will be waiting in wings of the O’Connell Center, ready to showcase its squad on a national stage. 
Bauer: Men’s track team can 
take it home again
Florida’s track and field team is 
already making headlines in 2017. 
Grant Holloway, a freshman 
from Chesapeake, Virginia, debuted for the Gators by winning the 300-meter sprint with a time of 32.80 — the third-fastest time in collegiate history — over the weekend at Clemson’s Orange and Purple Classic. 
Holloway also secured the 
60-meter hurdles title with a nation-leading time of 7.63, earning him USTFCCCA National Athlete of the Week recognition. 
Fellow freshman Clayton 
Brown also grabbed SEC Field Ath-lete of the Week honors. 
And freshmen aside, Florida 
returns 400-meter hurdle national champion Eric Futch and runner-up TJ Holmes, along with standout sprinters Kunle Fasasi and Ryan Clark as well as talented thrower Anders Eriksson. 
Couple them with the freshmen 
who have already made an impact and this isn’t a tough question. The Florida track team won it all at the NCAA Outdoor National Championships and it has the pieces to do so again. 
Especially since coach Mike 
Holloway has been at the helm for 15 years, leading his men’s team to six national titles during that time. 
He knows what to do, and with 
the high-caliber athletes at his dis-posal, he should be able to do it again.
ROUNDTABLE,  from pg. 13Gators pitcher Alex Faedo is the No. 1 college draft prospect
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Point guard Kasey Hill prepares to shoot a free throw in UF's 94-71 win vs. Arkansas-Little Rock on Dec. 21 in the O'Connell Center.
Alligator File Photo
JJ Schwarz follows through on a swing during Florida's 2-1 loss to Mississippi State on April 10, 2016, at McKethan Stadium. Schwarz, a junior, was named a Freshman All-American in 2015.
success doesn’t prove anything. Clearly, other people believe that he does. But I thought he made an appropriate point. 
Up until then, I had never considered the 
undeniable religious links between sports and athletes — the signs of the cross in baseball, the pregame prayers in the end zone before football games and, of course, the post-game press conferences where players thank God over and over and over again.
And after the class, I really didn’t think 
about those links much either. 
That is except for when players and coaches thank God after games, like Swinney and Watson did on Monday night. Because it’s hard to say what exactly the duo and others are thanking God for. 
Maybe they believe it’s part of his 
predetermined plan for them. Maybe they just thank him generally for giving them life. Or maybe they’re thankful to have avoided injury. 
None of that is problematic. What is problematic, though, is thinking 
that God intervened directly in the game to let Clemson win. Which, again, might not be what Watson and Swinney were thinking when they said what they said. 
But surely some athletes who make 
similar claims do believe that God helped their team win. 
One example is Seattle Seahawks quar-
terback Russell Wilson. 
“That’s God setting it up,” he once told 
TheMMQB.com’s Peter King of his team’s Super Bowl berth, “to make it so dramatic, so rewarding, so special.”
By this line of thinking, God also set up 
the opposing team to be “so disappointed, so infuriated, so let down.” Which would seem to be downright cruel, unnecessary and unlikely to be correct of any God who reasonable people would consider just. 
But maybe I’m wrong. Maybe an 
almighty, loving, caring, omnipotent God really does want Clemson, the Seahawks and other teams to win and pulls the strings to make it happen. 
But with a civil war raging in Syria, 
consistent terrorist attacks across the western world and people of all ages suffering from debilitating, uncontrollable diseases, it seems that any God with the will to meddle in the world would feel obligated to intervene in those issues in addition to helping his favorite football teams. 
Yet those issues — and continually 
random football outcomes, regardless of which team prays harder — persist. 
Ethan Bauer is the sports editor at the 
Alligator. His column appears on Wednes-days. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @ebaueri.
COLUMN,  from pg. 13By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
It only took Amelia Hundley one 
meet to break a school record.
The freshman competed as an 
all-around entry in Florida’s season-
opening meet on the road at N.C. 
State Sunday, notching an overall 
score of 39.375.
It was the highest score for a 
freshman in a road season opener in UF history.
“(I was) very happy,” Hundley 
said. “I’m really happy with how I did and looking forward to improve-ments for me. Just really excited.”
It’s a typical response to a solid 
performance, but Hundley is not a 
typical freshman.
Six months ago she was in San 
Jose, California, competing against 
13 of the best gymnasts in the coun-
try for one of ﬁ  ve spots on the U.S. 
Olympic Team.
Placing ninth overall, Hundley 
missed the cut but capped off an elite pre-college career that included be-
ing a three-year member of the U.S. 
Senior National Team and represent-
ing the U.S. on the 2014 and 2015 
Pan American Games championship teams.
Now, as one of No. 3 Florida’s all-
arounders, the Hamilton, Ohio, na-
tive is an essential part of the Gators’ 
lineup.
“Amelia is a very special kid. She 
has so much talent and she has so much potential,” Florida assistant 
coach Adrian Burde said. “She will 
get even better than she was at the 
ﬁ  rst meet. The whole entire fresh-man class has so much potential. It’s a very special group of kids with big 
dreams and the chemistry that they 
bring to this team is incredible.”
While Hundley has competed 
on some of the biggest stages in the 
world during her career, she is still 
cherishing the opportunity to com-
pete in her ﬁ  rst home meet in the 
renovated O’Connell Center on Fri-day against Kentucky.“The arena is beautiful. We got to 
train in it actually last week,” Hund-
ley said. “Just seeing the atmosphere 
and seeing that those seats are actu-
ally going to be ﬁ  lled is just a great experience. … I’m just really excited for this week, and it should be really 
good.”
However, even though she has 
experience in the sport, Hundley is 
still a freshman and new to collegiate gymnastics. 
And unlike USA Gymnastics’ Elite 
Program, where you compete mostly 
as an individual, Hundley is compet-
ing as part of a team now. And she’s relying on her older teammates to give her advice and help smooth the 
transition.
“They told me just to relax, you 
know, sometimes I get a little too 
uptight,” Hundley said. “They tell me just to go out, do your thing, be 
yourself, and have fun. They have 
been so great through it all. They 
have been there for me when I’ve had struggles, and they are there to experience it with me when I’m 
cheering and laughing and having a 
great time. They have been so great.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
HUNDLEY’S CAREER 
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
• Placed ninth overall in the U.S. 
Olympic Trials
• Seventh on vault and eighth on uneven bars at U.S. Olympic Trials.
• U.S. Senior National T eam member (2016-17, 2015-16, 2014-15)
• U.S. Junior National T eam member (2013-14, 2012-13, 2011-12)
• 2015 Pan American silver medalist on ﬂ  oor and bronze on uneven bars Freshman Amelia Hundley is 
rising star for Florida gymnastics
Alligator File Photo
Adrian Burde (right) celebrates with Kennedy Baker during the 
2016  NCAA Super Six. 
Alligator File Photo
Alfredo Perez returns a ball during Florida’s 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
TWO MEN’S TENNIS 
PLAYERS REMAINED AT 
THE START OF THE DAY.
Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The F3 Futures Pro Circuit 
tournament is continuing its ac-
tion through Jan. 15, but for 
two young University of Florida 
tennis players, the competition came to an abrupt end on Tues-day. 
Freshman Johannes Ingildsen 
and sophomore Alfredo Perez were both eliminated from the main singles draw after each made impressive runs through 
the qualifying round.
Ingildsen squared off against 
Russian Ilya Vasilyev. Despite dropping only one set during the 
tournament’s ﬁ  rst four rounds, Ingildsen was unable to win a 
single set against the Russian, 
falling 3-6, 3-6.
Perez, meanwhile, faced Pol-
ish-born Maciej Rajski, who held 
the No. 3 seed in the qualifying 
round. Perez and Rajski split the ﬁ  rst two sets 4-6, 7-5 before Rajs-ki cruised past Perez in the ﬁ  nal set, defeating the American 1-6.
Neither player will see any 
competitive action again until Jan. 21, giving them plenty of time to rest before the Gators 
meet Georgia Southern and Ken-
nesaw State in a doubleheader to begin the dual season.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgAll Gators eliminated 
at pro tournament 16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2017
improving. Our leadership is 
increasing. And guys banded together,” UF coach Mike White said. “(I’m) very proud. There was a lot of adversity out there.”
But while adversity showed up 
later, the Gators seemingly couldn't miss at the start of the game. 
Florida hit ﬁ  ve of its ﬁ  rst six shots, 
and ﬁ  ve different players contributed to an early 13-6 lead.
The Gators remained in a steady 
offensive groove for much of the half. Six-foot-eight redshirt freshman forward Keith Stone, playing the center position while 6-foot-11 center John Egbunu sat on the bench with foul trouble and sophomore forward 
Kevarrius Hayes rested, drilled a three-
pointer to give Florida an 18-point lead with about ﬁ  ve minutes to go in the opening frame.
Then the wheels fell off.Led by freshman forward Braxton 
Key, who ﬁ  red off 15 of his game-high 24 points in the ﬁ  rst half, the Crimson 
Tide went on a 15-4 run to cut into the 
Gators’ lead.
Instead of dominating, Florida 
headed into the locker room clinging to a 38-31 advantage. 
The Gators proceeded to miss six 
of their ﬁ  rst eight shots in the second half, and what once was a double-digit lead quickly turned into a deﬁ  cit as Alabama took over. The Tide, fueled by tough defense, went on a 
15-7 run to take their ﬁ  rst lead of the 
night with under 15 minutes to play.
With leading scorer KeVaughn 
Allen, who had just six points on 2-of-7 shooting, suffocated by Alabama’s defense, the Gators had to look elsewhere for points.
They turned to their redshirt fresh-
man.
Stone scored eight of UF’s next 10 
points to keep his team aﬂ  oat.
He led the Gators with 14 points 
and hit all three of his three-pointers.
“We got down and defended,” 
Stone said of his team. “We know that if we get stops on the defensive end, it’ll translate to offense.”Eighteen turnovers and 16 missed 
free throws by Alabama evaporated 
the momentum it had gained through-
out the night. A three-pointer by graduate transfer Canyon Barry, who chipped in 13 points, put Florida up 75-65 with just over a minute remain-ing and ended all hopes of a Crimson Tide comeback.
“You gotta ﬁ  nd ways to win 
differently, of course. You gotta ﬁ  nd ways to win different types of games,” White said. “Tonight (was) certainly an example of both of those things.”
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
 HOOPS,  from pg. 13Alabama committed 18 turnovers and missed 16 free throws
The Associated Press
Florida forward Kevarrius Hayes dunks the ball against Alabama forward Bola Olaniyan during the ﬁ  rst half of Tuesday's game. 
The Associated Press
Florida guard Chris Chiozza scores against Alabama forward Braxton Key during the ﬁ  rst half of Tuesday night's game in Tuscaloosa.FLORIDA'S TOP 
SCORERS:
• Kasey Hill: 13 points, 5 rebounds, 5 steals and 4 assists
• Keith Stone: 14 points, 3-for-3 on three-pointers
• Canyon Barry: 13 points, 4 rebounds