We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 93 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
National Signing Day is here
Check out which football recruits Florida will 
look to lock down, pg. 13
Residents protest outside congressman’s oﬃ   ce
More than 100 participated in “Resist Trump Tuesdays, ” pg. 5
UF fraternity under police investigation
UF’s chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia has disbanded, pg. 3FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
CITIZEN OF THE YEAR
From left: Susan Davenport, the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce President and CEO, UF President Kent Fuchs and former Chamber Chair T odd Powell pose for a photo on Tuesday afternoon. Fuchs was awarded the Gainesville Citizen of the Year by the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
As Gainesville’s population has 
swelled, the city’s ﬁ  re rescue is 
grasping for resources to meet de-mands. 
In the past ﬁ  ve years, Gainesville 
Fire Rescue’s total emergency re-sponses have increased 20 per-cent, Fire Chief Jeffrey Lane said. The number of staff, however, has stayed mostly the same, with only 23 new employees added since 1991.
“Not many businesses can see 
that kind of growth without mak-ing some kind of adjustment,” Lane said.
The increasing number of calls has put three ﬁ  re units at or near their maximum capacity of 3,030 responses a year, he said. When units reach capacity, they are too busy responding to calls to do proper maintenance and training.
When staff goes on more calls, 
it makes it difﬁ  cult to get back in time to address new emergencies, 
he said. The missing resources are not 
a crisis, Lane said. However, the 
situation cannot be ignored.
“At some point you do have to 
add stations, add units, add ﬁ  re-ﬁ  ghters,” Lane said. 
•   •   •
In 2014, GFR responded to more 
than 1,000 calls at UF. For free.
But because the school doesn’t 
contribute to city taxes, it has left GFR without a portion of potential 
funding.
A 2016 assessment determined responses to UF amount to any-where from about $800,000 to $2.5 
million — money GFR must spend without compensation.
“So much of the city’s area is 
off the tax roll, i.e., the Univer-sity of Florida,” Lane said. “Nor-mally if you take a city that has a 62-square-mile footprint like we have, they generate a lot more tax-
es. But we provide the same level 
of service as the pseudo-city, but  Playing with ﬁ  re: City ﬁ  reﬁ  ghting units at capacity
IT RAN OUT OF FOOD BY 
7 P .M.
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the second consecutive night, 
Burrito Brothers Taco Co. ran out of food Tuesday, its second busiest day in 40 years.
At 7 p.m., a cashier at the 1402 
W. University Ave. restaurant in-formed a snaking line of hungry people they were tapped out of food.
Signs were placed on both doors 
alerting incoming customers of the food outage, likely only the restau-rant’s second in history, owner Ran-dy Akerson said.
It proved to be the restaurant’s 
second-highest grossing day of busi-ness since 2011, when the UF foot-ball team faced the University of Ala-bama in Gainesville, Akerson said. On Tuesday, the restaurant earned ﬁ  ve times its average daily revenue.
“No matter how well prepped 
we may be in the morning, we lose ground all day,” Akerson wrote in a text message. “Sooner or later, we have to stop taking orders.”
For about four hours, there was 
a constant line of about 40 people at the restaurant, hoping to eat at the Gainesville mainstay one last time before it closes for good Satur-day. UF alumni have traveled from 
around the nation to get one more 
taste, Akerson said. 
Blake Weinard, a UF sustainabil-
ity studies and sociology student, was manning the register until the doors closed around 8:40 p.m. In-coming calls continued even after the store closed.
“This is beyond anything we 
could’ve imagined,” the 22-year-old said.
Despite a $10,000 donation 
pledged Tuesday via GoFundMe, Akerson said the restaurant won’t be accepting any money intended to save it. With a reported loss of about $300,000 in revenues since Septem-ber 2015, Burrito Bros. is well past 
the point of saving, he said.
“We’ll go until we can’t go any-
more,” Akerson said, “and then 
we’ll cry and drink beer.” Burrito Bros. sells out, 
has second busiest day 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
While Nate Quinn  grew up sell-
ing Girl Scout cookies, he dreamed 
of being a Boy Scout instead. “I didn’t feel exactly the same as 
all the girls in the group, obviously 
because that was not my gender,” 
the 18-year-old UF psychology freshman said.
On Monday, Boy Scouts of America announced that transgen-der boys will now get to join the 
group. The national organization 
will now refer to the gender listed on the children’s applications, in-stead of the one on their birth cer-tiﬁ  cates, according to a statement released by Jack Sears, the Boy Scouts of America North Florida Council CEO.
Quinn said he was in ﬁ  rst grade 
when his parents made him wear dresses and signed him up to be a Girl Scout. He never fully ﬁ  t in with the girls and knew he wanted to be a Boy Scout instead.
He didn’t hear the word “trans-
gender” until he was 15 years old. He came out as a boy about a year later. 
“We don’t actually give kids 
enough credit for what they know,” 
Quinn said. “We shove every kid 
into a box of girl or boy and don’t  UF student reﬂ  ects on Boy Scouts dreams, now possible
SEE SCOUTS,  PAGE 4Transgender boys can now joinGFR chief said more staf is needed
SEE FIRE,  PAGE 4WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Art from the Heart’ art auction 
Saturday 
The Council for Exceptional Children and the Gainesville Woman’s Club is hosting the “Art 
from the Heart” art auction at the 
Gainesville Woman’s Club, lo-cated at 2809 W. University Ave., on Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. This event is a live and silent art auction benefiting students with special needs in Alachua County schools. The auction features the work of local artists, drinks, food. 
Join them for our 35th year of art 
and entertainment. Tickets are $25. Purchase tickets in advance by contacting Debra at 352-955-7671, ext. 1624 or Jan at 352-538-3067. Tickets may also be pur-chased at the door.
International brass festival
UF’s School of Music will pres-ent the 2017 International Brass Festival on Saturday and Sunday. The two-day event will feature internationally recognized guest 
artists Nathan Zgonc, Christian 
Paarup, the U.S. Air Force Band Trombone Quartet, the University of Tennessee Faculty Brass Quintet and more. The festival includes numerous master classes and re-citals and  is open to musicians of all ages. It will also feature an exhibit room with many popular 
brass manufacturers. All events 
are free and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu/brassfestival.
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career Expo 
The annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be held Feb. 8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers representing 
the food, fiber, natural resources 
and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent employment, as well as representatives of gradu-ate programs and professional schools. The event is open to UF students and alumni. For more in-
formation, visit cals.ufl.edu.
‘Red Soul Days’ empowerment art 
show 
Local applied arts company CerridwenWorks, with UF’s Sexual Trauma/ Interpersonal 
Violence Education and the UF 
Center for Arts in Medicine, is producing an empowerment art show and performance-art show-case for the semiannual anti-violence arts festival “Red Soul Days.” The show will be Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 at the Superfun! art space, located at 2029 NW 
Sixth St. Artists and performers of all styles are welcome to sub-
mit work that evokes themes of 
recovery, healing from trauma, 
self-discovery and love. A public display of affection contest will occur at Superfun! on Feb. 10 and Feb. 11 from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a range of art work-shops and art-making opportuni-ties such as a public canvas and storytelling exercises. All couples 
are welcome to participate. Email 
rwayne86@ufl.edu to apply or for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 93
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  44°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly, Chris 
  Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Will Coburn / Alligator Staff
STREAMS OF SUSTAINABILITY
Denise DeBusk, an Environmental & Community Horticulture Extension agent, hosted a 
Seed Vegetable Workshop on Tuesday. “I want people to eat healthier, and I want to teach more sustainable practices, ” she said.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Following allegations of hazing, a UF 
music fraternity has been disbanded and 
is now under police investigation.
UF’s chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia 
is no longer registered as a student orga-
nization at UF in light of the accusations, 
details of which have not been released.
Jen Day Shaw, the UF dean of stu-
dents, wrote in an email Tuesday that the chapter of the music fraternity is also un-der investigation by University Police and that the national organization of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia revoked the UF chapter’s charter.
“If they aren’t recognized by their na-
tional organization, they can’t be a reg-istered student organization at UF,” Day Shaw said.
UF became aware the charter had been 
rescinded Monday, wrote UF spokesper-son Janine Sikes in an email. She said if Day Shaw believes the conduct code was violated, the organization could be charged.
“But that could be a while consider-
ing they just started looking into things (Monday),” she said.
On the national fraternity’s website, 
its  risk management policy lists 44 of-fenses considered hazing.
Howard Lin, the UF’s chapter presi-
dent, declined to comment.
Max Mersinger, a 31-year-old Florida 
International University alumnus and member of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, said when one chapter engages in miscon-duct, it makes the entire brotherhood look bad.
He said the UF members can’t be rec-
ognized as brothers after the chapter is re-voked. He wouldn’t be able to give them the special handshake, he said, but if the 
rumors were true, he wouldn’t want to.
“I’m glad to see them gone, make 
an example out of them,” Mersinger 
said. “They deserved to get their a---- 
whooped.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org  UF fraternity disbanded 
after hazing allegations4  ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
only half pay taxes. So it creates 
a very restricted revenue stream.”
Lane said he cannot tell the uni-
versity what to do, but hopes for some partnership. 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said the university is committed to helping GFR achieve its objectives, but state funding restricts them. 
Orlando said it’s not a matter of 
choice. 
“We’re just not funded to do 
that,” he said. 
•   •   •
Recommendations for GFR’s fu-
ture have also been sent to the city manager, Lane said.
Assistant City Manager Paul 
Folkers said his department looks 
at the needs of GFR each year. After assessing resources, a 
third-party consultant recommend-
ed putting a station by Southwest Archer Road and Interstate 75 to better serve the population.
The current focus is servicing 
the southwest area of Gainesville, especially because GFR will take full jurisdiction over the area in October 2017, Folkers said. 
In 2008, the area was annexed 
into the city limits. GFR and Alach-ua County Fire Rescue have since negotiated over Station 19, located at 2000 SW 43th St. AFR decided not to sell to GFR because they 
operate ambulances out of the sta-
tion, said AFR Chief Bill Northcutt.
With the offer to buy the station 
off the table, Lane said GFR will use a temporary station during the summer and look into building a station in the southwest area — a process that could take years.
In the meantime, a squad has 
been operating out of an apart-ment on Southwest 20th Avenue, Lane said. Building a new station 
is a big investment but necessary.
“It’s in the city and we need to 
provide that service,” Lane said.
•   •   •
To firefighter Nick Gonzalez, 
limited resources are as dangerous 
as any other threat the department may face.
As a union representative for 
the Gainesville Professional Fire-fighters, Gonzalez said he worries about what could happen if the lack of resources remains unad-dressed. He fears lives lost. 
“I mean, the thinner we are and 
the less people we have to respond to the calls, you’re going to see in-
creased time to get to people need-ing help,” Gonzalez said. 
Some of the recent city plan-
ning, which focuses on street-front buildings, creates a hazard for fire-
fighters, he said. Firefighters can-not see around the buildings, forc-ing them to slow as they drive.
He mentioned The Standard at 
Gainesville, on the corner of West University Avenue and Southwest 13th Street, and the new McDon-ald’s on West University Avenue as an example of this risk.
“Unfortunately, we haven’t 
done a very good job at the city planning for these large develop-ments, and we haven’t added to resources and stuff we need,” Gon-zalez said.  
Traditional urban cities, with 
high-rises and buildings along the road, can be an obstacle, he said. 
Firefighters have nowhere to go but in the middle of traffic during 
a rescue. 
“It’s always a balance between 
what the fire chief would like to build and what actually gets built,” Lane said. “So we’re always hav-ing to accommodate to our built environment.”
•   •   •
Lane is scheduled to retire from 
GFR in 2020. As he prepares to step down, his goal is to set the department on track to handle the increasing demand and continue to 
provide high-quality service.
“Fortunately we’re still holding 
our own, we still meet our bench-
marks,” Lane said. “It’s just at some point we have to address the growth and increase in demand, some way.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgFIRE,  from pg.1A squad of firefighters is currently stationed at an apartmentreally ask them how they feel.”
Drew Baker, an Eagle Scout, 
the highest rank in the Boy Scouts, 
said he’s in favor of the new policy, 
because it’s not the organization’s place to dictate children’s genders.
Baker, who graduated from UF in Spring 2016 with a degree in eco-
nomics, said if this policy was en-
acted when he was a Boy Scout, it 
would have led to discussions and acceptance between his troop’s 
members. 
“It would’ve just further led to 
dialogue and conversation about 
how we could be a very inclusive organization,” he said. Moving forward, Baker said he 
would like to see the Boy Scouts 
get involved in more social justice 
advocacy. 
“There are a lot of benefits to 
scouting that I wouldn’t want to rob of anybody,” the 22-year-old said. 
Terry Fleming, the co-president 
of Pride Community Center in North Central Florida, said the new policy will help children affirm their 
genders.  
“We are excited that the Boy 
Scouts have made this great step 
forward,” Fleming said. “It’s incred-
ibly important for the folks here in 
question.”
When Quinn first heard of policy 
change, he was excited to see how troops grow to take in transgender members. 
“I think it’s a great move on their 
part,” Quinn said. “Being inclusive should be the goal of every organi-zation because leaving people out 
doesn’t really help you in any way.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org SCOUTS,  from pg.1The national organization announced the change MondayLawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
GIVING “EXTRA LIFE”
Members of the Extra Life Gainesville-T allahassee Guild stand with 
a $26,691.31 check of donations for the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals on Tuesday. Extra Life organizes video game marathons to raise donations for the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
ABOUT 500 ATTENDED 
THE ANNUAL FAST-A-
THON. 
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
Five days after President Donald 
Trump’s controversial travel ban, UF 
students refused to eat Tuesday, a 
show of solidarity with their Muslim 
peers.
And at 7 p.m., after fasting from 
sunrise, about 500 UF students and faculty members gathered and 
shared a much-needed meal.
During Islam On Campus’ 14th 
annual Fast-A-Thon, held at the O’Connell Center. UF President Kent 
Fuchs addressed the crowd, some of whom felt angry at Trump’s ex-
ecutive order restricting the travel of 
citizens from seven Muslim-majority 
countries.
“I know that many of you, like 
me, have felt the effects of President 
Trump’s executive order,” Fuchs 
said. 
He called for students of all re-ligions to come together in light of Trump’s ban.
The Islamic tradition of fasting in-
volves abstinence from food, water, smoking, sex and cursing between 
sunrise and sunset. Fast-A-Thon participants could donate to Helping 
Hand’s Water for Life charity and lo-
cal nonprofit Radiant Hands Inc.
Visma Masudi, a member of 
Islam On Campus, said Fast-A-
Thon brought people together after 
Trump’s divisive ban.
“See from our perspective, see 
what we believe in and what we love about the religion,” the UF biology 
sophomore said.
Masudi, 20, said she wants to 
believe her generation is progres-sive, but at times feels disrespected 
because she’s Muslim.
“America’s ignorance astounds 
me at times,” Masudi said. “A lot of progress is happening in the coun-
try, but a lot of people still have their 
hidebound views.”
After spending four years as the 
only Muslim at her 1,700-person 
high school, Maryam Akinyode, a 21-year-old UF international studies and political science senior, came to Gainesville and joined Islam On 
Campus.
She could finally be herself.Akinyode, Islam on Campus’ vice 
president of external communica-
tions, said the organization received 
almost 50 Facebook messages over 
the weekend expressing support af-
ter Trump’s executive order.
“The best way to show support 
right now is to come out and just talk 
to us, because we’re here,” Akinyo-de said. “We’ve always been here, 
and we’re not going anywhere.”After travel ban, UF students, Fuchs celebrate Islam
SENATE WAS HELD AT THE FLORIDA 
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY. 
By Paige Fry 
Alligator Staff Writer
Student senators asked how they can help pro-
mote UF’s art museum, natural history museum and 
performing arts center Tuesday.
Student Senate was held at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History so senators could ask questions 
to representatives from the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts, the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art and the Florida Museum. Senators asked how Sen-ate could help the programs. 
“I thought it was a really great experience for 
senators to see how our funding has been benefiting students,” said Senate President Pro-Tempore Aus-tin Champoux. 
Brian Jose, the director of UF Performing Arts, spoke about how senators can help find the right performers and entertainers for students. 
“To me, I would love to start greater conversa-
tions,” Jose said. “I’d love to talk to students about themes and needs that need to be addressed across campus.” 
Eric Segal, the Harn’s director of education and 
curator of academic programs, and Allison Hudson, 
the Harn’s assistant director of development, said 
UF funding has helped the museum to create more programs, including monthly museum nights. 
Senators unanimously approved Kelly O’Neil for 
the new housing affairs cabinet director. Champoux 
said O’Neil, who used to be the assistant housing 
director, was appointed by Student Body President 
Susan Webster.
Senators also approved $783.84 for the Gator 
Scuba Club and $142.48 for the Gator Billiards Club.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSenators discuss art programsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE 
PARTICIPATED.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Staff Writer
Chants of “Resist Trump” and “No wall, no 
ban” could be heard outside Rep. Ted Yoho’s 
Gainesville office Tuesday, 
At noon, more than 100 
protesters stood outside the 
Republican District 3 con -
gressman’s office parking lot 
with signs protesting Presi -
dent Donald Trump’s immi -
gration and refugee ban and 
his proposed wall along the 
U.S.-Mexican border.
The demonstration was a 
part of “Resist Trump Tuesdays,” a nationwide 
movement organized by People’s Action.
Andrea Berteit, 52, helped coordinate the 
protest. Through the initiative, people are go -
ing to their local representatives and protesting 
Trump’s administration every Tuesday, she said.
“We would like our representatives to be ac -
countable,” the Gainesville resident said. “We believe (Yoho) has a responsibility to influence 
this type of decision making.”
Protesters talked to Yoho’s senior office staff 
and left letters for the congressman, she said.
Brian Kaveney, a spokesperson for Yoho, 
said the office took the protesters’ petitions and 
heard their concerns.
“We make a note in the record and convey 
that to the congressman,” he said. 
Bill Radunovich, 49, said he attended the pro -
test because of the ban, the wall and Stephen 
Bannon’s nomination to the National Security 
Council.
“I wanted to go and let them know what I 
thought,” the Gainesville resident said.
When the office staff approached the crowd, 
he said protesters yelled questions and demand -
ed answers. 
“There was probably a little bit of argument, 
but nothing too bad,” he said.
Berteit said she was glad to see such a large 
group outside Yoho’s office. 
“I’m just amazed and found it really great 
that Gainesville and the people here really care 
so much about the situation,” she said.
@Mary_Lou_W
mwatkinson@alligator.orgAnti-Trump protest erupts outside congressman’s office
197 STUDENTS REGISTERED.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Students hoping to register with a Stu -
dent Government political party had their 
last chance Tuesday.
After three days of interviews, a total of 
197 students registered for Spring elections, 
with 188 registering with Impact Party, 
eight with Progress Party and one  student 
as independent, wrote UF Supervisor of 
Elections Eric Hobbs in an email. In Spring 2016, 460 students registered 
with Impact, and 100 registered with Ac -
cess Party, according to Alligator archives.
Kevin Rivera, a 19-year-old UF business 
administration sophomore and former Ac -
cess senator, said he walked into the Reitz 
Union with the intention of running as an 
independent candidate but was amazed to 
find Progress Party as an option.
“I think that Access had a lot of good 
intentions, but it was a movement that 
arose out of anger and distrust for ‘The 
System,’ whereas Progress just wants to 
bring students together who want to make 
a change,” said Rivera, who wants to run for the business administration Student 
Senate seat. 
Julia Harrison, 20, chose to run with 
Impact for a College of Liberal Arts and Sci -
ences seat to increase funding for the col -
lege.
The UF history sophomore said the par -
ty follows through with their promises. 
“CLAS is the largest college at the uni -
versity, and I think that increasing the sup -
port for research and operations is impor -
tant for the university as a whole,” she said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSG Spring registration ends, low turnoutBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Online students will soon be able to 
mingle with their classmates, despite being 
hundreds of miles away.
UF Plaza, a new program by UF Online, 
will officially launch in Fall 2017, said Evie 
Cummings, UF Online’s director. The ser -
vice will be like a “virtual campus,” by con -
necting students with others by automati -
cally sorting them into groups based on 
their major, classes and geographical area.
Cummings said the department created the forum for online students after realizing 
most of their communication occurred on 
social media.
“We see a lot of activity from the stu -
dents on Facebook,” she said. “But we also 
felt that we could be doing a better job here 
at the university in serving our online stu -
dents.”
About 1,000 UF Online students have 
been invited to test the program. Of those 
students, about 400 have logged on so far. 
The soft-launch of the program included 
students majoring in business administra -
tion, health education and behavior, sport 
management, public relations, telecommu -nication and criminology and law, but all 
majors will have access in Fall.
Online students will also have access to 
in-person lecture viewings in Gainesville 
for them to gather, she said.
Sam Penta, an 18-year-old UF sport 
management freshman in UF’s Pathway to 
Campus Enrollment program, or PaCE, said 
he looks forward to meeting his classmates 
in person.
“You’re more able to form study groups 
and connect with people,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgVirtual campus to launch for UF Online
THE EVENT DREW MORE  
THAN 300 PEOPLE.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
A social activist reminded students on Tuesday to 
fight against injustice on the last day of UF’s Martin 
Luther King Day celebrations.
Marc Lamont Hill, a social 
justice activist and CNN political 
commentator, spoke to a crowd 
of about 300 on King’s legacy and 
how it influences people today. 
The event, held at the University 
Auditorium, marked the end of 
this year’s UF Martin Luther King 
Day celebrations.
“If we want justice and free -
dom and peace, we can’t be prisoners to a moment, 
to a statistic, to an election,” Hill said, referring to 
Donald Trump, who he described as a racist, win -
ning the U.S. election.
He encouraged the audience to dare to dream 
as well, and not give up just because Trump was 
elected. King’s success was rooted in his ability to 
dream, he said. 
“All we fought for is up for grabs again, every 
conception we have of freedom is being compro -
mised,” Hill said.
MLK is misremembered, he said. People talk a lot 
about him but not many know who he really was. 
King was brave, ambitious and a reader.
King grew intellectually from 1964 to 1968 be -
cause he read and talked to all types of activists, not 
only from the civil rights movement, he said. Hill 
encouraged students to use their time in college like 
King used those four years.
Etson Dorivan, a 21-year-old UF computer engi -
neering junior, said he went to the event because 
he’s of Haitian descent and wanted to learn how to 
help the African-American community. He said he 
enjoyed Hill’s proposal to fight injustice. 
“It was amazing,” Dorivan said. “His views of 
how we can progress are perfect.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgCNN political 
commentator 
talks MLK at UF
By Isabella Arjomand
Alligator Contributing Writer
Shane Obi can surf easily knowing there are fewer sharks in 
the ocean. 
“We are not their natural food,” the 21-year-old UF accounting 
junior said. “They don’t want to eat us.”
In 2015, the International Shark Attack File, a Gainesville-
based center that keeps the longest running database on shark 
attacks internationally, found there were 98 shark attacks around 
the world, said George Burgess, the curator of the program. In 
2016, the number dropped to 81, he said.
“We think we should be able to control everything in our world 
around us,” Burgess said. “We expect safety. We forget we are a part of a natural world.” 
The significant drop in attacks is due to 2015’s El Nino, an ir -
regular weather pattern that brought warmer air and water to the 
Northern Hemisphere, attracting sharks, he said. 
Historically, the U.S. leads in number of attacks with 53 in 
2016, and Florida is the state with the highest number, with 32, he 
said. A combination of high population, tourism and year-round 
water accessibility causes the increased shark presence. 
But, beachgoers can be knowledgeable and avoid attacks by 
being aware of a few things, said Lindsay French, database man -
ager of ISAF.
Swim in groups, avoid murky water, and understand dolphins 
have a similar diet, she said. 
“If you see bait fish get out of the water,” she said.Number of shark attacks decrease in 2016Courtesy to the Alligator
More than 100 people gathered outside Rep. Ted Yoho’s office on Tuesday with signs 
to protest President Donald Trump’s administration.
Yoho
Hill
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Part three: Observations in modern-day Cuba
Proponents of the regime claim that Fidel 
Castro’s revolution won Cuba freedom, a word choice that is bewildering to hear considering the individual liberties sup-pressed by the totalitarian government. 
Predictably, a Havana bookstore we visited lacked works containing ideas incompatible with communism. Next to Leon Trotsky and Karl Marx, there was a title that argued there was in fact democracy in Cuba because the is-land has a “democratic economy,” contrasting it to the economy of the U.S.
My impression of the island was that it has less of a 
communist ideology and more of a belief in the revolution and a cult resembling the personality of its leaders. This brand of nationalism is reinforced in every facet of Cu-ban life. Government-sponsored “graffiti” art stands as an  ominous guard on the walls of dilapidated barrios. As you drive through the country you will see government propa-ganda on billboards and on the sides of buildings instead of corporate logos and advertisements. The daily newspa-per, state TV and schools reinforce this uniform ideologi-cal message. I was startled to hear the high-pitched voice of a 6-year-old reciting different militant chants about defending the revolution and aspiring to be like Marxist guerilla fighter Che Guevara.
Alternative opinions are suppressed in the single-par-
ty state, and many Cubans who were most dissatisfied with the politics of the regime fled the country long ago, learned to stay quiet or encountered worse fates. I only talked with one local who expressed actual opposition to the regime, although I commonly heard complaints against inadequate or inefficient conditions.  Dumbfounded by the inflexibility of a government worker, I heard another is-lander bemoan “This is what is wrong with Cuba.” When the government shut off power in a whole residential sec-tion of town to conserve energy, a local smirked, turned to me and quipped, “Welcome to the real Cuba.”
Yet, it seemed to me the general population 
was not ideological at all, but a practical people busily going about their lives, making the abso-lute most out of their situation. Cuban resource-fulness is demonstrated not just in the ability to keep old cars running, but in how well island-ers have taken to Raúl Castro’s liberal economic reforms, which have permitted an increase in privately-owned businesses. This knack for entrepreneurship should be no surprise given 
the elaborate black market locals created long ago to help meet their needs.
However, neither the black market, the small opening 
of enterprise nor increased American travel is enough to wash away the near post-apocalyptic conditions plaguing Cuba. The time has come for a shift in policy between our nations to reflect what Cuban poet José Martí once called “the white rose,” which he would offer up to both a true friend and those who had wronged him. The last 56 years should tell us that isolating ourselves and our values from Cuba will not end the dictatorship. Rather, continuing the embargo only hurts the Cuban people and gives the hard-liners of the regime a scapegoat for all of the problems on the island. Perhaps, in extending our hand to Cuba, the ties forged between our two peoples could prove to be an important step on the path to a free Cuba.  
Above all, my travels confirmed to me just how much 
Cuba and the U.S. have to offer each other.  With all the troubles Cuba faces, it retains a beauty and character un-like anywhere else on Earth.  Yet, its greatest resource is its people, resilient and teeming with untapped potential. As we enter uncertain diplomatic times, I can only hope that this newfound chance for progress does not flutter away in the Caribbean breeze.
Ford Dwyer is a third-year student at the Levin College 
of Law. This is part three of a three-part series.Make art, not war: 
the aesthetics of a 
social movement 
As celebrities make bold statements about social move-
ments and activism, sometimes we wonder: What good does it all do? There have been calls to use art to spread a message, as a call to action, but what good is a story or a picture in the long run? Though actors, 
artists, musicians and writers will join together, making art for change, trying to rally a movement, there’s the very stark real-ity that an evocative photograph or a compelling song will not end a war or stop a corrupt government. 
We’re not specifically referring to our current contentious 
political climate. This is a discussion for all of history, for all social movements and rebellions — ranging from protests to wars.
With each stirring of resistance and protest, there is a call 
to make art. And with each movement, there’s the grim reality that you cannot win a war with a painting.
There’s a quote by Kurt Vonnegut in which he discusses 
the Vietnam War — perhaps the most contentious time in re-cent history, until now — and how every “respectable artist” was against the war. They were all “aimed in the same direc-tion,” Vonnegut said, “like a laser beam.” But the impact of that weapon, he said, was equivalent to “that of a custard pie dropped from a stepladder six feet high.”
Vonnegut is not known for his idealism, but his words strike 
clearly in the hearts of artists everywhere who fear their work is not going to make an impact, who know deep down that a poem is not going to stop a dictator. And yet they try to keep creating anyway, but are finding it harder to do so.
But think about it. When you think of the 1970s, the Vietnam 
War protests, the social climate of the time, chances are, you’re also thinking of the art that went along with this movement. You’re thinking of iconic songs such as Bob Dylan’s “Blowin’ 
in the Wind.” You’re thinking of photographs, probably the 
one where a protester holds up a flower to a group of heav-ily armed soldiers. You’re thinking of the Broadway musical “Hair.” You’re thinking of a specific aesthetic, of bright colors and floral patterns, of a group of people trying to reclaim their America, trying to promote love and peace in the face of war. When you think of a 1970s Vietnam War protest, you have a specific image in mind. And this image comes from the art that was created for it, the words that were written for it — the 
songs, the fashion, the icons, the photographs. 
This is not exclusive to the Vietnam War. Whether we’re 
talking about the block prints of the American Revolution, the 
books and poems by the lost generation of post-World War I writers, or the folk lyrics of Sixto Rodriguez during the an-ti-apartheid movement in South Africa, we’re talking about waves of people coming together to create a social movement. And with it, there’s a specific aesthetic and art that comes to mind.
Art may not be the ultimate weapon of a social movement, 
but it is the part we remember. It is the part that spurs inspira-tion, fuels the hearts of protestors and revolutionaries. It is the part we turn back to when we need motivation to carry on. It is the part that lingers, reminding future generations and giving them hope. But it is also a warning. 
So to the artists of today, keep on creating. The aesthetic of 
a social movement has power — for the current generation and for the future ones to come.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORFord Dwyer
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Starting atStarting at
$241.79$241.79
Includes full color!Includes full color!
Run Date:
Mon, March 13th
Deadline:
Thurs, March 9thTake the winning shot
Advertise with the Alligator
Contact Alligator Advertising352.376.4482
In honor of Valentine’s Day, I am devoting 
the month of February to relationships. This month, we’ll talk about friendship, love and what makes for healthy relation-ships of all kinds. I can think of no better 
way to begin than with the foundation of every relationship and the most valuable tool you will ever learn to use: communication.
In a nutshell, communication has two 
parts: letting your needs be known and listen-ing to the needs of others. Quality communica-tion, however, requires more than that. Truly communicating with other people and building sound, healthy relationships requires a great 
deal of courage.
There is an old analogy about a married 
couple. One day the wife comes home from 
work and ﬁ  nds her husband watching TV. The husband says hello and continues watching TV. Suddenly the wife is upset with him. She is frustrated that he does not stop what he is doing to ask about her day.
A common reaction to this analogy is to side with the wife and to hold that the husband should know what she wants and act accordingly. What many people in lasting relationships have found, however, is that even 
those closest to them cannot always 
know what they want.
There is a common belief that if 
someone who loves you has to be asked for a speciﬁ  c expression of love, that expression is less valu-able. We believe that “true love” is something that comes naturally.
The truth is that every kind of relationship 
requires a certain amount of work in order to thrive. Each of us comes from a wildly different background, and we have been taught to ex-press our love in different ways. Just because we don’t always see eye to eye doesn’t mean we don’t care deeply for one another, and the person who loves you will listen to your needs.
If the wife in this story tells her husband 
that it would make her feel loved if he would immediately stop and talk with her when she gets home, the husband is no less loving for doing this after being asked instead of anticipating that need.
While the story is meant to be 
a lesson about romantic relation-ships, it applies to all interactions. You wouldn’t go to a restaurant, sit down and expect the chef to start making your favorite dish. You have to tell someone what you 
want in order to get it.
Asking for the things you want requires a 
certain courage. It is natural to fear rejection. Courage and communication are skills that re-quire practice. Just as a boxer must learn not to fear being hit, you must come to realize that, most often, the worst that can happen is that someone says, “no” and that you will recover. What is more, being rejected has under-appre-ciated rewards. After trying countless unsuc-cessful materials for the ﬁ  rst light bulb, Thom-as Edison famously said, “I have not failed. I’ve just found 10,000 ways that won’t work.”
With rejection comes the remarkable gift 
of clarity. When you ask for the things you want and are denied, you learn which kinds 
of people you may not mesh well with, you 
learn what approach is not likely to succeed, and you learn what requests may not be rea-sonable. Given that, you are free to try again.
Until now I’ve focused on expressing your 
own needs, but communication has two parts. If you care for someone, be a safe haven for them to express what they want. Listen, and let them tell you what you can do to show you 
care. Love someone in your own way, but do 
it in their way, too.
Relationships of all kinds require work, and 
they must be built. Communication is the in-struction manual, and you won’t get far with-out it.
This column is the ﬁ  rst in a series of four.David Billig is a UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
February relationship series: communication, the instruction manualColumn
David Billig
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
MONKEYIN’ AROUND
Connor Johnson, a 24-year-old Santa Fe College emergency 
medical technician student, wears a pink gorilla suit in the middle of Turlington Plaza on Tuesday afternoon.  Johnson was taking pictures with students as a promotion for American Campus Communities, and he took about 45 pictures in total.
By Clare Roca
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Robin Hood pranced through UF Health Shands 
Hospital on Friday in green spandex and velvet vest.
Underneath the costume, Andre Valladon, a 
principal dancer for the Gainesville-based Dance Alive National Ballet, was visiting the pediatric cancer unit with the rest of the troupe to promote an upcoming play and entertain the patients.
To the children he met during the visit, he was 
the real deal. 
“It ended up being a life lesson for us,” the 
44-year-old said. “It’s very rewarding for us to do something like that.”
Linda Rocha, the troupe’s director of develop-
ment, said she wanted her dancers to visit the children after remembering her own experience 35 years ago, when her son was admitted to the hos-pital as a toddler.
A magician visited him, providing much-needed 
entertainment as she sat by his bed, Rocha said.
“It wasn’t much of anything. It wasn’t even that good of a magician,” the 64-year-old said. But it made getting through the day easier. 
The troupe’s rendition of “Robin Hood” will be 
held Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. 
Carla Amancio, one of the troupe’s principal 
dancers, said it was her second time visiting the hospital with the cast. She likes going back and 
brightening a child’s day, even when the child 
might not be able to even leave his or her bed.
“It’s very good to see the happiness in their 
eyes,” she said. “I think we make a lot of differ-
ence in their life, on that day at least.”
Amancio said talking with the children made 
her grateful for her own life.
“They cannot dance, they cannot move,” she 
said. “I believe that we have to say thank you all the time for just the fact that we are alive.”
Rocha recalled her son’s time in the hospital 
decades ago as monotonous.
She was glad her dancers could bring a little joy 
like the magician did for her son, she said.
“Full circle is about the only way I can explain 
it,” she said.Robin Hood, friends make 
routine visits to pediatric unit
Courtesy to the Alligator
Beatriz Pereira Póvoas, Carla Amancio, Andre Valladon and Bárbara Várady pose while visiting  UF 
Health Shands Hospital’s pediatric cancer center. The members of the Gainesville dance troupe Dance Alive National Ballet were visiting sick children and promoting their show, “Robin Hood, ” on Friday.
THE NEW TOMATOES 
COULD BE SOLD IN  
THREE YEARS.
By Grace Kenny
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF researcher is working to 
make tomatoes great again.
Harry Klee, a UF horticultural 
sciences professor, and a team of researchers from China, Israel and Spain have found a way to restore tomatoes’ flavor. About 60 to 70 years ago, farmers began breeding tomatoes for quantity rather than quality, resulting in the fruit’s state today. 
He said older tomato plants had 
an average of three or four fruits on the vine. Modern varieties now have about 15 to 20 fruits.
“They’re really not paid to de-
liver something that’s flavorful,” Klee said. “They basically have ne-glected flavor, because it’s not im-portant to the farmer.”
Klee said they’re pushing mod-
ern tomatoes to taste more like the richer, older varieties. The re-searchers identified which flavor motives made tomatoes great to eat and used breeding to incorporate them into modern varieties. 
They used natural genetic exper-
iments to change the plants’ flavors and not its genetics, Klee said. 
He estimates the tomatoes will 
be sold in supermarkets in about three years. He said he doesn’t know how the tastier fruit will af-fect prices but hopes more people will eat them.
“The goal of all of this is to make 
healthy foods taste better, so people will eat more of them,” Klee said.
Balasubramani Rathinasa-
bapathi, a UF commercial vegeta-ble production professor, said his students worked with the tomato plants in his class.
“Different students actually eval-
uated them for taste and evaluated them for yield, and we were pretty impressed,” Rathinasabapathi said.
Tomatoes are the students’ fa-
vorite crop to grow, he added. 
“The newer tomatoes are also 
exciting to do because they yield-ed well, they performed nicely,” Rathinasabapathi said. “And the flavor is really great.”UF researcher breeds 
new, tasty tomatoes
The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump 
nominated Neil Gorsuch, a fast-rising conservative 
judge with a writer’s flair, to the Supreme Court on Tuesday, a selection expected to spark a fierce fight with Democrats over a jurist who could shape Amer-
ica’s legal landscape for decades to come.
At 49, Gorsuch is the youngest Supreme Court nom-
inee in a quarter century. He’s distinguished himself on 
the Denver-based 10th Circuit Court of Appeals with his clear, colloquial writing, advocacy for court review of government regulations, defense of religious freedom and skepticism toward law enforcement.
“Judge Gorsuch has outstanding legal skills, a bril-
liant mind, tremendous discipline and has earned bi-
partisan support,” Trump said, announcing the nomi-
nation in his first televised address from the White House.Gorsuch’s nomination was cheered by conserva-
tives wary of Trump’s own fluid ideology. If confirmed by the Senate, he will fill the seat left vacant by the death last year of Antonin Scalia, long the right’s most powerful voice on the high court.
Some Democrats, still smarting over Trump’s unex-
pected victory in the presidential election, have vowed to mount a vigorous challenge to nearly any nominee to what they view as the court’s “stolen seat.” Former 
President Barack Obama nominated U.S. Circuit Court 
Judge Merrick Garland for the vacancy after Scalia’s death, but Senate Republicans refused to consider the pick, saying the seat should be filled only after the No-vember election.
If confirmed, Gorsuch will restore the court to the 
conservative tilt it held with Scalia on the bench. But he is not expected to call into question high-profile rulings on abortion, gay marriage and other issues in which the 
court has been divided 5-4 in recent years.For US Supreme Court, Trump 
nominates judge Neil GorsuchWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-8-17-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-19-70-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-16-17-40-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-8-17-25-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Oak Hall
School is seeking energetic, creative,
and enthusiastic individuals with a
love for children to staff its summer
camp program. For a complete listing
of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interview process begins February 18.
2-20-17-15-14
Good Times Outdoors, Inc. is seeking an
individual for promoting our brands on a
variety of Social media sites and forums.
The position is negotiable as to time
spent onsite and time spent remotely.
The successful candidate will have
experience and knowledge in social media
marketing, a knowledge of outdoor sports, 
boating, hunting and firearms is preferable. 
Interested parties may contact by email at:
doug@core15.com
2-8-17-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
1. MYTHOLOGY: Who was the 
queen of the warrior women called 
Amazons?
2. GOVERNMENT: What did the 
22nd Amendment to the U.S. Consti-
tution do?
3. ADVERTISEMENTS: What lug-
gage company used a gorilla in a 1970 advertisement to show how tough its Samsonite brand was?
4. ART: Where is The Field Museum 
located?
5. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which U.S. 
president had the nickname “Old Rough and Ready”?
6. GAMES: What is a grand slam in 
bridge?
7. HISTORY: In what year did the 
French invade England (The Battle of 
Hastings)?
8. LITERATURE: Which famous 
Beat poet wrote the poem titled 
“Howl”?
9. GEOGRAPHY: The Leonardo Da 
Vinci-Fiumicino Airport is located in what city?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is a petroglyph?
Answers
1. Hippolyta2. Limits presidents to two terms3. American Tourister
4. Chicago
5. Zachary Taylor6. Winning all 13 tricks7. 10668. Allen Ginsberg9. Rome, Italy10. Rock carving
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 30, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/6-2/9 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-6-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYBecause Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance accepted
Marcywilson.com ½ price for
veterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HighFliers.us LOL adventurecomedy set in Gainesville.
Read Episode #1 for free at HighFliers.us      
2-9-17-10-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ACROSS
1 Memo phrase
5 Music-playing
Apple
9 Improvises
musically
14 Primary
15 “__ Lisa”
16 Many a jukebox
tune
17 Type of film
industry contract
19 Capital south of
Moscow
20 Former justice
Antonin
21 Musician’s suffix
23 Make (one’s way)
24 M&M’s choice
27 Solidify28 “High Voltage”
band
29 Starting on
33 Soft shot
35 Mothers of
Invention leader
39 Academic
ultimatum
43 Early computer
44 Quite small45 Gear on slopes46 Coral formation
49 Cavity filler’s org.
51 Shopper’s
decision
58 Smelting waste59 Neighbor of Turk.60 Poke fun at62 Dutch city, with
“The”
64 Portmanteau
word describingsome great music... or, initially, fouranswers in thispuzzle
66 Modify67 Not yours, in
Tours
68 Singer k.d.69 Superlatively bad70 Short period of
time, for short
71 Long period of
time
DOWN
1 They’re hard to
sit for
2 Rights org. since
1909
3 Saudi currency
4 Name on a 1945
bomber5 Populates, as a
grand jury
6 D.C. insider
7 Studio sign8 Place for some
serious me-time
9 Break down
10 High-occupancy
vehicles?
11 “Farewell, ma
chère”
12 Naysayer’s
contraction
13 Future flowers18 Social reformer
Jacob
22 Noir sleuth
25 Texter’s
“however”
26 Cooper’s tool
29 Lummox30 Source of
awakening rays
31 Back-tied sash32 Distress signal
devices
34 Fiddler’s need36 Dental suffix with
Water
37 Pressure meas.38 Sounds of relief40 Cupcake finisher41 Twitter handle
word for a celeb,perhaps42 Overly focused
on minor rules
47 Lip balm brand
derived from
“evolution of
smooth”
48 Skillet
50 On a cruise
51 Dismissive 
word
52 Mission on a
commemorative1936 stamp53 Beeper54 Providers of
senior moments?
55 Inventor Nikola56 “Hi! I’m ... ”
badge
57 Patsy of country61 Heart tests,
briefly
63 Del. summer hrs.65 “The Fall of the
House of Usher”author
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/01/1702/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Florida standout Bradley Beal is leading the Washington Wizards to a winning record, pg. 14 Florida softball ranked in preseason polls
The Gators will open the 2017 season ranked in the top ﬁ  ve in both major 
college softball polls. UF is No. 4 in the USA T oday/NFCA Coaches' Poll and No. 3 in the ESPN.com/USA Softball T op 25 poll. Staff Report
Jim McElwain is hoping to make major 
moves. His team’s recruiting class currently 
ranks 19th in the nation, but he’s hoping to vault up the list with some big commitments today. Here, alligatorSports writers Ethan 
Bauer, Matt Brannon, Ian Cohen and Pat-
rick Pinak break down some of Florida’s top targets for National Signing Day. 
Bauer: DT/OG Tedarrell Slaton If he signs with the Gators, Tedarrell 
Slaton will immediately become the largest player on Florida’s roster. 
The standout from American Heritage 
High School in South Florida checks in at 
6-foot-4 and 360 pounds, having played 
both guard and defensive tackle for the Patriots. 
At Florida, a permanent slot at defensive tackle seems likely because it’s a position of need for the Gators and because Randy Shannon — Florida’s defensive coordinator — was Slaton’s chief recruiter. 
In addition to being the largest player, 
Slaton would also be Florida’s top recruit. According to the 247Sports composite, the four-star prospect is the nation’s 69th-best player. The only players who Florida could 
sign to outshine Slaton are linebacker Levi 
Jones and defensive end LaBryan Ray, who are both trending toward other schools. 
Slaton, meanwhile, is considered a 
strong Florida lean who adds much-needed depth at defensive tackle.
The U.S. Army All-American is also 
considering Miami and Georgia, and he is scheduled to sign at 8 a.m. today. 
Brannon: RB Adarius LemonsAdarius Lemons was almost — and could still be — the one that got away.  
The 6-foot, 195-pound running back 
committed and then decommitted from the Gators in fall of 2016, tweeting, “I would like to de-commit from Florida Gators and worry about my priorities ﬁ  rst I got so much going on right na.”
But for all the uncertainty surrounding 
his recruitment, one thing is for sure: Lem-
ons will bring a combination of strength 
and speed to whatever program he signs with.
“He’s had a couple plays where he’s run 
over a couple of guys all at one time, kind of making dominos out of them,” Lemons’ high school coach Don Mesick said. “He’s made an awful lot of highlight-reel plays.”
Lemons shouldered a heavy workload at 
Clearwater High School. In his junior sea-son, he rushed for 1054 yards and 11 touch-downs with an average 7.8 yards per carry. 
Lemons would have to work his way up 
to earning more carries for the Gators, as ju-nior Jordan Scarlett and sophomore Lami-cal Perine have established themselves as Florida’s primary weapons on the ground. 
But Lemons can separate himself from 
the pack in practice by doing the little things like catching passes and protecting the quarterback. 
Mesick said his pass protection could 
use some improvement, but Lemons has proved to be a reliable pass catcher out of the backﬁ  eld. 
“He’s got good hands,” Mesick said. 
“It’s probably the place where he’s made 
the most improvement.”
Cohen: DE LaBryan Ray
The biggest splash Florida could make 
on signing day would be to steal a ﬁ  ve-star recruit out from under Alabama’s nose.
And the Gators are pushing hard to do 
so.
LaBryan Ray, the nation’s No. 1 rated 
defensive end and a native of Alabama, 
will likely be making his decision close to 
the National Signing Day deadline. Accord-ing to 247Sports.com, Ray is still deciding  National Signing Day: Florida’s top targets
When I was in high school, I wanted to 
be a recruiting reporter. I read recruit-ing stories daily while I was supposed to be paying attention in class, and National Signing Day was one of my 
favorite days of the year (seriously). 
Today, I have absolutely no interest in being a 
recruiting reporter. I’ve seen how the job works, 
and it seems horrible. But nevertheless, I ﬁ  nd my-self mesmerized by every bit of recruiting news 
that ﬂ  ashes across Tweetdeck, and for a while, I 
had absolutely no goddamn idea why. 
It’s a question that, in the week leading up to 
this year’s NSD, I tried to answer. And the reason I’ve come up with is that I love recruiting and sign-ing day just because of the utter absurdity of it all. 
Famed existentialist thinker Albert Camus de-
ﬁ  ned absurdity as the desire to understand the totality (this is, why things happen the way they 
do) coupled with the universe’s silence. In other 
words, weird coincidences and quirks happen all the time, and many of those times, it’s impossible to understand why. 
By this deﬁ  nition, recruiting is deﬁ  nitely ab-
surd. 
Why is it that 18-year-olds who change their 
minds like they change clothes can have so much power over fans and coaches alike? Why is it that 
even though touted recruits often ﬂ  op and vice 
versa, NSD is treated like a government-sanctioned holiday? Why is it that unbinding commitments that mean absolutely nothing mean everything to fans when they happen?
Again, it’s absurd. But it’s also fun. It’s a sort of real-life theater, with last-minute 
commitments, decommitments and academic in-
eligibility playing out to college football fans like a 
modern Shakespearean play.
One such example is the unfortunate case of 
James Robinson. 
The No. 114 player in the class of 2017, Robin-
son was poised to sign with the Gators today. But on a recent recruiting trip to Ohio State, he was cited for marijuana possession. 
The Buckeyes stopped recruiting him, but Flor-
ida was supposedly still going to take him, accord-ing to SEC Country. 
That is, until the UF administration stepped 
in and told McElwain he wouldn’t be allowed to sign Robinson. According to SEC Country, McEl-wain called Robinson to tell him and then called 18 other programs to try and ﬁ  nd Robinson a new football home.  The absurdity and 
drama of National 
Signing Day 
Alligator File Photo
Jim McElwain dries himself after being doused in Gatorade following Florida's 
win in the Outback Bowl. He's hoping to ﬁ  nish the 2017 recruiting season strong.
SWEET AND BAUER
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Every morning, senior Delanie Gour-
ley awakens to a text.
“Good morning, ﬁ  fteen days!”  It’s from sophomore Amanda Lorenz.And every morning, she counts down 
the number of days until the season be-gins, sending a message to the rest of the team.
Today marks nine days.Nine days until UF’s softball team 
steps onto the ﬁ  eld in Tampa to take on Illinois State in the USF-Wilson Demarini Tournament.
And with the likes of Aubree Munro, Kelsey Stewart, Taylore Fuller, Kirsti Merritt and Taylor Schwarz all having graduated in 2016, there’s a lingering thought with a team comprised of just three seniors: Who will step into a lead-ership role come Feb. 10?
Early on, it will be senior Justine 
McLean, junior Kayli Kvistad and Lo-renz, deemed captains by head coach Tim Walton.
“The reason they are (captains),” 
Walton said, “is just because what they do throughout the 6 a.m. runs, to lifting, to on the ﬁ  eld and in the locker room.”
McLean had third-highest batting av-
erage on the team last season, earning 44 hits in 122 at-bats. She also had the second-highest number of bases stolen on the team with 14. Both Kvistad and Lorenz, meanwhile, have been named to the preseason All-SEC team, with Kvis-tad totaling the most home runs for the Gators last season (11) and Lorenz slam-ming the most doubles with 14.
“Being with this group of girls is really 
special, and I’m just really excited to take the ﬁ  eld,” Lorenz said. “You come here because the expectations are so high.”
Gourley is also a member of the pre-
season All-SEC team, and while she may not be an ofﬁ  cial captain, Walton praised the leadership she will bring to the team in her ﬁ  nal season.
 Gators softball ready to start season
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE RECRUITS,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
By Skyler Lebron 
Sports Writer 
American philosopher and au-
thor Norman Vincent Peale once 
said, “There is a real magic in en-thusiasm. It spells the difference be-tween mediocrity and accomplish-
ment.” 
Teams in the NBA ﬁ  nd it difﬁ  cult 
to conjure up such “enthusiasm.” 
Look at the Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks and Portland Trailblazers. All have phenomenal talents but have struggled to ﬁ  nd a proper identity and drive.
Bradley Beal and the Washington 
Wizards, however, found this en-thusiasm 30 games into the season.
After a 14-16 start, a record that 
signiﬁ  es an all-you-can-eat medioc-rity buffet, the Wizards conducted some midseason magic and turned their team around. 
Since then, Washington has gone 
13-4, and former Gator standout 
Beal continues leading his team to 
the top of the Eastern Conference standings. On Jan. 24, Beal displayed his 
scoring prowess with a 31-point game against the Boston Celtics. It was Beal’s seventh 30-plus point performance on the season. 
With an upcoming four-game home stand and four of Washing-ton’s next ﬁ  ve opponents posting losing records, Beal has a chance to 
lead his team higher up the stand-
ings.
Speights shaping up:While the Clippers may be endur-
ing yet another Clippers-like season — riddled by injuries to their most crucial playmakers — a few bright spots have resulted from so many bodies being forced to sit on the 
sidelines. 
Former Gator Marreese Speights 
has enjoyed one of his most impact-
ful campaigns as an NBA player, averaging 10.1 points and 4.7 re-bounds per game in just under 17 minutes of action per night. 
As a larger forward who can 
slip into the center position but still 
shoot long range jumpers to stretch 
the ﬂ  oor, Speights has become a commodity off the bench. 
In his lone start of the season on 
Jan. 21 against the Denver Nuggets, Speights totaled 18 points on an efﬁ  -cient 7-of-10 shooting from the ﬂ  oor. 
Parsons gets grilled:Chandler Parsons is not off to a 
great start to his ﬁ  rst year with the Memphis Grizzlies, both on and off 
the court. 
Despite career-low averages in 
points, rebounds, assists and player 
efﬁ  ciency, Parsons still took to Twit-ter after a 112-109 loss to the Port-land Trailblazers. The Blazers had posted a video of Parsons air-balling a three. Parsons replied, “Good luck in the lottery show next year.” 
Oh, boy.Blazers guard CJ McCollum, who 
is inversely enjoying the best season of his career and is considered an all-star snub by many, replied “We hit the lottery by not signing you.” 
Ouch. Either way, the Memphis 
Grizzlies have seen greater success  
than Portland and will likely be in 
the playoffs come April, while the Trailblazers have a lot of work to do to make the postseason. 
But still — Ouch.
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.org  
 
 Beal leading Wiz’ to Eastern Conference prominence  
The Associated Press
Washington Wizards guard Bradley Beal  dribbles against Boston 
Celtics guard Isaiah Thomas on Jan. 24. 
GATORS IN THE NBAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
Name Position Stars Height/
weightCommitt -
ment StatusCity State Other possible schools Bauer picksBrannon picksHallpicks
LaBryan Ray DE ***** 6-foot-4/260 None Madisonw Alabama Alabama, T ennessee, Ole Miss20% 40% 35%
Zachary Carter DE **** 6-foot-4/250 Florida T ampa Florida Clemson, Miami, South Florida95% 100% 100%
Brad Stewart CB **** 6-foot/194 Florida New Orleans Louisiana LSU, Mississippi State 95% 100% 100%
Marco Wilson CB **** 6-foot/180 Florida Fort Lauderdale Florida None 99% 100% 100%
Daquon Green WR **** 6-foot-1/185 Florida T ampa Florida Clemson 99% 100% 100%
T.J. Moore OT **** 6-foot-5/290 Florida Charlotte North CarolinaT ennessee, South Carolina90% 80% 95%
T edarrell Slaton OG/DT **** 6-foot-4/360 None Fort Lauderdale Florida Georgia, Miami 85% 80% 85%
Levi Jones LB **** 6-foot-3/215 None Austin T exas FSU, USC, UCLA, T exas 15% 20% 40%
Elijah Conliffe DT **** 6-foot-4/305 Florida Hampton Virginia None 100% 100% 100%
Elijah Blades CB **** 6-foot-2/170 None Pasadena California Nebraska, USC  15% 50% 20%
Christopher Hender-sonCB **** 6-foot-1/175 None Miami Florida Miami 10% 30% 40%
Charleston Rambo WR **** 6-foot-2/170 Oklahoma Cedar Hill T exas Oklahoma 5% 10% 25%
K’Lavon Chaisson DE **** 6-foot-4/220 None Houston T exas T exas, LSU, USC 5% 10% 5%
Shawn Davis CB *** 5-foot-11 /190Florida Miami Florida Miami 100% 100% 90%
Malik Davis RB *** 5-foot-11 /190Florida T ampa Florida None 100% 100% 100%
Jake Allen QB *** 6-foot-3/200 Florida Fort Lauderdale Florida None 100% 100% 100%
Ventrell Miller LB *** 6-foot/227 Florida Lakeland Florida Miami 98% 90% 100%
Zech Byrd TE *** 6-foot-6/235 Florida Millbrook Alabama Alabama 50% 40% 50%
Donovan Stiner S *** 6-foot-2/185 Florida Bellaire T exas Houston 95% 100% 100%
Nick Smith LB *** 6-foot-3/210 Florida Orlando Florida North Carolina 95% 100% 100%
Adarius Lemons RB *** 6-foot/195 None Clearwater Florida None 99% 100% 95%
Malik Young DT *** 6-foot-2/280 None Thatcher Arizona Missouri, Arkansas 80% 90% 20%
Brian Edwards DB *** 6-foot-3/195 None Hollywood Florida Miami, Louisville 60% 65% 65%
Lacedrick Brunson LB ** 6-foot-2/210 None Miami Florida FIU 50% 40% 80%FLORIDA’S 2017 RECRUITS
The Alligator generally doesn't cover recruiting. If you look back at previous editions of the paper, today is the only day this year that features any recruiting stories. But with National Signing Day upon us, we had to do something. So we compiled this list of Florida's current commitments and targets as well as given our predictions on the likelihood these players sign with UF. The picks are by sports editor Ethan Bauer and assistant sports editor Matt Brannon, who know nothing — at all — about recruiting, as well as Gainesville Sun recruiting writer Graham Hall. 
between Alabama, Florida and Ten-
nessee.
And Florida could use him 
badly.
Outside of rising junior CeCe Jef-
ferson, the Gators don’t have many proven defensive lineman entering 2017. And while UF hopes former four-star defensive end Antonneous Clayton takes a leap entering his sophomore year, the Gators would feel much more comfortable adding Ray to the mix.
How comfortable?
Ray told GatorCountry.com that 
UF head coach Jim McElwain and 
defensive line coach Chris Rumph said Ray would play early and often if he committed to Florida.
And it’s pretty clear why.
Ray had 99 tackles, 19 tackles 
for loss, 11 sacks and four pass 
breakups in high school last sea-son. He has good size at 6-foot-4 and 260 pounds, and he’s an explo-sive rusher off the edge but strong enough to bulldoze blockers on the interior.
Florida believes it has a chance 
to land the highly touted prospect, and Ray seemed to enjoy his official visit to UF last weekend.
And even though Alabama is 
Ray’s likeliest destination, the tal-ented defensive end insists he still hasn’t made up his mind. 
Pinak: LB Levi JonesFlorida would love to get its 
hands on a talent like Levi Jones. Rated a four-star prospect and 
the No. 6 linebacker in the class 
of 2017 by 247Sports.com, Jones 
could be thrown into the mix for the Gators the same way Vosean Joseph, Kylan Johnson and David Reese were last season. 
The 6-foot-3, 215-pounder 
would also help boost UF’s recruit-ing class, which currently ranks 19th in the nation behind confer-
ence rivals Tennessee (14th) and 
Georgia (third). 
Jones is thought to be choosing 
between a few programs, including Florida, Florida State, UCLA, Texas A&M and Southern California. He visited UF’s campus on Jan. 13, and just Monday, he retweeted a picture of himself in a Florida foot-
ball hoodie. He also interacted with Joseph on Twitter last week. 
Though Jones, family members 
and coaches couldn’t be reached 
for comment, it should be noted he comes from an athletic family with ties to Florida. 
Jones’ father, Robert, was a 
standout linebacker at East Caro-lina and played for the Miami Dol-phins in the late 1990s under defen-sive assistant Randy Shannon, now 
the Gators' associate head coach. 
Additionally, Jones has two 
brothers who currently play — Zay 
Jones, a wide receiver for ECU, and Cayleb Jones, a wide receiver who played at Texas and Arizona before landing on the Minnesota Vikings' practice squad in December. 
Jones will announce his deci-
sion today at 8 a.m. on ESPN. 
RECRUITS,  from pg. 13Ray insists he still hasn't made up his mind 
OK, so maybe it’s not 
Shakespeare. But it is pretty dramatic, and while that’s a fairly extreme example, there are dozens, if not hundreds, of other examples 
of high-stakes theatrics either on or 
leading up to NSD. 
It’s rare in sports to have such 
theatrics take place off of a field and for such an extended period of time. Actually, it’s nearly unheard of aside from prolonged scandals. 
So with NSD having arrived 
once again, I encourage you to em-
brace the absurdity of it all, enjoy-
ing the drama just like you would watching a good movie. 
Ethan Bauer is the sports editor. 
His column appears on Wednesdays. 
Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @ebaueri. COLUMN,  from pg. 1316   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2017
“She’s got the leadership personality,” Walton 
said. “She’s calm, cool, collected. Everyone looks 
up to her. She handles not only success well but the pressure well. She’s got that kind of experi-
ence, she’s got that kind of mindset, and she goes 
out there and has a great temperament about her.”
Gourley, who was named to the U.S. Women’s 
National Team this offseason, gave up just ﬁ  ve 
home runs her junior year and concluded with an ERA of 0.80. And she will have the opportunity to improve upon that as part of a four-pitcher rota-tion Walton can depend on.
“You want to have a good year every year,” 
Gourley said. “But especially when it’s your last, you kind of want to make it the best you can.”
Gourley and fellow senior Chelsea Herndon will be able to serve as mentors to the ﬁ  ve fresh-men on the team, both on and off the ﬁ  eld, with their veteran status.
Herndon, who played just 35 games last sea-
son, is a teammate Walton said his players ad-mire. 
“(She) brings the same mentality and the same 
work ethic and same passion every single day,” Walton said. “And I think a lot of her teammates really look up to her and her style of play.”
With the presence of ﬁ  ve freshmen, Herndon 
advises them to keep one thing in mind.
“Go out there and play the game that you’ve 
been playing ever since you were a little girl,” Herndon said.
“It’s just softball.”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 13Gourley had a 0.80 ERA in 2016 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
A year ago, it was Tyrie Cleveland. 
The year before that, it was Martez 
Ivie and CeCe Jefferson. Those were the headliners Jim McElwain man-aged to snag on signing day in his 
ﬁ  rst two seasons at Florida. With Ivie 
and Jefferson, it was expected. With Cleveland, it was considered a moder-ate surprise. 
But entering his third National 
Signing Day, there aren’t many play-ers left on the board who can ﬁ  ll the role of star signee. 
Florida’s class currently ranks 19th 
in the nation, according to 247Sports, and that’s mostly thanks to a large number of three-star talents. 
As McElwain will likely say today, 
the number of stars next to someone’s name often doesn’t matter. Just yes-terday, UF offensive lineman Jawaan Taylor and linebacker David Reese — both three-star players — were named Freshman All-Americans by Pro Foot-ball Focus. 
Nevertheless, McElwain also 
wouldn’t be opposed to bringing in ﬁ  ve-star players. And this season, it seems unlikely that he will. 
The only bor-
derline ﬁ  ve-star players left in play for Florida are de-
fensive end LaBry-an Ray and line-backer Levi Jones. Neither are in-state players — Ray is 
from Alabama and 
Jones is from Texas — and both are 
considered leans to other schools. 
That being said, McElwain has 
been a magician in his ﬁ  rst two sign-ing days at Florida, and Ray and Jones can’t be ruled out because of it. Nev-ertheless, the more likely signing day additions are defensive tackle Tedar-rell Slaton and running back Adarius Lemons.
Five recruits are already at UFNational Signing Day is a unique 
spectacle in the sports world. For one day, it brings fans 24 hours of non-stop excitement, all because high school students are putting pen to paper and signing letters of intent. 
But some of Florida’s 2017 class 
wasn’t interested in being a part of 
that spectacle, opting instead to enroll 
this semester, get a head start on class-es and participate in Spring practice. 
The top recruit among the ﬁ  ve who 
took that route is Kadeem Telfort, a 6-foot-7, 300-pound offensive lineman from Miami. 
Telfort is a four-star player who is 
expected to play tackle at Florida and, 
with a solid Spring, could contribute 
right away. 
The only other four-star early en-
rollee is Kemore Gamble, a tight end who’s also from Miami. At 6-foot-4 and 216 pounds, Gamble looks more like a receiver than a tight end. The extra Spring practices and workouts should help him develop enough 
physically to possibly see the ﬁ  eld in 
2017, but with the current logjam at tight end, playing time for Gamble seems unlikely. 
The remaining three early enrollees 
are athlete Kadarius Toney, defensive tackle Kyree Campbell and linebacker James Houston. Of the three, Toney is perhaps the most intriguing. 
A quarterback in high school who 
was projected to move to slot receiver in college, Toney will get a shot at quarterback to provide some relief for Kyle Trask and Feleipe Franks, the only two scholarship quarterbacks currently on the roster who will par-ticipate in Spring practice. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgRecruiting notebook: Florida 
still looking for top-tier talent 
Ray
Alligator File Photo
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1. 
