We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorFlorida position previews: 
Quarterback
Feleipe Franks looked like he won the starting 
job this Spring until Malik Zaire transferred last month, pg. 13Deadly crash on I-75
A three-vehicle crash killed one and injured eight, pg. 3
Update from Smith Meyers
UF’s Student Body president pens a letter to the Alligator, pg. 8By David Hoffman 
Alligator Staff Writer
Citing student safety concerns, 
Student Government will pay $2 
million out of its reserves to fund 
a railing repairs project on the Re-itz Union’s exterior. 
Student Body President Smith 
Meyers said SG made the railings a ﬁ  nancial priority because they posed a “direct safety threat” for students and others who walk by 
the Reitz. 
Meyers said during the Reitz’s 
two-and-half-year $70.7-million 
renovation and expansion proj-
ect that ended in February 2016, power tools used on the site hit 
the natural frequency of some of the railings, causing them to crack 
and start falling off the structure. 
In 2015, two 10-foot sections 
of the guard railing fell from the 
fourth level of the Reitz, Meyers 
said. 
“It was a pretty serious safe-
ty hazard for students and other people that would be walking 
around the union on campus, so 
we needed to get these repaired 
right away,” Meyers said. 
To pay for the $2 million re-
pair work, Meyers said SG’s only 
two options were to dip into its 
reserve funds — left over money 
the organization saves after each 
ﬁ  scal year — or have the Reitz Union Board of Managers take out 
a loan using SG’s Student Activi-
ties and Involvement funding. He said for the Reitz Board to 
take out a loan, it would have cost an additional $240,000 a year 
in interest on top of the $2 mil-
lion. SG would’ve had to compen-sate interest charges by cutting 
student jobs at the Reitz Union or 
reducing operational hours at the 
Reitz’s printing lab. 
“Overall, the whole goal be-hind this was to save students money,” Meyers said. 
Of the total cost, $1,889,997 
will go toward construction costs, 
$19,850 will go toward engineer costs, $2,600 will pay for special-
ty consultants, $8,500 will fund a 
building permit and $79,053 will fund project contingency costs, 
according to a Student Senate bill signed and approved June 12 by Meyers and David Parrot, the vice 
president for Student Affairs. 
While some students sympa-
thize with SG’s move to ensure 
student safety with the railings, others see the $2 million as mon-
ey that could’ve been spent else-where. 
Rachel Parker, a 20-year-old 
UF family, youth and community sciences junior, said when dis-cussing the railings, she can only 
think of Library West. 
“It’d make more sense to take 
that $2 million and put it towards 
Library West — so it’d be 24/7 in-
stead of 24/5,” Parker said. 
“I don’t know why it would 
cost $2 million,” she said of the railings.
For Jordan Zeldin, 22, he un-
derstands SG’s calls for safety.
Zeldin, who graduated in May 
with a bachelor’s degree in inter-disciplinary biomedical sciences, said it seems reasonable to focus 
on keeping the Reitz together if 
there were serious safety issues 
from the past expansion project. 
“I’d say go for it,” Zeldin said. 
“Put $2 million in and make sure the whole Reitz Union doesn’t 
collapse.” 
@hoffdavid123 
dhoffman@alligator.org VOLUME 111 ISSUE 161 TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
UF decreased in its ranking as 
the best university for your buck.
This year, UF ranked 18th over-
all out of 711 colleges and univer-
sities across the nation in Money magazine’s “The Best Colleges for Your Money” — a decrease from their previous ranking.
While the university’s ranking 
moved down from 15th to 18th, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said it is still an achievement. 
“We’re very pleased to be listed 
once again with other universities that are recognized for providing an excellent education and good em-ployment outcomes for graduates,” Orlando wrote in an email. 
He said UF was also ranked 10th 
overall in public universities and was the highest-ranked university in the state — 233 spots ahead of Florida State University, the second highest-ranked university in the state. 
The rankings were calculated us-
ing 27 data points divided into three categories: educational quality, af-fordability and alumni success, according to an article on Money magazine’s website.  
By using this methodology, Or-
lando said this ranking shows stu-dents and families what a degree from UF really entails. 
“It’s increasingly important to 
students and their families that their degree led to a meaningful outcome — that is, a degree that is valuable and results in employment,” Orlan-do said. 
While UF does not have any spe-
ciﬁ  c plans to better their ranking on the list, Orlando said the university is continuing to reach for their goal of being one of the top public re-search universities in the country.
Audrey Wells, a UF nursing 
freshman, said she is always proud to be a Gator and thinks the univer-sity is known for being prestigious. 
“This university was deﬁ  nitely 
my top choice because of reasons like this,” the 17-year-old said. 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
UF ranked 18th overall on ‘Best Colleges for Your Money’ 
RANKINGS of OTHER
FLORIDA UNIVERSITIES
Florida State University
University of MiamiUniversity of South FloridaUniversity of Central FloridaFlorida International UniversityUniversity of North Florida251277374422455525David Hoffman / Alligator Staff
Student Government will pay for a $2 million railings repair project on the Reitz Union using reserve funds. 
Student Body President Smith Meyers said the railings were a “pretty serious safety hazard” for students.
SG funds $2 million Reitz Union railings project
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vinyasa yoga at the Harn
Get in tune with your breath-
ing and follow it through 
standing, flowing, seated and 
balancing postures at the Harn Museum of Art. Every Tuesday and Wednesday through Aug. 
2, the Harn will host a free 
vinyasa yoga class from 3:45 p.m. to 4:45 p.m. Please bring your own mat, and check in all personal items at the security 
desk. A water station will be 
provided. For more informa-tion, visit harn.ufl.edu/blank-space.
Taco Tuesdays at Swamp Head 
Brewery
Every Tuesday, Swamp Head Brewery, located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave., will serve tacos from Cilantro Tacos from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. For more information, visit swamphead.com or email info@swamphead.com.
An old-fashioned Christmas
On Wednesday at Dudley Farm 
Historic State Park, located at 18730 W. Newberry Road, at-
tend an ornament-making 
workshop from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. The workshop is child friendly, and attendees 
will make old-fashioned and 
Victorian ornaments. For more information, call 352-472-1142 or visit friendsofdudley-farm.org/calendar/year.liste-
vents/2017/07/17/-.
‘The Wickerman’ at the 
HippodromeSee “The Wickerman” at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre on Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. and Thursday at 7:45 p.m. This film is a definitive version of 
Robin Hardy’s thriller of pa-
gan worshippers on a remote Scottish island. Seen for de-cades, the new Studio Canal 
restoration is the culmination 
of a long search for the com-plete director’s cut. The hor-ror film is not rated. For more information, visit thehipp.org/
event/the-wickerman.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s Comedy Boom features live 
stand-up comedy every Wednesday night. Local come-dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-liner each week. Doors open at 8:45 p.m., and the show begins at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will 
accompany the show.
Creative B Movie Series: 'Time 
After Time'
Join a panel of scientists, artists and special-effects experts as 
you view and discuss the 1979 
movie “Time After Time” at 
the Florida Museum of Natural History on Friday. Every Friday 
in July, the museum and 
Creative B will host free screen-
ings and explore the balance between science and art. The event will be from 7 p.m. to 10 
p.m.  For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
creative-b-time-after-time. 
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista 
Joshua Broadhead, who goes 
by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE Depot 
Ave. There is no need to pre-
register. For more information, visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgainesville@
gmail.com.
Tim Canova visits Gainesville 
to talk Medicare
Progressive congressional can-didate Tim Canova will be guest speaking at the Alachua County Labor Coalition’s annu-al “Medicare/Medicaid Birthday Celebration” on Saturday. The event will be from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the United Church of Gainesville, located at 1624 NW 5th Ave. The event celebrates the passage of the 1965 legisla-tion, with the theme of “defend-ing” the popular and effective program and “demanding” that the U.S. move toward a similar single-payer system, such as Sen. Bernie Sanders’ “Medicare For All.” Finger food and bev-erages will be provided, and guests are welcome to bring food. The event is free and open to the public. Please RSVP at the event page on Facebook at bit.ly/medicarebday. 
Weekly Bible study on deliver-
ance through discipleship
Elnathan of Haven of Hope, lo-cated at 321 SE 48th St., will 
sponsor a weekly Bible study. This study will focus on deliv-
erance through discipleship. For more information call 352-377-8669, text 352-213-2147 or 
email hutchinsonjoanna12@
gmail.com.
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery is holding its annual Red Dot 
Sale Event in July and August. 
The gallery features hundreds of quality, handcrafted fine arts and crafts created by re-gional artists. The event will 
be held at the gallery, located 
at 201 SW Second Place. For more information, call 352-378-1383 or visit artisansguild-
gallery.com.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at 
UF presents “Layers” in the 
Gary R. Libby Gallery from 
now until Sept. 22. The ex-hibition features work by Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-
lar street artist. In “Layers,” 
Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of urban art. The show will in-clude abstract photographs of 
layers on the 34th Street Wall, 
fallen paint chips of different sizes and other artifacts. An opening reception for “Layers” 
will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 
9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and reception are free and open to the public. For more informa-
tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/
university-galleries.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 161TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Courtesy to the Alligator
David Zablidowsky, a former bass guitarist for the Trans-Siberian Orchestra, was 
killed in the three-vehicle crash on I-75 on Friday.  Eight others were injured.
AN INTERNATIONALL Y 
KNOWN MUSICIAN 
DIED IN THE RV FIRE.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A fatal three-vehicle crash on southbound 
Interstate 75 left eight injured and a former 
bass player for the Trans-Siberian Orchestra dead Friday afternoon. 
At about 12:26 p.m., a tractor trailer crashed 
into a travel RV that was parked off to the side of the highway lane on I-75 mile marker 372, near Micanopy, said Lt. Patrick Riordan, a Flor-ida Highway Patrol spokesperson. 
The RV was carrying members of the New 
York City-based metal group Adrenaline Mob, according to an FHP release of the victims’ names. The band posted on their Twitter page that they were traveling to St. Petersburg for a 
performance. 
Riordan said the RV pulled over because of 
a ﬂ  at tire when the tractor trailer crashed into 
it. Shortly afterward, a van then crashed into one of the two vehicles. 
The crash caused the RV to catch ﬁ  re, Rior-
dan said. 
David Zablidowsky died on scene and was the only fatality, FHP said. Zablidowsky, 38, played bass guitar for Adrenaline Mob and for-merly played with the notable progressive rock group Trans-Siberian Orchestra. 
Three of the eight injured were transported 
immediately to UF Health Shands Hospital and were considered to be in critical condition, said UF Health spokesperson Rossana Passaniti.
Passaniti said hospital staff activated their 
mass casualty response plan after the multi-vehicle accident at about 1:24 p.m. and sent out public alerts, a plan UF Health staff use to respond to extreme conditions or events such as “multiple vehicle accidents, infrastructure breakdowns or severe weather conditions.”
Three others with non-critical injuries were 
transported to North Florida Regional Medical Center, and the other two injured requested not 
to be transported to a hospital, Riordan said.
Marion County Fire Rescue spokesperson 
James Lucas said southbound lanes were shut 
down shortly after the crash near the Micanopy exit.
It took the entire afternoon for FHP and ﬁ  re 
personnel to clear debris from the crash and the RV ﬁ  re, Riordan said.
“It pretty much burned to the ground,” he 
said, referring to the RV.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org I-75 crash leaves one dead, three critically injured4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For the second time since May, 
a Gainesville woman was sexually 
assaulted near Bo Diddley Commu-nity Plaza.
On Saturday, police arrested 
24-year-old Hykeem Vernon Ford-
Marlin of Ocala, who faces charges of simple battery and indecent pub-
lic exposure.  
The woman, an employee with 
the Gainesville Community Rede-
velopment Proj-ect, was teach-
ing an exercise 
class July 8 on 
the plaza when 
she went to use 
the plaza’s re-
stroom, wrote 
Gainesville Po-
lice spokesper-
son Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias in an email. 
When she walked out of the re-
stroom at about 11:53 a.m., Ford-Marlin attacked her, Tobias said.
Ford-Marlin, who had been 
waiting outside the bathroom door for the woman to exit, grabbed her 
by her arms and began kissing her 
breasts over her shirt, according to 
a GPD arrest report.
The woman then grabbed the 
small pocket knife she had been 
carrying to defend herself. Ford-Marlin responded by revealing 
his penis and masturbating in the 
woman’s direction before he ran 
away, Tobias said. 
The woman met with police 
Saturday and identiﬁ  ed Ford-Mar-
lin, who was arrested at about 10 
p.m. that day, in a photo lineup.
Tobias said the incident was 
the second case of battery against a female near Bo Diddley Plaza, lo-cated at 111 E. University Ave., in 
the past two months.
A female city employee was 
attacked by a homeless man May 10 on her way to her workplace 
at City Hall, located just across 
the street from Bo Diddley Plaza. 
The man pushed her down to the 
ground, climbed on top of her and 
tried to remove her bra, blouse 
and pants, according to Alligator 
archives. He only ran away after 
multiple employees, who heard the woman’s screams from inside, ran 
out to help her. 
“Unfortunately the downtown 
area has historically been where 
some homeless persons congregate 
(and) some of those folks have is-
sues that manifest themselves in 
behavior like this,” Tobias said. 
The woman from the May 10 
attack defended herself by ﬁ  ghting back and continually shouting for 
help, and the woman of the July 
8 attack defended herself with the 
small pocket knife she carried on 
her person. 
Tobias said while every individ-
ual is different, GPD recommends 
that “folks at least have a plan to protect themselves.”
Ford-Marlin was arrested and 
found guilty twice of trespassing 
charges in May and June, and was 
arrested in March and April after 
being accused of loitering, accord-
ing to Alachua County clerk of 
court records. 
As of press time he remains in 
the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $50,000 bond. 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Last week on CNN, Republican 
Rep. Ted Yoho said he believed it 
was appropriate for President Don-ald Trump’s eldest child, Donald Trump Jr., to meet with a Russian lawyer for information about for-mer Secretary of State Hillary Clin-ton during the 2016 presidential campaign.
Sarah Wal-
ters, a 44-year-old UF psychol-
ogy alumna, said she wasn’t at all surprised by Yo-ho’s remarks.
Walters, a 
Gainesville resi-
dent who has attended recent town halls hosted by Yoho, said she believes the congressman’s state-ments chip away at democracy.
“Every time we have elected of-
ﬁ  cials who make behavior that is clearly wrong, they make it seem OK, I think that that weakens our 
democracy,” Walters said.
As a guest on “The Situation 
Room with Wolf Blitzer,” Yoho 
— who represents Clay, Bradford, 
Union, Alachua, Putnam and parts 
of Marion County in Florida’s 3rd Congressional District — said he 
“probably would have done the 
same thing.”
On July 11, Trump Jr. tweeted a 
statement with photos of a conver-
sation he had with Rob Goldstone, 
a publicist for Russian pop star 
Emin Agalarov.
In the June 2016 emails, Gold-
stone told Trump Jr. that he had 
“information that would incrimi-
nate Hillary and her dealings with 
Russia and would be very useful to your father.”
In response, Trump Jr. wrote “if 
it’s what you say I love it.”
According to the New York 
Times, on June 9, 2016, Trump Jr. 
eventually met with Goldstone at 
Trump Tower, as well as a Russian 
real estate mogul, Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya and a Rus-sian-American lobbyist.
During the interview, Yoho said 
that because Veselnitskaya was a 
lawyer and not a Russian govern-
ment ofﬁ  cial, the interaction was 
not inappropriate.
“I don’t think it was inappropri-
ate for what he did,” Yoho said in 
the interview. “If you’ve got infor-mation about an opponent running against you, wouldn’t you want 
that information to vet it, to see if 
it’s real information, and to use it 
accordingly?”
Alejandro Levy, a member of 
the UF College Democrats, said 
he’s never been a big fan of Yoho.
“I don’t think he does a good 
job representing, particularly col-
lege students, on a lot of different issues,” the 20-year-old history ju-
nior said. “It’s unfortunate that we 
have a congressperson that doesn’t 
quite respond to all the different 
parts of his constituency as he 
should.”
While some might not approve of Yoho or his approaches, Andrew 
Jamison, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance 
sophomore, said he thinks Yoho has properly reﬂ  ected the beliefs of some UF students.
“Yoho has been a good repre-
sentation of standing up for one’s 
beliefs through his work in Con-
gress, and I think that reﬂ  ects the 
development of character through UF in a positive light,” he said.
Jamison, a member of the UF 
College Republicans, said he agrees with Yoho that Trump Jr.’s actions 
were appropriate.
“There is no hard proof of direct 
ties, emphasis on direct, between 
the Russian lawyer and the Krem-
lin,” Jamison said. “At this point, 
it is fairly obvious there is no real evidence that there was any sort of 
collusion between Donald Trump 
and the Russian government.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
On CNN, Rep. Yoho deems Trump Jr.’s actions appropriate
Twitter
On July 12, President Donald Trump tweeted his thoughts regarding his eldest son’s 2016 meeting with a Russian Lawyer
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
When retired UF College of Dentistry professor 
Marc Gale heard about the Pulse nightclub shooting, 
the scholarship he wanted to create in his parents’ name changed.
Its new purpose became about creating a real dif-
ference in his lifetime.
“I just want to set up something that is for stu-
dents who are into human rights, especially either by actions or advocacy having to deal with the LG-BTQ community,” Gale said.
The scholarship he plans to create will help UF 
dental school students who advocate for the LG-BTQ+ community pay for their schooling.
However, Gale said applicants don’t have to be 
part of the community themselves. He said he want-ed to create a scholarship for people who help others because he didn’t see many scholarships like that.
After Gale decided to create the scholarship, he 
reached out to LGBTQ+ alumni for cash donations and pledges.
Pamela Sandow, the assistant dean of admissions 
and ﬁ  nancial aid for the college, said the scholar-ship’s endowment fund has raised about $42,000 in 
cash and pledges.
“Dr. Gale’s generosity in starting the Gale Pride 
Scholarship reﬂ  ects his passion toward helping his 
students,” Sandow said. “I know ﬁ  rsthand because I was one of those students years ago when I attended UFCD.”
However, UF’s policy for scholarships states they 
are required to have $30,000 in cash before the mon-ey can be given to recipients.
This year, because of this policy, Gale provided 
the $8,000 to be divided among 6 people himself. When he passes, his will allocates some of his mon-ey to the scholarship fund.
Gale said he hopes the creation of this scholar-
ship will play a small part in decreasing the preju-dice against the LGBTQ+ community.
“I don’t think it has been a cause that has been 
well addressed in professional education,” he said. 
“Professional schools don’t have a tendency to ad-
dress the needs of LGBTQ students.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.orgRetired UF professor creates 
scholarship for LGBTQ+ advocates
Courtesy to the Alligator
Dr. Marc Gale pictured with his dog, Oliver. Follwing 
the Pulse nightclub shooting, Gale wanted to create a scholarship encouraging those who support the LGBTQ+ community to pursue a degree in the ﬁ  eld.
LastName
Ford-Marlin
GPD: Man gropes woman 
on Bo Diddley Plaza, 
begins masturbatingTUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff Writer
By early 2018, Florida Power & 
Light Company (FPL) will have al-
most doubled its use of clean solar 
energy through the construction of 
eight new solar parks, including one in Hawthorne on the border of Alachua and Putnam county. 
With each station producing 
74.5 megawatts of power, 120,000 Floridian homes will be powered across the state. The new power stations resulted from the lower 
costs of panels and a drive to be-
come environmentally sustainable. FPL spokesperson Stephen Heiman said the site located on the border, called the Horizon Solar Energy Center, will be equivalent to re-moving 12,000 cars from the road.
“This is part of one of the largest 
solar expansions ever in the eastern U.S. with plans to add even more solar, at a rapid pace, over the next several years with 2,100 megawatts of solar planned now through 2023, 
to include the 600MW already un-
der construction — enough to pow-er 420,000 homes,” Heiman said. 
Prior to the creation of these 
solar plants, FPL’s main source of energy came from clean natural gas and nuclear energy, Heiman said. By the time its solar expansion is done, Heiman said they hope less 
than 1 percent of FPL’s energy will come from coal and oil. 
The Horizon Solar Energy Cen-
ter’s location in Hawthorne was 
chosen because it is affordable, ﬂ  at 
and environmentally insigniﬁ  cant, 
Heiman said. Additionally, since solar energy stations are all man-aged remotely, Heiman said there will be no inﬂ  ux of trafﬁ  c to the 
area. 
Each solar park will cost about 
$100 million to construct, but Hei-
man said FPL customers should not 
expect any money to come out of 
their pockets for it. Heiman said that customers — including the 1,200 in Alachua County — should expect their rates to go down within 
the panels’ 30-year lifespan as they will make back the money spent to 
construct them and more.
“Our solar power plants are be-
ing built cost-effectively, meaning 
there is no net-cost to customers 
after savings from fuel and other generation related expenses,” Hei-man said. 
The construction of the new 
solar farms are attracting positive reactions from local and national solar panel activists alike. Ananda Sundararaman, the president of UF 
Solar Gators — a robotic team that 
uses solar panels to power their robots and advocate for renewable energy — said he is excited for FPL to build this clean energy plant near 
UF.“It is encouraging to see that 
Florida Power & Light is making 
tangible strides toward sourcing more of its energy from solar gen-
eration,” Sundararaman said. “The 
Sunshine State provides ample op-portunities for the expansion of re-newable energy, and I am excited to see a major energy provider tak-
ing better advantage of the state’s 
resources.”
The ﬁ  rst four power plants, in-
cluding the Horizon Solar Energy 
Center, will open in December 2017 
to provide cheap, clean and renew-able energy for FPL’s customers.
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.org
FPL to install thousands of solar panels across the state
Courtesy to the Alligator
ABOVE:  Florida Power & Light’s Horizon Solar Energy Center will be made up of 
330,000 photovoltaic solar cells capable of generating 74.5 megawatts of electric-
ity a year, said FPL spokesperson Stephen Heiman. By 2023, FPL plans to be able to power 420,000 homes with the energy collected through solar panels.
LEFT: Blattner Energy, the Minnesota-based company setting up the photovoltaic 
cells, recruited more than 200 workers to build the Horizon Solar Energy Center, most of whom are from Alachua and Putnam counties. The solar park will be con-structed in Hawthorne, which straddles the Alachua-Putnam county border. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
“If it’s meant to be, it will be.” These words 
are ones I often hear, and while I think they are meant to be comforting, they also kind of 
make me angry. What does someone mean by 
“if it’s meant to be?” What does “meant to 
be” actually mean? Is this an appeal to a higher power, or is this paying homage to the balance of the universe? 
Whatever it means, I don’t like it.
As humans, we fear failure. This much is clear. I 
think even more than failure however, we fear the re-
sponsibility for failure. And even more than the respon-sibility for failure, we fear responsibility for the failure 
of others. We don’t want to be the reason things go 
wrong. We’d even rather attribute success to fate than to our own actions. We’d rather say something was meant to happen all along than say a person’s actions 
caused it.
I appreciate that this phrase is supposed to be com-
forting. I recognize there are things in life we have no 
control over. This phrase allows us to relinquish control and let the chips fall where they may. However, when 
it comes to our lives, I think we should take control 
whenever we can.
I understand not wanting to feel responsible when 
bad things happen, and I don’t think we should dwell 
on the negative, even if we hold ourselves responsible 
for it. But if we don’t take control, we can’t hold our-selves responsible for the good. If we attribute every-thing to fate, we cannot say we ever really did anything at all.
Throughout our lives, we are faced with numerous 
choices. Stand up or sit down. Do it or don’t. Go for it or back away. If we let fate take the wheel, we would choose the latter in each of these. We would choose 
not to act. We would choose not to go for it. We would choose complacency.
Complacency is our worst enemy — in any situation. 
The phrase I mentioned above can be interpreted as a cop-out. It’s a way to make us feel OK about not trying. 
It’s a way for us not to feel guilty about not taking re-sponsibility. I’m not faulting anyone for not wanting to experience struggle in their life. However, I do believe 
there is fault in choosing nothing to happen over choos-
ing something bad happening.
If we want to improve ourselves, we have to take 
risks. And when we don’t take accountability for what happens in our lives, why would we ever do anything 
uncomfortable? Why would we take a risk? Why would 
we knowingly do something that could end badly?
Because it could be good. It could be everything we 
ever wanted. It could be perfect. I believe in the concept 
of free will, and I don’t believe our futures are perfectly 
laid out for us. With every move we make — every deci-sion, every change — our future changes. Our lives are whatever we decide them to be. By choosing to be pas-sive, we are essentially wasting potential. We are meant 
to live, to grow and to change. In order to ensure this 
happens, we need to take control of all the outcomes — good and bad. 
As scary as the possibility of bad things happen-
ing as a result of our own decisions and their direct results is — rather than at the hands of a higher power — we must rise above this fear. The potential of suc-cess should outweigh the potential of failure. The paths of our lives are not “meant to be.” We, as people, are 
meant to be.     
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
junior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.We must start taking control of our own lives
Editorial
In recent weeks, there has been a lot of controversy re-
volving around an 11-month-old baby boy from the United Kingdom.
To catch you up, Charlie Gard was born nearly one 
year ago with a rare and terminal medical condition called 
encephalomyopathic mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, or MDDS. Although he appeared to be perfectly healthy at birth, hiss health quickly began to deteriorate shortly after. According to BBC, Gard has severe brain damage and is un-able to do simple things like open his eyes or move his limbs. He is unable to breathe without a ventilator and, as a result, is currently on life support at Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH) in London.
Gard’s doctors at GOSH believe he needs to be taken off 
life support and given the chance to die peacefully and with dignity. The baby’s parents disagree. They want him to try an experimental treatment called nucleoside bypass therapy — something a hospital in the U.S. offered to perform for them.
Gard’s doctors say the experimental treatment cannot re-
verse any brain damage and is unjustified. The hospital ap-plied to the high court for judges to decide his future.
The high court agreed with the GOSH doctors. High profile world figures like the Pope and our very own 
President Donald Trump have both given their 2 cents on the controversial decision, garnering the case even more media attention.
The controversy came to the U.S. when our tweeter in chief 
offered his support to Gard’s parents through social media. “If we can help little #CharlieGard, as per our friends in the U.K. and the Pope, we would be delighted to do so.”
This case is both heart-wrenching and outrageous but does 
that mean it belongs in the media? We think not.
It is understandable why the high court would get involved, 
but, in our opinion, the case should not have been covered in the media, let alone posted on social media.
The life of a baby boy is in question, and people are argu-
ing over his fate as if it is their responsibility or their privi-lege to decide what happens to him. Gard has hardly been given a chance to live, and now his death and the controversy around it will be forever immortalized by Facebook shares and retweets.
We can certainly fathom the world’s interest in the case. It 
is emotional and intriguing, and, no matter where they stand on the issue, people feel like sharing their opinion on the topic with as many people as possible is going to change the results. The intentions are admirable and respectable, but they need to come to an end.
Gard’s family is just that — a family. Imagine if your own 
family were going through this kind of traumatic experience and dealing with such emotional turmoil. Consider the impact it would make to have the entire situation broadcast in the media for the entire world to see. Imagine the entire world throwing in their opinions about the fate of your own child, about the fate of your own family. 
We can respect the fact that the world is curious, and this 
case is definitely interesting and worthy of curiosity. What we can’t respect, dear reader, is the world taking it upon them-selves to decide the fate of an 11-month old baby boy who didn’t ask for your opinion.
Whether it be criticism, support or general curiosity, leave 
Gard alone. The baby deserves his privacy and his dignity.Leave Charlie aloneTUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Health care and education are two 
of the most highly debated poli-cy areas today. President Donald 
Trump has advocated to dimin-
ish the level of government in-
volvement in both areas, which are cur-rently at the highest they have ever been 
in U.S. history. Based on historical trends 
and empirical and theoretical evidence, increased government involvement in any area where it is not absolutely necessary has served only to decrease the value cre-
ated by institutions. Arguments that favor 
greater government control and regulation run counter to objective facts.
The government is supposed to serve 
the interests of the people who cannot serve themselves. Its existence is justiﬁ  ed 
in areas like national defense and interna-
tional diplomacy because private organiza-tions and individuals are incapable of de-veloping popular policy solutions to any of the problems in these areas. Instead, their 
solutions would favor the narrow interests of those who helped shape them. 
Unfortunately, some kind of gov-ernment regulation or action is 
present in nearly every aspect of 
human existence, well beyond the boundaries envisioned by our founding fathers. The U.S., 
on the surface, seems to passive-
ly go along with this high level of government involvement, but if Americans as a whole wanted the highest living standard achievable, the 
government would be involved in fewer 
areas of our lives and to a much lesser ex-tent.  
While the government provides ad-
equate services in most areas in which it is involved, it does not provide the best service in any of these areas. Let’s say you are trying to send a birthday present to someone. You could take a chance and 
rely on the U.S. Postal Service, which will 
probably deliver it to the right place at the right time. But if you want to be cer-tain that your gift arrives in time for the 
birthday, you are going to seek out FedEx 
or another private shipping company to receive optimal service, despite the ad-ditional cost. The private postal services supply great value to the consumer, unlike 
the government-run postal service, dem-
onstrating exactly why consumers do not stand to beneﬁ  t from government control in any area except those where an alterna-tive isn’t feasible.   
When the government be-
comes involved in an industry, it 
removes the incentive of private 
organizations to provide the most valuable product for consumers. Instead of listening to customer 
demands and following market 
signals (proﬁ  t and loss), institu-tions like the post ofﬁ  ce reward mediocre performance. Unlike 
private organizations, these institutions 
don’t answer to paying customers and thus 
don’t have to compete with the quality of a competitor’s product.  Maximum customer value cannot be obtained because the cus-
tomer’s preferences are irrelevant.  
This happens in areas where govern-
ment subsidies are liberally distributed. 
Organizations, instead of devoting all of their resources to creating the greatest 
value for the consumer, will instead dedi-
cate resources to lobbying local politicians for favorable subsidies and regulations. If more resources, such as time and money, 
are dedicated to advocating for subsidies, 
fewer resources are devoted to creating the most valuable product for consumers. Con-sequently, the products will not fulﬁ  ll their full consumer-desired potential. 
This raises the question of why our soci-
ety is content to have the government man-age our education and health care system. America spends more money on public education than any other country, yet our education system ranks seventh interna-tionally (much worse in math and science 
speciﬁ  cally). 
While current conditions could be 
worse, decreasing the high level of gov-ernment control would likely increase the 
overall quality of our education system. And, if our current education system is an example of the government’s abilities, having the government run our health care 
system is a much more dangerous proposi-
tion. One need only consider the Veterans Affairs provision of health care to recog-nize the government’s inadequacies in this 
area. Education and health care would 
be better served if the government relin-quished control and allowed free market signals to regulate them. This will create the greatest value for Americans.
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Increased government activity creates more problems for the rest of us
Jack Story
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
3717 NW 13th Street  •  352-372-8387shoresanhosp.comVACCINE CLINIC
Friday, July 28 
8 am - 8 pm
Reserve your dog’s
appointment today!
“While the government provides 
adequate services in most areas 
in which it is involved, it does not 
provide the best service in any of 
these areas."
Jack Story
Columnist“..if our current education system 
is an example of the government’s 
abilities, having the government run 
our health care system is a much 
more dangerous proposition."
Jack Story
Columnist8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.org
Letter to the Editor
Hello Gators!
I hope you all are enjoying your 
Summer. With the Fall semester 
quickly approaching, I wanted 
to provide updates on initiatives 
that my administration has been working on and offer clarification on some impor-
tant events that have recently taken place.
Student Government has prioritized af-
fordability and has been working to keep 
the cost of attendance down. This Sum-mer, the Budget and Appropriations Com-
mittee voted to put forth budgets for the 
2017-18 and 2018-19 school years that reflected no increase to your Activity and Service fee. However, state-mandated 
salary increases for full-time employees 
and increases in the minimum wage have forced the Big Four entities (the Reitz Union, Recreational Sports, Student Activ-ities & Involvement and SG) to reevaluate 
their budgets and make some cuts to ser-
vices. Prior administrations made a com-mitment to bring Newell Hall to life and sought to make the building a 24/7 learn-
ing and collaboration center. 
This Fall, I am excited that students 
will have access to an additional study 
space on campus, but I also know that our current budget constraints refrain SG from 
funding two 24/7 study spaces. To that 
end, I have worked with the Provost’s Of-fice to operate Library West at 24/5 this Fall, which will allow the library to be 
open from 10 a.m. Sunday to 10 p.m. Fri-
day with some additional hours during the day Saturday. During this time, we will be surveying students at both Library West and Newell Hall to determine usage rates and ensure we re-ceive feedback. Additionally, 
Library West will be open 24/7 
during finals, reading days and the week leading up to reading days. I look forward to working 
with my administration to sur-
vey students about this initia-tive moving forward.
On a similar note, I have 
heard many students would like more in-
formation on the $2 million reserve trans-
fer SG approved a few weeks ago to fix the railings on the Reitz. To give some history, during the recently completed ex-
pansion of the Reitz, the existing railings 
that surround the building and the hotel 
balconies began to crack. Two 10-foot sec-
tions of the railing on the Reitz fell from the fourth level. Each section weighed 2,000 lbs. A structural engineer was im-
mediately brought in to assess the status 
of all railings on the Reitz. Eleven sections were in very bad condition, immediately removed and replaced with temporary guard rails.The railings were built dur-
ing the ‘60s and are made of concrete and rebar. Replacing 
the railings was imperative due 
to the threat they posed to stu-dents and others on campus who interact near the Reitz. SG 
first considered whether the Re-
itz could have taken out a pri-vate loan with interest and paid it back over 10 years. The Reitz 
would have paid approximately $2.4 mil-
lion and had to cut their existing budget 
by $240,000 each year. This would have resulted in a loss of student jobs, less op-erational hours for the printing lab at the 
Reitz and an overall decrease in services 
provided to students. 
The other option was for SG to pay for 
the railings through a reserve transfer. The SG reserve account exists from any funds 
left over from the Big Four at the end of 
each fiscal year. It is only able to be spent on non-recurring, one-time only expendi-tures. In evaluating the railing project, SG 
felt a reserve transfer would save student 
jobs, maintain the printing lab hours and allow for the students’ money to be put toward providing more services from the Reitz instead of paying off a loan with in-
terest for the railings. With all that being 
said, we chose the option that eliminated a safety threat and saved students money, jobs and printing lab hours.
Finally, I wanted you all to know where 
I stand on the reconstruction of the Insti-tute of Black Culture and Institute of His-panic-Latino Cultures. Over the past two years, Student Body president appointees on the student-majority Capital Improve-ment Trust Fund Committee have allocat-
ed $6.3 million to the institutes project. 
SG recognizes the importance of these two 
spaces to each respective community and 
has supported the commitment to ensure these two spaces remain and support the 
Black and Hispanic/Latinx communities. 
After hearing from many students within both communities and talking at great length to my counterparts, Mario Agosto (Student Body vice president) and Revel 
Lubin (Student Body treasurer), I believe 
two separate buildings is the best option to maintain the important identities these spaces hold for students from both re-
spective communities and to offer distinct 
spaces for students at UF to call home. 
I will continue to meet with students 
and administrators throughout this pro-cess and look forward to seeing everyone 
return for the Fall semester.
Sincerely,
Smith MeyersStudent Body president
Updates from your Student Body president
Smith Meyers
opinions@alligator.org
“Replacing the railings was 
imperative due to the threat they 
posed to students and others on 
campus who interact near the 
Reitz Union. ”
Smith Meyers
Student Body President“..I believe two separate buildings 
is the best option to maintain 
the important identities these 
spaces hold for students from both 
respective communities.. ”
Smith Meyers
Student Body PresidentTUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Felicia Vega
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Suitcases in hand, Jinx, Sparky, Smudge and Frankie 
walk to the stage. 
They are wearing black dress pants, white jackets 
and plaid bowties — ready to perform a show they 
were supposed to perform 53 years ago. 
The musical, “Forever Plaid,” follows a quartet who 
died in a car accident and are given the opportunity to perform one last time before going to heaven, said An-sley Pentz, the marketing assistant for the Hippodrome 
State Theatre. 
She said the show, which was originally going to run 
until June 25, was extended because of its popularity 
and will run until July 30.
“Each show is very ‘LOL’ funny,” Pentz said. Thiago Palma, a UF ﬁ  ne arts masters student, said 
he saw the musical twice. 
He said he went to see a combination of elements: 
the music, the laughs and the time period the show is set in. 
Palma said the music is great and the vocals, accom-
panied by a bass and piano, are amazing.
“You sit, watch and have a good laugh,” he said.Matty Colonna, who plays Sparky, said “Forever 
Plaid” is about four guys who love each other. He said each character has shortcomings that hold them back, but that doesn’t stop them.
“No one’s perfect,” Colonna said of the musical’s 
message. “We all have stuff we wish we could change.”  
The Hippodrome’s production of “Forever Plaid” is 
directed by Steven Flaa and stars Nick Endsley, Matty Colonna, Charles Logan and James Gish. 
Showtimes are Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thurs-
days at 7 p.m., Fridays at 8 p.m., Saturdays at 5 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. and Sundays at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m.
Sharon Borneman, a Gainesville-Alachua County 
Cultural Affairs board member, said the show is one the whole family can enjoy. 
“It’s just a fun, foot-stomping musical,” she said. The Hippodrome extends run of ‘Forever Plaid’ musical
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Forever Plaid, ” a musical at the Hippodrome State Theatre, was originally scheduled to run until June 25 but has been 
extended to July 30 because of its popularity.  “Forever Plaid” is centered around four musicians who died in a car accident and are given the opportunity to perform their last show before going to heaven.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Assistant Engineer to further the research and development activities in the Bridge Software Institute (BSI), contribute to the academic publication, and occasionally may be asked to supervise graduate student projects related to the nonlinear finite ele-ment analysis (FEA) and other topics within the scope of the institute. May also provide technical assistance in graduate courses (e.g., Adv. Shallow Foundation Design and Analysis) as per use of the BSI software products. Expected to perform engineer -
ing analysis for the validation and verifica-tion of the FB-MultiPier and Atlas software programs developed by BSI. Expected to provide BSI clients with high-level technical support in FB-MultiPier analysis for use in bridge-foundation design, document inter-nal validation reports, help manual entries for the BSI flagship software program, and create newsletters for latest software feature updates. In addition, create and validate installation packages of BSI software pro-grams using Install Shield. Will engage in soil-structure interaction modeling and anal -
ysis using LPILE, APILE, GROUP, ADINA, and LS-DYNA. Will use programming lan-guages such as Frotran 90, Visual Basic 6, MATLAB and MathCAD.
Position requires a Master’s in Civil 
Engineering or a closely related field and a professional engineering license issued from any state of the U.S. in Structural Engineering. Position also requires one year of relevant post-Master’s work experience.
To be considered applicants must submit 
cover letter and resume to Kimberly Krueger, kimberly.krueger@essie.ufl.edu.  7-18-1-14Caregiver and behavior assistant for adult with autism. Training provided. Must have car, pass background check, negative drug test. $15/hr plus mileage. Two or three days/wk. Send resume to colasanteona@gmail.com      7-25-17-3-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE
1. In 2015, Chris Sale set a Chicago 
White Sox record for most strikeouts 
in a season (274). Who had held the 
team mark?
2. Who was the last teenage starting 
pitcher in the major leagues before 
Julio Urias of the Los Angeles Dodg-
ers in 2016?
3. Name the first football coach to 
win a NCAA championship and a Super Bowl.
4. When was the last time before 
the 2015-16 season that Seton Hall’s men’s basketball team won a confer -
ence tournament championship?
5. Who holds the Pittsburgh Pen-
guins’ goaltender record for most career wins in the NHL playoffs?
6. Toronto FC set a record in 2016 
for largest margin of victory (seven goals) in an MLS playoff series that features two legs. What team had held the mark?
7. Since 1980, how many horses 
have won the Preakness after skipping the Kentucky Derby?
Answers
1. Ed Walsh struck out 269 in 1908.2. Seattle’s Felix Hernandez in 
2005.
3. Jimmy Johnson won a national 
championship at Miami, Fla., (1987 season) and two Super Bowls with Dallas (1992, 1993 seasons).
4. It was the 1992-93 season.5. Goalie Marc-Andre Fleury, with 
62.
6. The Los Angeles Galaxy had a 
five-goal margin of victory over Real Salt Lake in 2014.
7. Seven — Codex (1980), Aloma’s 
Ruler (1982), Deputed Testamony (1983), Red Bullet (2000), Bernardini (2006), Rachel Alexandra (2009) and Cloud Computing (2017).
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 17, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
ACROSS
1 “Get outta here!”
6 Computers with
Apple cores
10 Designer Ricci14 Slip ’N Slide
maker
15 Peter Fonda’s
title beekeeper
16 Pesky one
17 Insurance giant18 Nat or Natalie19 Verdi title
princess
20 *Moon’s alleged
makeup
23 Respectful
address
24 __ Lee: dessert
brand
25 “South Pacific”
song
27 Red ink item
30 “Yikes!”
32 Fraidy-cat33 Hedging
response
34 Billy Joel’s “__
Always aWoman”
36 Actress
Deschanel of
“New Girl”
39 Cambridge sch.
40 *Indian spiced
drink
42 Spanish “a”43 Old anesthetic45 Lee of Marvel
Comics
46 Cutting sound47 Hits the slopes49 Eur. realm until
1806
50 Puts two and two
together
51 Hangs crudely,
as a dorm poster
54 1982 Disney 
sci-fi film
56 Sis’ counterpart,
and sometime
rival
57 Simple thing to
do ... and what
each starredclue’s answerends with?
62 Charged atoms
64 Stepped (on)65 Heart chambers66 Fierce anger67 Words following
a guesstimate
68 Sea birds
69 Sketched70 Sought-after
private of film
71 Overact
DOWN
1 Pirate’s booty
2 One-named
“Mask” actress
3 Give stars to4 Official
forgiveness
5 Animated Disney
film with aPolynesianheroine
6 Spanish girls7 Soothing gel
ingredient
8 TMZ figure9 Playground
fixture for two
10 Steph Curry’s org.11 *Pre-euro Dublin
currency
12 1976 Olympics
star Comaneci
13 Arcade pioneer21 Sound of
cymbals
22 “My Fair Lady”
role
26 “I think,” in texts27 Thin coin28 Let off, as steam29 *Loofah31 Mets star
Hernandez who
dated Elaine in atwo-part“Seinfeld”
35 Initiated, as a task37 Oklahoma city38 Puppy sounds40 Like fresh chips
41 Beginning of el
año
44 Just __ by: barely
make it46 Holy spot
48 Beau-to-be,
hopefully
51 Classic Ford auto52 Wildly cheering
53 Sportswear
designer Ellis
55 No longer a minor
58 Thing, to Tomás59 Guthrie of folk60 Bagpiper’s attire
61 Let up
63 Stitch
By Howard Barkin©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/18/1707/18/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 18, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Innocents
6 Afternoon tea
accompanier
10 Longtime
shipboard scurvypreventative
14 Piles (of)15 “Yo”16 Matched, in Paris
Match
17 Ring
heavyweights
20 Big cheese21 NYC building that
was Lennon’slast home, with“The”
22 Literary intros
25 “Real Time” host
26 Western ambush
site
27 ’80s voice of
InspectorGadget
30 “You said it!”31 Protest
movement
32 Angus beef?
33 Makes next to
nothing
37 San Jose-to-
Sacramento dir.
38 Uncultivated
land
39 Regarding
40 Navigation tools
42 Grapefruit’s
bigger cousin
44 Common bugs
45 Baroness
Blixen’s penname
46 Women’s
clothing chainfounded onFlorida’s SanibelIsland
48 Like Olympic
racetracks
49 Jack’s spot54 Appear
55 Unnerve
56 Was successful
in
57 “Nothing lived in
him but fear and
hatred”
58 Become undone,
in a way
59 Gets down to
business?DOWN
1 Senegal’s pink-
watered __ Rose
2 Sushi selection
3 Cannes view4 Website-to-
website
connection
5 Embolden6 Ones doing the
dishes
7 Sword handle
8 Maritime
agreement
9 Cagney does it on
stairs in “YankeeDoodle Dandy”
10 Came out
somehow
11 Dolts12 Damon of the
Bourne films
13 Big cat of film18 Wise one19 “Very funny!”22 Seafood order23 Punk rock
surname
24 Hyped-up
25 Transform27 Pub entertainment28 Mark with
blotches
29 “Already?”31 Medieval barriers
34 Hebrew greeting35 Drives back36 Make a personal
connection?
41 On the way42 Softwood tree43 Knockout
couple?
45 Prominent mayor
at the 1968DemocraticConvention46 What’s in your
wallet
47 News headliner
Lewis?
48 “__ With a ‘Z’”:
1972 TV special
50 Military band?51 A, in Avignon52 Photographer
Goldin
53 Board jumpers:
Abbr.
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/14/1707/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYPUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 25 Lost & Found
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Was Ingrid Neel's 2016-17 
campaign good enough to earn himself the honor of best freshman at UF? We debate that in our latest edition of the Alligator Awards. Read on Pg. 14 Deacon wins 2017 Florida Open
Florida men's golf coach JC Deacon won the 2017 Florida Open on Sunday, 
ﬁ  ring a ﬁ  nal-round 68 to ﬁ  nish 13-under-par to win the event by one stroke. The coach earned $15,000 for victory.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsGATORS IN THE MLB
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Since his promotion to the 
New York Mets Class A-advanced 
afﬁ  liate, the St. Lucie Mets, former Gators quarterback Tim Tebow has been playing well.
Through 20 games with the 
team, Tebow is batting .308 with 20 hits, 12 RBIs and three home runs, including a 3-for-5 performance on Monday.
His tenure with St. Lucie  started 
off with a bang, homering on his ﬁ  rst day with the club in the second game of a doubleheader on June 
28. And recently, Tebow was in 
the news again after he hit a walk-off homer in the second game of another doubleheader on July 13.
The former professional football 
player also recorded a hit in 15 of his ﬁ  rst 17 games with the new squad.
Don’t expect a call-up to the 
majors to happen anytime soon, but if Tebow keeps up this level of play, it won’t be long until he continues to rise up the ranks. 
Puk pitches in Futures GameFormer Florida pitcher AJ Puk 
took part in the Futures Game during the MLB All-Star break, where he pitched for Team USA. 
The Cedar Rapids, Iowa, native 
entered the game with two outs in the bottom of the ninth inning and struggled to record the ﬁ  nal out. But after Team World put the tying run on base, Puk got out of the jam, 
securing the win for the U.S.
His troubles in Miami seem to 
be a continuation from his season 
with the Midland Rockhounds, the Double A afﬁ  liate of the Oakland Athletics.
Puk has yet to record a win 
since his promotion on June 16 and boasts a 4.91 ERA and 18.1 innings 
pitched in four starts. Tebow hitting strong, Puk pitches in All-Star Futures Game
The Associated Press
Tim T ebow rests on a dugout railing during the 2017 minor league baseball season with the Columbia Fireﬂ  ies. 
SEE MLB,  PAGE 15When high school defensive backs 
decide to attend the University of 
Florida, they’re actually committing to two different schools.
See, UF has an alter ego connected to 
the football team—one where admittance is even more competitive than the state’s ﬂ  agship learning institution.
Defensive Back University (DBU), a 
title hotly contested between the Gators and rival LSU in recent years, designates the premiere secondary unit in the country.
As I said, admission to DBU is quite 
competitive.
Some fans worry, however, that the 
recent departure of star cornerbacks Jalen Tabor and Quincy Wilson, as well as standout safety Marcus Maye means the Tigers will have the edge in 2017.
Allow me to dispel any such worries.Gators are still DBUHuang Story Short /
Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Less than seven weeks remain 
until Florida kicks off the 2017 
regular season against Michigan at AT&T Stadium. The Gators enter this year as back-to-back SEC East 
champions, notching 13 conference 
wins under coach Jim McElwain since he took over the program in 2015. As always, UF’s success on the 
gridiron this fall will largely depend 
on its roster, a group of players featuring both seasoned veterans and unestablished newcomers. Here is the position preview for players set to play quarterback at Florida this year:
Players: Jake Allen (Fr.), Luke 
Del Rio (R-Jr.), Feleipe Franks (R-Fr.), Jack Ruskell (Fr.), Nick Sproles (R-Fr.), Kadarius Toney (Fr.), Kyle Trask (R-Fr.), Malik Zaire (Gr.)
 Things appeared pretty likely this 
spring that redshirt freshman Feleipe Franks would get the starting nod for the Gators on Sept. 2 against 
Michigan.
He played with the ﬁ  rst-team 
offense during UF’s Orange and Blue Debut on April 7 and thoroughly 
outdueled fellow signal caller Kyle  2017 Florida Gators Position Previews: Quarterbacks
Charles  Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Feleipe Franks stands under center during UF's Orange and Blue Debut on April 7, 2017, at 
McKethan Stadium.
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
ALLIGATOR AWARDS
Staff Report
In this edition of the Alligator Awards, we 
debate which UF freshman was the best of the 
2016-17 season. Sports writers Mari Faiello, Andrew Huang and Morgan McMullen join alligatorSports editors Dylan Dixon and 
Jake Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion to 
debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Dixon: Langworthy’s heroics came up 
big in postseason
The UF baseball team wouldn’t have won 
its ﬁ  rst national championship in program history this year without the services 
of freshman outﬁ  elder/pitcher Austin 
Langworthy. It’s just a simple fact.
The Williston, Florida, native made 54 
starts in Kevin O’Sullivan’s lineup this season, batting .238 with four home runs and 26 RBIs as well as sporting a perfect 1.000 ﬁ  elding percentage. He also made seven appearances on the mound, recording a 3.71 ERA over 17.0 innings pitched.
Those numbers are respectable, but what 
puts him over the top was the clutch gene he displayed during the NCAA Tournament. Langworthy had arguably the best single-game performance of anyone on the Gators roster this season against Bethune-Cookman on the ﬁ  nal day of the Gainesville Regional.
With his team’s postseason life on the 
line, he came out of the bullpen in the third 
inning and threw four scoreless innings of 
relief to keep the game knotted at 0-0. In the bottom of the sixth inning, he then blasted a three-run homer over the right ﬁ  eld wall of McKethan Stadium to give Florida its ﬁ  rst lead of the night.
UF wouldn’t look back from that point on, 
scoring three more runs against the Wildcats to ultimately win the contest 6-1.Langworthy’s heroics continued on into 
the College World Series. The left ﬁ  elder smashed a solo shot against Louisville on 
June 20 in a 5-1 victory against the Cardinals 
and tallied another RBI against LSU in Game 1 of the CWS Finals.
All in all, there’s very little argument 
against Langworthy for being the best freshman at Florida in 2016-17. How can you contest against a guy that helped his team win its ﬁ  rst national championship in 103 years?
Dreilinger: Gardner Jr. stepped up in a 
big way
Why is the Florida Gators football team 
dubbed Defensive Backs University?Because when a spot opens up in the 
secondary, an inexperienced player can always be relied on to ﬁ  ll that role.
And Florida always produces top defensive 
backs for the NFL Draft.
So when Nick Washington suffered a 
season-ending injury against LSU, who did 
coach Jim McElwain turn to for the start in 
Florida’s ﬁ  nal three contests?
None other than standout freshman 
Chauncey Gardner Jr. 
And he proved that coach Mac’s decision 
was the right one.
Long before the Cocoa, Florida, native took 
the ﬁ  eld with the starting defensive squad, he  provided solid minutes as a reserve, making 
15 tackles in UF’s ﬁ  rst 10 games.
Once he got his chance to shine, he 
performed at an even higher level.
In his ﬁ  rst game as a starter against Florida 
State, Gardner Jr. recorded his ﬁ  rst career 
interception and made six tackles, three of which were solo.
In the SEC Championship against 
Alabama, he made a career-high nine tackles 
(four solo, ﬁ  ve assisted).
And in arguably his best performance so 
far in his young collegiate career, Gardner Jr. 
recorded two tackles and two interceptions – one of which was returned for a touchdown – against Iowa in the Outback Bowl. 
His play earned him the title of Outback 
Bowl MVP and put him in the company of Gator great Emmitt Smith as the only true 
freshmen in program history to win a Bowl 
MVP award. 
With defensive backs like Quincy Wilson, 
Marcus Maye and Jalen Tabor leaving for the NFL, DBU is still in good hands with young talent like Gardner Jr. stepping up to ﬁ  ll those roles. Who was Florida’s best freshman of 2016-17?
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Austin Langworthy pitches during Florida’s 6-1 win against Bethune-Cookman on 
June 5, 2017, at McKethan Stadium.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
The best of the rest
Former Gators shortstop 
Nolan Fontana saw the major leagues for just seven games with the Los Angeles Angels 
before being recalled to the 
Triple A afﬁ  liate Salt Lake Bees.
In his short span in the 
MLB, Fontana recorded one hit, which was a home run, and one walk.
With the Bees, the Winter 
Garden, Florida, native is batting .275 with 73 hits, eight 
home runs and 37 RBIs.
Fontana isn’t the only 
former Gator to make it to 
the MLB. Left ﬁ  elder Preston Tucker has alternated from playing with the Houston Astros and their Triple A afﬁ  liate, the Fresno Grizzlies, since 2015. 
But for this season, Tucker 
has been with the Grizzlies, where he has a .267 average with 88 hits, 14 home runs and 63 RBIs.
Outﬁ  elder Matt den Dekker 
is still trying to ﬁ  nd his footing with the Toledo Mud Hens, the Triple A afﬁ  liate of the Detroit Tigers. 
The Fort Lauderdale native 
has 22 hits in 26 games with the Mud Hens and is batting .259 with seven RBIs. In his 
last ten games, however, den 
Dekker has 12 hits, two home runs and four RBIs.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org Trask, completing 8-of-14 passes for 119 yards, one touchdown and zero interceptions.
Coach McElwain declared Franks 
“ahead” of the competition following 
the performance, leading many to 
believe the 6-foot-6 Crawfordville, Florida, native had the job ﬁ  rmly secured.
However, with the recent transfer of 
former Notre Dame quarterback Malik Zaire, the race for the position is back 
up for grabs.
Zaire comes to Gainesville with 
three starts and 17 career appearances 
under his belt as a member of the Fighting Irish. He completed 58-of-98 passes for 816 yards, six touchdowns and zero interceptions over his three seasons in South Bend.
Zaire can also make plays with 
his legs, recording 324 yards and two touchdowns on 72 rushing attempts at Notre Dame, good for an average of 4.5 yards per carry.
He and Franks sit as the two 
frontrunners for the job, but there 
are several other Gators who could 
potentially see time as well.
The aforementioned Trask started 
with the second-team offense during UF’s spring game and completed 6-of-15 passes for 66 yards, zero touchdowns and one interception.
Redshirt junior Luke Del Rio started 
six games last year and threw for 1,358 
yards before injuries forced him to end 
his season early.
Freshman Kadarius Toney showed 
fans this spring why he’s listed on Florida’s ofﬁ  cial roster as an “athlete,” rushing for 74 yards on ﬁ  ve carries as an early enrollee during the Orange and Blue Debut.
And freshman Jake Allen, a 6-foot-
4, four-star pocket passer from Saint Thomas Aquinas High School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, recently arrived on campus last month.Predicted Starter: ZaireDespite only just transferring to 
Florida this summer, expect Zaire to win the starting job. He’s one of only 
two quarterbacks on Florida’s roster 
with actual experience in a Division I college football game, and he’s shown passion and leadership qualities that set him apart from the rest of the competition.
Just ask Marcell Harris, a redshirt 
senior safety who said UF’s quarterback must possess the traits necessary to 
guide the team to new heights.
“That guy under center has to be 
the leader of everything,” Harris said at 
the SEC Media Days. “That’s what we are all looking for. He has to have the trust of the guys around him.”
Franks should still be viewed as 
the Gators quarterback of the future as only a redshirt freshman, but expect 
2017 to be Zaire’s year.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13
MLB,  from pg 13Zaire has completed 58-of-98 career pass attempts Tucker has 14 home runs 
with the Fresno GrizzliesExhibit A: Following the 2015 season, 
Florida also lost three major contributors 
from its secondary.
Vernon Hargreaves III was a lockdown 
star from day one.  He is now a member 
of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
Brian Poole and Keanu Neal also left 
to chase their NFL dreams.  They both 
ended up with the Atlanta Falcons last year.
So, there’s three pretty good players 
that left for the NFL.  Sounds a lot like what’s going on right now, doesn’t it?
I’m going to list two sets of four 
defensive stats, one for the 2015 season and another for last year’s squad.  The stats are, in this order, the Gators national rank in pass yards allowed per game, pass efﬁ  ciency defense, total defense and scoring defense.
2015: 11th, 11th, sixth, and eighth.2016: fourth, third, sixth, and 10th.It should be amazing that there was so 
little drop off, if any, in 2016.  It should, but it isn’t, because the Gators don’t 
regroup their secondary after a personnel 
change—they reload.
Exhibit B: The example above is not 
an isolated incident.  The Gators have been among the nation’s best defending the pass for years and are no strangers to losing stars.
Let's start all the way back with Reggie 
Nelson and Ryan Smith, both stalwarts 
on one of the greatest defensive units in 
school history, who were essential cogs in the 2006 national championship team.  They left, and new faces took over.
Joe Haden, Janoris Jenkins, Ahmad 
Black and Major Wright were key to the defense that stymied the record-setting Oklahoma offense in the 2008 championship victory.  They left, too.
The Gators watched players like Matt 
Elam, Loucheiz Purifoy and Marcus Roberson, among others, come and go.  It didn’t matter, they always bounced back.
Exhibit C: Here is a look at what the 
Gators’ secondary is working with in 2017.
There are four players who have already been holding it down that should 
give Gators fans plenty of conﬁ  dence.
There should be a seamless transition 
at safety with the return of Nick 
Washington and Marcell Harris, both of whom logged extensive time as starters last fall.  Harris was actually the team’s leading tackler.
Senior Duke Dawson was a standout 
at nickelback last year and is projected 
to man one of the starting cornerback 
positions along with sophomore Chauncey Gardner Jr.
Then you have unproven reserves like 
Jeawon Taylor, Joseph Putu and Chris Williamson, who earned his ﬁ  rst career start against Massachusetts last year.
Finally, you have the six-deep class of 
incoming freshman, headlined by four-
star recruits CJ Henderson, Brad Stewart, 
Donovan Stiner and Marco Wilson, the younger brother of Quincy Wilson.
I’m no math major, but it seems likely 
that at least one of those freshmen ﬁ  nds their way onto the ﬁ  eld.  Just ask Haden, Jenkins, Roberson, Hargreaves III, Tabor and Gardner Jr. if the coaches will give freshmen signiﬁ  cant playing time.
The bottom line is, the secondary will 
be just ﬁ  ne.  DBU lives on in Gainesville.
COLUMN,  from pg 13Dawson, Harris, others return
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Marcell Harris celebrates during Florida's 38-28 loss 
against T ennessee on Sept. 24, 2016, at Neyland Stadium.
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 18, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University AvenueFaiello: Kramer towered over the rest 
in 2017
It’s difﬁ  cult to stand out as a freshman at 
UF with the amount talent it has in its sports 
teams. Rachael Kramer made her impact on 
the volleyball team in the 2016 season that 
shows she will be a force to be reckoned with.
The middle blocker from Phoenix, 
Arizona, already stood out from the crowd on her height alone. The average height for a middle blocker in Division I women’s volleyball is 6-foot-1. Kramer is 6-foot-8 and noted as the tallest Gator in program history.
In her freshman season, she had 176 kills, 
24 errors, eight solo blocks and 73 block assists in 88 sets. Her statline was good enough to help her ﬁ  nish second on the team in solo blocks and fourth in kills, sitting behind only rising senior Rhamat Alhassan in both categories.
One of her best matches was when 
the Gators played against Florida State in 
September. UF took a 3-1 set win against the 
Seminoles in Tallahassee. Kramer helped the team with eight blocks, eight kills and zero errors during the match.
On July 12, Kramer was named a 
representative of the U.S. in the upcoming FIVB World Championship in Mexico with incoming teammate Paige Hammons.
Some other highlights from Kramer’s 
freshman campaign include leading the Gators and SEC with a .537 hitting percentage, securing 10-plus points in nine matches, starting the ﬁ  nal 25 matches of the season and being named SEC Freshman of the Week on Sept. 26.
As a rising sophomore, the volleyball 
program will have a lot of time to use Kramer in upcoming seasons. She has proven to be a valuable player and will continue to be a dominant force on the court moving forward.
Huang: Holloway lived ﬁ  rst season in 
the fast lane
At times, sports that aren’t football, 
baseball or basketball don’t garner the attention they deserve.  That being said, I realize that some of you might not know about Grant Holloway.
Allow me to introduce you to the next 
big thing in Gainesville—a guy who also happens to be the Gators’ rookie of the year.
Hailing from Chesapeake, Virginia, 
Holloway is one of the best, and certainly the 
most versatile, members of the Florida men’s 
track and ﬁ  eld program.
He received All-American honors in seven 
events, four during the outdoor season and three during the indoor season.  There was also an overlap of excellence in two of those seven, as Holloway was selected for the long jump and 4x400 relay in both the indoor and outdoor seasons.
Oh, and he had yet another conference sweep by way of the SEC Indoor and Outdoor Freshman Runner of the Year award.
Again, I realize that talking about indoor 
seasons and relays may not hit home, so here is a comparison to help paint a picture of how incredible Holloway was this past 
season.
His extraordinary set of accomplishments 
would be comparable to making the college 
football All-America Team as a running back, wide receiver and return specialist.
If that wasn’t enough, Holloway was also 
a semiﬁ  nalist for the Bowerman Award, the track and ﬁ  eld equivalent of the Heisman Trophy.
The irony is, Holloway turned down an opportunity to play football in order to focus 
on track.
It would seem like he made the right 
choice, and as a result, he made my choice 
for this award a no-brainer.
Ladies and gentleman, I present to you, 
the best freshman of Florida’s 2016-17 campaign, Mr. Grant Holloway.
McMullen: Conﬁ  dence was Neel’s 
scariest weapon
Let’s be honest: how many freshmen on 
this list deﬁ  nitively contributed to a national championship?
Sure, Grant Holloway was a part of a 
dominant track and ﬁ  eld team and Austin Langworthy…umm…hit .238 for the year?
But let’s talk about Ingrid Neel.Ingrid goddamn Neel. 
Coming from Minnesota, Neel may not 
have been prepared for the Florida heat. 
But hot dang, she proved she belonged from her very ﬁ  rst outing, scorching her ﬁ  rst three opponents of the season and helping her team win the ITA Kick-Off Weekend Championship.
Neel went 11-6 against ranked opponents 
for the season in dual matches, including 
taking down No. 17 Jessie Aney of North 
Carolina to clinch the ITA National Indoor Championship for Florida.
For a freshman to accomplish that 
and nothing else on the year would be a remarkable achievement. Neel could have lost every other match, and she’d still be considered a great prospect with a high ceiling.
But guess what. She didn’t.Neel would go on to not only ﬁ  nish 
with an 18-7 record in dual matches, she would also clinch Florida’s seventh NCAA championship by outlasting Stanford’s Taylor Davidson 5-7, 6-3, 6-2. Neel ended up being placed on the Women’s NCAA All-Tournament team with doubles partner Anna Danilina, with the pair rounding up a 
21-3 dual-match record.
So yes, I would have to wholeheartedly 
say that Ingrid Neel, the woman who clinched 
the championship for the Gators, the three-time SEC Freshman of the Week, was the standout freshman at UF this season.. 
Who do you think was the best freshman 
at UF in the 2016-17 season? Vote online at 
alligator.org/sports. 
AWARDS,  from pg. 14Holloway was an All-American in seven events
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Ingrid Neel returns the ball during Florida’s 4-2 win against Oklahoma State on Feb. 
18, 2017, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
