We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorGators set to attend SEC Media Day
Jim McElwain and several Florida players will 
attend the SEC’s annual media convention today at 2 p.m., pg. 13ACSO deputy ﬁ  red
He was arrested in February after GPD said he physically abused a mentally disabled 11-year-old, pg. 3
Lawsuit ﬁ  led against state, Gov. Scott
The lawsuit requests the state pay UF $155 million, pg. 4VOLUME 111 ISSUE 159 TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite graduating from UF last 
Summer, Richard Lainez is spend-
ing his summer ﬁ  ghting on behalf of the students who call the Insti-tute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures 
home.
During the majority of his time 
as an undergraduate, Lainez was 
an ambassador at the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, known to most as La Casita. He said as a non-white student, it was very hard to ﬁ  nd a “home” at UF — but La Casita was the one place that gave 
him comfort.
“I felt like I was with family,” 
the 23-year-old said.
In April 2016, it was announced 
that La Casita and the Institute of 
Black Culture, respectively located 
at 1504 and 1510 W. University 
Ave., would be torn down and re-
built due to a presence of mold, 
termites, moisture and structural 
damage. Originally, construction was set to begin in January and ﬁ  n-ish in Fall, according to Alligator archives.
This week, as a way to express 
outrage over a renovation plan pro-posed by UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs staff, #NoLaIBCita 
has circulated on social media from 
members of La Casita and the IBC. An anonymously created Facebook page, entitled “No La IBCita,” was created July 4.
In recent months, MCDA staff 
members presented La Casita and IBC students with an option to com-
bine the two buildings into a “U” 
shape. Former and current UF stu-dents such as Lainez fear this op-tion will merge cultures as opposed to honoring the two separate races.
“Even though we might have a 
similar story or history, it is not the same story,” Lainez said.
Even though La Casita welcomes 
students of all ethnicities, and not just Latinx, it is speciﬁ  cally repre-sentative of Hispanic and Latino cultures. It should not be combined with the IBC, Lainez said.
On June 28, MCDA hosted a 
meeting to discuss the possible “U” shaped renovation. Some students, including UF microbiology and cell science senior Christopher Wilde, became enraged.
Wilde, a student member on 
a renovation advisory commit-tee, was one student to speak out 
against MCDA at the meeting last 
month. The 21-year-old said MCDA staff has consistently overlooked students’ concerns and have not been transparent during the pro-cess.
The advisory committee, which 
is comprised of faculty, alumni and students, is supposed to provide in-sights and opinions to MCDA staff before they make ﬁ  nal decisions about the renovation. However, 
Wilde said their opinions and con-
cerns have been repeatedly shot down during meetings.
In fact, the advisory commit-
tee was unaware of the webinar agenda, and Wilde said they were shocked to see that their concerns were not presented to the crowd.
Wilde said students involved 
with the #NoLaIBCita movement will host a “teach-in” Tuesday night in Turlington Hall, Room 2319, at 7 p.m. The event’s purpose is to in-form others about La Casita and the 
IBC’s respective histories, with an 
open-dialogue Q&A at the end.
On Wednesday afternoon — at 
the same time the advisory com-mittee will meet with MCDA staff to discuss renovations one ﬁ  nal time before a decision is made — students will march from Turling-ton Plaza to the Reitz Union to raise 
awareness of #NoLaIBCita.
Will Atkins, executive director 
of MCDA, declined to speak until 
after the advisory committee meet-ing Wednesday.
MCDA staff and the core com-
mittee are expected to make a de-cision about the design by July 19.
Although Wilde said there is an 
overwhelming majority of students who favor the two separate build-ings, he believes MCDA staff and the core committee will still choose the “U” shaped building.
“People have been watching this 
with a critical lens, and they can see what’s happening,” Wilde said. “Hopefully, administration will have no room to get around that.”
No matter what MCDA decides 
to do, Wilde said he’s happy to see 
solidarity between the Latinx and 
black community as they continue to ﬁ  ght toward their goal.
“We recognize that we’re stron-
ger together,” he said. “We both deserve independent houses.” 
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgUF students ﬁ  ght to keep ‘La Casita’ and the IBC separate
THE #NOLAIBCITA 
MOVEMENT WILL HOLD A 
‘TEACH-IN’ ON TUESDAY.
Courtesy to the Alligator
The proposed plan to combine the Institute of Black Culture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures buildings. The design was proposed by engineering company DLR Group but is not yet ﬁ  nalized. UF’s Student Affairs and MCDA ﬁ  rst said they wanted one building because they couldn’t afford an elevator, but then said combining them would maximize the space. However, some students believe it’s important to preserve history and honor the sacriﬁ  ces of past students who fought for the buildings to be separate.
BY 2022, UTILITY RATES 
COULD INCREASE BY 
ABOUT 7 PERCENT.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For months, the general manag-
er of Gainesville Regional Utilities 
has told residents that by purchas-ing a $750 million biomass plant, the city could drive down utility 
rates by about 10 percent.
Now, the city-owned utility is 
projecting an increase in rates.
GRU will present its budget pro-posal for the ﬁ  scal year 2018 — Oc-
tober through next September — to the Gainesville City Commission today. The proposal includes a 2 
percent increase in electricity rates 
starting October as well as pro-jected increases through 2022, said GRU spokesperson Lauren Munsey.
Mayor Lauren Poe said the up-
coming increases are the result of a major software update GRU plans to implement.
Poe, who serves as one of seven 
city commissioners, said the update would beneﬁ  t GRU internally and allow for the utility to better serve customers online.“This will allow us to be a 21st-
century utility,” Poe said.
Poe said he and the other city 
commissioners will negotiate with 
GRU to work out the best rate for 
customers and should reach a ten-tative agreement on the budget — and on the exact percentage of the rate increase — by the end of July.
GRU and the City Commission 
still aim to offset rate increases through the possible buyout of the Gainesville Renewable Energy Cen-
ter local biomass plant, Poe said. 
The city estimates that the buyout they’ve offered GREC, worth $750 million, would decrease rates for customers by about 8 to 10 percent.
“Any increase in rates is some-
thing that we want to try to avoid,” Poe said. “That’s why GREC is so 
important.”
Aside from the estimated 2 per-
cent increase in electric utility rates 
set to start October, GRU also proj-ects another 2 percent increase by 2020 and another 3 percent increase by 2022, Munsey said, resulting in an approximate 7 percent increase over the next ﬁ  ve years.
At GRU’s public forum June 13 
in Pugh Hall, utility general man-ager Ed Bielarski said while a GREC buyout would save some residents about 10 percent in electric utili-ties, others would see “as low as six (percent),” depending on where they live, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
On its “Why Buy GREC” web-
site, the utility company emphasiz-
es its focus on charging reasonable rates.
“Our main priority continues to 
be lowering rates for our customers, and we view (GREC) as a crucial step in the right direction,” GRU’s 
“Why Buy GREC” website states.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
GRU says rates will increase by 2 percent in proposal
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published THURSDAYs and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Vinyasa yoga at the Harn
Get in tune with your breath 
and follow it through stand-
ing, flowing, seated and bal-
ancing postures at the Harn Museum of Art. Every Tuesday and Wednesday through Aug. 
2, the Harn will host a free 
vinyasa yoga class from 3:45 
p.m. to 4:45 p.m. Please bring 
your own mat and check in all 
personal items at the security desk. A water station will be provided. For more informa-tion, visit harn.ufl.edu/blank-
space.
Taco Tuesdays at Swamp Head 
Brewery
Every Tuesday, Swamp Head Brewery, located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave., will serve tacos from Cilantro Tacos from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. For more information, visit  swamphead.com or email info@swamphead.com.
Rockeys Comedy Boom
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar’s 
Comedy Boom features live 
stand-up comedy every Wednesday night. Local come-dians open the show for a dif-ferent nationally touring head-
liner each week. Doors open at 
8:45 p.m., and the show begins at 9:30 p.m. Drink specials will accompany the show.
'Red, White & More Red'
The Gainesville Woman's Club 
is hosting the seventh annual "Red, White & More Red" wine tasting benefit at the club, locat-ed at 2809 W. University Ave. The event will be Thursday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. and costs $25. The proceeds will go to Girls Place. Hors d'oeuvres will be served along with dessert, and there will be door prizes and live piano music. For more in-formation or to make a reserva-tion, call 352-376-3901 or email gwcwomansclub@att.net. 
Capoeira at Depot Park
Join professional Capoeirista 
Joshua Broadhead, who goes 
by Mestrando Mico, on Fridays 
from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for free Brazilian Martial Arts classes on the Promenade at Depot Park, located at 200 SE 
Depot Ave. There is no need 
to pre-register. For more in-formation, visit aclgainesville.com or email depotparkgaines-ville@gmail.com.
Creative B Movie Series: ‘The 
Time Machine’Join a panel of scientists, art-ists and special-effects experts as you view and discuss “The 
Time Machine,” a 1960 mov-
ie, at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Every Friday night in July, the museum and 
Creative B will host free mov-
ie screenings and explore the balance between science and art. In honor of the museum’s 100th anniversary, this year’s 
films incorporate a time-travel 
element and include a discus-sion with their expert panel. The event runs from 7 p.m. 
to 10 p.m.  For more informa-
tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/creative-b-time-machine.
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
The Delta TroubadoursThe City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
department is hosting its an-
nual series of free, family-friendly concerts in downtown Gainesville. Featuring local and regional musicians, the 2017 
“Free Fridays” concert series 
will perform each Friday night from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. The series includes a diverse selec-
tion of musical genres, with 
a mix of returning audience favorites and bands new to the series. This Friday’s show features the blues rock garage 
band The Delta Troubadours. 
The concert is hosted on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University 
Ave., and is free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, visit gnvculturalseries.org/free-fridays-concert-series.
Coffee Culture open mic night
Coffee Culture, located at 2020 
NW 13th St., will have an open 
mic night Sunday starting at 7 
p.m. Participants can do any-thing from singing to telling jokes to reciting poems. Anyone 
who wishes to perform must 
sign up by 6:30 p.m.
Florida Museum unveils 
'Discovery Zone'
The Florida Museum of Natural History will open the "Discovery Zone" on Monday. The zone is a new, interactive exhibit de-signed for children ages 8 and 
under. It includes an area for 
infants and toddlers as well as a 
vast array of touchable objects. For more information, visit flori-damuseum.ufl.edu.
Red Dot Sale Event
The Artisans’ Guild Gallery 
is holding its annual Red Dot Sale Event in July and August. 
The gallery features hundreds 
of quality, handcrafted fine arts and crafts created by re-gional artists. The event will be held at the gallery, located 
at 201 SW Second Place. For 
more information, call 352-378-1383 or visit artisansguild-gallery.com.
‘Layers’ exhibit on display
The University Galleries at UF presents “Layers” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until Sept. 22. The ex-
hibition features work by 
Iryna Kanishcheva, a popu-lar street artist. In “Layers,” Kanishcheva explores abstract photography in the study of 
urban art. The show will in-
clude abstract photographs of layers on the 34th Street Wall, fallen paint chips of different 
sizes and other artifacts. An 
opening reception for “Layers” will be Sept. 8 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Gary R. Libby Gallery. The exhibition and 
reception are free and open to 
the public. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu/university-galleries.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mwatkinson@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  90° LOW  72°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Molly Vossler, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
mwatkinson@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Ryan Serpico, rserpico@alligator.org
 Metro Editors Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Ryan 
  Serpico, Molly Vossler, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price
 Copy Editors Mackenzie Duffy, Sara Marino, 
  Gabriella Valenti
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Gloria Li, John Lopez , 
  Carter Page, Bismarie Plasencia, 
  Nicole T anner, John Vianello
 Advertising Clerk  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  Vanessa Puello
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Lauren JohnsonVOLUME 111 ISSUE 159TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
HE WAS ARRESTED 
IN FEBRUARY AFTER 
GAINESVILLE POLICE SAID 
HE PHYSICALL Y ABUSED A 
MENTALL Y DISABLED 
11-YEAR-OLD.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
A deputy of nearly 20 years with the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce was ﬁ  red 
Thursday after an investigation into allega-
tions of criminal conduct and child abuse.
Clinton Carman Ferguson, the 41-year-
old deputy, was arrested Feb. 3 after po-
lice said he physically abused a mentally 
disabled 11-year-old boy, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report.
Ferguson had picked up the boy — who 
has cognitive delay, chromosome abnor-mality, a seizures disorder, peripheral neu-
ropathy and attention deﬁ  cit hyperactivity 
disorder — and his 4-year-old brother for the weekend Jan. 27, according to the re-port. On Jan. 30, the boy’s mother found 
bruising on his back and arms while he was getting undressed. 
According to the report, both the boy 
and his brother told their mother someone 
had hit him. That individual’s name was 
redacted from the report.
Ferguson was placed on paid adminis-
trative leave immediately following the ar-
rest and faced a charge of child abuse, said 
ACSO spokesperson Sgt. Chris Sims. 
Since joining ACSO in 1999, Ferguson 
worked in patrol units and spent about 
seven years on the K-9 unit. Sims said Ferguson’s most recent appointment was 
as a school resource ofﬁ  cer at Fort Clarke 
Middle School.
In January 2014, Ferguson’s ex-wife 
ﬁ  led for injunction for protection against 
domestic violence, according to Alachua 
County Court records.
On June 27, the State Attorney’s Of-
ﬁ  ce dropped the child abuse charge, citing “insufﬁ  cient evidence to sustain a convic-
tion,” according to court records. 
ACSO, however, felt there was enough 
evidence turned up during the investiga-
tion to justify ﬁ  ring Ferguson. Sims said a 
monthslong investigation revealed a “pre-
ponderance” of evidence pointing to Fer-guson’s criminal conduct that led to his ﬁ  ring.
“(The State Attorney’s) act of not pur-
suing a case doesn’t mean that a person 
is innocent of a crime, or that they didn’t 
commit that crime,” Sims said. “It’s just that the state doesn’t believe they can prove it beyond a reasonable doubt.” 
Aside from the investigation, Sims said 
Ferguson’s arrest alone was grounds for the ﬁ  ring per ACSO policy. If a deputy is arrested for criminal conduct, or if the deputy faces criminal charges, Sims said 
it’s within the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce’s right to im-
mediately ﬁ  re the deputy. 
“Inevitably, that day we could have 
ﬁ  red him,” Sims said, referring to Fergu-
son’s Feb. 3 arrest.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Right: Former Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce Deputy Clinton Ferguson in 
January 2016 with his former police dog Vader. Ferguson was ﬁ  red on Thursday after an investigation into allegations of criminal conduct and child abuse. 
ACSO deputy ﬁ  red after child abuse charge dropped
Courtesy to the Alligator4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
By Marcela Astudillo
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Turlington Plaza, Brandon 
Telg held a sign that read, “Tell me 
your story for $1.”
The sign was to promote his 
nonproﬁ  t organization, Self Nar-
rate, which is a storytelling group in 
Gainesville.
In the Fall, they will hold a one-
day conference at UF where people will speak about their experiences 
within their professional industries to 
help others learn.
The UF graduate said he and his 
co-founder, Jaron Jones, wanted to make an organization that would help the Gainesville community.
“I had an identity crisis in college 
because I didn’t know who I wanted 
to be,” Telg said. “Our conference is 
going to make students realize that everything is a learning experience.”The conference is called 
Story:GNV 2017, and it will take place Oct. 21 in Heavener Hall in the Warrington College of Business Ad-ministration.
There will be nine guest speakers 
who will talk about business, health and education.
“It’s about people who are pas-
sionate about sharing what they do and what they want to do better with those who don’t know where to start,” Telg said.
He said there will be activities be-
tween sessions to provide a network-ing opportunity for participants. 
Lisa D’souza, the director of the 
Warrington College Career and Lead-ership program, said Telg reached out to her about speaking in the con-ference because of a story-based proj-
ect she made for freshman business 
students.
She said her speech, “Teaching Diversity and Resilience Through Sto-
ry,” will be on teaching her students 
about diversity and failure.
D’souza said she chose Heavener 
Hall as the location for her project and suggested the conference be in the same place.
“A traditional college experience is 
one of many ‘ﬁ  rsts’ for my students,” 
she said. “I’d like for attendees to in-
corporate what they learn from these stories into their work and lives.”UF to host industry storytelling conference in OctoberBy Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Filed under the name of two recent 
graduates, a lawsuit is demanding the 
state of Florida pay UF more than $155 
million for unfulﬁ  lled donation matches.
On June 30, under the name of UF 
graduates Alexis and Ryan Gefﬁ  n, a Mi-
ami lawyer ﬁ  led a class action complaint 
against Gov. Rick Scott, the Florida State 
Board of Education and several others. 
The lawsuit is requesting the state pay 
Florida state schools including UF, Miami Dade College and Florida International 
University for the more than $1 billion 
they promised they’d match from philan-thropy.
“The Governor and the Legislature, 
through amendments to the four match-ing statutes in 2011, conceded that at that time the State’s backlog of matching funds due to colleges and universities was over $200 million,” the lawsuit said.
The lawsuit states that the state of 
Florida owes Miami Dade College $60 mil-lion and FIU $42 million.In the ’70s, well before the country’s 
economic downswing in 2011, Florida 
joined other states in a donation matching 
movement, according to the Miami Her-ald. Now, according to the lawsuit, the education of students from these universi-ties is being harmed by both the state and 
governor.
According to the lawsuit, the state is 
able to hold the money since they aren’t 
required to pay if the budget comes up 
short. This has been the situation since 
2008. The lawsuit states that in 2011, the statutes were further amended to say the matches were suspended, and the state has allocated the money elsewhere.
“While recognizing the importance to 
the State and its citizens of high quality public education at the undergraduate and graduate levels, Florida’s elected of-
ﬁ  cials have not publicly acknowledged 
that the State has defaulted on its obliga-tions under the matching gifts statutes,” the lawsuit said. 
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgLawsuit demands state pay 
UF more than $155 million
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly a year since UF’s star wide receiver 
Antonio Callaway was cleared in his Title IX 
sexual assault investigation, UF is still dealing with the fallout.
The university paid more than $170,000 in 
legal fees during the Callaway case, and since January the Department of Education’s Ofﬁ  ce for Civil Rights has been conducting an ongoing investigation on how the university handled the 
case, said UF spokesperson John Hines.
Between August and 
April, UF consulted legal ser-
vices from O’Melveny & My-ers LLP, an internationally 
prominent law ﬁ  rm based in Los Angeles. The ﬁ  rm’s rev-enue in 2015 totaled more than $689 million.
For about nine months 
worth of services from 
O’Melveny & Myers, Hines said UF was billed $172,265.71.
Hines said UF began working with the 
O’Melveny & Myers ﬁ  rm by choice of Jamie Lewis Keith, UF’s former general counsel. Keith resigned May 31 due to an internal investigation regarding her role as the university’s top legal adviser, according to Alligator archives.
Since April, UF began doing its own legal 
work for the federal government’s ongoing in-vestigation, Hines said.
“Their hourly rate was high, and we were 
able to complete the work in-house,” Hines said.
In December 2015, a woman accused Calla-
way of sexual assault, launching a Title IX sexu-al assault investigation the following month.
Callaway was cleared August 2016 after a 
third-party hearing ofﬁ  cer Jake Schnickel, an attorney and former UF athlete and football booster, reviewed the investigation report, text messages between Callaway and the woman and other documents, according to archives.
On Aug. 10, Callaway’s accuser ﬁ  led a fed-
eral complaint against UF for mishandling the case, according to the Tampa Bay Times.
While he was still employed by UF, former 
Title IX coordinator Chris Loschiavo was in-volved in Callaway’s case. In August, he was ﬁ  red for purchasing pornography on his work computer.
Callaway, now a 20-year-old UF junior, is on 
the 2017 active roster for the Florida Gators.
“The (federal) investigation is still on-going,” 
Hines said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgUnder Title IX investigation, 
UF spent more than $170,000
Callaway
TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Kianna Brown
Alligator Contributing Writer
Every morning, Jason Ferrell 
wakes up and believes today could 
be the day he changes aquatic farming forever.
After years of teaching students 
and performing weed manage-ment research, Ferrell was named the new director for UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences 
Center for Aquatic and Invasive 
Plants.
The center 
is a research, teaching and extension unit 
that develops environmentally sound methods for managing aquatic and nat-
ural weeds.Ferrell, who starts his new posi-
tion Friday, was appointed by Jack 
Payne, UF’s senior vice president for agricultural and natural sci-ences.
Ferrell earned his bachelor’s 
and master’s degrees in plant and 
soil science from the University of 
Kentucky. He earned his doctorate in agronomy from the University of Georgia in 2003, and in 2004 he began working as a weed scientist and assistant professor of agrono-my at UF.
After working with invasive 
plants for so long, he said his ex-
perience enhanced his interest and 
awareness.
Ferrell said he has enjoyed his 
time as a faculty member, but he found himself gravitating more to-ward management. He said he un-derstands how much people and animals depend on native plants to grow and reproduce.
“The things that I’m really look-
ing forward to when moving to the center is having the opportu-nity to really direct and empower programs — not just research pro-grams, but the entire program,” 
Ferrell said.
As a director, Ferrell’s job is 
to promote all of the center’s pro-
grams. He said he can help support the different scientists and their work by putting them in contact with clientele to increase funding.
As a short-term goal, Ferrell 
said he wants to help increase the 
center’s collaboration with outside 
clientele, such as state agencies, and help increase communication among scientists at the center.
As a long-term goal, he said he 
wants to elevate the reputation of the center and its scientists.
“I’m looking forward to having the opportunity to direct and help promote the center and all the sci-ences that are there,” he said.
Ferrell said he wants to con-
tinue the work from the various scientists as a team to develop a management plan for weeds and 
help preserve the state’s natural ar-
eas. He also said he wants to be of service to other staff.
He said invasive plants are a 
major part of weed science in Flor-ida, with the state being uniquely situated to have a number of inva-sive plants.
He said this is because of its 
climate and the number of ports of entry, including Miami, Tampa and Jacksonville, that help inva-sive plants make their way into the state.
“I would like to make everyone 
aware that we are the world lead-ers in invasive plant management,” Ferrell said.
Ferrell has received several 
honors and awards, including out-standing extension specialist, re-searcher of the year by the Florida Cattlemen’s Association and weed scientist of the year by the Florida 
Weed Science Society.
Luke Flory, a UF IFAS assis-
tant professor, said Ferrell brings 
a fresh perspective to the position, with a wealth of knowledge on weed management and years of ex-perience in the industry.
“He was one of the first people 
I met at UF six years ago and has 
been a good friend and mentor as 
I have progressed as a researcher,” Flory said. “(Ferrell) has had a lot of success in academia but remains grounded and approachable and willing to help faculty who are ear-lier in their careers.”
New director leads Center for Aquatic and Invasive Plants
Ferrell
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Out of the 26 articles that UF 
and the Graduate Assistants Unit-
ed labor union must agree upon for their  new contract, only two remain.
Graduate assistant student’s 
pay, a critical piece of GAU and 
UF’s contract, had an initial dead-line of June 30. Disappointed by UF’s “placeholder” counterpro-posal from last week, GAU agreed 
to push past the deadline to reach 
a final agreement on stipends after nearly two months. 
Negotiations for the three-year 
contract have been in the works for more than six months. Gradu-ate student stipends have been in negotiation since May.
At a June 27 meeting at Pugh 
Hall, UF’s chief bargainer Bill Connellan said he put down a “placeholder” counterproposal and asked GAU for an additional couple of weeks so UF could final-ize an official counterproposal.
Connellan’s team and GAU 
agreed to meet Thursday.
“We have to figure out how to 
put together a package that makes 
sense,” Connellan said. “It’s a 
very complicated package.”
GAU spokesperson Charles 
Shields said the union intention-ally left stipend talks for later — putting down their first proposal in May — because they under-stood UF would first need the State Legislature to set a budget 
before talking pay for graduate as-
sistants. But since Gov. Rick Scott approved the state budget June 2, Shields said he’s unsure of what’s causing UF’s current delay. 
“The budget’s been signed, 
the budget’s done, everything’s in place,” the 30-year-old UF po-litical science doctoral candidate 
said. “Now, I don’t know what’s 
taking them so long.”
GAU’s proposal to UF included 
an increase from the minimum sti-pend of $15,000 a year to $16,000 for a 20-hour graduate assistant work week. Shield said the pro-posal also requests an additional $800 stipend raise for each gradu-ate assistant and that both pay raises would begin Aug. 1 rather 
than the traditional Jan. 1 start 
date.
However, the “placeholder” 
counterproposal Connellan and UF introduced June 27 outlined a Jan. 1 start date to raises, and Shields said there was no increase in the minimum stipend and only a $610 stipend raise for each grad-
uate assistant.
“We obviously were not going 
to accept that offer,” Shields said. 
“It didn’t really address any of our concerns.”
GAU has repeatedly said that 
for the nearly 4,000 UF graduate-student employees within the union, the issue of stipends would 
be one of the most contentious 
articles to negotiate, second to health care.
Connellan said the purpose of 
introducing the counterproposal was to gauge which parts of the stipend issue were most pressing. 
“(We wanted) to indicate the 
areas where they were very inter-ested and what we were willing to do in the format that they were 
talking about,” Connellan said. 
As of now, stipends is the last 
main article UF and GAU need to 
reach a tentative agreement on. The contract’s other 25 articles all have tentative agreements, with the exception of the definitions article, which Shields said is typi-cally left last and is not of concern. 
GAU also tried to get Sum-
mer coverage for graduate assis-tants who graduate in Spring, but Shields said after a lot of back and forth they realized there wouldn’t be a feasible way to accomplish this because GatorGradCare is strictly employer-based. 
“There’s just no provision that 
makes it legal for (the university) as they’re constructed to continue providing employer-based health insurance to people who are no longer employees,” he said. 
With the new contract still in negotiation past June 30, the old contract remains in effect because both parties have agreed to con-tinue negotiating, he said. 
Once tentative agreements are 
reached on all 26 articles, GAU will organize a referendum for graduate assistants to vote and ap-prove the new GAU-UF contract, which will last through July 2020, according to Alligator archives. 
Stipends is the one article that 
is negotiated every year, he said.
Shields said this year is the 
third stipends negotiation he’s been involved in since joining the bargaining team in 2015. The past two stipends talks, he said, did not go past deadline, though they’ve always come close. 
He’s confident they can reach a 
final agreement at the next meet-ing, but he said GAU won’t rule 
anything out.
“We’re going to see what they 
come up with by July 13,” he said.
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org
Stipend talks between GAU and UF delayed past JuneThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Molly Vossler
EDITORMary-Lou Watkinson 
Ryan Serpico
MANAGING EDITORSAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
I write a column every week, and many of these 
weeks, I have a hard time picking a topic. Some-times topics just come to me, but often, they don’t. 
To remedy this, sometimes I search Google for top-
ics. Sometimes I take the advice of a fellow col-
umnist and Google search, “What are Americans angry about today?” I did that this week, and I was greeted by 
a slew of articles about why Americans are so angry. 
There was nothing too specific that day, but essentially, a bunch of news outlets wrote pieces about why Ameri-cans are so angry about many different things.
If I’ve noticed anything throughout my 20 years as a 
citizen of this country, it is that Americans are a rather angry bunch. 
Why are we so angry? I think we can all agree that 
we’ve been told it is not good to spend too much of our 
lives being angry. Negative feelings can stick around 
and turn us into negative people. Optimism is an admi-rable trait, and generally, it’s difficult to be an optimist if you’re angry all the time.
Humans tend to default to a slightly positive mood. 
If we are not presented with any negative stimuli, we are more than likely going to be in a good mood, even if nothing particularly good happens to us. This is good, right? Being too positive can cause us to make danger-
ous decisions and ignore negative things we should pay 
attention to. Being too negative can cause us to engage in antisocial behavior and not function at our optimal level.
Yet, if you had to pick one, you should probably pick 
positivity over negativity. It’s better for your health, the health of those around you and the future of our species. This is probably why we tend to lean toward positivity — it serves us better. You may argue that the 
lives of humans have gotten a whole lot easier over the 
past several generations, so it may be easier for us to be happy. You wouldn’t be wrong, and I wouldn’t argue this is a bad thing.
So why are we, the people of the U.S., so angry? 
There has been plenty of research to prove that anger is not the best place on the mood spectrum to settle. You see, I would argue that the anger many Americans feel isn’t so much blind anger as pointed dissatisfaction.
The difference to me is expectation of change. An-
ger, in my mind, is merely a feeling. It is not neces-sarily felt alongside a desire to change anything, but it merely serves to show us and others that we are upset. Dissatisfaction is felt with the potential to change. It 
serves to show that we are not OK with some situation 
and wish to change it. I won’t say that every American who is angry is feeling dissatisfied, but when I look for column topics, this is the anger I am looking for. We 
should strive to be positive, but in my mind, this anger 
is positive.
Without this anger, we have no motive for change. 
We have no motive to feed the hungry, find a way to make health care a right rather than a privilege, close 
the gender pay gap, fix our broken foster care and pris-
on systems or fight for equality. We wouldn’t feel the need to make the world a better place. It’s OK to be an-gry. Without it, we would plateau, and that is not some-
thing we can afford to do. Of course, I’d love to Google 
search, “What are Americans angry about today?” and see zero results because we have achieved equality and satisfaction for everyone. But until that happens, get angry. Be dissatisfied, because without you, there is no 
hope for a positive future. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a psychology and journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.Feelings of anger are not necessarily bad thingsColumnThe Confederate 
flag is nothing 
to be proud of
Last weekend, in Charlottesville, Virginia, members and 
supporters of the Ku Klux Klan protested the Charlottes-ville City Council’s decision to remove a statue honoring Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. The rally was met with even more protesters denouncing the antiquated beliefs of 
the KKK.
This event served as an unpleasant reminder that even in 
2017, heinous groups like the KKK still exist, and this intolerance is not a thing of the past.
Every day, we are exposed to racism and discrimination. A 
prominent example of our ignorance is the nonchalant use of the Confederate flag, something we see frequently in Florida.
The Confederate flag, which is often flown by members of 
the KKK, has long been viewed as a symbol of the South. Those 
who raise the star-crossed banner associate it with family values. 
People who consider themselves “country” often raise and wear the flag with the same amount of care as a sorority girl flying an Alpha Kappa Alpha flag at the beach. They do it with pride and view the flag as a representation of who they are. Nothing more.
The issue with this form of Southern pride is that the Con-
federate flag is not something Americans should be proud of. It represents a dark time in American history, and continuing to fly it is a disgrace and a disservice to many Americans.
The Confederate flag originated during the Civil War when it 
served as a badge of the Southern states. Mind you, the Civil War ended in 1865, and the South lost. Strangely enough, Americans are still found waving it high and proud.
Confederates believed African-Americans did not deserve to 
be treated as people. They believed it was acceptable to enslave, beat, starve and generally degrade them. Southerners felt so strongly about this that many of them risked their own lives in battle just to defend their right to own slaves.
While we realize the Civil War was not entirely about slavery, 
it was certainly a main point.
Consider World War II. Although the entire war was not about 
demolishing the Jewish people, people still have the decency and common sense to not fly the flag of Nazi Germany in 2017. It’s a part of history we all wish to forget.
Similarly, slavery is a part of American history we should be 
ashamed of. It is not something we should celebrate and flaunt.
The Confederate flag symbolizes nothing more than slavery 
and oppression. It was the emblem of hatred and ignorance, and continuing to exhibit such a message makes us no better than our ancestors who created it.
You may think this is dramatic. You may think this is another 
liberal rant and that it’s OK to use the flag because you, yourself, aren’t racist. You may think people are used to it by now and don’t feel threatened when they see the flag. You may think these things because you’ve never been oppressed.
For those who have never been faced with oppression, it can 
be hard to understand the fear that minorities face every day. When you fly the flag, you’re broadcasting a reminder to the mil-lions of African-Americans and other minorities in the U.S. that only more than 150 years ago, they weren’t considered a person in their country. And even 150 years after they’ve gained their right to be considered a human, they are still fighting for respect.
The Confederate flag is much more than your way to show 
Southern pride. When you fly the flag, consider what you’re say-ing. Consider who you’re hurting.EditorialThe Republic of India is the 
world’s second most populous country and largest democra-
cy. It will also prove to be the 
key to the U.S.’s survival as 
the world’s sole global hegemon and the preservation of the current global power 
structure.  
The U.S. projects more power across 
the globe, both conventional and nuclear, 
than any other nation. It spends more on its military than its next eight rivals com-
bined. Its economy is the largest in terms 
of nominal GDP by more than $7 trillion and has been the largest for more than a century. It exercises so much control 
in international affairs and trade it is of-
ten characterized as the "world’s police-man." Its currency is exchanged globally and is the basis for numerous currencies abroad, and it is home to earth’s premiere 
financial market. These factors solidify the 
U.S.’s status as a true superpower and ap-pear promising for the maintenance of the global status quo. But one rising power 
threatens this world order.  
China possesses the world’s largest 
population and the second highest nomi-nal GDP (with a growth rate of 
more than triple the U.S.’s) and the largest GDP when measured 
for purchasing power parity (a 
more relevant statistic when measuring standard of living). Its military may not be able to ri-
val the U.S.’s in terms of conven-
tional warfare, power projection or overall spending, but it is spe-cifically equipped to find and exploit the weaknesses in its greatest rivals’ armed 
forces. China has emphasized investment 
in cyber warfare, and its missiles are de-signed to penetrate the hulls of the U.S. Navy’s strongest aircraft carriers.
If current geopolitical trends continue, 
China is poised to eventually rival, and possibly replace, the U.S. as the world’s global hegemon. China’s GDP growth and military investment will allow it to at least 
carve out a rival sphere of influence in 
East Asia and possibly further. The U.S. realistically could counter this trend by recognizing and tapping into the enor-
mous potential of India as a global mili-
tary, economic and diplomatic ally. This might enable the U.S. to counter China’s dramatic rise. 
India’s economy and population are in-
creasing at among the most rapid rates in the world (faster than China’s), and their government’s creation was modeled after the U.S.’s democratic principles, making it 
the perfect potential diplomatic ally for the 
U.S. However, India kept the U.S .at arm’s length during the Cold War. As the U.S. developed strong dip-lomatic relations with Pakistan 
(India’s fiercest competitor), 
India drew closer to the Soviet Union. India also resents the success of the Pakistani nuclear 
program, which is largely at-
tributable to the U.S. India and the U.S. have also differed on 
economic principles as India has, until re-cently, been a proponent of more social-
ist economic practices. These factors, as 
well as India’s high level of government corruption, hinder the two countries’ re-lationships today and will continue to be 
obstacles diplomatically.
China and India are historically region-
al rivals, with active territorial disputes and populations who actively distrust 
and fear imminent war with each other. India complains of unfair Chinese market restrictions, which create a wide trade im-
balance between the two nations. More 
than half of the Indian population feels threatened by China’s rise. Politicians in India disagree over whether to take a firm stance toward China or to promote the friendly, competitive nature of the current 
relationship.  
As China’s power increases, India will 
be forced to either rapidly invest in its 
military or find a strong military ally ca-
pable of helping it protect its interests in 
the region. The U.S., which will also be looking to counter China’s rise and has the only military capable of doing so, should graciously take advantage of any possible 
alliance with India. As the global super-
power, the U.S. may have to initiate such a change in the global diplomatic order, which will be resisted by several other na-
tions. Such an alliance would prove mu-
tualistic in preserving the current global balance of power and resisting China’s ris-ing influence, serving the interests of both nations. The combination of the U.S.’s and 
India’s populations, militaries and econo-
mies would prove effective in containing the threat of China. The current Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, who has 
enjoyed favorable relations with the U.S., 
is poised to be the first Indian leader in decades who might be receptive to such an alliance.  
Jack Story is a UF graduate. His column 
appears on Tuesdays. Follow him on Twit-
ter @TheRealStory6.TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
A US-India alliance could be key for the US to remain a global superpowerColumn
“If current geopolitical 
trends continue, China is 
poised to eventually rival, 
and possibly replace, the 
U.S. as the world’s global 
hegemon.""The U.S., which will also be 
looking to counter China’s 
rise and has the only military 
capable of doing so, should 
graciously take advantage 
of any possible alliance with 
India."Jack Story
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
Letter to the Editor
I was an ambassador with Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs for four semesters, where I worked exclusively at the Institute of Black Culture for three of those semesters. I chose to stop working for MCDA once it became 
apparent that many of the department’s actions didn’t align with the values that they promote. What is happening now with the renovation of the institutes is a prime example of how MCDA actively acts against the best interests of the students they claim to advocate for. Combin-ing the IBC and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, or La Casita, is not only working to erase the histories of the black and Latinx com-
munities at UF, but also to further disregard 
the needs and concerns of students of color within a predominantly white institution.
The renovation process has been neither 
transparent nor inclusive from the beginning. Students were asked to voice what they want-ed to see in the new institutes, all the while unaware that our voices would only matter concerning the furnishings of the institutes, not the structure of the buildings nor the staff residing in the spaces. Pulling students of color in and telling them their voices and stories matter, then shutting them out and silencing 
them once they become too loud 
or push too hard has been com-mon practice within MCDA, and it has been much of the same with the renovation process. Student criticism has been met with ridicule, indifference and disregard from staff and ad-ministration, and students who serve on the advisory committees have consistently been 
shut out from key decision-making processes.
I would not be who I am today had it not 
been for the space the IBC provided me to ex-
plore and develop my blackness, boldly and unapologetically. Such a level of candor, kin-ship and cultural appreciation as I have been honored to enjoy within the past two years can only be guaranteed through having two spaces that are independent of each other and therefore equipped with the ability to serve the unique needs of each community. UF is only continuing to send the message that it is not their priority to ensure that black 
and Latinx students feel valued and 
included by trying to encroach on what is for many the only safe space they have on campus. 
MCDA has put out a survey 
where students can voice whether 
they prefer the “U” shaped design or two sepa-rate buildings. I have submitted a response to said survey, but being that the survey is com-
pletely biased against two separate buildings, 
I’d much rather voice my opinion here, loud and clear:
Combining the IBC and La Casita into one 
building is disrespecting black and Latinx stu-dents at the university as well as the brave students before us who fought hard and risked their livelihoods to ensure that those spaces were there for students like me as well as those who will come after me.
Coded language such as “preserving the 
spirits of the institutes” will not sufﬁ  ce. The institutes need to be preserved as two separate spaces that serve two different communities 
with different cultures, needs and goals. 
“Diversity and inclusion” has been and will 
continue to be a sham at UF if staff and ad-
ministration don’t listen to the students these spaces are meant to serve.
In honor of the brave students who were 
willing to sacriﬁ  ce their education for students like me, I refuse to let the university take away the space that has been vital to my college suc-
cess and the success of so many of my peers.
MCDA can uphold the wishes of black and 
Latinx students by maintaining the integrity of 
the institutes as two separate entities. If not, I and other students will choose to honor the true history of the institutes and ﬁ  ght for the respect and regard that we deserve.
#NoLaIBCasita
Ben Anderson / Alligator Staff
In April 2016, it was announced that “La Casita” and the Institute of Black Culture would be rebuilt due to a presence of mold, termites, moisture and structural damage.
MCDA needs to listen to concerns of black and Latinx students regarding renovations
Khyra Keeley
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
ARE EXPENSIVE...
Contact Alligator Advertsing 352-376-4482EMPTY BEDS  
Let the Alligator help you 
PRE-LEASE for Fall. Our readers are your future residents.
Contact your sales rep today, and let incoming 
students know you’re ready for businessFINAL DEADLINE Jul y 28
Save 5% on your advertisementJUNE 9 
Save 10%SUBMIT AD 
BY JUL Y 7
and save 7%
Let incoming students know you’re ready for business
352.376.4482 advertising@alligator.org
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Participants in the Mississippi Freedom Project meet Fred Levin, after whom the Levin College of Law is named, and Samuel Proctor’s son, Mark Proctor, in Mississippi. 
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Students in the Mississippi Freedom Project help clean the Watkins Street Cemetery in the Mississippi Delta. The students borrowed weed whackers from locals to clear the area.
By Adam Turner
Alligator Staff writer
In late June, 13 visibly shaken 
UF students ate dinner at a South-
ern plantation ﬁ  lled with Confeder-ate memorabilia.
UF’s Mississippi Freedom Proj-
ect, a part of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, allowed stu-dents and faculty to take an eight-day trip to the Mississippi Delta to interview participants of the civil rights movement.
The plantation was just one of 
the stops on the trip, which marked 
the 10th anniversary of the MFP, 
said Venetia Ponds, the trip coordi-nator.
“The students thought they were 
going to get a tour of the plantation but were shaken when they ended up eating lunch there,” she said.
Ponds said the MFP was found-
ed to record activists’ tales from the 
civil rights movement in Mississippi.
She said the state was one of the most violent parts of the deep South 
during the ‘60s because of the high activity by the Ku Klux Klan.
One story Ponds felt stood out 
was about a group of hot rod racers known as the black dot gang.
She said the gang was so secre-
tive that up until now, the only thing anyone knew about them is that they raced the fastest cars in the state.
However, MFP recently discov-
ered that they also had a ham radio to keep tabs on KKK activity. When-ever the KKK planned to burn down a house or kill someone, members of the gang rushed over and saved 
the targeted people.
Paul Ortiz, the director of the 
oral history program, said the goal 
of MFP is to make sure the stories of the civil rights movement continue to exist.
“The mission is to document the 
history of the civil rights movement over time as well as the unﬁ  nished 
legacies,” he said.
UF has been coming to the del-ta for 10 years and have therefore 
gained notoriety in the community, Ortiz said.
“Now that we’ve been there for 
10 years, people know that we’re there and that we have a long term commitment about telling the his-tory of the area,” he said. “Once they ﬁ  nd out UF will be in the Mis-sissippi Delta, they call us because they have stories to tell.”
@ﬂ  adam98
aturner@alligator.org
UF group visits Mississippi to record civil rights storiesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●
Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 
mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad 
student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-14-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-
9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-
167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
★MOVING SALE: ★
★65" TV, ★deep freezer, ★baby swing, 
carrier, stroller, carseat diaper container, 
stand/bouncer, ★wall frames, ★clothes, 
★office chairs. Call 352-256-9491, Mon-Sat    
7-11-1-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-14-25-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-14-17-70-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-14-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-14-17-25--11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-14-17-25--11
8-14-17-25--11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-14-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-14-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-14-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-14-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-15-17-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-14-25-131For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-14-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-14-17-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Bedroom/2 Bath Apartments. Four blocks 
from UF. Lease starting August 2017 for $899 per month. Washer and dryer included. Call Mitchell Realty at 352-374-8579.    7-13-17-15-2
** LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION **
1 and 2 bedroom apartments all located close to UF and Downtown. All unique and some with paid utilities. Call 352-870-2760.    8-21-177-13-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edTUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-14-17-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be enrolled in classes at the
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
first of August
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Designated drivers are the greatest
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  8-14-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     8-14-17-94-14
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Part-Time Manager/Cashier
No Experience Necessary
Naked Waitress/Dancer
Auditions Ongoing **24/7 OPEN**
7-20-20-14
Content Writer. P/T. The primary focus is on content for web pages, blogs & social posts. Great opportunity for journalism students. sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com or (352) 339-3156. $9.5/h     7-11-17-5-14
CARPET CLEANING TECH
WANTED - FTClean driving record, clean criminal history. Call 352-396-4207     7-13-17-5-14
Caregiver(s) for Active Quadriplegic
2 to 3 Part Time Caregivers needed12-16 hrs week / $17-$20 hr / 6-10AMAssist w/ADL activities. CNA or higherDetails: caregiverprovider@cox.net    7-11-17-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
207 SE 2 Pl, Gainesville  |  352-338-0002ALL-STARS
DOWNTOWN
LIVE13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-14-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-14-17-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
1.  Blotchy, irregular 
1.  Parody5.  ____ off
2.  Against6.  ____ cheddar 
3.  ____ watch7.  Skilled
4.  ProductionTSOTPY
RAISETRATEP
PHASR
SPOODEP
ADNROOTRADIOT
UUTOTPANSWERS: 1A-Spotty  5A-Taper  6A-Sharp  7A-Adroit
1D-Satire  2D-Opposed  3D-Tornado  4D-Output  B-Pop-Tarts7-11-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TMS - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1400, Chicago, Ill. 60611 or DLHoytaol.com. @JUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ - ____ were first 
introduced in 1964.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Like a rough
winter
6 Opera number
10 “Beat it!”
14 Nebraska city on
the Missouri
15 “Shoot!”16 Bear whose bed
was too hard
17 Like granola bars18 Arabian sultanate19 “College
GameDay” airer
20 “Hush”
23 Funnyman
Caesar
24 It’s often heated
up for dinner
25 Table salt
additive
28 Banishment30 FYI relative
31 Cincinnati
ballplayer
32 “Hush”36 Cathedral area39 Ocean west of
Eur.
40 Murray or
Roddick of tennis
fame
41 “Hush”46 Big bird Down
Under
47 Pizza __
restaurant
48 Ready to pour
51 Forbidden
actions
53 Payroll IDs55 Lav of London57 “Hush”60 “Shake a leg!”62 Pakistan
neighbor
63 Despicable
character
64 Painter Chagall
65 Fictional sleuth
Wolfe
66 Tacked on
67 Hathaway of
“Interstellar”
68 Olympian’s goal69 Marsh stalks
DOWN
1 Basketball
targets
2 Charlotte __:
U.S. Virgin
Islands capital
3 Like adult movies4 __ butter:
cosmetic
moisturizer
5 Space pilot who
insists, “I take
orders from justone person: me”
6 Photoshop
softwaredeveloper
7 Budget noodle
dish
8 Baghdad’s land
9 Retirement
income source
10 Radar gun
reading
11 Like some
durable skillets
12 Smartphone
download
13 Almond-colored
21 Fairly matched22 Where Grant
Wood’s
“AmericanGothic” house is
26 Geeky type27 Jacuzzi effect29 Inventor’s spark30 “__ Ha’i”: “South
Pacific” song
33 Ambassador’s
asset34 E*TRADE
purchase: Abbr.
35 Light bulb unit
36 In __: moody37 Mountain cat38 Tough to budge42 Small liquor
amount
43 Giving the boot44 Forbidden action
45 Completely cut
off
49 Refer (to)50 Self-assured
52 Postal scale unit
53 Hairbrush target54 Church council
56 Pages for
opinions
58 Cookie shaped
like two of its
letters
59 Biked, e.g.60 Nashville awards
gp.
61 Guy
By Patti Varol
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/11/1707/11/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 11, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Itsy-bitsy critter
5 Caroler’s
accoutrement
10 Farthest from the
hole
14 Slangy “Got
that?”
15 Izu Islands city16 Soda opener?17 Thief at a
sleepawaycamp?
19 Red cap?20 Vivid dye21 Kibbutz
entertainment
22 End sections of
some Greekpoems
24 People who wear
“I’m with stupid”
T-shirts?
27 __ Cruces
28 It may be a
lemon
31 Lhasa __34 Range36 LP maker37 Fail a jewelry
class lesson?
41 Bali or Hanes
product
42 Bridge call43 Boo-boo44 Deity with bow
and arrows
46 Bot., e.g.48 What drives a
fashionista?
54 Go over56 Superhero with a
hammer
57 Natural resource58 Tissue box
access
59 Run out of
amusing thingsto do?
62 Forest climber63 Three-time 20-
game winner forthe ’70s Red Sox
64 Cried65 Classifies (as)66 Trig functions67 Fine things?
DOWN
1 “I’m the culprit”2 Brand once
hawked by aneponymous “Joe”
3 Joinery element4 “I sure don’t want
that”
5 Retrieves
dropped keys,
say
6 Hooded snake7 Mogul emperor: 
1556-1605
8 Bakery offering
9 Like “CSI” work
10 Agreement11 Item in many an
IKEA kit
12 Lot division
13 Shoots the
breeze
18 Carla portrayer
on “Cheers”
23 Actress/author
Holly Robinson__
25 Obstruct
26 Marching band
section
29 When “Kansas
City” is sung in
“Oklahoma!”
30 Knock down, in
Nottingham
31 “SOS” group
32 Run smoothly
33 Pickpocket’s
activity
34 Humiliate35 Union 
address?
38 Oscar night
arrivals
39 Peter the Great
et al.
40 Butcher’s 
offering
45 Brings great
pleasure to
46 Shows anger,
maybe
47 Ornery sorts49 Vermont patriot
Allen
50 Oscar-nominated
western
51 Menial assistant
52 Blow53 Flat fees54 “I’ll be there”
message, e.g.
55 Author Wiesel60 Number on old
dials
61 BOAC competitor
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/07/1707/07/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 7, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
 15 ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Trio of Gators named to award watch lists
Three Florida football players were named to 2017 watch lists on Monday. 
Cornerback Duke Dawson and defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson were 
named to the Bednarik Award watch list, while quarterback Malik Zaire was named to the Maxwell Award watch list.Were Alex Faedo's heroics in 
the CWS good enough to make Florida baseball the best team at UF in 2016-17? We debate that in our latest edition of the Alligator Awards. Read on Pg.14GATORS IN THE MLB
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Baltimore Orioles reliever Darren 
O’Day is the only Gator currently in 
the MLB that has played in an All-Star 
Game.
That was back in 2015 when 
the Jacksonville native had a 1.52 
ERA through 65.1 innings pitched, 
allowing just 47 hits and 13 runs. 
He helped the Orioles go 81-81 that season, good for third place in the AL East.
While he hasn’t been able to 
return to the All-Star Game since, he’s still putting up good numbers for Baltimore.
This year, O’Day has a 3.86 ERA 
through 30.1 innings pitched and has allowed 14 runs and 19 hits. He's struggled with hamstring and shoulder injuries in recent months, but seems to be getting back into 
form with the Orioles.
In his last ten games, he’s let up three hits and four runs while 
pitching nine innings.
David EcksteinFormer Gator and MLB shortstop 
David Eckstein is a name many baseball fans might recognize. 
On top of being a two-time All-
Star in 2005 and 2006, Eckstein was a two-time World Series Champion and a World Series MVP.
He played at Florida from 1994-
1997, ﬁ  rst joining the team as a walk-on before becoming a ﬁ  rst-team All-
SEC selection in 1995 and 1996. 
He spent 10 years in the MLB 
playing for teams such as the Anaheim 
Angels, the St. Louis Cardinals and the San Diego Padres, where he amassed 
a .280 career batting average, 1414 
hits, 35 home runs and 392 RBIs. 
In 2015, Eckstein became a 
candidate for the MLB Hall of Fame, 
something that would top off his list 
of accomplishments from his All-Star  MLB All-Star Game Edition
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
With exactly 54 days to 
go until Florida kicks off the 
2017 regular season against 
Michigan at AT&T Stadium, 
numerous questions still sit unanswered regarding UF’s football team.
Who is the starting 
quarterback? Which players will step up on defense? Which freshmen are expected to contribute this year?
However, with SEC 
Football Media Days kicking off this week, Gators fans should receive a little bit 
more clarity on some of those 
issues.
Coach Jim McElwain will 
attend the media gathering held at the Wynfrey Hotel in 
Hoover, Alabama, today from 
2 p.m. to 5 p.m., along with cornerback Duke Dawson, safety Marcell Harris and 
offensive lineman Martez 
Ivey.
This year marks the ﬁ  rst time since 2009 that Florida 
did not appear on Day 1 
of the event. Arkansas, LSU and Tennessee began the festivities on Monday afternoon. Georgia, Vanderbilt 
and Mississippi State will join 
UF at today’s meeting with the media.
Alabama, Kentucky, 
Missouri and Texas A&M are scheduled to speak on Wednesday, and Auburn, Ole Miss and South Carolina will wrap up the convention on 
Thursday.
McElwain and the Gators 
enter media day as the 
defending two-time SEC East 
champions. Since arriving at 
Florida in 2015, the Missoula, Montana, native has led the program to a 19-8 overall record, tying Steve Spurrier 
for the second most wins by 
a coach through his ﬁ  rst two seasons at UF.
The Gators’ 13 conference 
wins over the past two years  McElwain, players set to attend SEC Media Day
The Associated Press
Former Gator Darren O'Day stands on the mound during  
a Baltimore Orioles game in the 2017 MLB season.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida football coach Jim McElwain paces the sideline during UF's 31-13 loss against Florida State on Nov. 26, 2016, in T allahassee.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE GATORS IN THE MLB,  PAGE 15Ladies and gentleman, the 
MLB All-Star break is upon us 
once again.
A time for baseball’s biggest 
and brightest stars to convene together in one city and put on a 
show for fans around the world.
Aaron Judge dominated in 
last night’s Home Run Derby, 
smacking 47 bombs deep over the outﬁ  eld wall of Marlins Park to 
win the competition in style.
Today, 64 of the league’s 
best players will compete in 
the Midsummer Classic for the 
opportunity to earn home-ﬁ  eld advantage in the World Series.
What a time to be a baseball 
fan!
I’ve always loved the MLB 
All-Star Game, and who doesn’t 
enjoy the Home Run Derby? It’s 
entertainment at it’s ﬁ  nest.
But what if there was more 
to this week’s festivities? What if there were more events, more 
competitions, more contests?
The NBA not only has an All-
Star Game and a dunk contest, it 
has a three-point shootout and a 
skills challenge as well. The NHL 
also has a variety of different 
competitions during its All-Star 
break that tests players’ shooting 
accuracy, shooting power and 
speed skating.
Why doesn’t the MLB have 
that? Well, I’m here to make my 
sales pitch to Commissioner Rob Manfred.
Starting in 2018, there should 
be two more events added to the schedule along with the Home Run Derby.
The ﬁ  rst challenge would be 
the “Four-Base Dash,” a spinoff from the NFL Combine’s 40-yard 
dash. Competitors would begin at 
home plate and sprint from base Additions to 
the MLB All-
Star events You’re Dylan Me 
Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
twitter: @dylanrdixon
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox every  Wednesday and FridayFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTERStaff Report
 
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which UF team 
was the best of the 2016-17 season. Sports writers Mari Faiello, Andrew 
Huang and Morgan McMullen 
join alligatorSports editors Dylan Dixon and Jake Dreilinger in a roundtable discussion to debate the five nominees. Debates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
 Dixon: Baseball finally put its 
title drought to bed
It took the program over 100 
years to win its first national championship. But in 2016-17, Florida baseball finally broke through.
The Gators capped off a stellar 
season last month with a two-game series sweep of LSU in the College 
World Series Finals, clinching an 
NCAA title that all but solidified their spot as the best team at UF.
Florida did everything this year, 
notching a 52-19 record, winning the SEC regular season championship, surviving three elimination games in the NCAA Tournament and dominating the competition it faced 
in Omaha.
And let’s not forget how 
it racked up those impressive 
accomplishments. Pitching was the name of the game for the Gators this year, and it’s scary just how good their staff was.
Friday night ace Alex Faedo, 
selected 18th overall by Detroit in 
the MLB Draft, led the NCAA this 
season with 157 strikeouts. Reliever Michael Byrne was the best closer in the country this year with a program-record 19 saves. Starters Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar combined to earn a solid 21-6 record.
And the staff as whole, boasting 
other talented arms like Tyler Dyson and Garrett Milchin, finished the summer with a 3.45 ERA for the best mark in the SEC.
When you also add into the equation a lineup that featured sluggers JJ Schwarz and Nelson Maldonado, a defense that included fielding wizards Dalton Guthrie and Mike Rivera and a coaching staff led 
by Kevin O’Sullivan, the result you 
get is the best team at UF in 2016-17. Hands down.
Yes, sports like women’s tennis, 
men’s track and field and numerous others all had seasons to be proud of. But for me, it’s a no-brainer. None of those programs came close to the level of dominance Florida baseball achieved this year.
Dreilinger: Softball reemerged 
as national powerhouse
After the Gators softball team 
fell to Georgia in the NCAA Super Regionals last year, coach Tim Walton knew his team didn’t want to experience that heart-breaking feeling ever again. 
Florida was coming off back-to-
back national titles when its shot at a third straight championship 
was ripped away before it even 
advanced to Oklahoma City.
This year, however, the Gators 
returned with a vengeance, tearing through opponents left-and-right while starting the season 29-2. Most of those early games came in bunches, as Florida won 20 of its first 21 contests over a 22-day span. 
It kept up that dominance 
throughout the rest of the season as well. Forty of UF’s 58 wins were shutouts, and 15 of those shutouts came by mercy rule.
The Gators finished the year 
58-10 and went to the Women’s College World Series Finals after shutting out Texas A&M and LSU in 
before defeating Washington 5-2.
They also played in the longest 
game in WCWS history, losing 
to Oklahoma 7-5 in a 17-inning marathon.
When you look at the talent 
Florida had, it’s no surprise it had a great year. The team boasted a pitching staff that included Kelly 
Barnhill and Delanie Gourley, two 
of the NCAA’s top four pitchers in ERA.
Florida was also the only school 
in the country to hold a sub-1.00 ERA with 0.81.
The pitching wasn’t its only 
strong suit either. UF also had some strong hitters.
Outfielder Amanda Lorenz batted 
.388 and recorded a hit in all but two 
Alligator Awards: Which was UF’s best team of 2016-17?
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Florida’s baseball team poses for a photo before its 2-0 win against Miami on Feb. 25, 2017, at 
McKethan Stadium.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
are also the second most in the SEC 
behind Alabama (15).
“I think the excitement and 
the momentum that we’ve built, 
it continues to roll and move forward,” McElwain said in March. 
“Seeing some of those things come 
to fruition is pretty cool.”
For Dawson, Harris and Ivey, 
the trio of players attending today’s conference all figure to play a big role for Florida in 2017.
Dawson started seven games 
at nickelback last season and is expected to move outside this fall with the departure of cornerbacks Teez Tabor and Quincy Wilson to the NFL Draft.
Harris recorded a team-leading 
73 tackles last year and will continue to serve as a stalwart in UF’s defensive backfield.
And Ivey – the Gators most 
experienced starter on the offensive line – will move from left guard to left tackle in 2017. The 6-foot-5, 305-pound junior from Apopka, Florida is a budding star who commanded his coach’s respect from the moment he stepped on campus two seasons ago.
“(Ivey) is a guy that has a lot of 
pride,” McElwain said last fall. "He works hard, it’s important to him. He cares. He’s a guy that when he 
does talk, people listen.”
Florida opens the 2017 regular 
season on Sept. 2 against the 
Wolverines in Arlington, Texas. The team’s situation at quarterback 
is still uncertain, with redshirt 
freshman Feleipe Franks and grad transfer Malik Zaire viewed as the frontrunners to win the starting job. 
UF also lost seven starters on last 
year’s defense, forcing players like Dawson, defensive back Chauncey Gardner Jr. and linebacker David Reese into larger roles.
Expect McElwain to give some 
insight on both topics, as well as other issues surrounding the team.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 13UF's season opens Sept. 2
career.
A Blast from the Past
Four other former Gators and professional 
baseball players have received All-Star bids 
during the their tenure in the MLB.
Infielder Al Rosen, who actually never saw the 
field in a UF jersey, left Gainesville after his first semester to play in the minor leagues. Known as the “Hebrew Hammer,” Rosen became a four-time All-Star for the Cleveland Indians and was a World Series champion and MVP.
Rosen held a .285 career batting average, 
collecting 1063 hits, 192 home runs and 717 RBIs.
Catcher and first baseman Mike Stanley had 
a long, 15-year career in the MLB, playing for 
teams such as the Texas Rangers, New York 
Yankees and Boston Red Sox. He also has a All-Star appearance to his name, playing in the 1995 Midsummer Classic representing the Yankees.
He finished his career with a .270 batting 
average, 1138 hits, 187 home runs and 702 RBIs.
Former San Francisco Giants second baseman 
Robby Thompson was a two-time All-Star in 1988 and 1993.
The West Palm Beach native spent his 
professional career with the Giants, where he had 
a batting average of .257 as well as 1187 hits, 119 
home runs and 458 RBIs.
Former relief pitcher Doug Corbett rounds 
out the former Gators who have played in an 
MLB All-Star Game. Corbett, who played for the 
Minnesota Twins, the then-California Angels and the Baltimore Orioles, was named an All-Star in 1981.
The Sarasota native finished his career with 
a 24-30 record, 3.32 ERA, 343 strikeouts and 66 saves in his eight seasons in the MLB.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGATORS IN THE MLB,  from pg 13MLB should add more events to All-Star week Rosen hit .285 
during his careerEmma Green / Alligator Staff
UF offensive linemen Martez Ivey (73) and Fred Johnson pose with fans after Florida's 20-7 win 
over South Carolina on Nov. 12, 2017, at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
to base as if they’d just smacked 
an inside-the-park home run.
The player with the fastest 
time after several rounds would win the event.
Can you imagine a competition 
testing the speed of guys like 
Billy Hamilton, Trea Turner, Dee Gordon and Lorenzo Cain? That’s 
must-see television right there.
Fans love to debate who the 
quickest athlete in the MLB is. 
This contest would finally answer 
that question.
The other event that should be 
added to the All-Star week is the 
“Long Toss Challenge,” a test of 
pure arm strength. Competitors 
would get a running start on 
the warning track in center field 
before launching a ball as far as 
they could towards home plate.
The player whose ball landed 
closest to home would win the competition.
Outfielders like Yasiel Puig, 
Jackie Bradley Jr. and Bryce 
Harper would put on a show, but what about Aroldis Chapman and 
Noah Syndergaard? Those guys 
consistently throw 100 mph on 
the mound. Who would have the 
stronger arm?
The "Long Toss Challenge” 
would answer that question.
These two events might seem 
simple in nature, but they’d go a 
long way in adding intrigue and 
excitement to MLB All-Star week.
Ok Commissioner Manfred, 
let’s make this happen.
Dylan Dixon is sports editor of 
the Alligator. His column appears 
frequently on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays. Contact him at ddixon@alligator.org.
Mike Ehrmann / Getty Images
Yankees outfielder Aaron Judge swings during the 2017 MLB Home Run Derby 
on Monday night in Miami. Judge hit 47 home runs over three rounds to win the competition.
COLUMN,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 11, 2017
E
restau rant & roo ftop barTH
$2 Tacos 
$4 Double Wells  
$3 Cocktail on Tap of the Week
$3 Craft Beer of the Week
$3 Sangria of the Week
$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(BBQ Pork and Buffalo Chicken)TUESDAY 
LUNCH 
WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH
$8.99 Mexi-Cali 
Quesadilla$8.99 Bacon Cheese 
Burger Flat BreadTUESDAY NIGHT
WEDNESDAY NIGHT7pm-12am
7pm-12am
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies
LIVE DJ
Admission - 18 and Up
1718 West University Avenue                 1728 West University Avenuegames in the NCAA Tournament, 
while ﬁ  rst baseman Kayli Kvistad recorded a .368 average and led the team with 53 RBIs.
While the softball team may 
not have gotten the end result they wanted, it still had an incredible season, one that’ll be remembered for a long time.
Faiello: Volleyball succeeded 
despite early postseason exit
The Gators had an impressive 
year with sports programs across the board.
However, despite its early NCAA 
Tournament loss, UF’s volleyball program set itself above the rest.
Finishing 16-2 in the conference 
standings to win its 22nd SEC 
championship in program history, 
the Gators took away prominent wins from rivals such as Florida State, Alabama and LSU. They then advanced to the NCAA Tournament in December where they defeated Alabama State in the ﬁ  rst round but fell to FSU in the second round.
Regardless of the loss, UF’s 
statistics speak for itself. The offense accomplished great things, leading the SEC in kills per set (14.45), assists per set (13.72) and hitting percentage (.338). Florida also took home 86 set wins and 19 set losses.
After the disappointing loss 
to the Seminoles, the American Volleyball Coaches Association 
announced ﬁ  ve Gators earned All-
America honors. Senior right-side hitter Alex Holston and and junior middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan were selected to the second and third teams, respectively, while 
junior libero Caroline Knop, junior 
outside hitter Carli Snyder and redshirt sophomore setter Allie Monserez were recognized as AVCA All-American Honorable Mentions. The volleyball program did 
not bring home an NCAA title 
like women’s tennis, baseball or 
men’s outdoor track and ﬁ  eld did. However, with an inexperienced team, they accomplished a lot.
Huang: Men’s track and ﬁ  eld 
to all others: Stay in your lane
What makes a great team?  
Winning, obviously, plus star 
players and the leadership of a 
seasoned head coach.  And in the Gators men’s track and ﬁ  eld team’s case, a national championship can be added to that list as well.
They were the best team to wear 
orange and blue this season.
They had three athletes — Andres 
Arroyo, Eric Futch and TJ Holmes — earn a spot on world teams and an opportunity to compete in the 2017 IAAF World Championships in London this August.
Those three are combined for 
six All-American selections and an NCAA title in the 400-meter hurdles for Futch.
That’s not even including jumper 
extraordinaire KeAndre Bates.  The El Paso, Texas, native has three SEC titles and owns three more at the NCAA level, all of which came in the triple jump or long jump.
Neither does it include do-
it-all freshman Grant Holloway.  Holloway turned down an opportunity to play football to focus on track full time — a good decision if his two NCAA titles, SEC title 
and All-American selections in four 
separate events are any indication.
And of course, head coach 
Mike Holloway deserves plenty of credit for leading the men’s team to dominating performances in both the indoor and outdoor 
competitions.
The team ﬁ  nished in a tie for 
third and runner-up in the SEC 
and NCAA Indoor Championships, respectively.
They were even better outdoors, 
taking fourth place in the SEC Championships, followed by a repeat as national champions to 
close out the postseason.
The success of 2017 was enough 
to earn coach Holloway his second 
consecutive Coach of the Year award, and he has now led the team to seven NCAA championships and ﬁ  ve SEC championships.
Great team? Check.Best Gators team this season?  
You bet.McMullen: Women’s tennis 
served year’s ﬁ  rst title
I received a text from my editor 
the day this story was due. In it, he said the four other writers participating in this roundtable discussion had neglected to pick women’s tennis as UF’s best program in 2016-17.
Imagine my surprise, both at 
my luck and the ignorance of my colleagues. 
If I can be real for just a second 
with my fellow writers and Gators: There is no argument against the women’s tennis team being the single best unit this past year.
No other squad came close 
to a better winning percentage (.906). Neither the baseball team nor the men’s track and ﬁ  eld team 
dominated in their championship 
runs the way women’s tennis did. 
Heck, they outscored their 
opponents 24-5 during the NCAA Tournament, only giving up more than one set to SEC champion Vanderbilt.
Of UF’s three losses on the year, 
two came against Vandy, the squad 
that impeded its path to the national 
title game. The Gators were down 2-1 in the NCAA semiﬁ  nals after losing a pair of singles matches in straight sets.
Despite the slow start against 
Vandy, this team would not be denied, avenging its previous two losses on the way to its seventh all-
time NCAA title.
No matter what my colleagues 
write about, you cannot deny the 
fact that this women’s tennis team was, and will forever be, the ﬁ  rst national championship for Scott Stricklin in his Gators tenure. This team is the deﬁ  nitive best of what UF had to offer this season. 
Which team do you think was 
the best at UF in the 2016-17 season? 
Vote online at alligator.org/sports.  
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Florida’s women’s tennis team celebrates its seventh national championship in program history after 
its 4-1 victory over Stanford on May 23, 2017, in Athens, Georgia.
AWARDS,  from pg 14Women’s tennis boasted a .906 winning percentage