We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 5 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
Harvey hits relatives of Gators WR
Sophomore Tyrie Cleveland is praying for his 
friends and family in Houston, pg 13. 
UF earns energy eﬃ   ciency award 
The Reitz Union rennovation improved efﬁ  ciency, pg 5. 
Residence Halls to get new package lockers
They will cost about $385,000 in total, pg 5. FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Sen. Bill Nelson (D - Florida) laughs as he talks to UF President Kent Fuchs. Fuchs dropped by during Nelson’s discussion with college students about student loan rates at Pugh Hall on Tuesday.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Staff Writer
Without the recurring funds 
to back it up, UF has agreed 
to hire 12 new mental health 
counselors over the next three 
years. 
At a Board of Trustees 
meeting Tuesday afternoon, 
President Kent Fuchs said re-ducing the student-to-mental-
health-counselor ratio was 
pressing. He asked the board 
for their support.
Until UF ﬁ  nds constant 
funding for the incoming 12 
employees, it will use nonre-
curring sources to cover the 
cost.
“We’re doing this in ad-
vance of getting new resources with the hope and aspiration of 
getting resources in the future 
to pay this recurring expense,” 
Fuchs said. “We’re pleased to move forward now just be-
cause it’s so important.”
Adding the counselors will 
decrease the ratio from one 
counselor to 1,400 students 
to one counselor to 1,253 stu-
dents. 
Carolyn Imes, a 19-year-
old UF international studies sophomore, said she has not 
gone to the Counseling and 
Wellness Center because her 
friends had bad experiences 
there. Instead, she seeks out-
side counseling with her own 
doctor. 
Imes said increasing the 
number of staff would be good 
for accessibility, but she hopes they would be well-trained. 
“I think the training is just 
as important as the number of 
people who work there,” she 
said. 
At the board meeting, 
members also debated block tuition for UF’s Levin College of Law. Provost Joseph Glover 
said most other law schools 
follow the block format, in-
stead of UF’s format of paying 
by credit.
“With our current way of 
charging students to attend the Levin College of Law, we look 
rather peculiar,” Glover said. 
“And that is important when 
you’re trying to recruit stu-
dents and important for your 
national reputation.”
Dean Laura Rosenbury said 
there would be a slight in-
crease in tuition for students in 
the college because the block 
system assumes 90 credits in-stead of UF’s normal 88, but 
she said tuition is still much 
lower than other schools. 
Trustee member Mori Hos-
seini said the Florida Board of 
Governors would not accept UF to hire 12 new mental health 
counselors over three years
SEE TRUSTEES,  PAGE 4PRESIDENT FUCHS 
BRIEFL Y STOPPED BY 
THE MEETING.
By David Hoffman 
Alligator Staff Writer
Sen. Bill Nelson came to UF 
looking for stories.
The U.S. senator sat down 
with 13 students in the Bob Gra-
ham Center’s reading room Tues-day at about 1:30 p.m. to hear 
what students had to say about 
student loans and debt. 
Nelson (D - Florida) an-
nounced he’s working on legisla-
tion to lower the cap on interest 
rates for undergraduate loans 
from 8 percent to 4 percent and 
to give students the ability to con-solidate multiple loans under one interest rate. 
“The big barrier to me pass-
ing this legislation is the cost,” he said. “I want you to bolster my argument with your particu-lar circumstances, and I will tell (your) stories as I will try to pass this legislation.” For about 40 minutes, 13 stu-
dents shared their histories, fami-lies’ situations and fears of the 
future — especially paying off 
loans.
When Ian Maikisch was 19, he 
started his own business and ran it for a year while also in school, 
before the pressure of course-
work became too much, he said. 
Now at 23, the UF public rela-
tions junior said he worries how 
he will compete in business with 
about $40,000 of debt from stu-
dent loans. 
“My dream would be to gradu-
ate and open up my own business and be an entrepreneur like my 
father,” Maikisch told Nelson 
and the other students. “But with 
$40,000 in student loans right out 
of college, I’m not really going to 
be able to do that.” 
While Nelson was speaking, 
UF President Kent Fuchs walked 
into the room and Nelson took 
time to commend Fuchs for disin-
viting the white nationalist Rich-
ard Spencer from speaking on 
campus Sept. 12. Sen. Nelson talks with students about loans, debt
PEOPLE ARE COLLECTING 
NONPERISHABLES AND
MONEY AND OFFERING 
THEIR SUPPORT.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly two thousand miles usually 
distances UF from Texas, but the distance 
vanished this week.
After Category 4 Hurricane Harvey 
made landfall Friday, displacing about 30,000 and killing at least 13 people, mem-bers of the UF community began reaching out. 
The natural phenomenon, which has 
been downgraded to a tropical storm, broke the record for the most extreme rainfall on U.S. mainland — nearly 52 inches of water, according to the Los An-geles Times. 
The storm victims include 27 UF online 
students — eight located in the counties declared as federal disaster areas — and potentially 500 UF students who call Texas home, according to a university news re-lease.
UF President Kent Fuchs urged the 
community to donate money to the Ameri-can Red Cross and the Salvation Army in the release. Fuchs has been working on the logistics for a couple days with the alumni association, the athletic department and the university to see what each could do, said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
“We think that’s the best way, to go 
through those agencies, rather than us sending supplies or reaching out through some other way,” Fuchs said.
Benjamin Abo, an EMS physician at 
the UF Department of Emergency Medi-cine, said he traveled to Texas to join a Federal Emergency Management Admin-istration search and rescue mission thanks to UF Health Shands.
“This is a federal deployment from 
FEMA into the disaster zone to search and 
rescue people and pets,” Abo wrote in an UF community reaches 
out to ﬂ  ooded Houston
SEE HOUSTON,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 5
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY , AUGUST 30, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Online Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  90° LOW  73°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Bring an Art Project
The Dudley Farm Historic 
State Park, located at 18730 W. 
Newberry Road, is hosting an 
event today from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. for people to bring 
unfinished art projects to the state park to complete. It costs 
$5 per vehicle. For more infor-mation, visit friendsofdudley-farm.org. 
Santa Fe College Night 
Santa Fe is hosting its an-nual College Night tonight 
from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in the Santa Fe Gymnasium, 
Building Five at 3000 NW 83rd St. Representatives from more 
than 80 colleges and universi-
ties will be on hand to meet 
with students from Alachua and 
Bradford counties, current Santa Fe students and other members 
of the community. Everyone 
interested in opportunities in 
higher education is invited. The 
event is free and open to the 
public. Please bring a notepad 
and a resume. Visit sfcollege.
edu/CN/ for more details.
"1984" Preview 
Come see a preview of the play 
"1984" at the Hippodrome, lo-
cated at 25 SE Second Place, 
from tonight until Friday. The 
play is being put on by the UF 
School of Theatre and Dance and is based on George Orwell’s 
best-selling novel. Tickets can 
be purchased at thehipp.org or 
at the box office at (352)375-
4477. Prices vary. Student and 
senior discounts available.
Fall 2017 SG Elections Qualifying 
and SlatingFall 2017 Student Government 
elections are almost here. Qualifying and slating for can-
didates will run over three days in Room 3315 on Level 3 of the 
Reitz Union on Thursday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and Tuesday 
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. SG Elections will be held Sept. 26 
and 27 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at locations across cam-
pus. Please visit sg.ufl.edu/elec-tions for more information.
GatorNights: Hollywood Glitz & 
Glam
To kick off a month-long Cities 
theme, GatorNights is having a 
Hollywood Glitz & Glam night on Friday. Step onto the red car-
pet, get your picture taken, and 
strut your stuff on the Walk of Fame all night. Add some re-laxation to your first week here 
with salt and sugar scrubs and DIY bath bombs. If you want 
to bling yourself out, stop by the body art booth for a glit-
tery temporary tattoo. Featured 
in the Grand Ballroom is Los 
Angeles-based a cappella group 
The Filharmonic, performing from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. Theater 
Strike Force will be perform-ing an “etiquette class” in the 
Student Senate Chamber. The 
film this night is "Transformers: The Last Knight," playing at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Popcorn 
and soda will be available, in 
addition to midnight munchies. 
The arts and craft center and the 
game room will have more free activities throughout the night. 
GatorNights is always Friday, 
always free for UF students with 
their Gator1 Card. Attendees 
must be current students to par-ticipate and are allowed to bring 
a maximum of one guest to the 
event. 
West King String Band Live 
Kick off the school year and football season with the West 
King String Band and First 
Magnitude, located at 1220 SE 
Veitch St., on Friday from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m. The event is free 
and open to all ages. 
Free Concert Series: Heavy 
Petty/ Hedges 
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department is continuing its 
annual series of free, family-
friendly concerts in downtown Gainesville on Friday with 
Heavy Petty/ Hedges, a Tom 
Petty and the Heartbreakers 
tribute band. The concert will 
be held at Bo Diddley Plaza, 
located at 111 E. University 
Ave., from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
The event is free and open to 
all ages. The concert series will continue until Oct. 20. 
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad 
Fair at the Reitz Union North 
Lawn on Sept. 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad program 
directors and independent pro-gram providers will have table 
displays and be available to an-swer questions. Former study-
abroad students will share their international experiences.  The 
UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application process and to help 
students find the right program. Overseas internship opportuni-ties are available. Study abroad 
can be used to satisfy summer 
residency requirements and most financial aid can be used. 
For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 
(352) 273-1539. 
Fall Day of Service on Oct. 21
The David and Wanda Brown 
Center for Leadership and 
Service is holding a Fall 2017 Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join 
several hundred volunteers for a 
day of reflection and service for a wide variety of nonprofits, in-
cluding Keep Alachua Beautiful, 
ACORN Clinic, Historic Haile 
Homestead, NATL (Natural 
Area Teaching Lab), Wilmont 
Gardens, The Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and 
more. For more information, 
call (352) 392-1215, email cls@
leadershipandservice.ufl.edu, or 
visit bit.ly/daysofservice. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
Correction:
In an article published Aug. 27 
titled “UF, GAU fail to reach 
agreement on stipend raises,” 
the Alligator incorrectly stated 
that the Graduate Assistants 
United union accepted UF’s 
proposed $1 million to increase 
wages for the 2018-2019 year. 
The GAU accepted the language 
presented by UF regarding the $1 million and added it to their 
own counterproposal, but has 
yet to officially accept UF’s pro-
posal. At the Aug. 25 meeting, 
GAU again asked for further 
details on how the proposed $1 
million would be allocated. UF representatives didn’t provide 
specifics. WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In a $2.6 million renovation, the Hub 
did away with Einstein Bros. Bagels and ex-
panded the Chick-ﬁ  l-A for the restaurant’s breakfast.
Some of Chick-ﬁ  l-A’s breakfast menu, in-
cluding items like chicken biscuits, are now available from 7 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. 
The expansion project didn’t go over 
budget, Eddie Daniels, the assistant vice president of UF’s business services division, wrote in an email. Along with the Chick-ﬁ  l-A expansion, the Starbucks, Provision on Demand (POD), restrooms and common spaces were all updated. 
The money came from reinvesting the 
revenue from the dining programs, not from student fees, Daniels said. 
“We think the new facility is great,” 
Daniels said. “Expanded seating and bet-ter queueing will help students during both breakfast and lunch.”
Students have been asking for Chick-ﬁ  l-A 
breakfast for six to seven years, but it wasn’t possible until this expansion, Daniels said. 
He said it’s too early to have sales data, 
but early reports show students are enjoying the new breakfast items. 
Jill Rodriguez, the marketing program 
manager for Gator Dining Services, wrote in an email the expansion required them to take over the prep area in the back of the Hub to add extra equipment. 
Brandon Rosenthal, a 21-year-old UF 
computer engineering senior, didn’t see the need for the change. 
“I think because we already have an-
other Chick-ﬁ  l-A on campus, it seemed kind of unnecessary,” Rosenthal said. “Overall, I don’t see how it’s really beneﬁ  ting the stu-dent population.”
cmorales@alligator.org
@Christina_M18Larger Hub Chick-ﬁ  l-A openBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville teenager was arrest-
ed Tuesday morning in connection to a drive-by shooting that occurred Friday night, Gainesville Police said. 
Ofﬁ  cers arrested Brooke Jenkins, 
17, for driving the car used in the drive-by shooting at 1600 NE Eighth Ave. at about 10:39 p.m., according to a press release. Four people were shot as unknown suspects drove by on Northeast Eighth Avenue and shot at people on the sidewalk, Detective 
Jorge Campos, a GPD spokesper-son, wrote in an email.
Of the four 
people shot, two were hit on their extremities, one 
was grazed by a bullet and another was shot in the abdomen. One victim remains hospi-talized in stable condition, according 
to the release.
GPD detectives said the shoot-
ing was the result of a ﬁ  ght, started 
at a high school football game. The participants were removed from the football game and planned to meet where the shooting took place, ac-cording to the release. 
After the shooting, police couldn’t locate the cars involved.
Three days after the ﬁ  rst shoot-
ing, four victims were shot at in a 
Walmart parking lot, located blocks 
away from the ﬁ  rst shooting at 1800 NE 12th Ave. Nobody was injured, according to the release. 
Ofﬁ  cers believe the shootings are 
related, and both are suspected to be tied to juvenile gang activity, accord-ing to the release. 
GPD charged Jenkins with at-tempted homicide and took her to Alachua County Juvenile Detention Center, according to the release. 
Detectives are trying to iden-
tify another vehicle involved in the shooting, which is described as a silver or gray four-door, mid-sized Volkswagen with black rims. 
cwegman@alligator.org
@catie_wegman
GPD: Teen arrested in connection with drive-by shooting
Jenkins
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government appointed a new ju-
dicial branch head Tuesday night.
Student Senate unanimously conﬁ  rmed 
Meaghan McCarthy as the new supreme court chief justice. Student Body President Smith Mey-
ers nominated her.
McCarthy, who served as an associate jus-
tice in 2016-2017, said she encourages students 
to bring forth issues to the SG judicial branch if they want the court to review them. 
“I’m super excited,” McCarthy said. “I feel 
like there’s a lot of interesting things going on at UF.” 
Senators unanimously passed a bill redistrib-
uting the number of senators for certain area and college seats based on updated population infor-mation, said pro-tempore Trevor Schaettle. 
For Fall, the Rawlings area was combined 
with the Broward area to share a senator. Dis-trict C, covering ZIP code 32607, now has seven senators instead of six.  
For spring, the Graduate Students District 
and College of Liberal Arts and Sciences both got an additional senator. The College of Journalism and Communications and the undergraduate freshman class both lost a senator.  
Noah Harden (Impact, Freshman) and Mi-
chael Murphy (Impact, Yulee Area) drafted a bill encouraging solidarity with the University of Virginia after the Charlottesville riots. The reso-
lution also supported inclusivity on campus. 
Senators held a moment of silence in honor 
of the riot victims and unanimously passed the 
resolution. 
This resolution comes after Senators unani-
mously passed a resolution supporting UF Presi-dent Kent Fuchs’ decision to deny white nation-alist Richard Spencer’s request to rent campus space. 
“We really wanted to focus on uniﬁ  cation,” 
Harden said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgSG appoints new chief justice 4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30,  2017
IT WAS THE FIRST STATE 
EXECUTION IN 19 MONTHS.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Last week, for the ﬁ  rst time in 19 months, 
a Florida man who was sentenced to die was 
killed by the state. 
Mark James Asay was executed by lethal 
injection Thursday at about 6:33 p.m., nearly 
three decades after he was convicted of kill-
ing two men in Jacksonville. Asay was the ﬁ  rst white man to be executed in Florida for killing a black man, according to the Miami Herald. 
Asay’s execution was ﬁ  rst scheduled for 
March 2016, but was left in limbo along with the executions of the rest of Florida’s death row inmates after Hurst v. Florida, a 2016 U.S. Supreme Court decision. Based in part on a 2002 U.S. Supreme Court case, the Florida court ruled that a jury must decide and unani-mously sentence someone to death before the 
death penalty is carried out, said UF Levin Col-
lege of Law professor Teresa Reid. 
“It basically said that the Florida way of do-
ing things was unconstitutional,” Reid said.
The Florida Supreme Court decided that 
Hurst’s case would be applied retroactively to cases in which the death sentence was ren-dered after 2002, Reid said.
Asay was sentenced before the 2002 case 
referenced in the ruling, so it didn’t apply when Gov. Rick Scott rescheduled Asay’s death sen-tence last month.With Asay’s death marking the end of a 
more than year-and-a-half-long pause in death sentences, legal experts don’t know what will become of other death row cases in Florida.
“(Hurst) deﬁ  nitely slowed the process 
down,” wrote UF Levin College of Law profes-
sor Kenneth Nunn in an email. “The Asay ex-
ecution indicates that period is over, but there is uncertainty, at least in my mind, as to what comes next.”  
The last person from Alachua County to 
face the death sentence was Danny Rolling, often referred to as the Gainesville Ripper, in 2006, according to Alligator archives. 
Of the 361 inmates currently on death row, 
two were arrested for accused murders in Ala-chua County. 
Stephen Booker, 63, was originally sen-tenced in 1977, and Ronald Heath, 56, was originally sentenced in 1990. Both cases took place before the 2002 cutoff that the Hurst case created.
While Reid said Asay’s execution last week 
won’t necessarily change things for executions 
in Florida, given that the case isn’t changed by 
Hurst, she feels it’s given lawyers ample mo-mentum to push against the death penalty in Florida. 
“People who work on these cases believe 
that the death penalty is immoral,” Reid said. “They will keep chipping away at every as-pect.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
Florida man executed by state, UF Law reﬂ  ect on Hurst case
any increase in tuition.
“I am not willing to vote if I know it 
will cost our students more than what 
they are paying,” Hosseini said. 
The board agreed to approve the block 
plan, which will move to the Florida Board 
of Governors for further approval, as long 
as the wording is changed to make it tu-ition-neutral, meaning there is not a change 
in price. 
The board also agreed to a wage in-
crease for members of the United Faculty of Florida’s UF chapter, which the union still needs to ratify. The board agreed to a 
3 percent merit pool and a 2 percent equity 
increase, meant for faculty who do good work but are not paid as much as their 
peers.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgTRUSTEES,  from pg 4
email statement.
The University Athletic Asso-
ciation also offered their resources 
and support. 
Florida basketball coach Mike 
White replied to a tweet from the University of Houston basketball coach agreeing to send 10 shoes and 20 shirts. White and his staff 
prepared a package Tuesday 
morning, said Denver Parler, the UAA associate director of commu-nication. 
Other teams, including football 
and softball, are also planning to send apparel leftover from their summer camps to Texas, Parler said. “We want to do the right thing 
and hopefully encourage the Gator Nation to chip in,” Parler said.
Rabbi Berl Goldman of the 
Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center said his organization started gath-ering supplies to send to Texas after hearing from Chabad centers 
in Houston on Tuesday morning.
The local Chabad will send 
truckloads of nonperishable foods 
to the ﬂ  ooding zones with other Florida Chabads, Goldman said. 
“Our prayers and good 
thoughts are with the people of Texas,” Goldman said. 
Melanie Wunsch, a UF aero-
space engineering senior, lives in Orlando but grew up in Atascoc-ita, a few miles outside the Texas state capital. The 21-year-old said when she saw Houston underwa-ter on the news, she knew she had to help.
Since Wunsch plans to drive to 
Dallas on Sept. 5 to start an intern-ship with Southwest Airlines, she decided to gather as many sup-plies as possible and drop them off herself. 
Although she’s accepting any 
donations, she’s most concerned about collecting feminine products 
and children’s clothing, she said.
“There’s going to be people 
in need from now until the next 
few years, so the fact that I can actually help out makes me really happy,” Wunsch said. 
Jireh Davis, a UF African 
American studies and political sci-ence junior, put out a call to col-
lect supplies. Davis, the creator of 
T.I.E., a community organization bringing together locals, police and UF students, said she wanted to create a difference. 
Her hometown, Arlington, 
is only three hours away from the ﬂ  ooded city. The 20-year-old hopes to ship everything into the city or send it to her mom to drive down.
“I don’t know how much it’s 
going to cost, but I’m going to get it there some way, somehow,” she said. 
Davis said she’s still ﬁ  guring 
out logistics, but expects to have boxes for any donations, but espe-cially toiletries, food and money, out on Turlington Plaza. 
“That’s the biggest and the best 
way to help,” she said. “It’s just to donate.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
HOUSTON,  from pg 4UF teams will donateWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
FEWER THAN 10 
MILLION RIDES WERE 
TAKEN LAST YEAR.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Regional Tran-
sit System has seen a decline 
in passengers in the past two years.
RTS ridership decreased to 
fewer than 10 million rides in 2016, said Chip Skinner, the RTS marketing and communi-cations supervisor. The agency is on track to see another year of ridership under 10 million. 
“It’s a phenomenon that not 
just RTS is experiencing, but transit agencies all across the 
country,” he said. 
The decrease isn’t due 
to one factor, Skinner said. 
Lower gas prices have incen-tivized driving a personal ve-hicle, apartment complexes have opened within walking distance of UF and Uber and scooters have become more popular among students.
UF students account for 
about 70 to 75 percent of RTS ridership.
Kat Lewandowska, a UF 
materials science and engineer-ing junior, said this is the ﬁ  rst semester she has used RTS. 
“Last semester I would 
just kind of walk, and I guess maybe the bus wasn’t as acces-sible,” the 21-year-old said. 
Megan Clary, a UF history 
sophomore, said that while she’s a frequent bus rider, she thinks scooters are the sys-tem’s biggest rival. 
“There’s like a million peo-
ple riding scooters all the time,” the 19-year-old said. “That’s a quicker way because you don’t have to worry as much about 
all the stops.”
Skinner said the Gainesville City Commission is looking to 
implement “express routes,” which will be routes with about two or three stops to help trav-elers get to places faster. RTS is also working on syncing its bus routes with hospital work-ers’ shifts at UF Health Shands 
Hospital and North Florida Re-
gional Medical Center, as well as adding a route that will run from Haile Plantation to UF in the Spring. 
For people who have access 
to a car, the stigma of public transportation is one of the big-gest challenges to overcome, 
Skinner said.
“Public transportation does 
have a stigma about it,” he 
said. “People think it’s just the indigent, the homeless people in town, that are using the sys-tem, and that’s not true.”
jgiles@alligator.org
@jessica_giles_
RTS sees drop in ridership 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Felix Wilson, the vice president, of Trane’s Southwest and West U.S., presents UF the Trane 
Energy Efﬁ  cient Leader Award to Curtis Reynolds, UF’s vice president for business affairs; Eddie Daniels, the assistant vice president for business services; and David Kratzer, a former UF vice president for Student Affairs. The award recognizes the efﬁ  cient and sustainable approach to the renovation of the Reitz Union. 
THE SYSTEM AIMS TO MAKE 
IT EASIER TO DELIVER AND 
RECEIVE PACKAGES.
Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starting this semester, a new mail 
system in UF’s residence halls will pro-
vide students with 24/7 access to lockers 
holding their packages.
The lockers cost approximately 
$35,000 per area ofﬁ  ce, Todd Morrone, 
the associate director of public and gov-ernmental relations for Housing and 
Residence Education, wrote in an email. 
Morrone said 11 of 12 area desks are getting lockers, making the cost a com-
bined $385,000. He said the system aims 
to improve service and make it easier for 
students to get their deliveries.
Inﬁ  nity Hall area desk will not re-
ceive new lockers because it’s the new-est hall, Morrone said.  
The system will message students a 
code to open the locker with their pack-
age, said Aniyah Girtman, an employee 
at the Springs Complex area desk . Area 
staff will no longer personally hand packages over. 
A start date for the lockers hasn’t 
been decided, Morrone said. The new method is still being evaluated. 
“The system is envisioned to enhance 
the package delivery service that the 
area desks offer residents and improve 
the efﬁ  ciency of area desk operations,” Morrone said.  
Abigail Bartosek, an 18-year-old UF 
nursing freshman, said she thinks the system will make ﬁ  nding her  packages more efﬁ  cient.      
“I think it’s easier for them behind 
the desk and just simpler, because things 
that are electronic normally turn out to 
be easier once they’re ﬁ  gured out,” she said. Residence Halls to get 
$385,000 lockers this FallONL Y TWO OTHER 
ORGANIZATIONS RECEIVED 
THE AWARD THIS YEAR.
Ashley Leong
Alligator Contributing Writer
A national company recognized UF for 
its energy efﬁ  cient construction and sustain-
able efforts on the renovated Reitz Union.
Trane, a global business that focuses on 
sustainable works, presented the Trane En-
ergy Efﬁ  ciency Leader Award on Tuesday 
in the Reitz. UF is one of three organiza-tions to receive this award in 2017.
The Reitz reopened with new renova-
tions in Spring 2016, according to Alligator archives.
Steve Corson, the complex sales account 
manager for Trane, said infrastructure in the original Reitz Union wasn’t updated un-til the recent renovation.  
“For almost 40 years we had infrastruc-
ture and building mechanical and electrical systems that weren’t really updated, and were badly in need of replace and repair,” Corson said. 
The updated union includes a chiller, 
designed to lower environmental impact and automatic air, heat, lighting and venti-
lation systems.
Curtis Reynolds, UF’s vice president for 
business affairs, accepted the award. He 
thanked the project’s workers and said it’s difﬁ  cult to renovate existing facilities while they’re still open.
“On time, on budget and within scope,” 
Reynolds said. “Most of you are in construc-tion and understand those three phenom-
enons, but to get them all in sync together 
at one time on a massive project like this — you should pat yourself on the back.”UF honored for its eﬀ  orts 
in energy conservationThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING ONLINE 
EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORDear Dennis,
On Tuesday at 5:15 p.m., Univer-
sity Police told you to leave campus 
after a student accused you of harass-ing her, and maybe it’s time you take 
this as a lesson.
You see, Dennis, I’ve seen you prancing 
around Turlington Plaza in your booty shorts, and I was perfectly fine with you expressing your First Amendment right — that was, of course, until I saw you took it too far. You crossed the line when you decided that screaming at people you don’t even know for no particular reason was OK.
I have nothing against you, I just think this might be a 
good time for you to come to terms with how uncomfort-able you make women and students feel overall.
If you have no idea what I’m talking about, this might 
be because you’ve never considered how your consistent preaching has made the more than 50,000 students here feel. Hint: It’s not great.
For one, when you try to get in front of our faces for 
no reason, it makes us feel incredibly uncomfortable. I get that you have this life mission of speaking to each and every one of us and getting your message across, but your method of doing so is nothing less than straight-up awkward.
We didn’t come to Turlington Plaza to listen to you 
scream at us about operating systems and other things we couldn’t care less about, and, in fact, some of us try to bypass Turlington completely to get away from all of your shenanigans most days. 
You’re allowed to dance, and, technically, you’re even 
allowed to yell, but you shouldn’t be allowed to go around calling women names, regardless of if you might think that it makes them feel good. Because as a woman — no, forget that — as a person who attends UF who has had to listen to you for the past two years, I’m relieved that you’ll be away from us for some time.
But Dennis, my friend, this isn’t the first 
time this has happened. No, it’d be silly of me to think you’d have given up that easily. Ac-cording to Alligator archives, you were banned back in 2012 for making a threatening state-ment. Haven’t you learned something in the past five years about screaming in public? 
If you’ve made it this far, Dennis, I com-
mend you, for it’s often hard to face the truth 
when it stares at you through a glowing screen. You also might be fighting the urge to say that all you’re trying to promote is peace. As someone who has occasionally seen you do this, I am proud of you when you do so.
However, peace isn’t accomplished through screaming 
at college students. It’s made possible when you get rid of the threats and inappropriate language.
I hope being banned for a while will give you some 
time to reflect on what you’ve done. As for me and most of the students here, we hope you understand why this is necessary, and if you do decide to come back, come back truly peacefully.
As Ronald Reagan once said, “Peace is not absence 
of conflict, it is the ability to handle conflict by peaceful means.”
Maybe this hiatus will allow you to learn how to more 
effectively communicate. I hope it does, because if what you’re after is peace, I’m all for it. 
By the time you’re allowed back on UF’s property, I 
will have graduated, and, most likely, live somewhere else. In fact, most of us will, which might be a good thing for you, Dennis, because now you get a fresh start. I hope you think about this seriously and make the change to be more well-equipped with your words and actions. 
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesday. 
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgDear Dennis: I think it’s best you’re gone for a bitAs you change 
throughout college, 
stay true to yourself 
College is a time for exploration and self-discovery. Hard-
ly any of us will leave UF as the same person we were when we got here. Letting the experiences you have in college lead to change and growth is a normal and healthy thing to do during this time. What isn’t healthy 
or normal, however, is letting the people around you dictate how you change and how you grow.
Since UF is a big school, a lot of us took to joining close-knit 
organizations like greek life, service clubs or Student Government in order to make the campus feel a little bit smaller. 
Before you knew it, your life probably began revolving around 
your organizations. When you weren’t at meetings or events, you were hanging out with your friends from your organizations, probably talking about recent and upcoming meetings or events. 
It slowly but surely became the crux of your life at UF.
Don’t get us wrong, it’s great that UF gives students so many 
opportunities to make the school feel smaller. Especially for those 
who come from a small high school or Stars Hollow-esque town. What’s not so great is when leaders in these organizations start to inflict their personal beliefs upon their members.
Often, clubs on campus believe they need to keep up a certain 
image. Student Government wants to appear as a unified front, even if the individuals involved don’t agree with every single 
platform. Sororities are focused on churning out the prettiest, 
trendiest and coolest girls on campus. Fraternities want to show the rest of campus that they have more fun than every other fra-ternity, and service clubs want their members to consistently act like saints or martyrs. 
While it’s rather uncommon for the president of an organiza-
tion to hand you a five page outline explaining how you should act, dress and think as a member of their club, they often find other ways to ensure that you meet their unspoken membership 
criteria.
It might be as simple as suggesting outfits you should  or 
shouldn’t wear. It might be as direct as an organization leader 
telling you not to share certain things on Facebook. It might be as aloof as someone gently mentioning that maybe you shouldn’t hang out with the people you’re friends with. 
These gentle nudges to change who you are probably seem 
harmless at first. These people are your friends, so they must have your best interest at heart, right? Well, as much as we wish 
that were true, it probably isn’t. Humans are inherently selfish 
and often do things more for personal gain than for someone else’s. 
This being said, sometimes the guidelines organizations give 
you can be helpful and in your best interest. Some organizations will encourage you to limit how much alcohol you drink or to keep your GPA up. Others will advise you to keep your social media clean or get involved in a professional organization within your college. We realize that some of the pressures these organi-
zations put on their members are good. 
The problem arises when they start to tell you what to wear, 
what to post on social media, who to hang out with, who to date, 
what to eat and where to shop. This is when they start to change who you are.
Please, dear reader, remember your values and remember 
who you are. Growth is important and so is self-discovery. But when you notice yourself start to change, take a step back and ask yourself: Am I changing into a person I like? Or am I changing 
into a person my so-called friends want me to become?Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Game of Thrones Season 7 Finale Review
Spoilers ahead! (pg 9)Bey Dey All Night Dance Party: 
The Atlantic to host party celebrating Beyoncé (pg 8)WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
This Thursday High Dive will 
host a tribute to Chester Bennington, 
the lead singer of Linkin Park, who took his own life this past July. The show will be a tragic follow-up to the 
show they put together to honor the 
late Chris Cornell.
When Soundgarden lead vocalist 
Chris Cornell took his life in May, Pat Lavery, exclusive promoter at High Dive, felt he was in a position to or-ganize a tribute show that featured many of Cornell’s songs.
The event reminded Gainesville 
locals to talk about suicide in order to identify its causes and aid in its pre-vention. Proceeds from the concert went to Friends of the Crisis Center, a nonproﬁ  t organization that raises money for the training of Alachua County Crisis Center volunteers.
When Chester Bennington later 
took his own life on July 20, Lavery 
knew what he needed to do.
“I felt a sense of duty to put this 
thing together and honor someone 
who gave their life to entertain and move so many people,” Lavery said. “The fact that he left us so tragically is heartbreaking, and for musicians and people in the music industry like myself, it hits close to home.”
Thursday’s show will feature lo-
cal bands Broken Silence, Seasons and Koup D’e Tat. In addition to 
performing original songs inspired 
by Bennington, the groups will per-form Linkin Park favorites such as “Forgotten,” “Papercut,” “What I’ve Done,” “Crawling,” “Runaway,”  “Numb” and many more.
When Lavery was looking for an 
organization to team up with for the Cornell event, he found that the Ala-
chua County Crisis Center does the 
most work for suicide prevention and awareness in the area, in addi-tion to relying on volunteers. 
Like the previous tribute con-
cert, High Dive will donate proceeds from the Bennington tribute show to Friends of the Crisis Center. In addi-
tion to supporting volunteer training, 
Friends of the Crisis Center cares for the Survivors of Suicide Memorial Garden at Cofrin Nature Park.
“[The Survivors of Suicide Me-
morial Garden] is the only memorial garden of its kind in the country,”  Lavery said. “And a portion of the $1,392 we raised in July went to 
purchasing a brick in tribute to Chris 
Cornell, which was recently installed at the park.
“That show served as both a 
healing tribute and a way for many people to achieve some closure with 
Cornell’s death. I hope we can do 
the same for fans of Chester Ben-nington.”
Ali Martinez, director of the 
Alachua County Crisis Center, was grateful to High Dive for opening the door to discussion of mental health.
 “We see all the time how hard 
it is for people to reach out for help 
because of the stigma that surrounds 
suicide,” Martinez said. “We do as much training and education in the community as we can to get the word out about the warning signs and to get people more comfortable talking about the issue. 
“To see a place like High Dive put 
this issue front and center, recogniz-
ing the impact of the loss of Chester 
Bennington and identifying suicide prevention as an important cause is very touching and an incredible honor. This beneﬁ  t will enable us to train more people to be on the ho-tline and be there for people in the worst moments of their lives.”
Daniela De La Torre, a 21-year-
old UF philosophy student, volun-teers at the center and will attend Bennington’s tribute as a resource to anyone in need during the concert.
“I attended High Dive’s last 
tribute concert to support a friend who was performing in honor of Chris Cornell,” De La Torre said. “I remember that one of the ﬁ  rst per-
formers of the show gave a really 
moving speech about what Cornell’s music had meant to him and how much it saddened him that someone so talented had felt so alone to the point where they wanted to end their life. It made my work with the Crisis Center feel that much more impor-tant.”
Volunteers and staff from the Cri-
sis Center and other charities will be at the event for anyone in need of assistance. Tickets can be purchased at ticketﬂ  y.com and at Hear Again Records for $7 or for $9 at the door. Donations are encouraged.
High Dive to host Chester Bennington Tribute Concert
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Reggae and ska legends will be 
sharing the High Dive stage for the sixth annual Less Than Jake Wake and Bake Weekend.
The event will take place Fri-
day and Saturday. Friday night will feature performances from Radon, Savage Brewtality and The Merm-ers. Grammy-winning Inner Circle, Coffee Project and Propaganjah will perform on Saturday. Headliner Less Than Jake will perform both nights, Vinnie Fiorello of Less Than Jake said.
On Friday, tickets will be $16 in 
advance and $18 at the door. On Sat-
urday, tickets will be $18 in advance 
and $20 at the door.
Cilantro Tacos is scheduled to be 
at the venue on Friday, with more food vendors to come, said Pat Lav-ery, the exclusive promoter for High Dive. Early access to the beer garden 
area will open at 6 p.m. Friday and 3 
p.m. Saturday for the UF vs. Michi-gan game. The doors open at 8 p.m. and the show is scheduled to begin at 9 p.m. both nights.
Less Than Jake formed in 
Gainesville in 1992 and has ﬁ  ve 
members: guitarist and vocalist Chris 
DeMakes, bassist and vocalist Roger Manganelli, drummer and lyricist Vinnie Fiorello, trombonist Buddy Schaub and saxophonist Peter “Jr.” Wasilewski. When they began tour-ing around the country, Fiorello real-ized the band had ﬁ  nally made it.
“It was different in the ‘90s,” 
Fiorello said. “Kids were reading a magazine, going out to a local record store and spending money on [our music].”
As their success swelled, Less 
Than Jake found themselves touring most of the year. Either on the road or out of the country, the band de-cided that they needed to set aside 
time each year to come back to play 
in Gainesville, said Fiorello. Wake and Bake Weekend was born.
“This is where I always come 
back home,” Fiorello said. “This is where our friends come in, our fam-ily comes in.”
Inner Circle, a Jamaican reg-
gae group, has been performing for nearly 50 years. In the 1990s, their-fame soared with the release of “Bad Boys,” the recognizable theme music 
to Fox’s “Cops.” They won a Gram-
my for Best Reggae Album in 1993 and 1994, according to the band’s website. Despite success, Inner Cir-cle often performs at small venues.
“They say bigger is better, but 
not all the while,” Inner Circle’s Ian Lewis said.
Today, the band continues to per-
form and work with young artists through their recording studio, Circle House. Lewis describes reggae music as unselﬁ  sh and about unity, quali-ties he says are especially important today. Lewis advises young artists  to be true to themselves rather than trying to ﬁ  t the popular mold.
“When you keep it real, that helps 
you more than when you, you know what I mean, become a chameleon.” Lewis said. “Don’t try to be some-body you’re not. Don’t talk about guns you’re never going to use.”
Another group performing is Pro-
paganjah. Formed under two years ago in Central Florida, they are al-ready performing multiple nights a week. Propaganjah’s Robert Burr Jr. said the band’s inﬂ  uences lie in the type of roots reggae that he grew up listening to, as his family is from the 
Virgin Islands. 
“Inner Circle’s always been a huge inﬂ  uence because of their ener-
gy on stage,” Burr said. “I saw Less Than Jake at the House of Blues four or ﬁ  ve years ago. I never thought I’d 
be on the same stage as them, let 
alone on the same night.”
Less Than Jake to host annual Wake and Bake WeekendCourtesy to the Alligator.
High Dive will donate proceeds from the show to the Friends of the Crisis Center.
Courtesy to the Alligator.
This is Less Than Jake’s sixth time hosting the event.
By Taylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Thirty-six years ago, on Sept. 4 at 
exactly 10 a.m., the ethereal goddess 
and intersectional feminist known as 
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles graced hu-
manity with her presence, and we’re still celebrating Her Holiness to this very day.
The Atlantic will be celebrating the 
birth of our Virgo queen this Saturday by throwing a dance party in her hon-or. The second annual Bey Day dance party will include all of Beyonce’s best 
hits provided by DJ Wax Atom.
Tyler Francischine, director of To-
night’s The Night Promotions and 
Booking, who was also in charge of 
creating and planning the ﬁ  rst Bey Day 
dance party, said that fans can expect to do more than just dancing this year.
“We’re adding a lip sync contest to 
give the audience a chance to shine,” 
Francischine said. “We’re also adding 
frozen alcoholic lemonade because it will be hot in there.”
Francischine said that at last year’s 
party, Beyonce fanatics were wrap-ping around the block by 11:30 p.m., but a crowd for an event like this is to be expected.
“I think this event has widespread 
appeal because Beyonce continues to be a beacon for female empower-ment and strength,” Francischine said. “On her last release, ‘Lemonade,’ she spanned the whole spectrum of emo-
tion, showing women that it’s okay to 
be angry or depressed and still come out the other side a strong and resil-ient person.”
Beyonce’s iconic 12-track visual 
album, “Lemonade,” beautifully de-picted the experiences of black wom-en in an honest and empowering way. Recognized for more than just her mu-
sic, Knowles is a well-known outlet 
for women and the black and LGBTQ communities.
Andrew McAuley, a 19-year-old UF 
microbiology and biochemistry double 
major, said that due to the current 
political climate, he thinks this year’s Bey Day event will be even more sig-niﬁ  cant.
“The black and LGBTQ communi-
ties are under such heavy ﬁ  re from the current political situation, and seeing these two groups come together and support each other is a symbol in it-
self that we will not accept the type of 
hateful rhetoric that has been thrown around by so many people recently,” said McAuley.
McAuley said he was interested 
in attending the event because of the inspiration that Beyonce gives to her fans as an artist and activist.“Not only is her music great but 
it is inspiring and powerful,” McAu-ley said. “I feel that the crowd that 
the event will bring together will be 
very diverse and accepting of every-one there, and that is something that I want to be a part of.”
Francischine plans to run this party 
with the same morals that Beyonce herself promotes.
“In a political reality that’s fraught 
with division, hate and ignorance, 
this will be a safe space where all 
are welcomed to be who they want to be,” Francischine said. “This will be a birthday party on one level and a celebration of what makes each of 
us beautiful and unique on a deeper 
level.”
The Bey Day: All Night Dance Party 
will start at 10 p.m. with a lip sync 
contest. There will be a $3 cover for 
people 21 and over and $5 for people under 21. For those interested in per-forming in the lip sync contest, email beydayatlantic@gmail.com with your 
name and song title. 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
Second annual Bey Day party set to celebrate Beyonce
Courtesy to the Alligator.
This will be the second edition of 
the Bey Dey dance party, which was a large success in 2016.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
                   By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
The seventh season of “Game of Thrones” 
came to a close this week. One notable quality 
of the show has always been its ability to carry on several plotlines at once. However, as the show enters its ﬁ  nal season, it’s time for these 
plotlines to merge and the motives of the many 
characters to become uniﬁ  ed. Episode seven, “The Dragon and the Wolf,” did just that.
This ﬁ  nale was all about relationships, seen 
through the interactions surrounding the Drag-onpit meeting. This meeting between the great powers of Westeros is key to moving the plot forward by bringing the characters together and ﬁ  nally revealing the threat of the army of the dead. However, it is the individual interac-tions that truly make this scene.
Throughout the series, each character in the 
pit has shared history with another that may not align with his or her current allegiances. Tyrion, Podrick and Bron each enter represent-
ing the interests of different rulers. Still, they 
once fought alongside each other as allies and friends. Brienne of Tarth nearly killed Sandor Clegane in single combat, but they are able to connect over the shared concern for Arya’s safety. The Lannisters are brothers and sister, yet they sit on opposite sides. The web of rela-tionships shown reminds the viewer that these characters have complex motives based on 
complicated histories.The interwoven nature of these relation-
ships is a reminder that these characters’ fates 
are intertwined. This realization is what trig-gers Jaime to abandon Cersei. They both see danger, but Cersei would rather see the world end than risk trusting anyone, even Jaime. Without any moral inﬂ  uence, Cersei is sure to 
be a major disruptive force in the ﬁ  nal season. 
Complicated relationships are pivotal in the 
events that unfold at Winterfell. Petyr Baelish 
has spent most of the season attempting to create distrust between the Stark sisters. His efforts appear to successfully play off of their childhood rivalry, until he implies that Arya wants to kill Sansa to become Lady of Winter-fell. Sansa knows that Arya has never wanted 
to be a Lady. The relationship between the sisters returns to a trusting one when Sansa 
realizes she has been manipulated. With the 
help of Bran, Baelish is tried for murder and 
treason. He is then put to death by Arya with 
his own knife that was once used in an attempt 
on Bran’s life.
The long predicted romance between Daen-
erys Targaryen and Jon Snow ﬁ  nally comes to 
fruition, with major consequences. As Baelish 
points out, a marriage between Jon and Daen-
erys would be powerful. However, as Bran and 
Sam ﬁ  nally discover Jon’s true heritage and 
name, a potentially major conﬂ  ict is revealed. 
Not only is Daenerys Jon’s aunt, but Jon, or 
Aegon Targaryen, is the rightful heir to the Iron 
Throne — not Daenerys. This is certain to play 
a major role in the season to come.
Game of Thrones ﬁ  nale review: Spoilers Ahead!
TELEVISION
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Although many see Labor Day 
as an opportunity for a weekend 
getaway, Gainesville is also home to events that will make the holi-day just as enjoyable. Here’s a few 
events to check out.
West King String Band at First 
Magnitude
First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., 
will host this laid-back concert. West King String Band, a bluegrass/folk group from St. Augustine, Florida, will perform. Admission is free and the event will run from 7 to 11 p.m.
Labor Daze Fest
Self-described as an event “by lo-
cals, for locals and about locals,” the 
sixth annual Labor Daze Fest, to be held Sunday at Bo Diddley Plaza (lo-cated at 111 E University Ave.) will have activities for all ages. The free festival will host ﬁ  ve local bands, 50 vendors, a rock wall and more from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. FEST Wrestling One Year An-
niversary Bash
For the older (18+) crowd, FEST 
Wrestling will be hosting an event at Eight Seconds, located at 201 W 
University Ave., from 4 p.m. to 8 
p.m. on Sunday. FEST, Gainesville’s annual punk rock festival held in October, also hosts various wres-tling events throughout the festival and the year. Sunday’s event will host over 20 wrestlers set to battle it out in the ring. Tickets are $12 in advance and $17 at the door. Places to spend your Labor Day Weekend
Courtesy to The Alligator.
FEST Wrestling hosts various events throughout the year.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
WANTED: SERIOUS GRAD STUDENT OR 
ONE WHO WANTS PEACE & QUIET. 1BR garage apt. w / garage for vehicle. $575/mo. 352-376-6294    8-14-17-6-2
Room available in 2/2.5 Townhouse in Beacon Hill. Room has private full bathroom and balcony. Minutes from UF SHANDS and UF campus. 525.00/mo plus shared utilities. Email: yessie22@msn.com.     8-30-17-5-2
For Rent - 2 Bedroom 2 1/2 Bath Great Location for Students, close to UF/Shands and Butler Plaza.$900.00 per monthFor more information - 386-214-6777    8-30-17-3-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-20-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
● ● ● AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY ● ● ●Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $675/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     7-27-17-7-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
8-21-25-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-21-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10
JUST IN CASE!Mace, stun guns, tasers, over 400 firearms. Free CWP permit pkg. M & C Army Surplus 626 NW 13 St. 1/2 m N of UF. 352-378-6960    9-1-17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-121For Rent
furnished
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Cabin in the woods, one room, peaceful, with wildlife and pond. 23 mi east of Gainesville. $500/mo. No smoking/drugs. Call 352-301-4707.          9-8-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR 1BA Duplex 7 blocks from Campus.
Each unit $800 per month, water included. W/D fenced yard. Call 352-871-6413. 8-14-17-5-2
2BR2/5BA CONDO in Pickwick Park
off 34th St across from post office. W/D in-cluded. Pool, clubhouse. $1000/mo. 352-275-3197    8-14-17-2-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
2001 Cadillac Deville DTS.\500 miles on new engine, rebuilt front end, new tires., multiple CD player, spare parts. Beauty of a ride. $ 3200.     8-30-17-5-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-14-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com        7-27-17-4-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
Professional parents looking for a sitter for a 3 month-old, select afternoons, 15 hr/wk. Must have prior experience with infants, and reliable transportation. Pay is $12/hr. Please call 352-371-3418.     8-30-17-5-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-11-17-7-14Copytalk Business Services is a financial transcription company located near UF cam-pus in Gainesville and is currently offering flexible scheduling part-time transcriptionist positions.Ideal candidates should meet the following requirements:- Have excellent English grammar, spelling, and comprehension skills- Touch type 60+ wpm- Be able to work a minimum of 16 hours per week Monday through FridayAPPLY ONLINE ATWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM        9-6-17-5-14
Caregiver for 30-yr-old w/autism.Training provided. Car, clean record, finger-printing required. $15/hr. P/T or F/T, Mon, Tues, Wed.    352-301-4707      9-8-17-5-14
SERIOUS STUDENT NEEDED TO CLEAN HOUSE, 9 hrs/wk, flexible / long term. Call only between 4 - 6 p.m.. Leave message 352-378-9771.     9-1-17-3-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    12-6-17-40-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff, & 
Bartenders
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
9-1-17-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-21-17-25-15
GRE Self-Paced Program
now only $199!
Prep anytime- anywhere!
Find more info & enroll here:
PrincetonReview.com
9-1-17-5-15
1. LITERATURE: How many lines 
are in a standard limerick?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Which South 
American nation controls Easter 
Island in the Pacific Ocean?
3. LANGUAGE: What is the Latin 
plural of the word opus?
4. MUSIC: What famous 20th-cen-
tury bandleader died in an airplane 
crash?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the appropriate gift for a 15th anniversary?
6. MONEY: Whose picture is on a 
U.S. $10,000 bill?
7. RELIGION: What is the longest 
chapter in the Bible?
8. HISTORY: When was the Ency-
clopaedia Britannica first published?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: Which 
animal has the longest gestation peri-od?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What French 
sauce served with grilled meat uses tarragon as a key ingredient?
Answers
1. Five2. Chile3. Opera4. Glenn Miller
5. Crystal
6. Salmon P. Chase, treasury secre-
tary 1861-1864
7. Psalm 119 8. 1768-719. Elephant, at 95 weeks10. Bearnaise sauce
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 28, 2017King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
"The Spiritual Purpose of Dreams" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., Aug. 20     
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
Everyone welcome
8-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1.  Type of seal 
1.  Drywall mineral 5.  Door ____
2.  Sent, mailed6.  Part
3.  Mount ____7.  Copy ____
4.  ____ showerSGKTAE
USGMPYREPZI
ECIPE
PHDEPSI
STERVEEDIROET
TROMEEANSWERS: 1A-Gasket  5A-Prize  6A-Piece  7A-Editor
1D-Gypsum  2D-Shipped  3D-Everest  4D-Meteor  B-Porky Pig8-30-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This character made 
his debut in 1935.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Brigantine’s pair
6 Necklace globule
10 Touch gently13 Sneezing sound
14 Grade for
exceptional work
16 “Gross!”
17 Student’s all-
nighter
19 Links figure
20 Trek on a trail21 Lots22 Martini garnish24 Keats’ “__ on
Indolence”
25 Dessert with a
caramelized top
27 Verbal
29 Former “Inside
the NFL” host
Dawson
30 Correctional32 Issuer of bulls35 Bridge support39 Course of study
that may include
forensics
42 Trail
43 Sports figures44 __ fit: tantrum45 Tie-ending qtrs.47 Boot
48 Like a mid-17th
century English
government
54 Letter after
upsilon
57 “Spider-Man:
Homecoming”actress Marisa
58 Je t’__: French “I
love you”
59 Cookware
material
60 Bygone U.K.
record label
61 Car’s impact-
absorbingstructural feature
64 Suitable65 Comic/writer/
activist Izzard
66 Solitary sort67 Ed.’s acquisitions68 Italian wine region69 Latin clarifier
DOWN
1 Virile2 Bitterly pungent3 Seal the deal4 Heavy reading?
5 Signal of distress6 Moisten while
roasting
7 __ salts
8 Dress named for
a letter
9 Electronic
music’s Daft
Punk, e.g.
10 Dilation target
11 Tequila source
12 Red billiard ball
15 [Bo-ring!]
18 Rank between
marquis and
viscount
23 __ fringe:
fanatical
extremists
25 Colombian city
26 __ cheese28 Make
emphatically, asa point
30 Angel dust, for
short
31 Significant stretch32 Sketchbook, e.g.33 __ Navy:
discount retailer
34 Comfy lounging
wear36 Like aggressive
investments
37 IV units
38 “Listen up!”
40 Body part with a
bridge
41 It’s just over a foot
46 __-baked
potatoes
47 Film critic Pauline48 Third-stringers
49 Escapades50 Passes over51 Praises highly
52 Maximum
53 Macao Science
Center designer
55 Sharpens56 Like noble gases59 Polo maker that’s
a Polo rival
62 Nutritional abbr.63 Philanthropist
Broad
By Jacob Stulberg
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/30/1708/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16 Health Services 18 Personals 23 Rides
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Volleyball player wins national honors
Sophomore Rachael Kramer earned two accolades because of her perfor-
mance in the Gators' weekend wins against T exas and Nebraska. Kramer was named the espnW National Player of the Week and honored by the American Volleyball Coaches Association.Gabby Seiler  has scored in 
every game and helped to lift 
the Florida soccer team to No. 2 in national rankings. 
The city of Houston is hurting 
right now. It’s hurting pretty bad.
Tropical Storm Harvey has report-
edly left thousands of people in the 
area stranded and homeless with no place to go.
Images of neighborhoods engulfed 
in water have gone viral all over so-
cial media.
Hundreds of panicked residents 
are desperately seeking shelter. Some parts of the city have even become 
so desperate that rescue boats have 
reportedly been attacked for not hav-
ing the capacity to assist every per-
son they drive by.
“You have people rushing the 
boat,” rescuer Clyde Cain told CNN. 
“Everyone wants to get in at the same 
time… We have boats being shot at if 
we’re not picking everybody up.”
Of course, with such a catastrophe 
currently plaguing one of the most prominent sports towns in the United 
States, surely its baseball team’s at-
tention is solely focused on the well-being of its citizens, right?
Wrong.The Houston Astros, who ﬁ  nd 
themselves in the middle of a late-season playoff push, have much 
more important things to fret over, 
like having to relocate a trio of home 
games against the Texas Rangers to 
Tampa.
Due to the severe ﬂ  ooding caused 
by what was initially a Category 4 
hurricane, the Astros asked the Rang-
ers if they’d be willing to host this week’s three-game series in Arling-
ton and allow Houston to host a later 
series in September at Minute Maid 
Park.
The Rangers declined the pro-
posed swap, stating they didn’t want 
to inconvenience their fans who bought tickets for the September 
matchup, forcing this week’s games In the midst of 
devastation, 
Astros make it 
all about themYou’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixon
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Tyrie Cleveland tries to block it out. 
It helps when he puts on his helmet and 
his pads and runs onto the practice ﬁ  eld, 
when he gets to forget about everything 
else. But then practice ends, and he can’t help but think about his aunt, his cousins and his friends back in Houston many of 
whom were affected by Tropical Storm Har-vey this weekend.
“I just kept them in my prayers,” said 
Cleveland, a sophomore receiver on Flori-da’s football team. “I’m going to continue to 
keep them in my prayers.”
Cleveland, who was born and raised in 
Jacksonville, moved to Houston when he 
was in middle school. He returned to Florida 
after he announced his commitment to UF on National Signing Day in 2016, bolstering a Florida recruiting class that was looking for a top-end wide receiver.
Cleveland said about four feet of rain 
and some ﬂ  ooding has reached his family’s 
home in Houston, but no water is in their 
house. They’re doing OK, Cleveland said. But they’re still on his mind.
“(I’m) very worried,” Cleveland said. 
“Being out here, (I) can’t do nothing about it.” 
With a matchup against No. 11 Michigan  WR Cleveland’s family hit by Houston storm
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Dre Massey’s screen saver 
tells a story. So did the brace he 
wore on his knee all spring. It’s 
one of tragedy and determination, 
of heartbreak and resilience, and 
it’s one Massey hopes ends in tri-
umph. 
The picture reportedly is of 
AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Tex-
as, home of the Dallas Cowboys and, this Saturday, of Florida’s season-opening game against Michigan. Massey has had it set 
as his background since soon after 
the opening kickoff of Week 1 of last season. 
He came to Florida billed as the 
ﬁ  fth-best junior college receiver in 
the country in the class of 2016, 
and heading into his ﬁ  rst season 
in Gainesville, coach Jim McEl-
wain hyped him up as a do-it-all 
playmaker. As such, he returned 
the ﬁ  rst kickoff of the season — a 21-yard scamper from the border of the end zone. He never played again. 
When he got tackled on that 
kickoff, he tore his ACL and was done for the season. It was the 
latest in a catalog of setbacks that 
includes the death of his father in 
a car accident, his relatives ending 
up in prison and his scholarship 
offer being revoked at East Caroli-
na University when he didn’t pro-
duce adequate SAT scores, forcing 
him to enroll in junior college. 
Now, nearly a year to the day since his ACL injury, he says he’s fully healthy. He no longer needs 
the support of the knee brace. And 
with his screen saver serving as a constant reminder, he wants to 
take advantage of what he missed 
out on last season. 
His rehab, his practice and his 
prayers have all led to Saturday. 
“I’ve been thinking about this 
game a whole lot,” he said. “First 
game back, my main thing is to go 
out there and play hard and ﬁ  nish  A year after torn ACL, Massey prepares for returnAlligator File Photo
Gators receiver Tyrie Cleveland's family was affected by Harvey. "I'm going to continue to keep them in my prayers, " Cleveland said Tuesday.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE MASSEY,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
FREE BUFFET 
NOON - 6PM
SAT & SUN  
DURING  
FOOTBALL 
SEASON
(dallas only)
10250 shady trail, dallas • 214-358-5511
3601 HWY 157, fort worth • 817-267-7701Free Relationship Skills 
Workshop
Funding for this project is provided by the United States Department Health and Human 
Services, Administration for Children and Families, Grant: # 90FM0079-02-00.  These services are available to all eligible persons, regardless of race, gender, age, disability or religion. Dr. Victor Harris, an award winning UF Associate Professor, will teach COUPLES effective and proven SKILLS to increase positive communication, manage stress, set financial goals, deal with differences, and maintain a happy and healthy friendship bond. 
This exciting workshop, called ELEVATE, will be held once a week 
for 5 weeks from 6:00–8:30 pm at the University of Florida.  
Workshop 1: Mondays, Sept. 11, 18, 24, Oct. 2, 9
Workshop 2: Tuesdays, Sept. 12, 19, 25, Oct. 3, 10Workshop 3: Wednesdays, Sept. 13, 20, 26, Oct. 4, 11
Each registrant receives a free USB drive and may also be eligible 
for gift cards. A free light MEAL is served and parking is free.  
 PRE-REGISTRATION is REQUIRED.  Go to the Classes/Events page at www.smartcouples.org or contact Christina Collingwood at 
352-273-3507 or ccollingwood@ufl.edu to register. 
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Gabby Seiler knows how to be 
versatile.
The redshirt senior captain of the 
Gators soccer team is a defender on 
the pitch for the most part. During 
Sunday’s game against Syracuse, 
Seiler cleanly won tackle after tackle on the back line, in her own box and at midﬁ  eld.
She can also put the ball in the 
back of the net when need be. Her goals against Stanford and Syra-cuse — a point-blank header to tie the match with the Cardinal and an 
early-game penalty kick against the Orange — earned the ﬂ  exible “mid-
ﬁ  elder” SEC Offensive Player of the Week honors.
Seiler tried to downplay the 
award during practice on Tuesday.
“I mean, I think it’s great, but 
that’s just a testament to my team-mates,” Seiler said. “I think it’s cool, but I’m more concerned about our games going into this weekend and making sure we get two wins.”
The efforts of Seiler and the 
Gators have catapulted Florida up 
to No. 2 in the most recent coaches 
poll, its highest ranking since 1999. 
This weekend presents a new, 
yet familiar challenge for Seiler and her Gators teammates: long-distance travel. Florida ﬂ  ies west after prac-tice Wednesday to take on a pair of Paciﬁ  c Northwest teams in the Hus-ky/Nike Invitational.
“I think it’s difﬁ  cult,” Seiler said. 
“But I think it’s nothing new to us… Maybe for the freshmen, but overall, I think it’ll be a good experience.”
Seiler already has experience 
playing in Seattle, having participat-ed in the U.S. Women’s U-23 train-ing camp in July. 
Last year, the Gators traveled to 
California to take on Stanford and 
UCLA, splitting the two games with 
a loss to the Cardinal and a victory against the Bruins, both one-goal overtime results.
Coach Becky Burleigh and her 
upperclassmen have been in this scenario before, but it’s always a challenge crossing multiple time zones.
“We really don’t miss much in 
terms of training,” Burleigh said. “We just kind of have to treat [Wednesday] as like a hard day be-cause the long travel is like a hard day physically.”
Burleigh said she welcomes the 
road trip to the West Coast as a sort of test for her squad.
“The timezone issue is going to 
be a challenge,” Burleigh said. “I think that that’s good for us because learning how to deal with travel… will be a good lesson for us to carry forward.”
Burleigh also said she has respect for both opponents she’ll be facing this weekend in the University of Washington and Portland. 
“Sometimes, there’s different 
styles of play in different parts of the country, so we’ll see something very different,” Burleigh said. “[We’ll] play in different conditions. Obvi-ously, we probably won’t have the humidity, the grass might be a little different, so these are all good things for us to add to what we learn.” 
The Gators are set to take on 
Washington on Friday at 11 p.m. EST and Portland at 9 p.m. on Sun-day. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org 
Gabby Seiler carries Florida soccer team to No. 2 ranking to be moved almost 1000 miles away to 
Tropicana Field instead.
Let’s just say the Astros weren’t too 
pleased.
“They did not want to trade series with 
us,” Astros president Ryan Reid complained 
to reporters. “They wanted all six of our 
games at their park.”
Pitcher Lance McCullers Jr. wasn’t afraid to voice his opinion on the matter either.
“Classy as always, should be absolutely 
ashamed,” McCullers Jr. tweeted about the 
Rangers on Monday. “Greed never takes off 
days, apparently.”
Oh, pardon me Lance. How inconvenient 
for you to have to travel to Tampa for a baseball game rather than Arlington.
I’m sure all of your fans in Houston ﬁ  ght-
ing for their lives right now are just as out-
raged as you are. 
In all of my years following sports, I’ve never seen a team display such a lack of empathy for the outside world.
Thirty people have died in Houston so 
far, and that toll is only expected to in-
crease. How could anyone be more con-
cerned over something as trivial as the loca-
tion of a sporting event?
Rangers outﬁ  elder Delino DeShields 
agrees.
“I want people to understand that what 
is happening down there is way bigger than baseball,” DeShields wrote on Twitter. “Ev-eryone wants to point ﬁ  ngers at each other 
calling each other names… That’s so irrel-
evant right now.”
Well said Delino. Well said.The bottom line is that Ryan Reid and 
Lance McCullers Jr. are lucky to have the privilege of complaining about something as insigniﬁ  cant as where their game is played.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 13
The Associated Press
A father covers his 2-year-old daughter as they are rescued by ofﬁ  cials in Houston.
The Associated Press
Floodwaters from Tropical Storm Harvey ﬂ  ow in Houston's Buffalo Bayou on Monday.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas, looming 
on Saturday, Cleveland said it has been dif-ﬁ  cult to balance football and the concern he 
has for his friends and family. 
“There is real life happening down there, 
especially in that Houston area,” UF coach 
Jim McElwain said on Monday. “We’re ob-
viously conscious of that and feel for those 
people and what they’re going through.”
According to the University Athletic depart-
ment, Florida and Michigan have partnered with organizers from the Arlington-based Ad-vocare Classic, the Dallas-based Cotton Bowl and the Dallas Cowboys to encourage fans to donate to relief funds through the Red Cross 
and the Salvation Army.
“We are very mindful of the damage and 
destruction caused by Hurricane Harvey,” 
Florida Athletics Director Scott Stricklin said 
in a release, “and are hopeful that Gators and 
Wolverines can come together to provide as-sistance to those who are in need.”
According to The National Weather Ser-
vice, Harvey has set a record for total rainfall 
by a tropical cyclone in the continental Unit-
ed States. According to the New York Times, there have been 30 conﬁ  rmed or suspected ﬂ  ood-related deaths in the Houston area since 
Harvey hit.
Cleveland said his family is still in their 
house because water has not gotten in, and 
“they’re handling it.” He added that it has helped that teammates have checked on him 
and asked about his family. 
“There’s a lot of supportive people on the 
team,” Cleveland said. 
Even with the support from his teammates, 
Cleveland is usually on the phone as soon as 
practice ends, talking with friends or family and asking for updates.
“I’ve sent millions of texts,” Cleveland 
said.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 13WR: Family 'OK'
the game.”
With last season’s receiving leader An-
tonio Callaway suspended for the Michigan 
game, Massey will have every opportunity to make up for him, as will his teammates. 
Sophomore Josh Hammond was conﬁ  dent the unit will be able to ﬁ  ll in. 
“Once we get it rolling,” he said, “I think 
nobody will be able to stop us.”
He also said he’s conﬁ  dent in Massey 
coming off the injury. He said he’s noticed his eagerness as well as his versatility. 
“He can do a lot of different things,” 
Hammond said. “We’ll be able to use him in a lot of different ways.”
That sounds similar to Callaway, who 
the Gators used as a receiver and punt re-
turner. McElwain said Massey is getting 
looks in the punt return game, but can he be as electric as Callaway? Masset thinks so. 
“I hope to excite the crowd more,” he 
said. “We look a little ﬂ  at sometimes. (I want to) bring more excitement back, how 
it used to be.”
He also said coaches are taking advan-
tage of his versatility. He was clear he didn’t 
want to give “anything away,” which raises questions about possible trick plays, wild-
cat formations or other installations that 
could utilize his speed and shiftiness. For 
now, he said they’re using those packages 
to try and ﬁ  gure out how much he trusts his 
knee after surgery. 
He said he does, that he never thinks 
about it, and that he’s shown coaches he hasn’t changed post-surgery. As a result, 
he expects to at least be given a chance at 
being the playmaker he was built up to be ahead of the 2016 season. 
He said he’s shown that he’s unafraid 
despite his injury. He’s even gone to McEl-
wain speciﬁ  cally to ask about returning 
kicks. And if the opening kickoff comes his 
way again this year?
“I’ll run it,” Massey said.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org Massey to play bigger role without Callaway
Alligator File Photo
"I've been thinking about this game a whole lot, " Massey said. A redshirt junior, 
Massey tore his ACL on the opening kickoff of Florida's ﬁ  rst game in 2016. MASSEY,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 2017
 By Matt Brannon 
Sports Writer
The No. 17 Gators might be hard to 
recognize Saturday, and not just because 
they’re playing an unfamiliar opponent. 
In addition to the regular-season debut of 
Florida and Michigan, the Gators will be wearing new uniforms specially designed for the team’s season opener in AT&T Sta-
dium outside of Dallas.
Fans will see Florida wearing “flood-
ed blue” uniforms designed by Nike, equipped with blue gloves, blue cleats, 
blue socks and blue wristbands. Nike de-scribes the uniforms as a “subtle yet bold change from the program’s traditional 
look.”
Michigan also got revamped uniforms. 
The Wolverines will wear all-maize uni-
forms to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the university and the 150th anniversa-
ry of the school’s colors, maize and blue. 
Along with the new wardrobe, Nike is re-leasing special edition Michigan-themed pair of the Jordan Trainer 2.  
 The Florida Gators released their unofﬁ  cial depth chart for this Saturday’s season 
opener against Michigan.
 Graduate transfer Malik Zaire, redshirt 
junior Luke Del Rio and redshirt freshman 
Feleipe Franks are listed as potential start-ers at quarterback.
 Cornerback Marco Wilson, the younger 
brother of former Gator Quincy Wilson, is the only true freshman listed at the top of the depth chart. He is set to start in the secondary alongside redshirt senior Nick 
Washington, senior Duke Dawson and 
sophomore Chauncey Gardner Jr.
 UF’s leading receiver last season, junior 
Antonio Callaway, isn’t included on the depth chart as he is one of seven players 
suspended against the Wolverines for re-
portedly misusing university-issued funds.
 
Courtesy of UAA CommunicationsCourtesy of UAA Communications
FOOTBALL TEAM RELEASES DEPTH CHART FOR WEEK 1Gators to wear all blue uniforms on Saturday vs. Michigan