We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 6 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
Franks to start against Michigan
Redshirt freshman Feleipe Franks will start at 
QB in his ﬁ  rst game Saturday, pg 13.
Push for living wage
Workers want living wage at Santa Fe College, pg 3. 
Interviewing for SG Senate candidates begins
Impact and Inspire are interviewing Friday and Tuesday, pg 5. FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
STARS ON THE STEPS
The UF School of Theatre and Dance narrates an excerpt from George Orwell’s “1984” on the steps of the Hippodrome State Theatre. The reading event was a part of Gainesville’s “One City, One Story” project, which aims to bring the city together to read the same book at the same time.
FUCHS WROTE IN AN 
EMAIL UF WILL 
NOT WAVER.
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
Organizers on behalf of white 
supremacist Richard Spencer may ﬁ  le a lawsuit against UF. 
On Aug. 16, UF President Kent 
Fuchs said Spencer would not be allowed to speak at UF due to the threat of violence. On Wednesday night, UF received a letter from Gary Edinger, a lawyer for Cam-eron Padgett, Richard Spencer, and the National Policy Institute, detail-ing their intent to still come to UF. 
Edinger wrote in the letter that if 
UF did not allow Spencer to speak, they would ﬁ  le a lawsuit within the next day or two. 
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said UF would defend its decision to disallow Spencer, according to Alligator archives. Fuchs sent out an email to the Student Body assur-ing UF wouldn’t waver. 
“The First Amendment does not 
mean we have to suffer injury or death in pursuit of free speech,” Sikes said.  
The National Policy Institute 
initially requested to reserve a space for Spencer to speak at UF on Sep. 12. Fuchs initially said they would allow him, despite denounc-ing his views, because of the First Amendment. After the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and speciﬁ  c threats targeted toward Gainesville, Fuchs reconsidered. 
The institute is now asking for 
Spencer’s organization to legally challenge UF’s decision 
SEE SPENCER,  PAGE 5
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
With broth dripping from his 
chin and about 8 pounds of pho 
in his stomach, Michael Jenkins left Gainesville on Thursday as a 
champion, again.
Jenkins, 50, and ﬁ  ve other con-
testants each took on two steamy, 
3-pound bowls of the Vietnamese noodle soup at Taste Pho & Noodle 
House’s third annual pho-eating 
contest at 7 p.m. The contest was hosted in front of the restaurant, located at 3117 SW 34th St.
Jenkins said he drove two and 
a half hours from his hometown, Cocoa Beach, to keep his title. He won ﬁ  rst place last year, and this year he said he came determined. 
“I’m here to win,” he said. 
Taste Pho Manager Tyler Le re-
viewed the rules: 15 minutes to eat 
as much as possible; minimal spill-
age; one chance to vomit. 
“You can only throw up once in your bowl,” he said. “After the 
second you’ll be disqualiﬁ  ed.” 
The other contestants included 
27-year-old Gainesville resident Hank May, who won second place last year; 22-year-old UF computer engineering ﬁ  fth-year Kyle Griffy; 
22-year-old UF alumnus Son Vo; 
and a UF graduate student who wished to remain anonymous and was referred to as Mystery Girl. 
Before the event, the contes-
tants visited Taste Pho and paid $20 for two large bowls of pho, which they had to eat in 15 min-utes, to qualify.
The last contestant, Josh Avilez, 
a 19-year-old UF accounting junior, said he and his friends came to watch. When the sixth contestant 
didn’t show up, Avilez sat in. He’d 
never eaten pho before, he said. 
“I don’t know what I’m getting 
myself into,” Avilez said. “I’m just going to eat.” 
At 7:18 p.m., it was pho time. Taste Pho hosts third 
annual eating contest
SEE PHO,  PAGE 5By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Sahithya Reddy Kadaru saw 
the signs of decline in interna-
tional students this year when her 
sister delayed coming to the U.S.
Kadaru’s sister, who lives in 
Hyderabad, India, had planned to come to UF to study computer 
science. After complications with 
her visa process and the ﬂ  uctu-
ating exchange rate of the dollar to the Indian rupee, she chose to 
wait a year. 
Kadaru said her sister’s deci-
sion was not motivated by fear, but she sees how other’s choices might be. 
“Maybe they saw the (presi-
dential) campaign, and they think 
politically it might not help them, it might be unwelcoming for them 
to come here,” she said.
Kadaru’s sister isn’t alone. 
More than 600 fewer ﬁ  rst-year 
international students enrolled at UF this year compared to last, 
a 30 percent drop, wrote UF spokesperson Steve Orlando in 
an email. The biggest loss comes from the Kadaru sisters’ home 
country of India. There are 365 
fewer new students coming to UF 
to study from the country, a 41 
percent drop from last year’s 619 students. 
Kadaru said she understands 
why people may choose to wait before moving across the world. “Moving from India to U.S., 
this is a big step for them,” she 
said. “So they have to think prop-
erly before coming here.”
The UF International Center 
staff expected to lose students this year, said its dean, Leonardo 
Villalón. But they didn’t expect 
the loss to be this steep.
This Fall there are only 1,273 ‘A Turning point’: UF international students are declining 
There’s more than 600 fewer this Fall
SEE STUDENTS,  PAGE 4•   •   •Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Online Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  89° LOW  73°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Fall 2017 SG elections: qualify-
ing and slating
Fall 2017 Student Government 
elections are almost here. 
Qualifying and slating for can-didates will run for three days in the Reitz Union, Room 3315, 
on Thursday from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m.; Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m.; and Tuesday from 8 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. SG Elections will be 
held Sept. 26 and 27 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. at various locations across campus. For more information, visit sg.ufl.
edu/elections.
GatorNights: Hollywood Glitz & 
GlamTo kick off a monthlong cit-
ies theme, GatorNights is hav-ing a Hollywood Glitz & Glam night Friday. Step onto the red carpet, get your picture taken, and strut your stuff on the 
Walk of Fame all night. Add 
some relaxation to your first week here with salt and sugar scrubs and do-it-yourself bath bombs. If you want to bling 
yourself out, stop by the body 
art booth for a glittery tem-porary tattoo. Featured in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
is Los Angeles-based a cap-
pella group The Filharmonic, performing from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. Theater Strike Force will be performing an “eti-
quette class” in the Student 
Senate Chamber. The film for the night is “Transformers: The Last Knight,” playing at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Popcorn 
and soda will be available, in addition to midnight munch-
ies. The Arts & Crafts Center 
and the game room will have more free activities through-out the night. GatorNights is always Friday and always 
free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate and are allowed to bring 
a maximum of one guest to the 
event. 
West King String Band live 
Kick off the school year and 
football season with the West 
King String Band at First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., 
on Friday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. The event is free and 
open to all ages. 
‘Free Fridays’ concert series: 
Heavy Petty and Hedges The City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs department is continuing its annual series of free, family-
friendly concerts in downtown 
Gainesville on Friday with Heavy Petty,  a Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers tribute 
band, and Hedges. The con-
cert will be held on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. The event is 
free and open to all ages. The 
concert series will continue until Oct. 20. 
‘Frogs! A Chorus of Colors’ ex-
hibit leaves MondayVisit the Florida Museum of Natural History before the “Frogs! A Chorus of Colors” 
exhibit hops away. Explore the 
musical, multicolored world of frogs and gain a new apprecia-tion for the vocal amphibians. 
UF students with a valid Gator 
1 Card receive free admission. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/exhib-its/frogs or call 352-846-2000.
Apply to be an assistant su-
pervisor of elections for UF Student Government
Apply to be a part of the Fall 
2017 UF Student Government elections team as an assis-tant supervisor of elections. Multiple assistants will work 
with the supervisor of elec-
tions in planning and holding elections for 50 senators based on where students reside in 
Gainesville. Visit sg.ufl.edu/
get-involved/apply and select the “executive” link to apply no later than Sept. 8 at 4 p.m. Contact Supervisor of Elections 
Erica Baker at elections@
sg.ufl.edu with any questions.
Fall Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center is hosting the Fall Study Abroad Fair on the North Lawn on Sept. 20 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. UF study abroad program 
directors and independent 
program providers will have table displays and be available to answer questions. Former 
study abroad students will share their international expe-
riences. The UF Study Abroad Services staff will be available to explain the application pro-
cess and to help students find 
the right program. Overseas internship opportunities are available. Study abroad can be used to satisfy Summer resi-
dency requirements and most 
financial aid can be used. For more information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 
352-273-1539. 
Fall Day of Service
The David and Wanda Brown 
Center for Leadership and 
Service is holding a Fall 2017 
Day of Service on Oct. 21. Join several hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service 
for a wide variety of nonprof-
its, including Keep Alachua Beautiful, ACORN Clinic, Historic Haile Homestead, NATL (Natural Area Teaching 
Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The 
Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more in-formation, call 352-392-1215, 
email cls@leadershipandser-
vice.ufl.edu, or visit bit.ly/daysofservice.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Correction: 
In an article published Aug. 
30, titled “SG appoints new 
chief justice,” the new UF Supreme Court chief justice’s name is Meagan McCarthy. 
The Alligator reported differ-
ently. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 6FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
Help People Affected by 
Hurricane Harvey. Donate Now.
Call 1-800-RED CROSS or visit redcross.org.
Make a difference.SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
“th/e.end h/y_p/e.end i/s.end”rea/l.end
1113 W. UNIVERSITY AVENUEDOLISH_GVL
M - TH 11am - 8pm
F -Sat - 11am 9pmPick-up your
Monday
Wednesday
Friday
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
ABOUT 150 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE MEETING.
Gainesville residents and public 
leaders discussed pushing Santa Fe 
College to pay all employees a living wage in a Thursday meeting.
The Alachua County Labor Co-
alition ﬁ  lled a room to capacity — about 150 people — in the Alachua County Millhopper Branch Library for its Santa Fe College Living Wage Campaign Kick Off at 6 p.m. The coalition announced they will ask Santa Fe to pay all faculty, particu-larly adjunct faculty, a living wage and insist that Santa Fe President 
Jackson Sasser sign a union neutral-
ity pledge, said Jeremiah Tattersall, the labor coalition organizer.
Tattersall deﬁ  ned a living wage 
as the amount someone would need to pay for all their necessities. He said the living wage in Alachua County should be $15.44 an hour. Florida’s minimum wage is $8.10 an 
hour.  
“Nobody should have to work 
full time and still be on government 
assistance,” Tattersall said. “You should be able to live off of your 
work.”
The labor coalition launched its Living Wage Campaign in 2015. 
The goal of the campaign is to have the top 10 largest employers in the county pay all their employees a liv-ing wage by 2020. 
The coalition is choosing to fo-
cus on Santa Fe, the tenth largest employer in the county, Tattersall said. 
Tattersall said he believes the money to raise wages already exists.
President Sasser’s annual salary 
in 2016 was $350,845, according to a document the coalition dispersed at the meeting. This salary doesn’t reﬂ  ect the nine and a half percent raise for him and other full-time faculty that went into effect July 1, according to the 2017-2018 Santa Fe 
salary schedule. In 2016, the lowest paid worker at Santa Fe, a custodi-
an, made $19,541, according to the document.
Roxanne Palmer, a 30-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she at-tended the meeting to learn more about the campaign and was en-couraged by the attendance and support of County Commissioner 
Ken Cornell and City Commissioner Harvey Ward.
“It feels like it’s not going to 
be banging our heads against the 
wall,” Palmer said.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
was invited to speak at the event, but couldn’t attend for family rea-sons. He wrote a letter to the event’s participants encouraging their agen-
da.
Susan Hegeman, former presi-
dent of the United Faculty of Florida 
union, encouraged Santa Fe work-ers to form a union to ﬁ  ght low wag-es. Some adjunct faculty declined to give their name to an Alligator reporter and said they were hesi-tant to speak about wage issues or 
form a union due to fear of backlash 
from the Santa Fe administration. The  coalition’s proposed union neutrality pledge would ensure that President Sasser couldn’t use public funds to interfere with union estab-
lishment. 
Tattersall said he is hopeful 
about the future of the living wage 
campaign. 
“The amount of support we got 
online and through phone calls was overwhelming,” he said. “I’m feel-ing very positive about this cam-paign.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Labor coalition pushes Santa Fe to raise minimum wage
Jessica Giles / Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Labor Coalition organizer Jeremiah T attersall addresses a crowd at the Santa Fe 
College Living Wage Campaign Kick Off at 6 p.m. on Thursday. 
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
new international students com-
pared to the 1,883 incoming stu-dents in Fall 2016. In addition to 
the lower number of Indian stu-
dents, enrollment decreased from 
China, South Korea, Venezuela, 
Saudi Arabia and other nations.
Villalón said the declining 
number of international students is a national problem. Universi-
ties across the country have seen 
a drop, according to The Atlantic. 
Just as American parents fret 
over their children leaving for col-
lege, the parents of international 
students worry about safety and security. When they hear about 
racist incidents, like the murder 
of two Indian men in Kansas in February or the recent riots in 
Charlottesville, Virginia, they re-
think sending their children to the 
U.S.
“If your children are brown 
or Muslim or speak another lan-
guage, as most people coming 
from abroad are, do you want to send them to an American cam-
pus where there might be neo-
Nazis marching?” Villalón said. 
In his State of the University 
Address on Aug. 24, UF President Kent Fuchs said the drop in inter-
national students was one of his 
main concerns. 
“We must, as a nation and 
university, tell the world that we 
welcome international students 
and that they have wonderful opportunities here,” Fuchs said. 
“Our university’s future depends 
on this — and so does our na-
tion’s.”
Villalón can’t predict if the 
numbers will bounce back or 
continue to drop. The Interna-
tional Center can manage certain 
factors, like creating a welcoming 
environment for international stu-
dents, he said. But other aspects, such as the U.S. political climate, 
is out of their hands.
“There’s every reason to fear 
that we could see an even further 
decline,” Villalón said. “It also may be that a lot of people abroad 
say, ‘Let’s not go this year, let’s wait a year and see how things 
shake out.’”
Villalón said this moment is a 
turning point for higher educa-tion, and that UF may have to re-
consider how it markets itself to 
potential international students. 
In the past, UF hasn’t had to work 
to recruit from other countries. 
“I’m hopeful we can turn this 
around at the University of Flor-
ida, but I think we have to un-
derstand it’s a more challenging climate than we’re used to,” he 
said. 
Although international stu-
dents may be more wary to come 
to the U.S., they’re often reluctant to talk about it, said Debra Ander-
son, the director of International 
Student Services at the UF Inter-national Center. 
“There’s an underlying con-
cern I think many students have,” she said. “Many will not express it.”
When Matin Kheirkhahan 
boarded a 27-hour ﬂ  ight from Iran, to Gainesville, he was un-
sure of the welcome he would re-
ceive in his new home. 
It was his ﬁ  rst time leaving 
Iran. Kheirkhahan and his wife, Sarimah, dreamed of learning and 
making their way to Silicon Val-
ley. 
Though Kheirkhahan said he’s 
hasn’t felt unwelcomed during his 
four years at UF, he understands 
the fears of incoming students. 
Members of his own country, 
Iran, were affected by President 
Donald Trump’s travel ban in 
February. 
“Safety, security, these are ma-
jor factors when you want to ap-
ply abroad,” the 30-year-old com-puter science graduate student 
said. “If you don’t feel safe in a 
country, probably you would con-
sider some other country to go.”
When the travel ban was an-
nounced, Kheirkhahan’s parents 
were in the U.S. visiting. They were angry and hurt, but they 
were also scared to not know when they could see their son 
again. 
“My father usually does not 
show how he feels,” he said. “On the day he was saying goodbye, 
he was clearly upset and very 
sad. Saying goodbye and not 
knowing when he would visit his 
children.”
For Vishal Mundada, mov-
ing to the U.S. was his ﬁ  rst time leaving India. While traveling 27 
hours from Hyderabad, he was 
upset leaving his family, but ex-
cited to start his studies at UF. 
Mundada, a 22-year-old UF 
electronic and computer engi-neering graduate student, still 
video-calls his parents almost ev-
ery day. He calls in the afternoon, when it’s night for them. 
“It’s almost like home, because 
we see each other,” he said. “So technology makes us close even 
though we’re really far.”
Mundada said he likes how 
peaceful Gainesville is compared to his hometown. He thinks of UF 
as a home, but he understands 
why some students may not be 
coming.
More paperwork and tighter 
visa laws might discourage pos-sible international students, Mun-dada said.
“I think there is a sense of 
fear to come and pursue studies abroad, because they’re not sure 
what exactly’s happening,” he 
said. 
He said schools in India are 
improving and offering quality education. If people are unsure or 
don’t have the money to come to 
America, they may choose to stay 
in India, he said. 
But Mundada said he wouldn’t 
trade his experience for anything, even if he may return to India af-
ter he graduates. 
“I feel like home,” he said. 
“The U.S. has treated me very well.” 
Anderson said the center does 
everything it can to help students 
acclimate. 
“The feeling of unwelcome-
ness has a lot to do with it � from the country, not from Gainesville 
or the university at all,” Anderson 
said. 
Anderson answers an emer-
gency phone to distressed inter-
national students about once or 
twice a week. 
Despite UF reaching out to in-
ternational students, Anderson said many have spoken to her 
and expressed that they no longer 
want to pursue higher degrees in the U.S. They’re instead looking 
at options in Canada or Australia, she said. International students from all 
countries, not just those targeted by the travel ban, have been un-
nerved, she said. Students still come to her with anxieties over 
travel, even if they’re not from 
one of the six affected countries. 
International students know 
how much their families sacriﬁ  ce 
to get them to America, Anderson 
said, and they feel pressure to succeed.
“They don’t want to say nega-
tive things about their host coun-
try,” she said. “They feel very blessed to be able to be here, but 
yet they can also look at it from a 
different perspective.”
For other students, America is 
still a place of promise, but with 
too high of a price tag. 
Anderson said the cost of tu-
ition for a graduate student for 
the full year, including Summer, is $30,000. For incoming stu-
dents, the exchange rate with 
their home currency affects the 
price as well. Anderson suspects 
the comparative weakness of In-dia’s rupee contributes to why 
less students came this year. 
Chiara Sparascio, an Italian student, studied at UF’s English 
Language Institute for two semes-
ters. From Italy, Sparascio wrote 
in an email that all she wanted was to stay in Gainesville and 
live out her dream, but the cost 
of attending was too much for her 
family.
Sparascio said when she thinks 
of UF she thinks of her love for campus, the Gators and the fam-ily atmosphere.
“It’s perfect, it’s a dream, a 
life that I saw just in movie be-
fore and that I lived just a few months,” the 21-year-old said. “A 
short dream.”
Anderson believes having in-
ternational students at UF enrich-
es the lives of American students. 
“These kids bring all of that 
culture and tradition and lan-
guage and different ways of look-
ing at things to the university, and I think it’s extremely impor-
tant to integrate them,” she said. 
“It enriches our education pro-
grams here.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgSTUDENTS,  from pg 1The U.S. political climate, cost of tuition has taken a toll 
The U.S. political climate, cost of tuition has taken a toll 
•   •   ••   •   ••   •   •FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
By Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer
After realizing he needed busi-
ness casual attire to qualify as a 
Student Senate candidate, Trevison Clark ran home to grab his blue 
checkered shirt and suit.
“I didn’t want to be disqualiﬁ  ed 
because of that,” the UF biology ju-
nior said.
Clark visited the Reitz Union on 
Thursday to register as an indepen-dent candidate for Fall 2017 Student Government elections. Other stu-dents came to interview with one of the two registered SG parties — Im-pact Party and Inspire Party. 
This Fall, students will vote to 
ﬁ  ll 50 Senate seats based on resi-dential locations. 
Erica Baker, the SG supervisor 
of elections, said 18 students in-terviewed with Impact and 8 with Inspire. One student registered as independent. Two registered as un-decided, which means they may go to either party. 
On the ﬁ  rst day of Senate candi-date selection for Fall 2016 SG elec-tions, 30 students met with Impact Party and four students registered 
as independent.
Clark, 20, said he decided to run 
as an independent for the Murphree 
Area because most of the Senate is one party. 
“It’s kind of ridiculous that only 
one party represents us, especially on that degree,” Clark said. “I think it’s very dangerous to not have any dissent.”
Impact Party President Benjamin Auyang wrote in an email his party wants students motivated to serve UF and who can promote transpar-
ency, affordability and accountabil-
ity. 
“We are excited that we had 
the opportunity to listen to student leaders discuss their ideas about how we can improve the univer-sity,” Auyang said.
Inspire Party President Ben Lima 
said his party is looking for stu-dents with ideas about how to solve 
campus issues. He said they want students who agree with Inspire 
Party’s values of transparency, in-clusivity and accountability.
“It’s really great to see so many 
faces coming from different back-grounds, years in college and inter-ests,” Lima said. 
The interviewing process will 
continue from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Fri-day and Tuesday at the Reitz Union.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
Potential senators interview to run with SG parties UF to renegotiate and avoid court. 
Spencer’s group successfully 
sued Auburn University in April 
when they denied him a permit to 
speak. 
Edinger said his clients ac-
knowledge that UF’s safety con-
cerns, and his clients would coor-dinate with UF to arrange proper security. 
With the potential of Spencer 
still coming, the student organiza-tion No Nazis at UF has remobi-lized. On Sept. 12, No Nazis at UF plans to hold a march and protest 
against white supremacy. 
“We hope to show unity be-
tween community members, stu-
dents and faculty and to show a sense of solidarity against fas-
cism,” said a spokesperson for the 
No Nazis at UF group, who asked 
to remain anonymous for their safety. 
The protest is set to be split into 
a red and green zone.“If you want to be in the red 
zone, you will understand the dan-gers, you will be more in confron-tation, more up close,” the spokes-person said. 
The green zone is expected to 
be a safer, less confrontational area. The spokesperson acknowl-edged safety is their No. 1 priority, but there is no way to ensure the event will be safe. 
Ever since Richard Spencer an-
nounced his intent to speak at UF, 
Akil Reynolds, a 20-year-old UF 
public health junior, has been con-cerned about his safety. 
“It’s like there is this added 
pressure because of these people 
coming to this university,” he said. 
“And being someone who is a part of a systematically marginalized group like being black … I abso-
lutely did not want (Spencer’s sup-
porters) here,” Reynolds said. 
Kaylee Kaestle contributed to 
this report.
@camille_respessSPENCER,  from pg 1Protests to reorganize
Jenkins pushed noodles into 
his mouth with a pair of chop-
sticks and his open hand. Hay 
gulped down broth with a boba 
tea straw. Vo tied a plastic bag as a bib and poured Sriracha sauce into his bowl as he ate.
Fifteen minutes of pho-gorg-
ing later, time was up. 
Jenkins in ﬁ  rst won $300 
cash, Hay in second won a $150 Taste Pho gift card and Mystery 
Girl in third won a $50 gas card. 
After the match, Avilez said 
he looked forward to the next 
time he and the brothy soup 
would reunite.  
“I loved every second of it,” 
Avilez said. “I would deﬁ  nitely 
eat it again — just not for a while.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org PHO,  from pg 1The winner received $300 in cash 
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Michael Jenkins, 50, chows down on some pho during the T aste Pho 
Eating Contest on Thursday. Jenkins, who came all the way from Cocoa Beach to participate, won ﬁ  rst place.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 152 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING ONLINE 
EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Already trashing Taylor Swift’s new music 
video? Take another look at the ending scene
As I start to type this, I can already envi-
sion your eyes rolling at the headline. Nonetheless, please hear me out. Trust 
me, I do know that anything said in 
Taylor Swift’s favor is shot down pretty 
fast, and I know there are a million reasons as to why, but this is important. 
If you have not watched the full four minutes 
and 16 seconds of the music video of Swift’s new single, “Look What You Made Me Do,” go 
watch it, because the ending proved she is not 
as psycho as we all thought. Then, come back to me.  
If you still haven’t watched it, don’t worry. I’m about 
to break this music video down for you anyway. 
At ﬁ  rst the video for “Look What You Made Me Do” 
starts off exactly as the song sounds — creepy. Swift is pictured literally crawling out of a grave that reads, “Here Lies Taylor Swift’s Reputation.”  
That’s pretty strange for an opening scene, especially 
since we were all taught in middle school that the begin-ning of any project should lure the audience in. Honest-ly, if I had not been a Swiftie since 2008, I would have stopped watching the music video right there. However, I continued to keep my eyes focused on the screen and so 
should you.  
After you get past “zombie” Swift, you must bear 
through the three minutes left. By minute two, you will 
see Swift pictured as a snake whisperer. By minute three, 
she has bounced between bank robbing, motorcycle rac-
ing and reputation stomping.  
Clearly, Taylor took on a lot of different personas for 
this video. That does get a little disturbing, I’ll admit. However, I’m an opinions columnist, not a therapist, so I 
can’t really tell you what it means. Now we are at minute four, and that’s where the good stuff happens. 
Toward the end of the music video, the pre-
sumably “new” Taylor is seen standing above all the old ones. You will see the iconic “You 
Belong With Me” Taylor wearing glasses, as well as the innocent, country Taylor left at the bottom of the screen. 
At the end, all these different Taylors are 
lined up together and repeat the negative things the media says about them. While one Taylor 
says the unforgettable “I would very much like 
to be excluded from this narrative” in reference to her 
feud with Kanye West, another repeats the popular insult, “There she goes, playing the victim again.” 
These ﬁ  nal lines are crucial. They prove that Swift is 
acknowledging her actions. Finally, Swift recognizes the fact that many of her most famous comebacks relied on the assumption of her innocence. By repeating this famous insult, she essentially called herself out, and it worked. 
Once the new, grown up version of Taylor told the old, 
childish one to “shut up” and stop with the act, I realized how much I liked the new Swift. Instead of ﬂ  ipping her hair and ignoring popular belief, she told her former self to get a grip. 
Although “Look What You Made Me Do” did point a 
few ﬁ  ngers in the beginning of the music video, in the end, there were only other Taylors to blame. It may have taken four minutes and 16 seconds, but now fans can say 
they know every side of Taylor. 
Whether she’s playing a tough girl or a bank robber 
depends on the shot, but ﬁ  nally, the old Taylor is dead, 
and the new one is taking some action instead. 
Victoria Fortier is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Fridays.You step into the ballroom, four hooded ﬁ  gures follow-
ing you on either side. The ﬁ  gures on each end carry torch-
es, and the others carry various gemstones. You recognize that one is an emerald, another jade and another topaz. The 
rest of the stones you can’t discern, despite having a mas-
ters degree in geology. The two ﬁ  gures nearest to you grab you by the arm and strap you down to a chair at the end of the ballroom. Someone pries your eyes open and forces you 
to stare into the light. The hooded ﬁ  gures assemble in front 
of you, each holding their gem in a different orientation and position. The light shining from the ceiling focuses into a beam, which begins to refract from one gemstone to the next. Once the light passes through the sixth gemstone, the 
beam hits your eyes, and everything goes white. Out of the 
whiteness comes a message, and upon reading it, your fears and doubts vanish. The message, of course, reads: 
Darts & Laurels
For those new to campus, you may not realize 
what’s about to happen in the next few weeks. 
Let us ﬁ  ll you in. Students are currently inter-
viewing to run with Student Government parties for a spot in the Student Senate. Soon enough 
there’ll be crowds of people with fake smiles and cheery campaign slogans on Turlington Plaza trying to convince you to vote (admittedly, you really should — our turnout 
is horrendous). But until then, we at the Alligator would 
like to award a laurel to all the students signing up to run for Senate, no matter the party, who have thought 
out ideas to improve UF. But for those of you who are 
just signing up to get another line on your resume, 
you’re getting a dart. SG has done great things for UF, 
but please know what you’re getting yourself into be-
fore committing to a political organization that controls a budget of more than $20 million. 
Is anyone really surprised that the white su-
premacists won’t just give up and realize it’s not the 1800s anymore? But unfortunately racism never went 
away in this country. While Richard Spencer and his 
croonies prepare to sue UF to speak on campus, we would like to award UF President Kent Fuchs with a 
laurel for standing behind his decision. As a newspa-
per, we’re a staunch supporter of free speech, but not at the cost of safety.
Back to school means back to the germ party that 
is dorm rooms, lecture halls and a packed Grog House on a Friday night. It’s only the second week but we 
feel like the infamous UF plague is already rearing its 
ugly head. Since we don’t want another thing to be 
stressed about at the beginning of the semester, back-
to-school illnesses get a dart.
I’m sure you’ve all heard about the terrifying ﬂ  ood-
ing in Texas by now. While returning to UF means we students get caught up in our Gainesville bubble, we 
at the Alligator want to take a moment to thank those helping the victims of Harvey. To the UF students 
and organizations establishing donation drives, you 
get a laurel for your efforts. It restores some faith in humanity to see our fellow Gators helping those in 
need. Victoria 
Fortier
opinions@alligator.orgIn an interview with Playboy, singer-song-
writer Halsey recently opened up about 
the struggles of identifying with her black 
culture while being white-passing. De-
pending on what form of social media I 
saw this article, I either saw people support-
ing her — often those of multiple ethnicities 
who felt a struggle to connect with their cul-
tures — or people telling her to grow up and 
just get used to the fact that she’s “white.”
As someone who’s been denied her 
own racial and ethnic heritage due to being 
“white-passing,” the latter comments really 
irked me.
I’m half-Chinese. My mom is from Sin-
gapore, and most of my maternal side still lives there. But most people who look at me 
wouldn’t be able to guess right away. I don’t 
look Chinese, unless you know what to look 
for. People assume I’m white.  
When I was little, none of this really both-
ered me. For most of my life, my parents’ 
friends were made up of a nice number of 
mixed couples with children — or other im-migrant families who understood the fusion of cultures and eth-
nicities that comes with migrating 
to the U.S. But as I grew older, I 
encountered a surprising amount 
people who told me that I didn’t have the right to claim my Asian 
heritage just because I didn’t 
“look” Chinese.
And you know, sometimes, I get 
it. I want to have a tea ceremony 
at my wedding (a Chinese tradition 
where the married couple serves tea to their 
elders, and then the younger family serves 
tea to them), but looking as “white” as I do, 
would that come off as offensive? Although I try to assert my heritage by wearing a jade 
necklace, by turning my nose up at cheap 
takeout, by groaning every time Hollywood 
casts a white person in a role meant for an 
Asian-American actor, I’ve got to “prove” my 
own ethnicity to those who doubt it. Well, 
then again, I’m not fully Asian. I don’t speak 
Chinese beyond limited vocabulary, I grew up going to American schools with American kids, and I don’t cel-
ebrate all the cultural holidays.
It’s different for those of mixed 
races who look the part. No one 
questions that former President Barack Obama was our ﬁ  rst 
black president — even though 
his mother, who raised him, is 
white. I understand that by being 
white-passing, I’m entitled to a lot 
of privilege. For instance, no one 
assumes I don’t speak English (my brother, who looks more Asian than I do, was once 
asked that at an airport).
But still, it is frustrating to have to pro-
duce photos of my extended family to show-case part of my culture. Yes, I celebrate the 
Lunar New Year. Yes, I wear a qipao on spe-
cial occasions. 
The little race/ethnicity demographic 
question at the end of surveys very rarely 
includes an option for multiracial and even 
more rarely allows you to check off more than one box. I know I cannot claim to be fully Asian, but neither am I fully white. I’m 
reduced to the “other” option.
It’s time that we embrace the growing 
multiracial demographic in our country and 
the fact that the multiracial experience is not going to be the same for everyone. Some of 
us don’t look like our culture, but still want 
to celebrate it. Some of us grow up not really 
knowing where we came from, while some 
of us grow up celebrating traditions. It’s not 
a clear ground over what aspects of our cul-
tures we have claim to and what aspects we 
should admire from a distance, but saying 
that we do not have a right to it just because 
we look a certain way is not the solution. We should not have to forfeit our culture to make 
people more comfortable with what is con-
sidered a norm.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science (super) senior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Being multiracial should not be dependent solely on how you look
Over the summer, I had the opportu-
nity to visit some of the most unique 
cities America has to offer. From 
New York to San Francisco, Savan-
nah to Berkeley, the more culturally 
rich and fascinating cities of the country tend 
to also be home to some of the best bookstores 
on Earth. Comfortably nestled somewhere in 
the beating heart of a city, often miles away 
from the nearest Barnes & Noble or Target, 
the independent bookstore thrives.   
Each bookstore embodied certain char-
acteristics present in the cities that engulfed 
them. Strand Bookstore in New York, with 18 
miles of books lining its shelves, is as mas-
sive, industrial, deafening and crowded as 
the avenue it rests on. The incessant creak-
ing of wood planks as you cross The Book 
Lady Bookstore in Savannah is as aestheti-cally southern (and spooky) as the colonial 
town it sits in. City Lights Bookstore, in San 
Francisco’s North Beach neighborhood, home 
to narrow corridors once roamed by Jim Mor-
rison and Jack Kerouac, has just the amount 
of shelves labeled “Anarchy” that you would expect to ﬁ  nd in the Bay Area. A 
bookstore’s aesthetic and accompa-
nying book collections can be pow-
erful representations of the city that 
it inhabits.
No matter the bookstore I me-
andered my way through, I was always taken aback by the sheer 
abundance of shelves classiﬁ  ed 
under “History.” Now, I am sure 
there is more history to write books 
about than there is time to write it, but the 
fact that this market segment appears to be 
exponentially growing is a fascinating idea 
to me. The history section at Barnes & Noble 
isn’t that expansive for nothing; there is a 
very real fascination with the past that many 
people have with the subject.
Referring to history as if it is simply one 
subject is an almost criminal generalization. The subsections of history to get lost in are 
endless. Studying all of history is impossible. 
You don’t have the time, interest or stamina 
to take on such an endeavor. But this is by no 
means a discouraging fact. It does not take long before a subject from within 
human history lures you in, be it 
a time period, conﬂ  ict, country or 
individual. Every other discipline 
or subject imaginable, from astro-
physics to classical music, has its own unique history waiting to be 
delved into.
Carl Sagan said “you have to 
know the past to understand the 
present.” The beneﬁ  ts of a thor-
ough study of history cannot be understated, and seeing that history does, in fact, repeat 
itself before our very eyes, I believe that you 
cannot study the past without taking what-
ever you learn with you.
Sure, you will be able to get a few more 
questions right on “Jeopardy!,” but some of 
the most powerful insights from history ap-pear on the micro level. A study of history 
is really just a study of man. Entire nations 
have behaved and embodied the same traits 
found on the level of the individual. The same 
faults that struck down and ultimately led to 
the demise of some of history’s most powerful countries and leaders are the same faults we 
can ﬁ  nd in ourselves.
For example, empires have risen and fall-
en due to man’s tendency to become prideful 
and become blinded by his own hubris; in-
decision can often prove just as, if not more, costly than making a “wrong” decision; and 
farsightedness is undefeated against short-
sightedness.
In the stories of the past, we can ﬁ  nd paral-
lels with our own lives. At the core of every 
critical moment in history are individual hu-
mans like you and me, trying their hardest to 
make the best decision they can given their 
circumstances and the information at hand. 
Technology and landscapes change, but the 
same basic traits of humanity persist through 
time. It is this universal and deeply personal 
applicability of history that I believe people will continue to have an innate fascination 
with stories of the past.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.In the stories of the past, we can find parallels with our own livesPetrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
Column8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Seyi Falade left New York 
City two years ago to help her fa-
ther run the family business in 
Gainesville, she was returning to 
a place she considered welcoming.  
Falade, the owner of Corner-
stone Barricades, a traffic equip-
ment supplier, and an African-American, is part of a trend of 
minority-business owners who are finding success in Gainesville. In the past four years, Gainesville 
has seen a tremendous growth in 
minority-owned small businesses, progressing from only 20 stores in 2013 to 300 in 2017, said the city’s equal opportunity director Torey 
Alston. 
Alston said this shift is due to new policies and community out-
reach efforts that support small businesses.
“Since coming on board two 
years ago, I placed a major focus on increasing opportunities for our small, minority and service-dis-abled veteran businesses,” Alston said.
In January 2016, Alston saw an 
opportunity for disabled veterans with business savvy. He suggest-ed the Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Program to give technical assistance to dis-
abled veterans who own business-
es. Alston said he also suggested and passed a policy that requires city purchases between $2,000 and $50,000 to be from a certified small 
business or service-disabled vet-
eran.Falade said this job is her first 
time running a business, and she feels like she is being supported through the process.
“I don’t fit the mold; there are 
challenges despite race, often times from implicit bias, but Gainesville isn’t that type of place,” says Falade. “Support is helpful and 
speaks to the community of 
Gainesville.”
Minority-owned businesses increase in Gainesville
There are now more than 300 minority-owned small businesses
THE VICTIM WENT 
TO THE HOSPITAL 
AFTER THE 
INCIDENT.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A student was arrested 
Wednesday afternoon for raping a woman at a party 
in a house near the UF Levin 
College of Law, Gainesville Police said. 
Juan Camilo Gonzalez 
Gomez, 21, led the victim, who was intoxicated at the party, into his room at about 12:15 a.m. Saturday, according to an arrest re-
port.
The victim said some-
one  held the door shut 
and refused to let her out. 
The victim’s friend later 
told an officer that he was held the door shut because he thought the victim was drunk and wanted to keep her safe, according to the report. 
The victim was able to 
get out of the room, but Gonzalez Gomez found her and took her back to his room again. Once inside the room, Gonzalez Gomez took 
the victim’s clothes off, ac-
cording to the report. 
The victim said Gonzalez 
Gomez climbed on top of 
her and forced her to per-
form oral sex on him and then proceeded to have sex with her, according to the report.
She said she continu-
ally told Gonzalez Gomez to stop and attempted to push him off her, according to the 
report. 
After Gonzalez Gomez 
was done, the victim put 
her clothes on and ran out of the room. She went to 
UF Health Shands Hospi-tal’s emergency room where 
she told an officer about her rape, according to the re-port. 
The victim said she had 
consumed beer and liquor the night of the party and was able to identify Gon-zalez Gomez by name and 
photo, according to the re-
port. 
Gonzalez Gomez was ar-
rested on a charge of sexual 
battery.
In an interview with an 
officer, Gonzalez Gomez 
gave mixed answers as to whether he had sex with the 
victim, according to the re-
port.
Neither UF nor Santa Fe 
College was able to confirm 
Gonzalez Gomez is a stu-
dent, as of press time. 
Gonzalez Gomez remains 
in the Alachua County Jail, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$20,000 bond.GPD: Student arrested for rape
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
With his new financial aid package, Mat-
thew Martins no longer has to work a full-time 
job. 
Martins, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engi-
neering junior, was one of more than 28,000 
UF students to receive the new Florida Bright 
Futures award. As of Thursday afternoon, UF disbursed $190,093,571 in total aid for the Fall 2017 term, wrote UF spokesperson Steve Or-lando in an email. About $55 million of that number was for Bright Futures, Orlando said.  
For the 2017-2018 school year, Bright Fu-
tures will pay 100 percent tuition for Florida Academic Scholars, about $6,980 for the full 
year, according to Alligator archives. Students 
will also receive a $300 textbook stipend. 
Orlando said aid began disbursing Aug. 19, 
and the most recent disbursement was made Aug. 30.
Maria Vernava, a 19-year-old UF nutrition-
al science sophomore, said the announcement system for financial aid can be confusing, but 
she’s just happy to get additional money for her classes. 
“I’m super excited that we’re going to be 
able to get money for Summer courses,” Ver-
nava said.  “However, I think what they need to work on is explaining when Bright Futures will be disbursed, especially for freshman.” 
Ty Ingram, a 19-year-old UF business 
sophomore, got his aid Wednesday at 8 p.m., and had been worrying all day before then. As the days got closer toward the deadline for tu-ition payment, Ingram worried about whether 
his aid would come through in time. 
“It is frightening that the disbursement 
came nearly two days before the payment 
deadline,” he said.  
Though Ingram didn’t get the expanded 
Bright Futures because he only got the second highest award, he said UF’s fees are reason-able.
“It’s only logical to help those who are 
most likely to achieve,” he said. “Although I won’t get free tuition, UF has an amazingly low tuition rate when compared to other pub-lic schools, so the university is doing its best to help everyone.”UF Financial Affairs distributes 
more than $190 millionSophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
SHOWING OFF
Shania Stephens, Sabor’s vice president, a UF biology senior with a disabilities 
in society minor, teaches the choreography for the audition’s hip hop segment. Sabor Latino held multiple nights of auditions this week for the Fall semester.
AUTHORITIES ESTIMATE HE 
TOOK ABOUT $14,000.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
The former director of the UF Institute 
of Food and Agricultural Sciences Plant 
Science Research and Education Unit was arrested last Friday, Suwannee County 
Sheriff’s Office said. 
Daniel Lamar Colvin, 58, of Micanopy, 
met with Tri-County Irrigation Inc. in Su-
wannee County on or about May 15, 2015 
to purchase irrigation equipment for UF’s 
PSREU farm in Citra, according to a prob-able cause affidavit. 
Colvin asked Tri-County Irrigation 
to produce inflated invoices for the UF 
farm and Colvin Farm’s LLC resulting in 
$14,030 in overages, according to the af-
fidavit. 
Colvin then submitted the invoice to 
Colvin Farm’s for cost share to the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services while he had Tri-County Irriga-
tion pay him the overage back in a check 
written to his personal business, Colvin 
Farm’s LLC, according to the affidavit. 
Colvin was charged with scheme to 
defraud less than $20,000 and grand theft for more than $10,000, according to the 
affidavit. 
UF became aware of some of Colvin’s 
financial discrepancies early in 2016, and 
a trespass warning for campus property 
was issued against him, including the 
Citra center, in May of 2016, wrote UF spokesperson Janine Sikes in an email. 
Colvin’s contract with UF was not re-
newed, and his last day was August 11, 2016, Sikes said. His contract gave him about $150,000 in salary, she said.
Colvin turned himself into Suwannee 
County Jail and was released on his own 
recognizance.
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgFormer IFAS director 
charged with theftFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
STRUMMIN’ ALONG
Retiree T ed Wright, 66, plays with his band at the farmers market on Bo Diddley Community Plaza 
on Wednesday. As of now, Wright’s band has no name and plays a variety of genres including blue-grass and classic rock.
GENERAL ADMISSION 
TICKETS ARE $20.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Billy Dean is coming to 
Gainesville to make Katie Slay’s 
ﬁ  nal wish come true.
Slay, 41, has been battling spina 
biﬁ  da, a birth defect in which the spine develops improperly, and 
is currently in hospice care, said Ernie Evans, the vice president of 
Shake Rag Cultural Center Inc. On 
Sept. 8, the Grammy-nominated country music star, Billy Dean, will perform for Slay and 230 oth-ers at The Historic Thomas Center, 
located at 302 NE Sixth Ave., as a 
part of the center’s Jewel Box Con-cert Series.
Katie Slay’s mother, Mary 
Slay, said her daughter has been 
a fan of Dean ever since her older 
brother went to school with him in Quincy, Florida. When the Slay family requested that Dean per-form in Gainesville, he was quick 
to oblige. Since then, Dean has gone above and beyond for Slay 
and called her to ask for her top three song requests for the con-
cert, which left her beaming. 
“He’s really gone out of his 
way to do something special for 
her,” Mary Slay said. 
The doors open at 6 p.m., and 
the concert will begin at 7 p.m. Shake Rag Cultural Center Inc. is paying Dean but declined to dis-close how much. General admis-sion tickets are $20 and VIP, front-row seats are $30. Tickets are 
being sold online but are expected 
to sell out quickly, Evans said. 
Evans said the Jewel Box Con-
cert Series is meant to expose peo-ple to music they haven’t heard before. 
“Concerts are very different 
there than they are in big stages 
and big arenas,” Evans said. “It’s 
very, very up close and personal.”
The Country Music Association 
award winner said he’s stopped 
chasing fame and fortune and 
instead has found more value in helping people like Slay. He hopes the concert will bring a sense of healing to the Slay family and all 
those who attend. 
“We’re going to have some 
laughs,” Dean said. “We’re going 
to have some music medicine.” 
The concert is meant to help 
people escape from the real world for a little while, Dean said. For him, the performance means more than a trophy at the Grammy 
Awards or a sizable bank account 
— it’s an opportunity to help a fan who feels more like family. 
“With Katie Slay, it is, it’s kind 
of like family needing you to step 
up to the plate,” he said, “so I’m 
glad to do it.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgAward-winning country star to perform at Thomas CenterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW!
1BR/1BA in 3BR/3BA share w/2 other females. 
Campus View Condos. Short walk to UF, Sorority 
Row & Shands. $575/mo + utils.  305-710-1232   
9-20-17-9-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-6-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-26-167-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-26-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-26-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-26-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-6-43-10
He3d Delta Printer (work area = 200mm dia x 300mm) and Ciclops scanner - $300.00 Startt Linear 3d Printer (work area = 4" x 4" x 4") - $75.00    863-899-3303     9-8-17-5-10
JUST IN CASE!Mace, stun guns, tasers, over 400 firearms. Free CWP permit pkg. M & C Army Surplus 626 NW 13 St. 1/2 m N of UF. 352-378-6960    9-1-17-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-6-17-43-11
12-6-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestUnload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-6-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    12-6-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  12-6-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     12-6-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-3901     9-29-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-43-1
Cabin in the woods, one room, peaceful, with wildlife and pond. 23 mi east of Gainesville. $500/mo. No smoking/drugs. Call 352-301-4707.          9-8-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-6-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-26-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-15-17-10-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-6-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-13-17-104-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-1-17-9-14
The Gainesville Soccer Alliance is looking for a few new coaches for it's youth soccer programs. Various levels available. All in-terested should call Alan Womack at 352-538-9567 or email at gsageneralmanager@yahoo.com     9-8-10-14
$12-$15 an hour, flexible schedule.
Apply @ www.parkplacecarwash.com.
Must have valid drivers license.     9-13-17-
10-14
Big Lou's Pizzeria now hiring line cooks, 
pizza makers, delivery drivers, servers and counter personnel. Earn top pay in a busy, fast-paced restaurant. Apply in person at 5 SE 2nd Ave.     9-11-17-10-14
Psychology Practice Volunteer Internships. 
Minimum commitment two full days per 
week for a semester. Unpaid internships but 
credit may be available through Psychology 
and English departments. Busy clinical 
practice with active websites. Respond with 
resume and vita to info@cpancf.com.
No calls please.
9-11-17-7-14
Copytalk Business Services is a financial transcription company located near UF cam-pus in Gainesville and is currently offering flexible scheduling part-time transcriptionist positions.Ideal candidates should meet the following requirements:- Have excellent English grammar, spelling, and comprehension skills- Touch type 60+ wpm- Be able to work a minimum of 16 hours per week Monday through FridayAPPLY ONLINE ATWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM        9-6-17-5-14
Caregiver for 30-yr-old w/autism.Training provided. Car, clean record, finger-printing required. $15/hr. P/T or F/T, Mon, Tues, Wed.    352-301-4707      9-8-17-5-14
SERIOUS STUDENT NEEDED TO CLEAN HOUSE, 9 hrs/wk, flexible / long term. Call only between 4 - 6 p.m.. Leave message 352-378-9771.     9-1-17-3-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    12-6-17-40-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff, & 
Bartenders
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
9-1-17-2-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       9-25-17-10-14
Part-Time / Full-Time CookNo Experience NecessaryCafé Risqué - Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Must be 18 Years or OlderDancer Auditions Ongoing      10-6-15-14FOCUS GROUP MEMBERSwanted in Gainesville to discuss issues on real legal cases in north FL. Paid $35 for 3 hours of your time. Date of focus groups is Thurs Sept 7th. Morning and afternoon ses-sions available. Call Rita at 800-654-4659 M-F for more info.      9-13-17-5-14
BIG MILL'S CHEESESTEAKS
Now hiring line cooks, sandwich makers & 
counter personnel. PT, flexible hrs. Apply in 
person 2111 NW 13th St.     9-13-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-6-17-
43-15
GRE Self-Paced Program
now only $199!
Prep anytime- anywhere!
Find more info & enroll here:
PrincetonReview.com
9-1-17-5-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.     9-1-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-21-17-108-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatest
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day. Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.    9-1-1-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-12-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1.  Pieces of paper
1.  Traffic ____5.  Eat like a cow
2.  Instance, model6.  Flower ____
3.  Framework, beam7.  Split from
4.  Net protector ETSHSE
LASNIGZREAG
EPALT
AXEPEML
RELESTTCESDEE
LGOIEAANSWERS: 1A-Sheets  5A-Graze  6A-Petal  7A-Secede
1D-Signal  2D-Example  3D-Trestle  4D-Goalie  B-Galaxies9-1-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, Ill. 60911 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are an estimated 100 billion 
of these at the moment.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Branch
5 Advisory group
10 Big name in
luxury retailing
14 About 30% of
Earth’s land area
15 More fitting
16 Thing with rings
17 Really bad
béchamel?
19 Letters facilitating
sorting
20 Unpaid stack for
scofflaw Aaron?
22 Something to
stretch out on
25 Comedian
dubbed “Mr.Television”
26 Mitchell
protagonist
27 Bone holders30 With 61-Across,
“Yer darn tootin’!”
31 Seaweed for
sushi
32 Puts down35 What happens at
the end of aManilow concert?
38 Most closely
related
39 Educational
period
42 Letters with
Arizona or Maine
45 Made tracks46 One of composer
John Williams’five
47 Harlem
Renaissance
writer Zora __
Hurston
49 Does some lawn
maintenance
51 Furry creature
that isn’t cool?
55 Bee in Mayberry,
e.g.
56 Convicted hastily
and unfairly ... or,in a way, like thefour other longest
puzzle answers?
60 It requires some
effort
61 See 30-Across
62 Confucius, by
reputation
63 See 29-Down64 Fashionista’s
concern
65 __-howDOWN
1 __ Cruces
2 Prefix with metric
3 Defunct space
station
4 Conan, for one
5 Iraqi port6 Dazzling style7 Vince Gill’s 
“Look __”
8 Certain
quadrilateral: Abbr.
9 Half of sechs
10 Simple sign
holder
11 Major
thoroughfare
12 Mother’s
whistler?
13 Familiar fivesome
18 City about 150
miles east of San
Diego
21 “NCIS” airer22 It’s other than
hither
23 “So that’s your
game!”
24 Apparel27 Accumulated,
with “up”
28 Many years29 With 63-Across,
“Is there more?”
32 Decimated sea33 Erato’s instrument
34 Assigns work
(for), as students
36 Cite, with “to”37 Religious
subgroup
40 “Norma __”
41 Union title?
42 Risky
43 “The Bourne
Supremacy,” e.g.
44 Hot spots46 Dunked snack48 Barista’s offering
49 “Over the
Rainbow”
composer
50 Misspoke, say52 While lead-in
53 Cloudless54 The Auld Sod57 “SNL” castmate of
Gilda and Chevy
58 Swellhead’s
problem
59 Wet blanket
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/01/1709/01/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 1, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Draft day
announcements
6 In-tents
experience?
10 Like some dental
floss
14 End of __
15 Jai __
16 Wrapped up
17 Artifact18 Board member?
19 Unites
20 Volleyball players
in Dublin?
23 New York’s __
Island
24 Sturgeon
delicacy
25 Engineering sch.
on the HudsonRiver
28 Euros in Rome?32 Deadly snake35 White House
signing ceremonymemento
36 __ Trinket, “The
Hunger Games”chaperoneplayed by
Elizabeth Banks
37 Airport inspectors
in Beijing?
42 Cosmonaut
Vladimir
43 Partner of abet
44 Most of Ariz.
doesn’t observe it
45 Dance lessons in
Madrid?
50 CIA predecessor51 Drivers’ org.52 Phillies’ div.56 Number cruncher
in New Delhi?
59 SALT subject62 Crab Key villain63 Mazda MX-5,
familiarly
64 Witty tweet, e.g.65 Novelist O’Brien66 Bunsen burner
kin
67 Small ticks?68 Travel aimlessly69 One of Franklin’s
two certainties
DOWN
1 Musée d’Orsay
city
2 Still3 Salsa singer
Cruz4 Spring 2008
“Dancing with the
Stars” champion
Yamaguchi
5 Potpourri pouch
6 Wedding
reception sight
7 Hit the ground8 Hindu 
incantation
9 Word with carrier
or passenger
10 Floors11 Abbr. in many
addresses
12 Crossed (out)13 Jr. and sr.
21 Loses it
22 Lute-like
instrument
25 Served seconds,
say
26 Figure skating
event
27 In other words, in
other words
29 Novelist Harper
30 Quechua
speakers
31 He served as
A.G. under hisbrother
32 “Don’t __
innocent”
33 Port arrivals34 Pockets for
falafel
38 Start to skid?39 French spa40 Strike
41 Utopias
46 More melancholy47 Bob, for one48 Like peacocks49 Many a Mideast
native
53 Appliance maker
since 193454 Attack
55 Vandalize
56 Rascals
57 Kendrick of “Pitch
Perfect”
58 “Syntactic
Structures”
author Chomsky
59 Nos. averaging
100
60 What a shark
strikes with
61 Wite-Out maker
By David Poole
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/31/1708/31/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 31, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators to wear helmet decal for Texas storm victims
UF's football team will wear a special decal on its helmets Saturday to "help 
bring awareness to the plight of the thousands of families impacted by Hur-ricane Harvey," Florida announced on Thursday. The decal features a tear 
drop with the T exas state ﬂ  ag inside of it.Could this Saturday's season 
opener against Michigan be a win-win for Jim McElwain and Florida's football team regardless of the result? Read the column, pg. 14.FOOTBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
This ain’t UMass. This ain’t 
Bowling Green. This ain’t Charles-
ton Southern or Western Ken-
tucky or any of the other punch-
ing bags Florida has opened the season against in the past decade. This is Michigan, the Big Blue, 
from the Big Ten, which histori-
cally has produced some of foot-ball’s biggest and best players. 
On Saturday, the Gators will 
face this storied program on na-
tional television at 3:30 p.m. from 
Arlington, Texas, trying to extend a national-best streak of 27 con-secutive season-opening wins to 28. And boy, are there stories to follow ahead of the game. 
First, the big one: Prominence. 
Michigan is the winningest pro-gram in the history of college football, and under coach Jim Harbaugh, the No. 11 Wolverines 
have returned to their former glo-
ry as playoff contenders that have gone 10-3 in each of his ﬁ  rst two seasons. 
The No. 17 Gators are trying to 
return to that conversation for the ﬁ  rst time since the late 2000s, and a win over Michigan could help them get there. 
There’s also revenge. Florida 
was humiliated by Michigan 41-7 in the 2016 Citrus Bowl, and the players who were there haven’t forgotten. Even some of the ones who weren’t feel their anger. 
“They deﬁ  nitely want to get 
back and get revenge on them,” sophomore wideout Josh Ham-mond said. “I wasn’t there for it, 
but I feel the same way.”
Coach Jim McElwain, who 
took over at Florida around the 
same time Harbaugh took over Michigan, also hasn’t forgotten 
what happened in that game, 
though he’d like to. 
“I’m not sure we still have it in 
the system,” he said of recordings 
from that game. “I think I threw 
up all over it.”
There are also the suspen-sions. Ten UF players won’t make the trip to Texas for either misuse of school funds or marijuana cita-
tions. Or, in the case of freshman 
linebacker Ventrell Miller, both. 
The losses hit three places 
especially hard. First is run-
ning back, where Florida will 
be without last season’s leading rusher Jordan Scarlett. Next is at receiver, where it will miss last season’s leading wideout Anto-
nio Callaway. And then there’s 
linebacker, where the absence of Miller and fellow freshman James Houston creates a severe lack of 
depth behind starters Vosean Jo-
 First game features barrage of storylines By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Michigan, Gators fans and 
the rest of the college football world no longer have to wonder 
who Florida’s starting quarter-back will be on Saturday.
The wait is over. Redshirt 
freshman Feleipe Franks has of-ﬁ  cially won the job.
UF coach Jim McElwain an-
nounced on Wednesday that Franks beat out graduate trans-fer Malik Zaire and redshirt ju-nior Luke Del Rio for the right to start this weekend against the 
Wolverines at AT&T Stadium.
Franks, a 6-foot-5, 227-pound 
native of Crawfordville, Florida, 
has never started a game in 
his college career. Despite that 
lack of experience, McElwain said he’s conﬁ  dent in his deci-sion, calling Franks “a little bit ahead” of the other two quarter-
backs.
“He’s done a really good 
job,” Florida’s coach said about 
Franks at Wednesday’s news 
conference. “We're excited for 
him.
Franks appeared primed to 
win the starting role this spring following a strong 8-for-14, 119-yard passing performance in UF’s Orange and Blue Debut on April 7.
The return of Del Rio from 
shoulder surgery and the trans-fer of Malik Zaire from Notre Dame, however, dragged the quarterback race into fall camp.
“The competition has really 
brought out some good things,” McElwain said on Aug. 23. “I’m not naming a starter right now.”
Ultimately, Franks came out 
on top, impressing his head 
coach with both his “body of 
work” and his “big arm.” He’ll not only be the fourth quarter-back to start the season opener for the Gators over the last four 
seasons, he’ll also be the ﬁ  rst 
redshirt freshman to start the  Franks set to start ﬁ  rst game at QB Saturday
Alligator File Photo
Feleipe Franks is making his ﬁ  rst career start this Saturday against Michigan. Franks won the job 
over Luke Del Rio and Malik Zaire. "He deserves it, " Jim McElwain said on Wednesday.
By Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain is under a lot of pres-
sure to start his third season. He has 
to deal with the pressure of starting 
quarterback Feleipe Franks, a redshirt freshman who’s never thrown a pass 
in a college football game. He also has 
to deal with the pressure of going up against Jim Harbaugh’s Wolverines 
without his star running back, Jordan 
Scarlett, and star receiver, Antonio Cal-laway, who have been suspended for 
disciplinary issues.
But all of that is nothing compared 
to the pressure of the alligatorSports picks column, which makes its 2017 
return today. 
Eight Gators writers will pick eight 
games — some relevant, some less relevant — against the spread and see who comes out on top. 
Before we meet our competitors for 
this season, writers Dylan Dixon and Matt Brannon will debate the much-
anticipated matchup between Coastal 
Carolina and UMass 7 p.m. Saturday on ESPN3. 
Coastal Carolina (+2.5) will win 
because…
The Chanticleers were almost per-
fect in 2016, notching a 10-2 record 
with both losses coming by only one 
point.
A promotion to the FBS this fall will 
likely keep them from repeating that success again this year, but Saturday’s season opener against Massachusetts 
shouldn’t be much of an issue.
Senior wide receiver Chris Jones 
is back in Conway, South Carolina, for one ﬁ  nal season at CCU looking to 
build off his career stat line of 62 recep-tions, 1,024 yards and six touchdowns.
Given the fact that he’s going up 
against a UMass defense that ranked 106th out of 128 FBS teams at defend-
ing the pass last season, expect Jones 
to have a ﬁ  eld day.
The Chanticleers also possess one 
of the best names in all of college foot-ball in their starting running back, Os-harmar Abercrombie. Abercrombie, a 
5-foot-9, 210 pound senior, is unprov-
en averaging only 6.4 carries per game 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE FRANKS,  PAGE 16
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16PICKS
SITE: AT&T Stadium (cap. 80,000)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ABC / 850 AM
Jim McElwain was asked a question 
on Wednesday that I found to be enlight-
ening. 
The question: Are you worried, Jim, 
about giving the ﬁ  rst ever playing time to your redshirt freshman quarterback, Feleipe Franks, in a game as big as this one? Against No. 11 Michigan? In the Dal-las Cowboys stadium? On national TV?
McElwain said no. He’s not worried 
at all.
“It kind of shows what you’re made of,” McElwain 
said.
Maybe. Maybe it will show what Franks is made 
of. Maybe his big arm will shock the college football 
world, and he will throw four touchdowns and hand-
ily defeat Michigan. Or maybe he’ll be just serviceable, efﬁ  ciently and methodically guiding the offense, some-times for scores and other times for punts. Or maybe 
he’ll look as inexperienced as his age suggests, and 
throw three interceptions and fail to connect with any 
of his receivers.
Or maybe it doesn’t matter what Franks does on 
Saturday, and that’s why McElwain is OK with playing 
him. Maybe there’s no risk, so McElwain can afford 
to go all in.
Let me explain.
UF and McElwain ﬁ  nd themselves in one of the 
most enviable positions in all of college football this 
weekend: they will be blameless. No matter the out-
come, no matter what happens on Saturday, they can’t 
lose.
The Gators have suspended 10 players for Satur-
day’s game, including arguably their most important 
offensive starters in junior receiver Antonio Callaway 
and junior running back Jordan Scarlett.  
And with a redshirt freshman quarterback receiv-ing his ﬁ  rst snaps of college football, is 
the average fan really expecting Florida to win? Wouldn’t it be embarrassing for Michigan, the No. 11-ranked team in the nation, to lose to Florida, a team without 10 of its players? Wouldn’t it be a huge triumph for the Gators if they somehow defeated the Wolverines without their star running back and receiver?
But let me be clear: I am not saying 
that I am expecting Florida to lose, or that 
I am expecting Michigan to win. I do not know what will happen during Saturday’s game. Florida receiver Dre Massey could live up to his hype and return two punts for touchdowns, Franks could ﬁ  nally emerge 
as the answer to Florida’s near-decade of quarterback 
woes, or a group of three underclassmen starting line-backers — sophomores David Reese, Vosean Joseph and redshirt freshman Jeremiah Moon — could stiﬂ  e 
Michigan’s running game and lead UF’s defense to a 
shutout.
Anything is possible. Nothing is guaranteed.
But what Florida has guaranteed itself, however it 
happened to stumble into this favorable position, is a 
ﬁ  gurative veil that voids itself from blame.
McElwain, who is a few weeks removed from tell-
ing fans at a Florida pep rally that the Gators are going 
to “beat the heck out of Michigan,” suddenly doesn’t really have to live up to that proclamation. 
The pressure has been lifted. The expectations 
have been lowered. And somehow, no matter what happens on Saturday, the Gators ﬁ  nd themselves in a peculiar position: they can’t lose.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. Look out for his next 
column on Sept. 12. Contact him at icohen@alliga-
tor.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenbNo matter the outcome, Michigan game is a win-win for the GatorsIt’s Cohen Down / Opinion
Alligator File Photo
Jim McElwain and the Gators have nothing to lose this Saturday with running back Jordan Scarlett and nine other players suspended against Michigan. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
The Florida soccer team is tak-
ing its new No. 2 ranking to Se-
attle this weekend to play in the 
Husky/Nike Invitational.
Florida (4-0) is slated to face 
Washington (2-2) tonight at 11 
p.m. and Portland (2-2) on Sunday 
at 9 p.m. after making the farthest 
northwest trip in the program’s 
23-year history.
UF will play its second Pac-12 
opponent in as many weeks when 
it faces the Huskies. But accord-ing to UF coach Becky Burleigh, 
the road trip presents some chal-
lenges.
“The time zone issue is going 
to be a challenge,” Burleigh said. 
“But learning how to deal with 
travel will be a good lesson for us to carry forward.”
Although the match will be 
played at the University of Wash-
ington, Florida will continue 
its road trip on Sunday when it matches up with the Pilots.
Portland has won two national 
championships in program his-tory (2002, 2005), with the latter coming under current head coach Garrett Smith. Burleigh can attest firsthand to the quality of Smith’s 
team, never having previously beaten the West Coast Conference 
squad.
The Pilots are 1-0-1 in the all-
time series. The two schools met for the first time in 2006 when Portland was the defending na-tional champion, and again in 2008.
Involved in those matches for 
the Pilots was Megan Rapinoe, a current member of the U.S. Wom-en’s National Team.
Rapinoe may be well known for 
her outspoken nature regarding is-sues with racial and gender equal-ity, but her career at Portland is worth noting as well. In only 60 
career appearances for the Pilots, 
Rapinoe logged 30 goals and 28 as-sists as well as a national champi-onship in 2005.
And the U.S. midfielder is one 
of many legendary players Port-land has produced.
Tiffeny Milbrett attended Port-
land from 1990-1995. The forward 
later became the leading goal 
scorer on 1999 U.S. women’s team that won the FIFA World Cup.
The Pilots also featured Canadi-
an star Christine Sinclair, who has played in the Olympics alongside UF freshman Deanne Rose.
Sinclair was on both Pilot na-
tional championship teams, lead-
ing Portland to the title in 2005 with an NCAA single-season re-
cord of 39 goals, including two in the national title game. In a col-
legiate career spanning from 2001-
2005, Sinclair registered a total of 110 goals and 32 assists in 94 ca-
reer matches for the Pilots.
Even though Florida may not encounter a Portland player of the 
same quality as Rapinoe, Milbrett or Sinclair on Sunday, it should 
proceed with caution regardless.
“In the history of our sport, 
Portland has been one of the most storied programs,” Burleigh said. 
“There’s different styles of play in different parts of the country. So we’ll see something different. But I think our team is excited to take 
our show on the road a little bit 
and see opponents that we gener-ally don’t see.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators going to Seattle to face Washington, PortlandSOCCER
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Rachael Kramer stood in front 
of reporters on Wednesday com-ing off Florida’s strong start to the 
season. Despite winning multiple 
honors this week, including the American Volleyball Coaches As-sociation Player of the Week, she 
remained modest by crediting her 
teammates.
“It’s nice to get recognition but 
I’m almost more proud of the wins we have this season,” Kramer 
said.
Today, No. 3 Florida (2-0) will 
travel to San Juan, Puerto Rico, to 
participate in the SEC-ACC Chal-
lenge. The Gators will play against 
NC State (0-3) on Saturday and No. 16 North Carolina (0-2) on Sunday.
Kramer, a 6-foot-8 middle 
blocker, said the team is looking ahead to their trip to Puerto Rico this weekend as they prepare to take on their two opponents from 
the Tar Heel State.
“You have to treat every team 
the same,” she said. “It’s often 
those teams that aren’t ranked play even harder against you 
wanting to beat a top team.”
When asked what it will take 
for the Gators to avoid the hang-
over of two big wins to begin the season, coach Mary Wise looked 
towards the veteran players on the 
squad.
“We rely on the seniors,” Wise 
said. “And the experience that they have had over the years of understanding that whether it was 
a big win or a tough loss, at any 
point in the season, it’s always about how you’re getting better for the next match.”
Wise also talked about the per-
formance of the defense over the weekend, praising the effort from the Gators on the protective side of the ball. She said the effort over the weekend proved the team could rely on their defense against 
top-five opponents.
“We had some great defensive 
play by Carli (Snyder), by (Caro-
line Knop), the blocking presence 
of Rhamat (Alhassan), what Chey-
enne Huskey gave us in the Texas match, Shainah Joseph in both matches,” Wise said. “We can beat teams with our defense and 
our offense.”
Through two games this sea-
son, the Gators hold a hitting 
percentage of 19 percent, which 
is good enough for 186th in the 
nation, a polar opposite compari-son to last year -- when the Gators held the best hitting percentage in the nation at 33.8 percent.
Wise also talked about the dif-
ficulties of playing away from home, saying it will be a “great learning experience” for the team.
“You’re on a neutral court with 
a lot of distractions,” Wise said. “It’s a challenge for our team to play two quality opponents, two very athletic teams with unique 
offensive styles that, without the 
luxury of the crowd and the com-forts of home.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgUF volleyball set to play SEC-ACC Challenge in Puerto Rico
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The Gators are going up against Washington tonight at 11 p.m. and will face Portland at 9 p.m. on Sunday. 
Alligator File Photo
Florida started the season with back-to-back wins against top-five teams in the O’Connell Center. 
Now, they’re trying to keep their winning streak going in Puerto Rico this weekend. over the course of his career.
But after finally earning a 
starting role this fall, Osharmar 
is ready to show the world what he’s made of. Look for the speedy 
runner to cut through the Min-
utemen defense like butter this Saturday on the way to a decisive 
Chanticleer victory.
- Dylan Dixon
UMass (-2.5) will win be-
cause… 
The Minutemen already have 
their first regular-season game 
under their belt. While they lost 
their season opener to Hawaii 
this past Saturday, they played well enough to hold a lead over 
a solid Division I team and only 
lost because of a fourth-quarter comeback. UMass’s offense also 
has a chance to shred Coastal 
Carolina’s defense with the help of star tight end Adam Breneman. 
Against Hawaii, Breneman had 
nine receptions for 179 yards, the third best game of any tight end 
in school history. 
Does anyone really think 
UMass will have a harder time against Coastal Carolina? No 
way. If you’re forgetting how for-midable UMass is, take a look at 
their first game from 2016. The 
Minutemen played the Gators at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, one of 
the most hostile environments 
in college sports, and were only down by three points going into 
the fourth quarter against one of 
the nation’s best defenses. 
UMass may have gone on to 
lose, and finish their season with a 2-10 record, but they fought tooth and nail against top-tier opponents in the process. They 
scored 35 points in a loss to Mis-
sissippi State, another formidable SEC school, and South Carolina 
only beat UMass by six points 
a few weeks later. And Dylan’s picking them against the Chanti-
cleers? Come on, Dylan. I know 
you don’t know what a chan-ticleer is. You know how long Coastal Carolina will last against the Minutemen? About a minute, 
man.
- Matt Brannon 
Now, onto the picks!First up is sports editor Matt 
“Lover of all things folk music“ 
Brannon, who proudly wrote that 
Old Crow Medicine Show is his 
favorite band in a recent discus-sion post for his sports manage-
ment class. We like you Matt 
(most of the time), so we’ll let that one slide. But for future refer-
ence, that’s probably a fact about 
yourself you should keep private if you want to make a good first 
impression on your classmates.
Second is the Alligator’s own 
Dylan “I spent hours research-ing old picks columns for ideas 
because I’m not creative” Dixon. Dylan started out the 2017 picks 
column by choosing a school that 
wasn’t even in the FBS last sea-son. There’s that genius insight in 
action. Just like his genius habit 
of shutting down and re-opening Adobe InDesign every time he 
proofreads a story. 
Next is staff writer Ethan “I 
wish I had a blue check mark next to my name“ Bauer, whose 
application to become verified on Twitter this summer was swiftly 
and emphatically rejected. Don’t 
worry Ethan. Keep your chin up. You can boost your self-worth in 
other ways, like trying not to fin-
ish dead last in our fantasy foot-ball league again this year.
After Ethan, we have staff 
writer Ian “Smells like matzo ball soup” Cohen, who doesn’t actu-
ally smell like matzo ball soup. 
He just frequently likes to remind everyone of his Jewish heritage, 
so we poke fun at his expense. 
He’s a good sport about it. You still bringing in latkes to the next 
Alligator staff meeting, Ian? We’re 
all counting on it.
Coming in fifth is the Orlando 
Sentinel’s Edgar “I’m terrified of tiny, white balls” Thompson, who nearly s--- his pants at a 
baseball game this summer when 
a line drive ricocheted up into the press box. Edgar, we know you’re still scarred from your 
days of middle school dodgeball, 
but that line drive landed one row and four seats away from you. Do 
us a favor next time and keep 
your shrieks of terror to yourself.
Next is Graham “I can’t be 
burned” Hall, who writes for the Gainesville Sun and writes out of therapeutic necessity. That’s right 
Graham, you can’t be burned. 
Just like how a pile of garbage can’t get dirty. If you didn’t know, 
Graham is a hardcore Cavaliers 
and Panthers fan despite not liv-ing near either city. “I have fam-
ily from there,” he says. I didn’t 
realize that’s how sports fandom works. No wonder I was so hap-
py Germany won the World Cup. 
I think one of my cousins lived there once. Come on Graham, 
that’s lazy. Just like your parents 
naming you after the dorm in which you were conceived. 
Following Graham is Nick 
“My hat is surgically attached to my skull” de la Torre. Nick writes 
for GatorCountry, which is like 
the third-world equivalent of a normal Gators outlet. Much like 
someone from an actual third-
world country, Nick was once gifted a $7 baseball cap and treats 
it like a senior citizen treats his 
life alert button. We get it Nick, you’re old. 
Last, and without a doubt 
least, Thomas “All my questions are about drugs” Goldcamp, who  
writes for 247sports, the only site 
that requires reporters to upload a story every hour, 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week. Thomas 
asked McElwain if wide receiver James Robinson will play Satur-
day despite a marijuana citation, 
and McElwain said something like “Of course he won’t, dum-
my.” A few days later he asked 
if running back Mark Thompson will play despite a similar cita-
tion, and McElwain said some-
thing like “Of course he will, dummy.” Geez Thomas, isn’t this 
stuff obvious?
See our picks online at Alliga-
tor.org/sports.seph, David Reese and Jeremiah Moon. 
Then there’s the quarterback position, 
where McElwain said Wednesday Florida 
will start redshirt freshman Feleipe Franks. He’s the least-experienced of the three quar-
terbacks vying for time, having not played 
a single snap in a college game. McElwain said he’ll be fine because he’s played on the “big stage” of a high school state champion-ship game, but McElwain failed to mention 
that Franks’ Wakulla War Eagles lost that 
game. Plus, playing for some high school fans in Orlando’s Citrus Bowl doesn’t com-pare to the thousands who will pack the 
80,000-person capacity AT&T Stadium. 
Nevertheless, McElwain has confidence in the youngster. 
“He deserves it,” he said. “He’s done a 
really good job.”But not good enough to be the only op-
tion, or so it seems. McElwain said there could be more to his “plan” than just Franks, with veterans Luke Del Rio and Ma-lik Zaire also possibly seeing time. 
“Obviously,” McElwain said, “with the 
packages and plan that we have in place, the others will be ready to go.”
Michigan, meanwhile, released a roster 
for the first time in over a year on Wednes-
day and hasn’t revealed whether Wilton 
Speight or John O’Korn will start at quar-terback. 
The Wolverines enter as a five-point fa-
vorite. The Gators enter as a depleted un-
derdog. And regardless of what happens on 
the field and the outcome, ABC’s announc-ers will have plenty to chat about.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg.13Michigan is favored by 5 points
season opener since Kyle Morris did in 1988.
“He deserves it,” McElwain said 
about Franks. “He’s done a good job and we’re excited for him.”
Despite not having taken a snap 
at the college level yet, Franks isn’t 
new to playing in big games. He 
threw for 2,766 yards and 35 touch-downs his senior year at Wakulla High School and led the War Eagles to the Class 5A State Championship 
Game. He also competed in the 2016 
Army All-American Bowl – an all-star game for the best high school football players in the country – and 
has played twice in the aforemen-
tioned Orange and Blue Debut.
Franks struggled his first time 
around in Florida’s annual spring game, tossing three interceptions 
over his first four pass attempts.But after a full year learning the 
offense and getting comfortable with his teammates, starting left 
tackle Martez Ivey has noticed a change in the 19-year-old.
“He’s more confident,” Ivey said. 
“He’s just a whole different Feleipe from last year.”
While Franks’ development has 
seen “drastic improvements” over the past year, according to offen-
sive coordinator Doug Nussmeier, 
no one truly knows how the red-shirt freshman will perform until he finally takes the field on Satur-
day against Michigan. Not even his 
head coach.
"He's going to be excited," McEl-
wain said about Franks' nerves. "There's no doubt about it."
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFRANKS,  from pg. 13Franks making first start PICKS,  from pg. 13Alligator File Photo
Florida hasn't lost its season opener in 27 years, the longest current streak in the FBS.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017
Alligator File Photo
Franks is the first redshirt freshman to start UF's season opener since 1988.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2017   ALLIGATOR   17
Daniel Stone
Guest Columnist
Dear Coach McElwain and 
Gators football team, 
I’m a proud Gator (graduate of 
2009) displaced from the Swamp, 
now living in a cold tundra known as “Michigan.” 
Regrettably, I live a mere 45 
minutes away from Ann Arbor, 
home of the University of Michi-
gan. As you can imagine, I’m sur-
rounded by Wolverine fans, and even more “Wal-Mart Wolver-
ines” (a term detractors call crazy Wolverine fans who never gradu-ated from U of M). 
All my wife’s family and 
friends are staunch Wolverine fans, which means I’m constant-ly berated at family gatherings, church events, and even in my 
own home, simply because the 
last three times the Gator foot-ball team played Michigan (2003, 2008 & 2016), they lost. 
My dignity as a loyal Gator fan 
(earned during my undergraduate coursework when the Gator foot-ball team won not one, BUT TWO national championships) is slowly 
being dismantled. Even my dear 
wife, who has for years respected my loyalty to UF, has succumbed to the peer pressure. She now 
dresses my innocent one-year-old 
daughter, Lily, in that disgusting maize and blue. Sadly, if things keep going the way they are, she may very well grow up to become 
a Jim Harbaugh idol worshiper 
like the rest of southeast Michi-gan. 
As a fellow Gator, and as a 
proud father, I’m encouraging you…even begging you…please defeat the Wolverines on Satur-day. If you won’t do it for me, then please do it for Lily. Like her 
name, she is indeed a gentle ﬂ  ow-
er, who can either blossom into a beautiful Gator, or wither into a degraded Wolverine. Her future 
depends on you!
Your loyal fan, win or lose, 
Daniel. Guest column: Bullied Gator fan 
from Michigan in need of rescue
Courtesy of Daniel Stone
Lily, the daughter of tormented 
Gator fan Daniel Stone, offers an uncomfortable expression while wearing Michigan apparel. Friday:
SOCCER @ WASHINGTON, 11 P.M.
Saturday:
*FOOTBALL VS. MICHIGAN, 3:30 P.M.*VOLLEYBALL VS. NC STATE, 8:30 P.M.
Sunday:
*VOLLEYBALL VS. NORTH CAROLINA, 8:30 P.M.*SOCCER VS. PORTLAND, 9 P.M.Monday:
WOMEN’S GOLF @ OCEAN COURSE INVITATIONAL, ALL DAY
Tuesday:
WOMEN’S GOLF @ OCEAN COURSE INVITATIONAL, ALL DAYTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
The Associated Press
Clouds are reﬂ  ected on Anish Kapoor’s “Sky Mirror, ” an art piece that sits placed over a reﬂ  ecting pool on the east plaza of AT&T Stadium, where Florida plays its season opener on Saturday.
*Neutral Site GameINSIDE
Florida kicker Eddy Pineiro’s parents have overcome countless obstacles 
to give their son a chance to succeed. Now he’s making the most of it. 
ONLINE
For updates and analysis from Florida’s Week 1 matchup with Michigan 
at AT&T Stadium outside of Dallas, make sure to visit alligator.org/sports.
His mother escaped a revolt. 
His father escaped a dictatorship. 
Now, he’s using football to give his 
parents a life without worry.TURF GOALSFLORIDA defense vs. MICHIGAN offense
Patrick KuglerCWilton SpeightQBChris Evans or 
Ty IsaacRB
Jabari ZunigaDE
Marco WilsonCB
Duke DawsonCBKhairi ClarkNT
T aven BryanDT
Jeremiah 
Moon SAM
David 
ReeseMIKE
Vosean 
JosephWILL
Nick Washington S
Chauncey 
GardnerSBen BredesonLG
Mason ColeLT
Perry GrantWR
Michael 
OnwenuRG
Nolan UlizioRT
Donovan 
Peoples-JonesWRFLORIDA offense vs. MICHIGAN defense
T.J. McCoyC
Feleipe FranksQB
Lamical Perine or Mark 
ThompsonRBMartez IveyLTBrett HeggieLG
Fred JohnsonRG
Jawaan T aylorRT
DeAndre
Goolsby or 
C’yontai LewisTEDevin BushMIKE
Maurice Hurst DT
Bryan MoneNT
Carlo KempDE
Lavert HillCBMike 
McCrayWILL
Khaleke 
HudsonSAMTyree KinnelS
Josh MetellusS
Tyrie ClevelandWR
Brandon 
PowellWRJosh HammondWRRashan GaryDE
David LongCB
CeCe JeffersonDEIan BuntingTE
Eddie McDoom WRINJURY
REPORT
OUT
S Marcell Harris
CB C.J. McWilliams TE Kemore Gamble
S Quincy LentonLB Kylan JohnsonQUESTIONABLE
RB Jordan ScarlettWR Antonio CallawayWR Rick WellsWR James RobinsonOL Kadeem T elfortOL Richerd Desir-JonesLB James HoustonLB Ventrell MillerDL Jordan SmithDL Keivonnis DavisSUSPENSIONSKICK OFF
Editor: Matt Brannon   Photo for Cover Illustration: Aaron Albright
Alligator, Friday, September 1, 2017
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Eddy Pineiro and his parents throw money 
out the window.
Flinging spare change at the mobs of needy 
children banging on their Ford pickup is the 
only way to get the kids out of the street in his 
mother’s hometown of Manana, Nicaragua. But 
it’s not as bad as when she grew up there in a country mired by crime, corruption, war and revolt. Disease, disaster and violence — lots of violence — plagued a nation in the midst of an uprising. But she made it out as a 12-year-old on a plane to New York. 
Eddy’s father didn’t have it any easier. His 
family paid smugglers $60,000 to escape Cuba 
under the reign of dictator Fidel Castro. They 
waited 21 days on a boat packed with about 50 people for a chance to walk on U.S. soil. 
After 20 years of struggle and sacrifice, their 
son has been given an opportunity to make it all worthwhile, an opportunity to let his family live comfortably for the first time since leaving chaos. Eddy will kick off in Arlington, Texas, Saturday in what’s billed as a high-stakes game 
against Michigan, but when your family has 
gone through what the Pineiros have, kicking in the Dallas Cowboys’ stadium isn’t something to fear. It’s an opportunity to embrace.
Eddy’s goals are worth more than three 
points. They’re worth a shot at stability. 
“My parents still to this day aren’t financially 
well,” Eddy said. “But hopefully, that’s where I come in and change that. That’s my goal.”
Eddy’s mother, Grace, was 5 when Nicara-
gua declared martial law — releasing total con-trol of the government to the military. Villages burned. Politicians were ransomed. Uneasiness 
perforated through the Central American coun-
try amid a civil war between an oppressive gov-ernment and radicalized rebels. 
As a child, you can’t grasp the danger 
around you. She’d still be outside playing with her friends while civilians were being shot. Her mom found a way out and took it. They would be facing a life of uncertainty in America, but it wasn’t a hard decision. Armed-conflict experts 
estimate more than 20 percent of Nicaraguans 
were homeless in 1979. 
After leaving the country in the early 1980s, 
Grace has grown up in the U.S. with the privi-lege of not having to look over her shoulder. 
But part of her is still back in Nicaragua.“I have cousins and aunts and uncles stuck 
over there,” Eddy said. “It’s horrible over there.” 
Once a month, Eddy and his parents send 
money, clothes and sometimes food to relatives.
“We try to take it over there to help them 
out,” he said. “But it’s not enough to help out the whole country.”
Eddy’s family cautiously visits the country 
when they can. On a trip as a kid, his parents hired a bodyguard — it wasn’t too expensive, not much was at the time. Eddy made a friend who invited him to visit his house. Eddy wasn’t 
allowed to go. His father didn’t know the boy 
and wasn’t about to risk losing his son for a playdate. 
“There’s a lot of kidnapping of Americans 
over there,” Eddy said. “They’re known for that stuff.”
His father, Eddy Sr., knows people who have 
been cornered by criminals while driving.
“They stop them. A car would get in front 
of them. They’d get robbed. I’ve heard a lot of other stories,” Eddy Sr. said. “Thank God it’s never happened to us.”
Until he came to America, Eddy Sr. had nev-
er seen an apple. 
“I had never drank a Coke in my life. I had 
never eaten a hamburger in my life,” he said. “In Cuba when I was there, it didn’t exist. And even if it existed, we couldn’t afford it.”
Even a sunny Christmas in Havana wasn’t 
enough to lighten the mood. 
Children would take a number and get in 
line. They’d pray that there were still some pres-ents left by the time they got to the front, and pray their parents could afford what was left: a wooden gun, a wooden tank, a wooden hel-
met. Those were some of the options in a Cuba 
gripped by military dictatorship under Castro. Even if there was a bicycle available, only a few would be able to afford it, and those presents usually went to the children of captains and ser-geants who ran the island.  
There wasn’t much time to be children. The 
government forced teens into the military. If you went to school, you were told what to learn. 
“If for some reason they needed farmers that 
year, that’s what you were gonna study. If they needed doctors, then you were lucky; you’d be-come a doctor,” Eddy Sr. said. 
Then things got worse. Tensions rose as the Cuban economy 
dropped. It was time to go. 
Eddy Sr.’s father found someone to take his 
family off the island. 
“(There was) a boat that would leave from 
Key West. If it was $60,000, (you) would pay $15,000 ahead and then when you get the fam-ily here, you pay the rest,” Eddy Sr. said. 
As an 8-year-old, Eddy Sr. and his family 
spent weeks in the Mariel Harbor before landing and starting a new life in southwest Miami. His father worked construction while his mother sewed shirts and pants in a factory. 
While he was still young, Eddy Sr. started 
playing soccer in his free time. By the time he was college-aged, he had scholarships from top programs like South Carolina and UNC. But his parents didn’t leave Cuba to see their son disap-pear. So he stayed in Miami, where he met his wife, Grace, at church. The two quickly began dating and married about a year later. They still didn’t have money. Eddy Sr. would work a pile-
driver in the morning and play in adult soccer 
leagues at night where he’d be paid $150 for one game, $200 in another. He even spent two years with a professional team, the Fort Lauder-dale Strikers. 
“I was pretty decent,” he said. They had their first child a few years later, 
and Eddy a few years after that.
 Eddy’s father had him hooked on soccer 
by the time he was 8. By the time he hit high school, he was the one of the top scorers in the state. Eddy’s friend Oscar Diaz can remember how much time Eddy spent on the field.
“The way Eddy was raised, was every day 
practice, there’s no such thing as a little day off,” Oscar said. “He would sacrifice going out, spending time with friends, girlfriends just to go practice soccer ... That’s how he was built.” 
Eddy began to dabble with football his se-
nior year of high school. Without knowing much about the sport, he gave it a shot because his team needed a kicker. 
“The first time he kicked off, he put it 
through the uprights,” Eddy Sr. remembers. 
Eddy ran off the field and asked his coach, 
“How come they didn’t give us the three points?”
Eddy went on to get a soccer scholarship at 
Florida Atlantic, just a 35-minute drive from home. 
“It was a perfect fit for us,” Eddy Sr. said.
Then the opportunity vanished. Eddy was 
ruled academically ineligible to play by the 
NCAA, and was forced to go the junior college route if he wanted to be eligible to play at FAU. 
Eddy went to ASA College in Miami. And by 
chance, it was the first junior college in Florida to field a football team. 
Someone told Eddy he had a shot to be the 
kicker, so Eddy reached out to the coach. 
Eddy told him he could hit a 40-yard field 
goal. He was skeptical. 
Eddy, still unfamiliar with football, teed the 
ball on the 40-yard line (what would be a 50-yard field goal) and turned around to face the opposite goal post — the one 70 yards away. 
He nailed it. ASA’s football coach called Eddy Sr. and told 
him: If this was my son, I’d never let him touch 
a soccer ball again. 
Eddy realized he had something special. He 
started posting YouTube videos of 70-yard-plus 
field goals, and Division I schools came rolling in for a chance to sign him.
During a recruiting trip to Alabama, he was 
called into an indoor facility with three other top kickers. 
They gave each player five kicks. And then 
a man working for the Crimson Tide told them try from farther. 
“He backed me up to like 65, the other kick-
ers didn’t reach, and I made mine,” Eddy said. The man offered Eddy a scholarship on the spot. Eddy had no idea it was Nick Saban. 
“I was telling my dad, ‘Who’s this old guy 
that’s kneeling down watching me kick?’” 
Eddy Sr., a lifelong Miami Dolphins fan, 
told him he was kicking in front of one of the world’s top football coaches, and Eddy agreed that it sounded like a big deal. 
Eddy was committed to Alabama for nine 
months. Saban even invited him to his house.
“He had a big lake and a big forest in his 
backyard,” Eddy said. “He had all these ATVs and he was like, ‘Oh pick whichever one you 
want. Go drive it, just be careful.’ So I got on 
with three other five-star recruits. I was like ‘I’m gonna start drifting.’” 
“We almost flipped and crashed, it was fun.”
 Around 10 p.m. on Dec. 5, 2015, the Gators 
lost the SEC Championship Game to Alabama. 
At 9 a.m. the next day, UF coach Jim McEl-
wain was eating Cuban food at Eddy’s house 
in Miami. 
Eddy Sr. remembers McElwain telling the 
family that he needs a kicker. He told Eddy he was the best in the country and that he could go to Alabama if he really wants, but Florida will 
do whatever it takes to sign him. 
Eddy’s family liked that Gainesville was a 
closer drive. They also liked that McElwain did 
everything he could to make himself available. 
Eddy called McElwain to let him know he’d 
changed his mind: He wanted to be a Gator. 
“To this day, I still haven’t seen him that 
happy — maybe when we beat LSU,” Eddy said. 
“He was hyped, I’ve never heard him scream 
like that. I could tell a lot of pressure was off his shoulders when he found out I was gonna come play here.”
Saturday, Eddy will kick off his second sea-
son as a Gator. And Eddy is dreaming for a close game. A game where McElwain sends him out to the 50-yard line in the final seconds with a chance to show NFL scouts just how valuable he is. 
“I get goosebumps thinking about that,” 
Eddy said. “I know that (my dad) would be cry-
ing on the sideline.”
“I dream about it. Like, you guys don’t see 
that but I go home and I dream about dreams of 
hitting the game-winning field goal,” Eddy said. 
He wouldn’t be here if his parents hadn’t 
done everything to give him an opportunity. Now, as a college football star, he can give his mother and father a chance most people never get. 
A chance to prove that the American dream 
is more than just fantasy.
Alligator File Photo
Raised by parents who left home and risked everything for opportunity, Florida kicker Eddy Pineiro is making the most of the chance he was given. 
UF kicker using 
football to give his family a 
comfortable life PUTTING HIS 
BEST FOOT 
FORWARD
•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •