We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators drop nail-biter to Arkansas 
State 
UF’s women’s basketball team lost, 70-69, on 
Tuesday, pg. 14.UF oﬃ   cials plan how to prevent future fraud 
UF Housing ofﬁ  cials accused of embezzling UF money, pg 5. 
YAF hosts abortion, feminism discussion 
A former UF Treasurer spoke, pg 5. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 35
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOUR CANDIDATES ARE 
BEING CONSIDERED. 
By Camille Respess
Alligator Staff Writer
After the former UF Dean of Students re-
signed in May, UF will bring four potential 
candidates to campus in the next two months. 
The Division of Student Affairs is hosting 
on-campus interviews that UF students, fac-ulty and staff can attend. Information on pro-spective candidates, including their resumes, is available at ufsa.uﬂ  .edu/about/searches. 
Ron Anderson, UF’s ombudsman and 
search committee chair, said the interviews 
will be an opportunity for candidates to better 
understand UF and talk to the community. 
“We want to make sure our faculty, staff, 
and most importantly, students have the op-portunity to meet each candidate and lend their voice and opinions to this search,” An-derson said. 
Provided evaluations will be reviewed to 
make a hiring decision, Anderson said. 
The ﬁ  rst interview, with Mary Ann Beg-
ley, will be held on Thursday from 10 a.m. to 
11 a.m. in the Reitz Union Chamber. The re-
mainder of the interviews will continue after Thanksgiving break, Anderson said.
The former Dean of Students, Jen Day 
Shaw, resigned after positively recommending a UF employee ﬁ  red for purchasing pornogra-phy at work, according to Alligator archives. 
Tommy Lower, a 20-year-old UF marketing 
junior, said he is planning to attend the on-campus interviews and wants to contribute to the conversation. 
“It’s important to actually hear students’ 
voices and get a vibe of what they feel,” Lower said. “I think it’s not only good, but it’s vital to the search for the new (dean of students).” 
@camille_respess
crespess@alligator.orgSearch for new Dean of Students to begin ThursdayBy Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Gainesville woman lost her yellow 
labrador, Beignet, to an alligator lurking in 
Newnans Lake on Nov. 4. 
Scarlett Dent was at the lake, located  
east of Gainesville, with her friends and 8-year-old son, Easton Lowery. They were   spending a Saturday night outdoors when 
the attack occurred.
“It was horrible,” she said. “The image of Beignet looking at me 
and me looking at him for 
the last time is just stuck 
in my head all the time.”
As Dent spoke with 
her friends, Beignet broke through her home’s gate 
to join the group by the water. Easton had wad-
ed into the lake and was throwing sticks into the water for Beignet to fetch, Dent 
said. Just before they were about to leave, Easton began to scream. 
Dent saw the alligator grab Beignet by 
the stomach, dragging him under, she said. 
She ran into the water and tried to grab her dog from the alligator’s mouth. 
“I was doing whatever I could to try and 
get my dog,” she said.
Beignet bit down hard on her hands, 
Dent said, but was ultimately dragged un-der by the alligator. It was the last time she saw Beignet. 
The Gainesville resident grew up swim-ming in Florida lakes and rivers with her dogs and feels she let her guard down. 
“I guess you just get too comfortable 
with your surroundings, and you don’t realize how something can happen in an instant, and it did happen in an instant.”
Dent said she received negative back-
lash after the attack was reported in the media, but she said losing an integral part of her family has been punishment enough. 
“I will never take another dog down to Gator kills Gainesville family’s dog at Newnans Lake
SEE GATOR,  PAGE 4Beignet
HE SPOKE ABOUT A NEW 
WELLNESS HUB AND 
THE COUNSELING & 
WELLNESS CENTER.
By Jimena T avel 
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite not mentioning it while 
campaigning in Spring, Student Body 
President Smith Meyers told the audi-ence at the State of the Campus Ad-dress that mental health has always 
been his ﬁ  rst priority.
Meyers’ Tuesday night remarks 
came weeks after SG Senate, which is 
dominated by Meyers’ Impact Party, received backlash from students com-plaining about the lack of funding for the Counseling & Wellness Center. Impact Party’s platform in Spring, when Meyers ran for Student Body 
President, didn’t mention the CWC. 
In the absence of more funding 
and resources, students wait weeks  
to receive an appointment, according to Alligator archives. 
“Just because it wasn’t on my 
platform, doesn’t mean it wasn’t something I prioritized for my admin-istration to work on,” Meyers said, 
adding he’s always been personally 
passionate about the issue.
At the address, Meyers said his 
administration accomplished secur-ing permanent funding for eight ad-ditional counselors out of 12 planned hires. 
UF’s Board of Trustees decided to 
hire 12 counselors after UF President 
Kent Fuchs told them in August the 
issue was pressing, according to Al-ligator archives.
Meyers said his administration 
helped secure the eight counselors’ funding because he’s been meeting with administration ofﬁ  cials since he took ofﬁ  ce on April 19, including UF Vice President for Student Affairs 
David Parrott and UF President Kent 
Fuchs, to voice students’ concerns about lack of mental health profes-sionals. 
Meyers also addressed 24/7 study 
spaces. He said results from a recent survey about overnight study space hours, which he received last week, show students want more space. He Meyers talks priorities 
at campus address
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
MOCK WEDDING
Surrounded by her mock wedding party, Brooke Sender, a 19-year-old UF nursing student, 
stands after ﬁ  nishing circling Daniel Feuer seven times during a mock wedding and singles event held at the Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center. 
SEE CAMPUS,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
HIGH  72° LOW  46°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply Now for 2018-19 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-19 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s on-time deadline to receive the results of your 2018-19 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is 
Dec. 15. Apply well before Dec. 
15 to ensure that the federal pro-
cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or as-
sistance with completing your 
FAFSA, visitfafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your SFA financial aid advis-er sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
Beat FSU — Beat Hunger Food 
DriveUF is going head-to-head with Florida State University to see who can collect the most food do-nations. Student Government’s Greek Affairs and finance and 
affordability cabinets are partner-
ing with the Field and Fork Pantry for the Beat FSU — Beat Hunger Food Drive, running now to Friday. Visit pantry.fieldandfork.ufl.edu/donate/wishlist/ for a list of items that are most valuable to those seeking assistance. Have questions or interested in getting 
involved? Please email greekaf-
fairs@sg.ufl.edu.
Housing Fair 
Student Government’s Fall Housing Fair is Friday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the Reitz 
Union North Lawn. As the larg-
est housing event at UF, students can engage with a wide variety of Gainesville community repre-sentatives and gain a better un-derstanding of what off-campus housing communities have to offer. This is the easiest way to get familiar with off-campus liv-
ing options, and a great way to 
stock up on promotional give-aways. UF resources such as Off Campus Life and Student Legal Services will also be on hand to help answer questions. For more information, visit sg.ufl.edu/housingfair.
GatorNights: Latin Beats
Feel the rhythm this Friday night at GatorNights: Latin Beats. There will be dodgeball and other indoor sports. Add some color and culture to your space by creating a tissue paper flower or traditional folk art from Latin American countries. A Zumba 
dance class will be held from 9:30 
p.m. to 10:30 p.m., and an annu-al salsa concert will be presented by UF’s Union of Active Puerto Rican Students (UEPA) from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom. Musician Nelly’s Echo will perform a live acoustic set in the Reitz Union Atrium from 
8:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The film 
“It” will show at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. Grab some pizza in the Reitz Union Food Court start-ing at midnight. GatorNights is always Friday, always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are 
allowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event. 
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
Vigil The fifth annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Saturday in the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin 
Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave.  Activities will start 
at 4 p.m. with the ceremony be-ginning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the com-munity and refreshments will be provided.  The vigil will be sponsored by the Friends of the 
Crisis Center and the Survivors 
of Suicide Support Group.  For more information, please contact Donna Eckel at raggedyds@aol.com.
Dancing Under the Stars
The Florida Swing Dancing Club is having a Dancing Under the 
Stars event Saturday. The event 
will be held at Depot Park, and beginner lessons will start at 6 p.m. with a social dance to fol-low. Lessons will be $5 per per-son and the dance an additional $5.  Bring a date or a friend and receive $5 off the event price. Join us for a night full of music, danc-
ing, photos and memories. For 
more information visit, facebook.com/FloridaSwingDancingClub/
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 35
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here •  352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 BREAKFAST
waters in Florida again,” she said. 
“Unfortunately, I learned a really hard lesson.”
Perran Ross, a retired UF wild-
life ecology and conservation pro-fessor, said this mistake is all too common in Florida, one even he 
has made. 
“I’ve actually had a dog killed 
by an alligator, so I’m very aware of the dangers here,” he said. 
Alligators are prevalent in 
Newnans Lake and some are very 
large, Ross said. Adult alligators prey on ducks, raccoons and the 
occasional dog, he said.“They really are very good at 
ambushing creatures that come to 
the edge of the water,” he said. 
Hope Sotolongo-Miranda, a UF 
civil engineering junior, said she avoids most Florida lakes and riv-ers due to the likelihood of alliga-tors. Although the death of Beig-
net was sad, Sotolongo-Miranda, 
20, doesn’t think it’s right to criti-cize Dent. 
“It’s not very productive to 
be negative,” she said. “(Dent’s) going through grief. She lost her dog.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgGATOR,  from pg 1The owner said the gator 
was about 11-feet-long
said he will lobby the UF administration for more 
funding. 
“I will personally commit to seeing this through 
prior to the conclusion of my term, and it will come at no additional cost to the Student Body,” he said. 
In an effort to increase healthy eating options on 
campus, Meyers said Freshens will be replaced by Shake Smart, a smoothie restaurant where every-thing is under $6.
Meyers’ administration is also analyzing GPAs, 
graduation rates and retention rates from UF’s gym users to prove a correlation between healthy habits and academic success, he said. Meyers said he plans to use the data to lobby UF for a new health and 
wellness center, which would be located on 13th 
Street and feature an inﬁ  rmary, a recreational gym and a space for CWC counselors. 
Revel Lubin, the Student Body treasurer, said 
none of the administration’s plans would have been accomplished without Meyers’ leadership style. He said Meyers often recognized he didn’t have all the answers and asked others for help. 
“His ability to stop and ask questions has really 
allowed us to accomplish some amazing goals and amazing things for this campus,” Lubin said. 
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
CAMPUS,  from pg 1Meyers discussed healthy habits
Other points mentioned in the speech:
• Simpliﬁ  ed degree audit for upcoming Spring semester
• Adding six rooms for ProctorU testing in Library West
• Working with the University Athletic Association to bring larger containers of water for football games
• Adding more crosswalks to Gale Lemerand Drive, work to make Beaty T owers crosswalk safer
• Working to establish a laundry program that reduces costs for students on campusWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In an effort to spark a discussion about con-
servative values, UF’s Young Americans for 
Freedom hosted former U.S. Treasurer Angela “Bay” Buchanan for a speech that brought out more than 80 students. 
The event cost $3,000 to host and was spon-
sored by the Young America’s Foundation and the Clare Boothe Luce Policy Institute, said Daniel Weldon, the president of the UF chapter of Young Americans for Freedom.
The discussion, which was held in Turling-
ton Hall on Tuesday night, motivated students on the left and the right to discuss Buchanan’s views on abortion, the pro-life movement and 
feminism. 
Most of Buchanan’s hour-long speech was 
about feminism. Buchanan said she felt victim-
ized by feminists when she became a single mom. 
“I went from being strong and capable, ac-
cording to the feminists, to being less able as a 
single mom,” Buchanan said. 
Weldon, a UF political science and history 
junior, said abortion and feminism are some of 
the most discussed topics on college campuses. 
Before the speech, signs promoting the 
event were taken down by passers-by. 
“Clearly through all the protests and de-
struction of our signs and the erasing of our chalk and people that have been cursing us, 
you can tell that people aren’t used to having 
this conversation,” the 21-year-old said.
Mariam Mohamed, a UF women’s studies 
junior, said Buchanan was hypocritical because she deﬂ  ected many questions.
“I feel like she isn’t practicing what she 
preaches,” the 19-year-old said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgConservative group hosts 
former U.S. TreasurerBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Latrell placed a book about jungle ani-
mals on his head and abandoned his shoes 
as he showcased his Michael Jackson dance moves in the Sidney Lanier Elementary caf-eteria. The 10-year-old was living his dream 
of being a king. 
“I want to be a lion so I can be king of 
the jungle,” the fourth-grader said. “And I’m 
gonna be the next Michael Jackson.” 
On Tuesday morning, former Sidney 
Lanier school nurse Carol Wilt and school resource ofﬁ  cer Debbie Parker unveiled the school’s new book house library, a 6-foot-tall treehouse-shaped cabinet ﬁ  lled with books 
donated by residents and parents.
During their lunch break, Sidney Lanier 
students will be able grab as many books as 
they’d like for free. 
Wilt and Parker ﬁ  rst came up with the 
idea after Wilt, who retired in May after 30 years at the school, said Thrivent Financial, a Christian philanthropy ﬁ  rm she invests in, gave her $250 for a charity project of her choice. 
The project was especially important at 
Sidney Lanier due to the number of under-
privileged students, she said. 
“A lot of our students, they can’t afford 
books,” she said. 
After Wilt and Parker unveiled the book 
house to about 50 students during their 
lunch break, smiles lit up and the kids ran up to grab a free book of their own. 
Second-grader Jakhari McFadden sat 
down with his new “Minecraft: Essential 
Handbook” and tore through page after 
page, deciding which structure he’d teach his cousin to construct next.
“I’m gonna show her how to build a big 
house and a wall,” the 7-year-old said. “This is my favorite thing.” 
Between dancing, Latrell grabbed a sec-
ond book, “Hair Styling Tips and Tricks for Girls” by American Girl Publishing.
“I like looking at the pictures of the girls,” 
he said, his eyebrows raised. “They cute.” 
dhoffman@alligator.og 
@hoffdavid123Local elementary students 
get book house library By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
After an internal audit showed two former 
UF Housing and Residence Education ofﬁ  cials 
allegedly took more than $470,000 in UF funds, UF is considering how to prevent future fraud. 
Auditors accused Housing’s former senior di-
rector, Azfar Mian, and former ﬁ  nance director, Stina Schoneck, of embezzling money through a Campus USA Credit Union account. They were arrested Nov. 8. Three other Housing ofﬁ  cials were ﬁ  red in October due to  the internal audit.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said although 
UF checks internal ﬁ  nances among top ofﬁ  cials regularly, ofﬁ  cials are considering more safe-guards after the full audit is complete.
“I think once the investigation is over, abso-
lutely, they’ll very clearly point to maybe some potential weaknesses,” Sikes said.
Mian was arrested Sept. 18 and subsequently 
ﬁ  red for accusations of purchasing furniture for his home and reimbursing lunch meals between January 2016 and July 2017 with his UF Pur-chasing Card, according to Alligator archives. “It’s a $60 million operation, it’s just a very 
large organization, and certainly we have con-trols in place,” Sikes said of UF Housing. “Those 
controls were circumvented.” 
As of press time, Mian remains in the Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of a $500,000 bond on a 
charge of grand theft. 
Mian’s attorney and his wife, Ayesha Mian, 
UF Innovation Academy’s associate director, declined to comment. Schoneck’s attorney couldn’t be reached for comment.
Former resident assistant Jeff Streitmatter, 
22, said the scandal comes amid growing frus-trations for Housing workers. Streitmatter, who was a Beaty Towers RA from January 2014 to May 2016, said while working he saw compen-sation for RAs dwindle. 
The UF industrial and systems engineering 
ﬁ  fth-year said sees Housing in a different light after the allegations. 
“It’s frustrating because it’s like, what do 
you expect when there’s people at the top with not a lot of transparency?” he said. “All these things hurt people when we don’t have enough money in the trenches at the lower levels.” UF to consider policy change 
post-Housing scandal
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
An Inspire Party senator called for a bi-
partisan effort to reform the Student Govern-
ment elections codes during a Stuende Sen-ate meeting Tuesday night. 
Sen. Michael Hoffman (Inspire, Hume) 
told senators he wants SG to send out emails to students prior to SG elections informing them they can submit absentee ballots if they can’t vote on campus. 
He said he wants senators from both par-
ties to agree on the initiative since it involves election laws, which he said are fundamental for democracy.
“Whether Gators are on campus or not, 
they should be able to have a right to vote,” Hoffman said. 
Senators also unanimously approved a 
bill recognizing the need for additional fund-ing for the Counseling and Wellness Center. 
Sen. Ben Lima (Inspire, District D) 
thanked the resolution’s co-sponsors and au-
thors during public debate. 
“This is what bipartisanship looks like,” 
Lima said. 
At a recent Senate meeting, Student Body 
President Smith Meyers said funding for new 
counselors was not a bipartisan effort, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
In a special report, SG Production Chair-
man Alex DesRosiers told senators this year’s 
Gator Growl was more efﬁ  cient than the past. 
DesRosiers said artists were booked in 
July this year, instead of September like last 
year. The cost of the event was cut from $253,000 last year to $198,000 this year. 
“This can’t be an outlier; this needs to be 
a step in the right direction if the event is to continue in its current capacity,” he said.UF Student Senator 
proposes SG code revisionsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
We have constructed a culture of “L’s” 
I’m prone to losing. Just this week, I 
walked right into a table in Midtown, 
which left me with a fist-sized bruise on 
my hip and a drink spilled all over me. I 
also accidentally texted a screenshot of a 
conversation to the person I was having that conversation with. I started uncontrollably 
crying at a Bon Iver concert and, like all of 
you, watched the Gators lose. 
That’s just this week. Don’t get me started 
on 2017, which gifted me with three broken bones, two broken phones and — you guessed it — a broken heart. 
Until recently, I never would have considered even 
starting to write a column about how much of a loser I am. But I’ve noticed a change in our culture at UF, and I’m ready to jump on the bandwagon of accepting 
losses, embracing them and broadcasting them. I think 
we might be onto something with the new fad. 
The concept of losing is stepping into the spotlight. 
We’re no longer hiding from the fact that we might not be perfect — we’re normalizing it, and we’re celebrat-
ing it. We’re tying a little bow around experiences that 
would have made us feel scared, insecure or embar-rassed with four words: “I took the L.” 
For a trophy generation supposedly obsessed with 
praise, this trend is out of character. It’s unlike us to display an unfiltered, unedited view of our low points for the whole world to see. When we all flocked to Ins-tagram in high school, it was a place for perfectly posed photos intended to elicit jealousy for how cool our lives 
were. When that got old, half of us made new accounts 
to document the real losses in our lives and called it “finsta,” ironically short for fake Instagram. Now, we’ve evolved past the point of needing one secluded 
place for stories of dropping pizza slices on the West 
University Avenue sidewalk or five-second footage of walks of shame. We’re sharing them through group chats, 21st birthday event pages and at Sunday brunch tables. We’re secretly OK 
with our drunk selfies being the main photo 
of our GroupMe chats. We’re divulging our losses with our friends and then — here’s the best part — we’re moving on. 
The relief associated with taking the L 
probably makes no sense to our parents’ gen-eration or their parents’ generation. Why are 
we fine with the world knowing how badly we mess up or what series of unfortunate events we get ourselves 
into? Because we’ve made it OK for each other to fail 
miserably, epically and shamelessly. You won’t find us burying our heads in our pillows over-thinking our mis-takes, but you will see us learning from them while we laugh about them. 
Sara Blakely, founder and CEO of Spanx, Inc., and 
one of my personal heroes, says her dad used to make her talk about her failures at the dinner table — the more embarrassing, the better. She was applauded for 
messing up, and now she openly talks about mess-ups 
with her employees. Without even knowing it, we’ve collectively created the same failure-friendly environ-ment for each other. 
It’s not a straight line from snapchatting your bare-
foot walk down Bourbon Street to becoming a million-aire or even a relatively successful member of society. It’s a dotted line and probably a very curvy line, but it’s there. We have to know that our low points don’t define 
us, but accept them as a part of our stories. If half the 
battle is learning to take some L’s and to be proud of the way we move past them, I’d say that for once we get the W. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.You can only 
stretch yourself 
so thin
It’s about that time during Fall semester when we all start to 
lose our minds. The reality of final exams and the end of the semester is looming over us, and the fate of our final grades hangs in the balance of how the next few weeks goes. Need-less to say, every student within the general vicinity of UF 
right now is stressed beyond belief.
With stress comes a slew of unfavorable reactions. Some peo-
ple push away those close to them or lash out to their friends. Others neglect their self care and severely skimp on sleep and ex-ercise. A number of people will just completely shut down. The reactions most of us have to stress isn’t enjoyable or healthy. The worst part about it is that we do it to ourselves.
College classes are hard enough. But when you tack on clubs, 
Greek life, part-time jobs, honor societies and internships like 
nearly all of us do, things get worse. Most of the semester is a 
struggle. We find ourselves struggling to finish everything we need to do in just a 24-hour period. Nonetheless, we somehow manage to get everything done. This provides us with the il-lusion that we have it all together when the truth is we don’t. When we add on even one more thing, like a difficult exam, we run out of time. 
This is why we need to cut back.So many of us are doing things we don’t actually care about. 
A lot of what we are involved in as upperclassmen are things that once meant a great deal to us, but now pale in comparison to new developments. Despite this, we remain involved in them, and we continue to move up in the ranks, assuming more and more responsibility, even if we don’t have the capacity to devote the necessary time and energy that the position demands. 
This oversaturation can lead to one of two things. The first 
is that as you start to add on more important responsibilities in your life, you begin neglecting the old ones. You might remain in 
the organization or maintain your title, but you aren’t putting in 
the effort you need to. The second is that you burn out. You try too hard to devote 100 percent of yourself to everything you’re involved in and quickly find that it is a physically impossible task.
This is why, dear reader, we need to stop wasting our time 
on things that we don’t really care about. We need to consider if our classes are hard because the material is challenging or because we aren’t interested in what we are learning in our ma-
jor. We need to consider if we are slacking off in our leadership 
positions because we no longer care about the club we’ve been a part of since an older member handed us a flyer at an involve-ment fair freshman year. We need to consider if the only reason we remain in an organization we once loved is because we feel guilty for leaving it. We need to consider if it’s worth it to stretch ourselves so thin that we have barely an ounce of energy left for our classes and for our self-care.
We need to realize it is perfectly all right to let go of things we 
have grown out of. It’s OK to quit clubs. It’s OK to say no to a leadership position you’ve been groomed for throughout college. It’s OK to drop out of an organization that no longer benefits you or makes you happy. It’s OK to admit you just don’t care. 
If we are going to make it through this semester and every 
other semester to come, we need to recognize the importance of prioritizing. If we continue to stretch ourselves too thin, we will eventually snap. We need to start preventing this inevitable snap before it happens and make choices that benefit us.
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Up until recently, I thought 
most classes in college weren’t composed of mul-tiple choice tests. I ﬁ  gured college was a place you 
got your hands dirty and learned how to deal with real-life material, as you would in your professional ﬁ  eld. While my major (journalism) and some others actually do this, I feel most of the majors offered at UF are lacking when it comes to provid-ing students with real world experiences. It’s time we start talking about this.
In the journalism school, we pride our-
selves with having classes that produce end results, not test scores. In the past two and a half years I can think of four to ﬁ  ve classes where I had to take multiple choice tests. The majority of our classes either focus on producing semester-long multimedia projects and stories, or focus on some type of special-ity, like photojournalism or editing. These 
are all things we’d do on the job — to some 
extent. 
But a lot of majors don’t have this. In fact, 
I’ve spoken with people in other ﬁ  elds who feel like they walk out of UF with little to no work to show, and it makes me think maybe the problem isn’t the students, but the way classes are structured.
While multiple choice tests are needed in 
some areas, it shouldn’t be the backbone of someone’s degree. How much can you really learn from a test that gives you a 25 percent shot at guessing an answer right? Not much in my opinion. Multiple choice and true or false questions are the lazy way out. They don’t force you to think or pull from your memory when the information is served to you on a platter. It’s black and white, where-
as the majority of degrees provided here 
aren’t. In most professions, employers won’t ask you for your grades, and they don’t care how well you were able to memorize formu-las and terms. They’ll want a product or for you to talk about how you lead a team, not how well you were able to cram for a test us-ing a Study Edge packet.
This in turn makes students un-
able to land internships and jobs later on in their college career be-cause of lack of real-world expe-
rience. We’re taught to read and 
cram for tests when we should be learning how to mentally engage ourselves or how to develop prod-ucts similar to what we would in our industry. We’re told that our 
degree will hold its weight, but what happens when it doesn’t? Most people can get a degree in something; the hard part is showing you 
know how to use it.
As I look back on college with all of four 
weeks left, I can’t help but think of one of the 
best classes I took as an undergraduate. This class was called Applied Fact Finding, which, if you’re not in journalism, sounds like it’d be an easy class. It’s essentially a class that teaches students how to use public records to ﬁ  nd information on people, aka online stalk-
ing 101.
Our ﬁ  nal in this class, at least when I took 
it, consisted of being given certain informa-
tion and then having to ﬁ  gure out additional information on either a business or a person.
The class not only taught you how to 
think under pressure but also how to put pieces of a complex puzzle together to ﬁ  nd information. I still to this day use the skills 
I learned in that class. I don’t think I would 
have learned as much if the test had been multiple choice. 
Dear readers, if you’ve made it this far and 
realized that your major is ﬁ  lled to the brim with multiple-choice exams, and you’re not really learning the skills you think you should be, I encourage you to ﬁ  nd a way to obtain those skills. Whether it be a part-time job or 
something else along those lines, you’re pay-
ing a good amount of money to be here, so make sure it’s worthwhile.
Sara Marino is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Wednesday.
I don’t think the only problem with Richard Spencer is that he is a white supremacist. The problem with Spencer is that he provides a bogus answer 
to a legitimate and enigmatic question academia has left unex-plored: What does it mean to be white in 21st century America? 
The position of white people 
today is a confusing one — we want to celebrate our past, but we feel mor-ally compelled to reject it. I am a distant relative of Robert E. Lee; how should I feel 
about that? To me, this is a question worth 
discussing. The structure of our culture’s discussion of race, however, is framed in such a way that white people are often not participants. As far as I know, every college class dealing with race is taught from a non-white perspective; forums on race are hardly ever led by white people. 
Nonwhite perspectives are essential; I 
submit, though, the way we have framed the discussion of race reinforces the myth that white people are not affected by race, which is self-defeating. If we can only dis-cuss race from a black or Hispanic perspec-tive, this silently tells me that race is not a part of my life. Privilege, though, is an expe-rience of race. Why is this not an experience worth exploring?
The blame does not fall only on uni-
versities or on our culture. White people do not have a place in the race conversa-tion because, in large part, we don’t want to join. White people tend to bristle at the subject of racism or privilege. The reasons for this would require a separate column much longer than 660 words. It is a massive and frustrating problem, and I think Spencer 
seems to embody the consequences of white 
people’s apathy. 
He attempts to answer the unaddressed 
question: What does being white mean for white people today? The problem is that his philosophy is uncontested within the white community. He is the only white per-son I know of who is trying to help white people make sense of their position today. While I was writing this column, I thought about James Baldwin, Langston Hughes and Lorraine Hansberry — African-American authors whose work explored the 
way racism affected black peo-
ple. I tried to think about white authors who did the same, but I couldn’t think of any, and that’s the problem. We need the emer-gence of white people who have 
a racial conscience, who can teach whites how to reconcile our past and present and how racism has sadly beneﬁ  ted our exis-
tence in America. The effort to supplant 
Spencer’s ideas has to start within the white community.
I think Spencer has beneﬁ  ted from the 
longstanding silence of white people, who, because of this silence, mostly believe that race is absent from their lives. Afﬁ  rmative Action, or Black Lives Matter, make no sense to a person whose worldview excludes race. 
It is as confusing as a scientist witnessing 
water being turned into wine. Spencer is a consoling presence to those who reject race as an integral feature of others’ experienc-es of the world. I, too, want consolation. I don’t want to be told I am a privileged mon-ster by a “social justice warrior.” It makes a tough pill to swallow even tougher. To me, the solution is what I mentioned earlier: 
Leaders need to rise up in the white commu-
nity, with the purpose of showing their own how we can accept and live with the harsh truths of racism, hopefully in a gentler, more accessible way. 
Paradoxically, there is no public space 
for white people to make sense of their dis-illusionment, yet white people have done nothing to carve out a public space for them-
selves. Spencer, though, wants to accom-
plish both of these things. Until either the university reframes their approach to race, or white people acknowledge the existence of privilege, Spencer and his followers will endure. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. 
This is a guest column.
College students deserve a hands-on 
education to prepare them for careersReframing the race conversationColumn Guest Column
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgScott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Movie Review:
‘Murder on the Orient Express’ falls ﬂ  at (pg. 10)One Tree Beer: 
First Mag to welcome new beer for a good cause (pg. 10)WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
The Florida Swing Dancing club will host 
an event Saturday that will introduce swing 
dancing to newcomers and give experienced 
dancers the opportunity to show off their skills.
Dancing Under the Stars will begin Saturday 
at 6 p.m. for beginners at Depot Park, which is located at 200 SE Depot Ave. The ﬁ  rst hour will feature dance lessons for UF students and non-
students for every skill level, whether they’ve 
never danced before or just need to brush-up on their skills.
The main event, social dancing, begins at 
7 p.m. This portion will feature swing music from all eras, from “Illinois Goes to Chicago” 
by Jonathon Stout and his Campus 5 to “Dance 
With Me Tonight” by Olly Murs to “Goody Goody” by Naomi & Her Handsome Devils.
Miranda Wilson, a senior tourism, event 
and recreation management student who joined the Florida Swing Dancing Club at UF 
her sophomore year, is now the club’s events 
coordinator. When a fellow church member invited her to join the group, her competitive 
cheerleading background gave her the ability 
to catch onto the moves quickly. Since then, she has taken on the role of putting together 
events and raising money for the club.
“I came up with this idea because we didn’t have a fall event for the club, and we have a really big workshop in the spring where we 
bring in special dancers, but this year we’re short on our budget,” Wilson said. “I ﬁ  gured 
I’d bring back something we stopped doing a 
few years back, which was sort of a ‘Dancing With the Stars’ event. I hope that this event will help us bring those expert dancers to UF 
next semester.”
Wilson said she hopes the event will bring 
exposure to the club so that more students will join. She said the club has a fair mix of stu-
dents , as well as older couples who are more familiar with swing dancing and bring their ex-perience to the current generation. 
“I’d love it if people dressed up,” Wilson 
said. “This is going to be a really fun event with a ton of lights, really good music, a pho-
tographer and, of course, refreshments.” 
Membership to the club is free, and it offers 
three-tiered lessons on Mondays (beginner, intermediate and specialty, as swing dancing 
is an umbrella term for many types of dance). Fridays are reserved for social dancing at Thel-
ma Boltin Center on Northeast Second Avenue.  
Rachel Akram, a 21-year-old UF telecom-
munication junior, said she knows very little about swing dancing, but when she saw that 
a friend had RSVP’d to the event on Facebook, she felt she had to look into it.
“The fact that I’ve never tried swing danc-
ing nor know anything about it attracted me to it the most,” Akram said. “I thought it was 
something that doesn’t happen in Gainesville, 
and that I should give it a try. I’m excited to learn a new skill that I can use at weddings 
and parties.”
When guests arrive to the Depot Park lo-
cation, tickets for lessons will be $5. There is an additional $5 charge for social dancing, and 
this price is applicable to dancers who do not take the 6 p.m. lesson. Guests who bring an 
additional person can save $5 by paying $15  
total for two lesson tickets and two social danc-ing tickets.Swing Dancing Club to present Dancing Under the Stars
By T aylor McLamb 
Avenue Writer
Fort Lauderdale based band The 
Heavy Pets will bring a taste of South 
Florida to the High Dive this Satur-day, where they will play alongside 
local bands Supamoon and Whale 
Feral.
The Heavy Pets, known for their 
unique blend of reggae and rock ‘n’ roll, gained popularity with the de-
but of their first album, “Whale,” 
in 2007 and have since played over 1,200 shows across the country, with a handful of those shows taking place in Gainesville. According to their 
website, their irreplaceable blended 
sound of indie rock, funk and reggae perfectly embodies the diversity of their Florida home.
Hailey Hall, a 19-year-old UF geol-
ogy sophomore, said that she became a fan of The Heavy Pets after her fa-ther introduced the band to her.
“It’s just fun music that has influ-
ences from a lot of different types of genres, giving it a wide and cross-generational appeal,” said Hall. Hall said the concert looks like a 
great night filled with a lot of great 
talent.
“I really like The Heavy Pets but 
haven’t had the chance to see them 
live yet, so I’m super excited for their set,” Hall said. “I’ve seen Supamoon 
around town a few times and they al-
ways put on a really great show, so it will be awesome to see them again.”
Rosalie Blackwell, a 21-year-
old first year student at the Florida School of Traditional Midwifery, said she’s attending the concert to support her boyfriend, Bobby Mitchell, who plays guitar in the opening band Su-
pamoon.
“They have been practicing at 
least once a week the last few weeks, 
and this week they will be practicing 
every day leading up to Saturday,” 
said Blackwell. “They will be playing some original songs.”
Blackwell, who describes Su-
pamoon as a jam band with under-
tones of jazz, math rock and heart-
land rock, said their live concerts are always a fun time for audience mem-bers.“They have a good energy, and 
they always get the crowd dancing 
and moving around,” said Blackwell.
Blackwell said she’s been on a 
recent Heavy Pets kick and is look-
ing forward to the concert, hoping to hear her favorite Heavy Pets song, “3 
AM,” played live.
“I’m looking forward to seeing all 
the bands play and getting to see The 
Heavy Pets for the first time,” said 
Blackwell. “I’ve been listening to 
them more recently and really liking them.”
The 18-and-over concert at the 
High Dive will cost $10 in advance 
and $13 at the door. The doors open 
at 9 p.m. and the show starts at 9:30 p.m. There is a $3 fee for those under 21 charged at the door. The Heavy Pets to perform at High Dive
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Florida Swing Dancing Club hopes to attract new members at the event.
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Heavy Pets are based out of 
Fort Lauderdale but have performed nationwide over the years.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Contributor
With such a star-studded en-
semble cast, it comes as a great 
disappointment that the most ex-
citing aspect of “Murder on the 
Orient Express” is a mustache. Yes, you read that right. A mus-tache that ﬁ  lls the entire screen.
Adapted from Agatha Chris-
tie’s 1934 novel of the same name, director Kenneth Branagh takes a stab at the well known tale of revered detective Hercule 
Poirot solving a murder mystery 
in which everyone is a suspect.
Branagh’s retelling of the nov-
el is the latest iteration, with past 
ones including Sydney Lumet’s 
1974 ﬁ  lm and a television version featuring David Suchet as Hercule Poirot.
Branagh not only directs the 
ﬁ  lm but also stars as sleuth Poirot. It quickly becomes apparent that Branagh should have spent less time fussing with Poirot’s mus-
tache and more time behind the 
camera. 
The ﬁ  lm opens with the self-
professed “greatest detective in the world,” Hercule Poirot, dra-
matically solving a mystery in 
front of the Wailing Wall in Je-rusalem. 
Tired from his efforts, Poirot 
boards the luxurious Orient Ex-press in Istanbul for a break from crime solving. 
Once on the train, a beautifully choreographed tracking shot fol-lows Poirot as he walks through 
car after car. I imagine that it took 
quite a few takes to get the shot right as the camera never stops its brisk pace as we see the stars get-ting situated on the train.
Just as Poirot begins to settle 
into his cabin and fastens on his custom mustache snood (yes, the mustache is encased during sleep 
to protect it), one of the passen-
gers is brutally stabbed to death.
To complicate matters, the 
train gets stuck in a snowdrift af-ter an avalanche. Poirot takes it 
upon himself to solve the murder 
and ﬁ  nd the killer before the train pulls into the next station. 
A highlight of the ensemble 
cast, Michelle Pfeiffer takes on the brassy widower, Mrs. Hub-bard. Pfeiffer perfects the irre-sistible Mrs. Hubbard and steals every scene she’s in. Other big 
names include Judi Dench as 
Princess Natalia Dragomiroff, an aging Russian princess; Olivia Colman, Dench’s lady-in-waiting; 
Penelope Cruz, a devout mission-
ary; Johnny Depp as the gang-ster Ratchett, a crooked Ameri-can businessman; Daisy Ridley as Governess Mary Debenham; 
Leslie Odom Jr. as Dr. Arbuth-
not; and Josh Gad as Hector Mac-Queen, Ratchett’s secretary.
There are probably a couple of 
others that I’m missing, but you wouldn’t even notice most of the stars I just mentioned in the ﬁ  lm. It’s not necessarily the ensem-
ble’s fault that “Murder on the 
Orient Express” is an inert bore, but some could have shown more verve and attempted to display a hint of chemistry between each 
other. 
At times, I wasn’t sure if I was 
watching “Murder on the Orient 
Express” or a rerun of “Polar Ex-
press.” Part of the charm of the 
1974 rendition was the running shots of the train and the actual Hagia Sophia in the background as the train departs. 
Instead, the 2017 adaptation 
relies heavily on CGI special ef-fects and leaves viewers wonder-ing what it’s really like to travel 
on the Orient Express. Granted, 
the cinematography is beautiful in large part to the ﬁ  lm being shot on 65-millimeter ﬁ  lm stock, which provides an opulent charm.
The ﬁ  lm’s tepidness and in-
ability to engage audiences ren-der it completely unnecessary (please, enough with the remakes 
already). This version does add a 
few modernizing overtures — a more ethnically diverse cast, cog-nizance of racial and religious is-sues — but none of which justify 
a remake. 
If you wish to watch an ad-
aptation of the classic tale, stick 
with the 1974 Sidney Lumet ﬁ  lm 
and watch from the comfort of 
your home. 
Review: “Murder on the Orient Express” goes oﬀ   the tracks
MOVIES
Photo via IMDb
“Murder on the Orient Express” premiered Friday to lack-
luster reviews from fans and critics alike.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Thanks to The Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory and First Magnitude Brewing Co., going out for a beer this Friday can be an environmental act.
Local brewery and Gainesville hangout First 
Magnitude, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., has partnered with the Florida Museum to launch a limited-run pale ale called One Tree to raise mon-ey for student-based biodiversity research and study. The One Tree beer launch will be at First Magnitude from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Friday.
The beer was brewed by First Magnitude with 
11 different ingredients including orange peel, 
Irish moss, honey, wheat, Spanish cedar, gallber-
ry and oats. This wide range of ingredients creates a “crisp, citrusy refreshing beer,” said First Mag-nitude marketing coordinator Simon McClung.
“We wanted to have as many ingredients in 
the beer as possible so we can represent as much of the tree of life as possible, and they were all over it,” said UF professor and Biodiversity Insti-tute director Pamela Soltis.
Wristbands will be available for purchase at 
the Friday night event for $10. These wristbands give customers special discounts on all beers. T-shirts and cups bearing the One Tree One Planet logo will also be available at the event. Proceeds 
and donations collected from the launch will be 
donated to the UF Biodiversity Institute, McClung 
said.
McClung described the First Magnitude staff as conservation-minded. They have worked with the Florida Museum on similar projects in the past, catching the attention of Soltis and the Biodiver-
sity Institute.
The One Tree beer launch is part of a larger 
series called One Tree One Planet, which aims to 
increase awareness about the importance of bio-diversity. Soltis said that biodiversity is simply the 
totality of all life on Earth — the complexity of our 
world’s organisms.
“A healthy ecosystem provides us with servic-
es that we, as humans, take for granted,” Soltis 
said. “If we had to do them all by mechanical 
means, it would be hundreds of millions of dol-
lars or more.”
Soltis wants to help people understand the im-
portance of biodiversity and environmental bal-
ance. With urbanization, Soltis said, it is easy to 
forget how critical the health of these complex 
ecosystems is to humanity.
Protecting this complexity, or biodiversity, 
means protecting access to oxygen and clean wa-
ter, preventing devastating ﬂ  ood damage, allow-
ing for further medical advancement and more, 
Soltis said.
In addition to the launch at First Magnitude, 
One Tree One Planet events include special 
screenings of a short animated ﬁ  lm created for the 
series by the UF Digital Worlds Institute. These 
screenings will be held at the Florida Museum from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday and Saturday. The ﬁ  lm will also be screened at the One Tree 
beer launch.
Courtesy to the Alligator
The event will coincide with a projection by artist Naziha Mestaoui 
that will be on display at the Harn Saturday from 7 - 9 p.m. 
First Magnitude Brewing Co. to host One Tree Beer event BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Condo For Sale 1bd 1ba
2811 SW Archer Rd 32608Century 21 Elite LocationsCall Andrea 813-454-4369        12-4-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-12
1999 MERCEDES BENZ E430
Almost brand new. Runs excellent.$6000/OBO. Call 352-226-0205     11-17-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.    12-6-17-18-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
2 Male Grad students seek one male room-mate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Jan 1. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util. Call Joshua 407-342-0617.   12-6-17-18-1
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos 3 Sublease12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-6-17-50-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     12-6-17-144-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       11-17-17-6-14PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS & AIDES
FT/PT.  Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place
Experience preferred. Call Susan or Shaw at 
352-375-8900     11-20-17-7-14
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Mon thru Fri. A Child's Place. Experience 
preferred. Must have director's credential. 
Call Amanda 352-359-1644    11-20-17-7-14
NOW HIRING !! New, Cantina style Taco 
Bell opening at 1404 W. University Ave. in December ! You can apply online at www.floridatacobell.com or contact Kayla Lampp at 813-850-7153 or Kim Tyson at 352-231-5498 to schedule an interview !     12-6-17-9-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1. GAMES: In Scrabble, what is the 
point value of the letter K?
2. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What 
breed of dog is known as a firehouse 
dog?
3. U.S. STATES: What is the only 
American state to begin with the letter “p”? 
4. SCIENCE: What do you call trees 
that lose their leaves?
5. LITERATURE: In Shakespeare’s 
“Romeo and Juliet,” what is Romeo’s family name?
6. DISCOVERIES: Who is credited 
with inventing the 3D printer?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first president to be born in a hospital?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the name of someone who shoes horses?
9. BIOLOGY: What percentage of 
people in the world have blue eyes?
10. MOVIES: Which actress has 
won the most Oscars?
Answers
1. Five2. Dalmatian3. Pennsylvania4. Deciduous
5. Montague
6. Chuck Hull7. Jimmy Carter8. Farrier9. 8 percent
10. Katharine Hepburn, with 4 
Oscars and 12 nominations
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 13, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.GROW YOUR IGWith Real Likes & Real Followers
www.try.connvis.com      10-3-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ELVIS IS BACK!!
Good Rockin' Gators. Local band for shows, 
weddings, parties. Call Pol 352-338-0938     
12-6-14-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 “Rhoda”
production co.
4 It may follow
cries of “Bravo!”
10 Brink
14 Longtime coach
Parseghian of
Notre Dame
15 Chestnut horse16 Witnessed17 B.A. or B.S.18 With 57-Across,
what a 37-Acrossdoes; also, as thecircles show, whateach answercontaining themdoes
20 Alamo competitor22 DDE’s overseas
command
23 Racers in some
Wii games
24 Item that isn’t on
its regular hook
28 Gear
components
29 Assist30 Peace, to Pedro33 Say yes35 Journalist Curry36 Warsaw native37 Casino employee41 The two42 Tolkien forest
shepherd
43 In __: unborn
44 Stun
45 “The A-Team”
actor
46 The “A” in James
A. Garfield
48 Prepared
goodies for thefundraiser
52 Blotch
55 Former transp.
regulator
56 Confident words57 See 18-Across61 Keogh plan rel.62 Many63 Paradise64 Third-qtr. ender65 Actress Russo66 Fireplace shelf67 Goal line
crossings: Abbr.
DOWN
1 Start of a famous
palindrome2 Eternal City
fountain
3 Legal
administrator
4 Difficult curve
5 Tenant’s winter
complaint
6 Source of
support
7 “Friend __?”:
sentry’s query
8 Slo-mo reviewer9 Pipe shape
10 Composed piece11 Expensive12 Bloke
13 Fades to black
19 __ out a win21 The State of the
Union, for one
25 Onionlike veggie26 Moist and chilly27 Nice30 One drawn to
controversy
31 Oriole or Jay32 MapMyWalk
starting point
33 “Waterloo” band34 Healthy look35 Pretend36 Former New
York governorGeorge38 Weightlifting move39 Start a pot40 German capital
45 Retail outlet
46 Say yes47 Italian lawn
bowling
48 Keep moist, in a
way
49 “What I __ My
SummerVacation”: schoolessay50 Like some 
seals
51 Spells, as of cold
weather
52 Emotional mark53 Beast of 
burden
54 Thames
academy
58 Run smoothly59 LAX
announcement
60 __ Kan pet food
By Jerry Edelstein©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/15/1711/15/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 15, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Fancy pillowcase
5 Not as expensive
9 Stats for sluggers
13 Lotto variant
14 Actress Davis
played by SusanSarandon in TV’s“Feud”
15 “Alice’s
Restaurant”singer Guthrie
16 *2010 Grammy
winner for Best
Metal
Performance
18 Opinion sampling19 2,000 pounds20 French
possessive
21 __-Ball: midway
game
22 Discreetly, in
slang
26 Nag, nag, nag28 Black-eyed __29 Electrified particle
31 Without an escort
32 Bygone Honda
sports car
33 Impassive type35 Dry-sounding
deodorant brand
38 ICU drips39 *TV cooking
competitionhosted by PadmaLakshmi
41 Sch. in Columbus42 Tiny laugh
44 Bundle of papers
45 Put into service46 Airline to Tel Aviv48 Flub it49 Letter-shaped
hardware item
50 Sinuous ski race52 Gets in the way
of
54 H.S. exams55 Dripping57 SEAL’s org.
58 Tech news site
59 Paint choice ...
and what the firstword of theanswers tostarred clues canliterally be
64 Longfellow’s “The
Bell of __”
65 Standoffish
66 Just sitting
around
67 Pear variety68 Mix, as a salad
69 What Simon doesDOWN
1 Word before bum
or bunny
2 “Tell __ About It”:
Billy Joel hit
3 “That’s __-
brainer!”
4 Wall calendar
pages
5 Welcoming 
prop on 
“Hawaii Five-O”
6 Scheduled
takeoff hrs.
7 Opposite of
cheap
8 Taste and touch,
e.g.
9 Nas or Nelly
10 *Started a
constructionproject
11 More green
around the gills
12 Shoe bottom
14 Old Western
villain
17 “The Simpsons”
bartender
22 Footnote ref.
23 __-racking: very
stressful
24 *Money-saving
investmentaccounts
25 Belt holders27 Chief of __: Army
leader
30 Wall recess
33 Make off with34 Sorbonne
sweetie
36 Point to debate
37 Collaborative 1993
Sinatra album
40 Half a winter
warmer
43 Stretchy47 Like 1% milk49 Wimbledon sport
50 __ Domingo:
Dominican capital
51 __ Yello: soft drink
53 23rd Greek letter
54 Picket line crosser56 New Mexico town
known for its art
scene
60 Lean-__: shacks
61 Wash. neighbor
62 Tricky
63 Guys
By Janice Luttrell©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/14/1711/14/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 14, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Cover
1.  ____ head5.  ____ donor
2.  Carve6.  Heart part
3.  Fit7.  ____ up
4.  MaroonHHASTE
WHRESOGNRAO
ORAAT
EAVNEGR
ANMTUTRMEEATD
ADNRSTANSWERS: 1A-Sheath  5A-Organ  6A-Aorta  7A-Teamed
1D-Shower  2D-Engrave  3D-Tantrum  4D-Strand  B-Howard Hughes11-15-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person co-produced the original 1932 
version of the movie “Scarface.” BONUS
15 Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services 18 Personals
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Maybe Jim McElwain would still be at 
Florida if all he did was steal credit cards.
When the former Gators coach was ﬁ  red, 
UF athletic director Scott Stricklin said the 
decision was based on more than wins and losses. The argument seemed to be that McElwain’s unwillingness to report “death 
threats” to administrators put his players in 
danger. So when Stricklin ﬁ  red him, Florida looked like an upstanding program with un-compromising integrity. 
Here’s the real question: Can you think 
of another example of Florida valuing ethics over what’s good for the brand? Me neither.
According to its website, UF's athletics 
slogan is: "a championship with integrity." 
But according to their actions, it's: "integrity, 
as long as it doesn't get in the way of a championship experience."
Let’s look at two examples: the suspended 
football players and the possible hiring of 
Chip Kelly.
While McElwain was booted out of 
Florida in part for an ethical infraction, 
nine players who are accused of spending 
upwards of $16,000 with other people's 
credit card information are still on the roster.
So let’s get this straight: McElwain’s 
transgressions were enough to get him ﬁ  red, but having nine players accused of more 
than 60 felony counts isn’t enough to get 
them kicked off the team?
Many of those nine players recently 
agreed to pretrial-intervention programs, 
meaning they likely won’t face any sig-
niﬁ  cant legal consequences. After jumping through a few procedural hoops, those play-ers could be cleared to play for Florida again. And it seems like they will. Who is going to 
stop them? Is Stricklin or UF president Kent 
Fuchs going to rid the program of these play-ers in an effort to showcase Florida’s integ-rity? It doesn’t seem like it — coaches have 
already started to update reporters on their 
possible return.
Is UF going to let players like Antonio 
Callaway — who has shown up in three 
Redshirt senior Shainah 
Joseph has been an offensive force for Florida recently. She'll look to continue her hot streak tonight against T exas A&M. Read the story pg. 15. Kickoff time for UF-FSU football game announced
In Florida's last game of the season, the Gators (3-6, 3-5 SEC) will face 
Florida State (3-6) at noon on Saturday, Nov. 25, in The Swamp. The game will be broadcast on ESPN.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Randy Shannon is familiar with coach-
ing just 53 players.
He was an assistant coach in the NFL 
with the Miami Dolphins from 1998-2000, 
where rosters are limited to 53.
So when he heard that yet another one 
of his Florida players suffered an injury — 
bringing UF’s total available scholarship 
players down to the low 50s (down from 85) — UF’s interim coach brushed it off with a shrug of his shoulders.
“Just treat this as an NFL team,” Shan-
non said.
After practice on Tuesday, Shannon 
said offensive lineman Antonio Riles like-ly won’t play this week, adding to an al-
ready extensive injury list.
Among the players out for the season are safety Marcell Harris, defensive line-
man Jordan Sherit, center T.J. McCoy, running back Malik Davis, quarterback 
Luke Del Rio and offensive lineman Brett 
Heggie, all of whom were starters. Among the players who have missed signiﬁ  cant playing time are safety Nick Washington, 
receiver Kadarius Toney and linebacker 
Kylan Johnson.
“(Linebackers coach Tim Skipper) tells 
us we can’t get hurt,” linebacker Cristian Garcia said. “We just take the punches 
and roll. That’s all you can really do.”
Garcia, a redshirt senior, has provided 
important leadership to a young lineback-
er corps that usually starts at least two 
underclassmen, but he has had to play 
through an injury as well. Garcia said he receives an injection in his shoulder every week to help him play through pain.
“It’s been tough,” Garcia said. “But I’m 
holding up ﬁ  ne.”Florida’s offensive line has also been 
hit hard. With McCoy and Heggie out, the Gators have had to shufﬂ  e players into 
unfamiliar positions and prepare third- 
and fourth-string players for backup roles.
Even starting tackle Jawaan Taylor — 
who said he never quite recovered from 
a torn meniscus during fall training camp 
— has been playing hurt.
“This whole season I sacriﬁ  ced myself 
and just gave it my all every game,” Tay-lor said. “Even though I’m not 100 (per-
cent), I’m giving it all to my team.” 
Thompson looking for redemption 
in ﬁ  nal two games:
Mark Thompson never quite lived up 
to expectations. 
Last season, during his ﬁ  rst year at 
Florida after transferring from junior  List of injuries grows as UF's roster shrinksDoes Florida 
want integrity or 
a championship 
experience?Matt’s What She Said
Matt Brannon
twitter: @mattb_727By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Dyandria Anderson put up a 
prayer from the left side of the 
court. With two seconds left on the game clock, the senior’s three-point attempt bounced off the back 
rim as Arkansas State’s Akasha 
Westbrook grabbed the rebound and ran out the clock.
The buzzer sounded as the 
Red Wolves’ bench erupted in cheers. Arkansas State defeated 
the Gators, 70-69, in the O’Connell 
Center on Tuesday night.
It was the ﬁ  rst loss at UF for 
new coach Cameron Newbauer, who Florida hired on March 27 to ﬁ  x an underperforming women's basketball program. 
“They outfought us, they out-
worked us, they deserve the game 
in every area,” Newbauer said. 
“Even if we did make a shot at the end, we did not deserve to win this game.” 
Throughout the contest, the 
2016 Sun Belt Conference cham-pions kept it close, holding a lead for a majority of the ﬁ  rst half and going shot for shot with the Gators 
in the third quarter.
In the ﬁ  rst quarter, UF strug-
gled to ﬁ  nd any offensive rhythm 
and was suffocated by Arkansas State’s defense. Florida (1-1) had more turnovers (8) than ﬁ  eld goals 
made (6), despite shooting almost 
50 percent during the frame. The Gators suﬀ  er ﬁ  rst loss of Newbauer era
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Gators guard Dyandria Anderson's last-second miss sealed Florida's ﬁ  rst loss of the season 
and only loss since Cameron Newbauer took over as UF's women's basketball coach. 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE W-BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
VOLLEYBALL MEN’S GOLF
FLORIDA FACES TEXAS A&M 
ON THE ROAD TONIGHT AT 
6 P .M. ON ESPNU.
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
On paper, it’s not even close.
No. 3 Florida (22-1, 14-1 SEC) is ranked 
ﬁ  rst or second in every major statistical cat-egory in the SEC. Texas A&M (7-14, 4-10 SEC) sits in the bottom half of each.
But Gators coach Mary Wise doesn’t care.
“We never play a match on paper,” she 
said.
Florida takes its eight-match winning streak 
to College Station, Texas, to play the Aggies 
tonight at 6.
When Texas A&M came to Gainesville on 
Oct. 4, it went toe-to-toe with the nation’s then-No. 1 team for most of the night.
“They are very scrappy,” redshirt junior 
Allie Monserez said.
Florida led, 2-1, after three sets, but each 
was decided by just two points (26-24, 25-23, 25-27). Florida ﬁ  nally downed the Aggies with a fourth-set offensive eruption.
“It’s all about matchups,” Wise said. “Tex-
as A&M matches up well against us and we 
know we’ll have to play very well.”
The emergence of Shainah Joseph should 
help Florida. The redshirt senior’s improved 
play is one reason UF hasn’t lost since Oct. 15.
“She’s been crucial to the run that we’ve 
had and she is a huge piece of our offense,” senior Carli Snyder said.Joseph had 15 kills in UF’s match against 
Texas A&M earlier in the season and was voted SEC 
Co-Offensive Player of the 
Week on Nov. 13. Already 
hitting .350 on the year, she 
collected 28 kills in wins against Arkansas and Mis-
souri.
Snyder said Joseph’s 
late-season surge has made life easier for ev-
eryone else offensively.
“You have Rhamat (Alhassan) in the mid-
dle, Shainah (Joseph) on the right side and 
Rachael (Kramer) in the middle,” she said. 
“That’s a really difﬁ  cult combination to stop.”
Kramer and Alhassan are second and third 
in kills for Florida, respectively, while Snyder leads the team with 277.
After their contest with the Aggies, the 
Gators conclude the regular season with 
matches on Nov. 22 against Auburn and Nov. 
25 at Missouri.
If Florida wins out, it boosts its chances of 
being selected as a top-four seed and starting 
the NCAA Tournament at home.
“Obviously we’re aware that the (NCAA) 
Tournament is approaching, but right now we really want to give our opponents the respect 
that they deserve,” Snyder said.
“I feel really good about the strides we’ve 
made in-season .... We are going to be really 
humming in December.”
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Last May, Florida earned the No. 1 seed 
at the NCAA Regionals in West Lafayette, In-diana. The Gators seemed poised to breeze through regionals and compete for a nation-al championship.
However, a surprising eighth-place ﬁ  nish 
ended UF’s season far earlier than the team expected.
Junior Gordon Neale 
said last season’s disap-
pointment is still in the 
back of his mind as the Gators prepare for a po-tential return to the NCAA 
Championships.
“It still haunts me a lit-
tle bit,” Neale said. “That 
was by far the worst day I’ve ever had on 
a golf course. I just remember how it felt, 
coming down to those last few holes know-
ing that we weren’t going to make it to na-
tionals after the season we had.”
This year, the Gators put together anoth-
er strong fall season and set themselves up 
with a No. 9 ranking heading into the spring.
But missed opportunities kept their fall 
season from being even better.
In the ﬁ  rst tournament of the year, the 
Carpet Capital Invitational, senior Alejandro 
Tosti won the individual title. It was a great start for the defending individual SEC cham-pion, but poor numbers from Tosti’s team-mates dropped UF into a tie for ﬁ  fth despite leading after two rounds.
After that tournament, coach J.C. Dea-
con called out the rest of his players for not matching Tosti’s low scores.
It seemed to get their attention.In the very next tournament, a second-
place performance from Neale led the Gators to a team victory at Trinity Forest on Sept. 26. They followed the result with a ﬁ  fth-place ﬁ  nish in a highly competitive ﬁ  eld at the Nike Collegiate Invitational on Oct. 3. Florida also discovered the potential of freshman Won Jun Lee, who ﬁ  nished in a tie for 14th and led the way for the Gators on the leaderboard.
At the Tavistock Collegiate Invitational 
in mid-October — despite not having Lee or sophomore Andy Zhang available — the Gators ﬁ  nished tied for second with the help of freshman John Axelsen and Neale, who placed third and fourth, respectively.
Going into the spring, Neale feels conﬁ  -
dent that his team won’t repeat last year’s disappointing conclusion.
“I think we’re one of the top two or three 
teams in the country,” he said. “Our team is better this year than last year.”
And when the Gators begin their spring 
season at home on Feb. 17, they won’t forget how much last season’s ﬁ  nish hurt.
“It has motivated us to make sure we’re 
there this year,” Neale said. “To not take anything for granted.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org Matchup with Aggies holds 
tournament implicationsWith redemption in mind, 
Gators turn focus to spring
Joseph
Neale
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2017
college, the running back predicted 
that he would have 1,000 yards by the bye week. He ended the year 
with 299 rushing yards.
Through nine games this sea-
son, Thompson has 156 rush-
ing yards and two touchdowns in 
mostly a reserve role.
He has two more regular-season 
games to make his mark on UF’s 
program.
“I know what I can do,” Thomp-
son said. “It’s more of proving it to the people who are looking at me and hopefully going to be writing me a check one day.”
Thompson, a redshirt senior, has received more playing time this 
season, partly because presumed 
starter Jordan Scarlett has missed the entire year after being involved in a nine-player credit card scandal 
and because breakout freshman 
running back Malik Davis’ season ended with a knee injury against Georgia on Oct. 28.
After Davis’ injury, Thompson 
had an explosive 25-yard rush 
against Georgia and a 31-yard run 
against South Carolina on Satur-day.
“I just want to leave everything 
out on the ﬁ  eld so I can do what 
they think I can do,” Thompson 
said.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org Red Wolves (1-1) spread the ball around in the 
ﬁ  rst 10 minutes as seven of their players scored in the quarter.
It was the same story in the second quarter as 
the Gators struggled to put the ball in the basket, attempting only four shots in the paint. UF didn’t ﬁ  nd much success on its drives and couldn’t get open looks near the rim. As a result, Florida took 
shots from outside the paint, maintaining 46-per-
cent shooting, same as the ﬁ  rst quarter.
Florida regained the lead and take it into half-
time after trailing for more than 15 minutes in the ﬁ  rst two quarters.
At the start of the second half, Florida jumped 
out to a four-point lead thanks to a three-point-er from  guard Funda Nakkasoglu. But Arkansas State battled back as the teams swapped the lead throughout the third and into the fourth quarter, ending in a one-point win for the Red Wolves.
Nakkasoglu tied as the lead scorer with 16 
points on 6-of-9 shooting. The redshirt junior said she wants to be more aggressive and assume a leadership role when the Gators next take the ﬂ  oor.
“I think I need to bring more to the team," 
Nakkasoglu said. "I’m not bringing enough right 
now.”
Graduate transfer Paulina Hersler added a 
double-double with 12 points and a career-high 11 
rebounds.
As a team, the Gators had 23 turnovers and 
gave up 20 offensive rebounds.
For Arkansas State, Westbrook matched Na-
kkasoglu with 16 of her own, as well as three as-sists and the game-ending rebound.
In his ﬁ  rst loss as UF's head coach, Newbauer 
said his team was outplayed. 
“Our team was not prepared for the intensity, 
the ﬁ  ght that Arkansas State plays with,” New-bauer said. 
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgCecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
UF coach Cameron Newbauer and the Gators lost Tuesday, bringing their season record to 1-1. 
Gators fall to Arkansas State, 70-69
Thompson takes larger roleW-BASKETBALL,  from pg 14police reports over three years — 
continue to play because the fans love them? Signs point to yes.
Let’s look at another example: the 
potential hiring of Chip Kelly.
Some outlets have reported that 
Florida is vetting Kelly, an offensive-minded revolutionary with NFL 
experience, as a candidate in the 
school’s coaching search.
And while it’s hard to argue Kelly 
isn’t an impressive football coach, it’s easy to argue that he doesn’t 
exactly radiate integrity. A history 
of NCAA violations from his time with the Oregon Ducks is an obvious mark against his character. His pow-
er grab with the Philadelphia Eagles, 
demanding control of the roster, was a disaster and makes me question his judgment. And his stated desire to return to the NFL leaves concerns 
about his commitment to Florida.Of course, I’m not saying Florida 
is going to hire Kelly. What I’m say-
ing is, if Florida decided to bring him on board, the school would once 
again be prioritizing on-ﬁ  eld perfor-
mance over off-ﬁ  eld issues. 
"A championship experience with 
integrity?" I don't think so.
Again, the message Florida is 
sending is: “integrity, as long as it doesn't interfere with a champion-ship experience.”
Letting players return after felony 
accusations? No integrity there.
Hiring a coach with a history of 
NCAA violations? No integrity there either.
So do you really think UF ﬁ  red 
McElwain, a 3-4 coach who the administration didn’t get along with, out of integrity? Or was that just a convenient excuse. I’ll let you 
decide.
Matt Brannon is the Alligator’s 
sports editor. Contact him at 
mbrannon@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
FOOTBALL,  from pg 14