We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 17 MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Eye-catching event 
The eye-contact event was held Saturday, pg. 9. 
Mid-Autumn festivities 
UF, Gainesville groups celebrated the Chinese festival, pg. 8. UF volleyball team still undefeated 
The Gators beat LSU in three sets Sunday 
afternoon at the O’Connell Center. Read the story , pg. 14.THE EVENT WAS HELD AS 
A RESPONSE TO RICHARD 
SPENCER.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Pastor Chad Fair drove to church 
Sunday in the rain. As he got ready for service, the rain kept falling.
Yet as soon as he and 30 other 
members stepped out onto West Uni-versity Avenue to march down the street spreading a message of peace and unity, the rain stopped.“That’s a God moment,” Fair said.
The group, made up of members 
from the congregations of University 
Evangelical Lutheran Church, located 
at 1826 W. University Ave., and Geth-semane Lutheran Church, located at 
4011 NW 34th St., marched with signs 
that read, “love not hate” at 11:45 
a.m. from University Evangelical Lu-
theran Church to the corner of West 
University Avenue and Southwest 
13th Street.
The march was part of a national 
movement of Lutheran churches to Florida 38 Vanderbilt 24
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt freshman quarterback Feleipe Franks came in to relieve Luke Del Rio after Del Rio’s collarbone was broken. 
Del Rio to have 
surgery, miss the rest of 2017
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
One week ago, Gators coach Jim McEl-
wain had options when it came to his start-
ing quarterback. On Saturday, his decision 
was made for him. 
Florida’s future is in the hands of redshirt 
freshman Feleipe Franks, one game after he 
lost his starting job. Luke Del Rio — who re-placed Franks against Kentucky and started in the Gators’ 38-24 win against Vanderbilt — took a second-quarter hit that broke his 
collarbone and ended his season. 
“Luke will be done. He’ll have surgery 
on Monday,” McElwain said after the game. “(I) feel horrible for him.” 
It wasn’t the way that Franks, who start-
ed in the Gators’ ﬁ  rst three games, wanted 
to win his starting job back. 
“It’s one of those things you never want 
to have happen to you,” Franks said. “I’m praying for him. Everybody on the team is.”
While the Gators (3-1, 3-0 SEC) rose 
to the top of the SEC East standings with QB QUESTIONS ANSWERED: Season sits on Franks’ shoulders
MEXICO
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
For Antonio Sierra and Marinés de la Peña, it 
was never a choice to help out in Mexico.
It was necessity. It was about their home.
“Once you see what’s going on, you can’t 
not do anything,” de la Peña, 35, said. “You know what is happening, and you cannot just sit back. We know this community, and we’re going to stay here. This is our problem — if they go down, we go down as well.”
De la Peña and Sierra, two UF alumni from 
the School of Forest Resources and Conserva-tion, have been assisting in Morelos, Mexico, since the powerful 7.1 magnitude earthquake 
rippled through the central and southern part 
of the country Sept. 19. They had practiced an 
evacuation drill just two hours before. 
“The city was chaos,” said de la Peña, a UF 
visiting scholar in 2015.
For the past two weeks, the married couple 
has been organizing food, housing and dona-tions for affected communities. They have raised nearly $5,000 for construction supplies, like metal roofs, to repair houses in the coun-
tryside — but still need more resources, de la After Mexico earthquake, UF 
alumni help aﬀ  ected townsSEE FOOTABLL,  PAGE 16
SEE MEXICO,  PAGE 4 SEE MARCH,  PAGE 4MARCH
Religious leaders unite to march for peace, love 
UF volleyball team still undefeated 
The Gators beat LSU in three sets Sunday 
Read the 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 17
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  84° LOW  69°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Financial aid is awarded on 
a first-come, first-served basis so 
apply as early as possible to be considered for the best aid. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
‘Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating: 
100 Years @FloridaMuseum’ exhibit now openThe Florida Museum of Natural History marks its 100th anniver-sary as the state’s official natural history museum with a free ex-hibit highlighting objects from its collections. The “Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating” exhibit showcases some of the museum’s most trea-sured objects and features sci-
entists in a working lab, extinct 
species, a 26-foot-long humpback whale skeleton and a 3-D printer in action. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/exhibits/100-years.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to the public. See our website talkinggators.toast-
mastersclubs.org/.English and citizenship classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s ed-
ucation and civic program offers free English and citizenship class-es at the Alachua County Library District Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd 
St. English classes will be Tuesday 
evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14, and citizenship classes will be Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more information or to register, visit latinawomens-league.org or email info@latina-womensleaguer.org. 
‘Paris Noir’ showing 
The UF African American Studies Program is showing “Paris Noir: When African Americans Came to Paris” on Thursday at 6 p.m. in the Smathers Library, Room 100.  The film discusses the African-American experience in Paris 
during World War I, the Jazz Age 
of the 1920s and the German oc-cupation of World War II. The filmmaker, Julia Browne, will participate in a Q&A session after the hourlong film ends. Browne partnered with Blue Lions Films on this groundbreaking proj-ect as a consultant, developer 
and distributor. She is also the 
owner of the Walking The Spirit Tour Company that leads tours of African-American culture in Paris.   
Celebrate the Florida Museum’s 
12th annual ButterflyFestExplore the lives of bats, bees, 
birds and butterflies during this 
Fall’s ButterflyFest on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Learn about butterfly gardening, native pollinators, conservation, backyard wildlife and more. Experience butterfly releases, and come dressed in 
your favorite pollinator attire for the pollinator parade. Enjoy the 
ButterflyFest plant sale Friday to Sunday, one of the museum’s largest sales of the year with more than 150 species available, including edible, accent, host, na-tive and nectar plants. Food and 
merchandise vendors will be on-
site.  For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/butterfly-fest.
Tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free lessons every Sunday. Whether 
you’re a beginner or a seasoned 
dancer, everyone is welcome. No experience, partner or special shoes are required. Just bring a pair of thick socks. Beginner-level lessons are held every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., followed by advanced-level lessons at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held at the Reitz Union, Dance 
Studio A. For more information, 
visit the UF Argentine Tango Club Facebook page.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
YOUR CHOICE
• Bacon, Egg & Cheese Biscuit
• Sausage & Egg Biscuit
• County Ham Biscuit
• Steak Biscuit
Combos served with  1 fixin’ & a drink.
LIMITED TIME ONLY
We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!BREAKFAST COMBOS
ALL DAY, EVERY DAY!
3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com
$4
EACH
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Faculty Member from the  
UF College of Journalism and Communications 
and
Student Member at Large
(unpaid members of the Board of Directors)
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 6.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, October 
9 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on October 26 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the openings of the following:
SALES REP
OF THE MONTH
CONGRA TULATIONS!SEPTEMBER
VAL SOKOLOVA
major: advertising
Phi Kappa Phi is the nation’s oldest and most 
selective collegiate honor society for all academic 
disciplines. Established in 1912, the University of Florida chapter recognizes the top juniors, seniors 
and graduate students on campus.
BENEFITS OF MEMBERSHIP
Academic recognition
Fellowships & awardsCareer resourcesPartner discountsNetworking
Leadership opportunities
Society publicationsGraduation regalia
www.phikappaphi.org/whyjoinInvited to join the UF chapter? Learn more:
www.facebook.com/groups/476990845825076 
Phi Kappa Phi is the nation’s oldest and most 
selective collegiate honor society for all academic 
disciplines. Established in 1912, the University of Florida chapter recognizes the top juniors, seniors 
and graduate students on campus.
BENEFITS OF MEMBERSHIP
Academic recognition
Fellowships & awardsCareer resourcesPartner discountsNetworking
Leadership opportunities
Society publicationsGraduation regalia
www.phikappaphi.org/whyjoinInvited to join the UF chapter? Learn more:
www.facebook.com/groups/476990845825076 
THE GRAND OPENING IS 
SATURDAY.
By Jackie De Freitas
Alligator Contributing Writer
College students looking for their Sun-
day brunch ﬁ  x now have a new option in 
Gainesville. 
Afternoon, which specializes in Ameri-
can brunch and lunch, held a soft opening at 231 NW 10th Ave. on Sunday at 10 a.m. By 2 p.m. the restaurant closed because the 
food had run out. The store’s co-owner, 
Grace Glennon, said the counter-service res-taurant serves student-friendly priced point dishes, ranging from $5 to $12, daily from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. except Wednesdays. 
The restaurant, located near downtown 
Gainesville, will hold an ofﬁ  cial grand open-ing Saturday, Glennon said.
She created the all-day brunch restaurant 
after her friends told her there wasn’t an op-tion like it in Gainesville, Glennon said.“We asked what people in the area want-
ed and brunch and lunch on all days of the week was something they talked about,” she said.
Glennon said the restaurant has a large 
selection of tea and coffee, from house-
made iced matcha lattes to hot, iced or cold-
brew coffee. The coffee beans are sourced from Panther Coffee, a Miami-based spe-cialty coffee roaster. 
The produce used comes from Siembra 
Farms, Swallowtail and Frog Song Organics, which are local farms, according to the res-taurant’s Facebook page. Glennon said each dish emphasizes vegetables.
Kyra Warren, a UF health education and 
behavior junior, eats out at restaurants like Keke’s Breakfast Cafe, located at 4062 Plaza Blvd., and said other Gainesville breakfast 
places can get crowded. She said she liked 
the idea of another option. 
“You don’t have to wait in long lines to 
go early in the day,” the 19-year-old said.Brunch restaurant opens 
Sunday near downtown
THE CLASS RAISED $350.
By Anna Cappelli
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarah Ingley stretched at Flow Space on 
Sunday and thought about her brothers who 
live in Puerto Rico.
Ingley was one of 14 members of a free 
yoga class at the studio, located at 117 NW 16th Ave. The hourlong class raised $350 for United for Puerto Rico, an initiative created by the ﬁ  rst lady of Puerto Rico, Beatriz Ros-selló, to provide aid to the island after recent hurricanes.
The yoga event was one of many fund-
raising efforts established by UF students and Gainesville residents to send aid to the island. After Hurricane Maria hit, 100 per-cent of the island lost power, and it could 
be months before electricity is fully restored, 
according to The New York Times. 
Ingley, the dance director at the Williston 
School of Dance, lost contact with her broth-ers for six days after Hurricane Maria.
“We were very worried about them be-
cause they were in a very remote, isolated 
area in the northwest mountains,” the 39-year-old said.
She said her brothers, who had a rain-
water tank, have carried drinking water to other people in their town after many lost access to water.
“While they’re super fortunate, they un-
derstand that all of their neighbors are not,” Ingley said.
Lauren Douma, 29, a UF nephrology fel-
low, came up with the idea for a fundraiser 
and taught the class without pay.
“Watching my friends and my class-
mates, seeing how stressed they were, the 
fact that there was something so catastroph-ic happening where their families are living, 
and they can’t get in contact with their fami-
lies, it just broke my heart,” Douma said. “I just felt like I had to do something and so I ﬁ  gured what better way than to hold a free 
yoga class.”Yoga class raises money for 
hurricane-torn Puerto Rico 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017Peña said.
The villages they’re assisting are poor and 
haven’t received the same attention as big 
cities, Sierra, 36, said.
“You can feel the grief, but I think you 
can also feel the gratitude,” said Sierra, a UF alumnus from 2016.
To help raise money, the two developed a 
website with pictures of the work being done and links for donation. Sierra said he’s grate-ful for the generosity of the UF community 
and other places internationally.
Paloma Carton de Grammont, a research-
er coordinator at the School of Forest Re-
sources and Conservation, has helped pro-
mote the website throughout UF. She said 
UF is a humanitarian community that helps 
beyond its borders.
For Carton de Grammont, the fact she 
can see the exact person her money is go-ing to reassures her. On the website, families 
who received funds hold a board thanking 
donors.She said the couple has no intentions of 
stopping their work, despite having jobs and lives of their own.
“They told us, ‘we’re not stopping until 
the funds stop,’” Carton de Grammont said. “As long as we keep giving them support, 
they’ll be there to help the communities.”
De la Peña estimates nearly 10,000 homes 
have been badly affected. In the initial few 
days after the earthquake, repair groups and 
volunteers helped clear debris and provide 
food — but many of the damaged houses 
still need to be cleared and repaired, leaving many poor residents sleeping outside their 
former homes.
“I don’t know if people know how big of 
a problem this is,” she said.
Like de la Peña and Sierra, all the people 
helping have been other citizens, not the government. She called the government “im-
potencia,” which means impotence, and said 
they needed to step up to provide aid.
“Right now there is a lot of aid coming 
from some other states around, a lot of peo-
ple are collecting, but that’s going to end,” 
de la Peña said. “And the situation is going 
to be remaining in our state.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgJosé Antonio Sierra Huelsz / Alligator Contributor
A father and son watch their damaged home being demolished in the village of Contla, Mexico.
José Antonio Sierra Huelsz / Alligator Contributor
An elderly couple thanks the person who donated materials for their temporary shelter in Huatecalco, Mexico. Their collapsed home lies in the background.
commemorate the 500th anniversary of the Lutheran Reformation, when Martin Luther accused the Roman Catholic Church of cor-ruption and began his own church. The event was originally scheduled for Sept. 12 but was postponed because of Hurricane Irma.
Fair, of Gethsemane Lutheran Church, 
and Pastor Terrance Jacob, of Univer-sity Evangelical Lutheran Church, led the march. Jacob said he has seen inequality between East and West Gainesville since he moved to the city four months ago.
“When I preach that, no one argues,” he 
said.
After UF announced that Richard Spen-
cer, a white supremacist, would possibly come to speak on campus in October, Fair and Jacob decided the theme of their event should focus on encouraging love.
“‘Love not hate’ is relevant to us here in 
Gainesville,” Jacob said.
George Chappelle, 77, carried a sign and 
wore a yellow shirt that said, “God’s work. Our hands.” He said he was satisfied after the march from the positive response he got 
from passersby and cars.“One man smiled and he just said, 
‘march on,’” Chappelle said.
He said he is welcoming of every visi-
tor he meets as a volunteer at Morningside 
Nature Center.
“Love’s a lot better than hate,” Chap-
pelle said. “If you open with love, it works so much better.”
However, Fair said he doesn’t believe 
the march had a lasting effect on the com-munity.
“I would be naive to think the world is 
a better place but we can start that discus-sion and keep continuing the discussion,” Fair said.
After the march, members gathered in 
the church to say grace before a potluck luncheon.
“People lower their defences when you 
give them a plate of food,” he said. “Food’s always a unifier.”
Jacob devoured every last crumb of three 
slices of apple cinnamon pie as he reflected on working together toward a common goal.
“We were able to come together as two 
different churches,” he said. “That’s a big thing.”
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgThe two developed a website for donations
MARCH,  from pg 1
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator Staff Writer
Pastor Chad Fair, of Gethsemane Lutheran Church, and Pastor T errance Jacob, of University Evangelical Lutheran Church, hold signs that read, “Love not hate. ” The pastors led a march on West University Avenue on Sunday morning.MEXICO,  from pg 1MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Multiple sclerosis in mice reversed, 
inhibited
Using gene therapy, UF researchers re-
versed and inhibited multiple sclerosis in 
mice.
The study, which was published Sept. 21, 
treated the mice’s liver to halt or reverse the 
progression of multiple sclerosis, a disease 
that causes the body’s immune system to at-tack the nervous system, said Brad E. Hoff-man, a research immunologist at UF. People with the disease experience a loss of feeling and paralysis.
The therapy in mice, when combined 
with an immunosuppressive drug, was espe-cially effective, Hoffman said.
The gene therapy used was meant to as-
sist the production of the neural insulation, and the immunosuppressive drug was meant to suppress the immune system’s attack on neural insulation, Hoffman said.
The study was done over seven months, 
and the mice treated at the beginning of the study showed no signs of remission.
Even when researchers tried to trigger the 
MS in mice, the mice stayed in remission.
“We waited several more months, and 
we rechallenged the mice a second time, and it still prevented in almost 100 percent of them,” Hoffman said.Hoffman said the results are promising 
and not just related to MS.
“The platform that we’re developing 
could also be used for other diseases, other autoimmune diseases potentially.” Hoffman said.
- Lawson Nuland
Banana plant disease threatens East 
African livelihood 
To help the sustainability of banana 
plants, UF researchers have been studying a 
bacterial infection threatening the East Afri-can staple.
Ariena van Bruggen, a professor of plant 
pathology at UF, said the disease is called banana Xanthomonas wilt, which is caused by bacteria that causes the plants to wilt and makes bananas inedible.
The banana plant’s bacterial infection, 
initially found in Ethiopia, has spread to Tan-zania.
Van Bruggen said the disease is a threat to 
the survival of farming communities in Cen-
tral and Eastern Africa because these groups 
depend on bananas and plantains for calo-ries.
People in the country use banana leaves 
to cover other banana bunches, which can spread the infection.
Mpoki Shimwela, a UF doctoral alumnus 
from the department of plant pathology, said yellow ooze secretes from a cut on any part of an infected plant.
To prevent spread, the government man-
dated farmers cut down infected banana plants.
When farmers cut down infected plants, 
the bacteria spreads from their contaminated tools to the plants, van Bruggen said.
“Some of these farmers don’t have money 
for bleach, which is recommended to sterilize tools,” she said.
Van Bruggen said the disease has not af-
fected American communities yet. She said American communities need to be aware of potential outbreaks of the disease because of 
illegal shipments of plant materials. 
- Rosanne Ramraj
Breast-fed babies inherit disease-
ﬁ  ghting gut bacteria 
UF researchers found a beneﬁ  cial bacteria 
in breast-fed babies that can possibly protect 
them from an intestinal disease. 
The study, conducted on mice, protected 
the newborn rodents from necrotizing en-
terocolitis, a disease that also affects prema-
ture infants, said Mansour Mohamadzadeh, a UF professor in the Department of Infec-tious Diseases and Immunology.
The bacterium passed from the mother 
during breastfeeding reduces inﬂ  ammation that leads to the disease. Necrotizing entero-colitis destroys intestinal tissue and kills 20 to 30 percent of premature infants who contract it. 
Mohamadzadeh said researchers collect-
ed gut microorganisms from 40 premature infants who received breast milk and who received baby formula.
“The premature babies who got breast 
milk had substantially more of a strain of beneﬁ  cial bacteria,” Mohamadzadeh said. 
When human gut microorganisms were 
transplanted in mice models, it showed the microbes from breast-fed babies increased the number of infection-ﬁ  ghting cells, limit-ing inﬂ  ammation. 
Similar results were found when the ben-
eﬁ  cial bacteria were tested against listeria, a disease-causing bacteria that affects pregnant women, infants and the elderly, Mohama-dzadeh said. Listeriosis can cause miscar-riage or newborn death.
“This is important because this is a bac-
terium that can be used as a beneﬁ  cial bac-terium that may signiﬁ  cantly reduce the in-ﬂ  ammation in man,” Mohamadzadeh said. 
- Rosanne Ramraj
By Michele Rosalia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chester, a betta ﬁ  sh who was 
once almost ﬂ  ushed down a toilet 
before his time, will now spend 
the rest of his life under the pro-
tection of the Catholic patron saint of animals.The ﬁ  sh’s 9-year-old owner, 
Molly Adams, held him up in his glass ﬁ  sh bowl as Rev. Reed Free-man placed his hand on the bowl 
and blessed Chester on Sunday at 
Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, located at 100 NE First St. About 100 pets, from dogs to snakes, stuffed and living, were blessed at 7:45 a.m. and 10:15 a.m. dur-ing the annual event.
“Chester is our family’s ﬁ  rst 
pet so we thought it would be a 
good idea to get him blessed,” 
Adams said. 
“We are blessing the animals 
in recognition of St. Francis,” Freeman said. “It’s simply asking God’s blessing on the pet and a little prayer that (St.) Francis will protect these pets all the days of 
their lives.”
During church services, most 
animals sat with their owners on 
pews. Nancy Freeman, the rev-
erend’s wife, said organizers re-
moved pew cushions before the animals arrived. 
“This must be the craziest church service you’ve ever at-tended,” she said.
After the service, the church’s 
youth group passed out free homemade dog treats, Nancy said.
“I think an animal is part of 
the family and (people get their animals blessed) just for a happy, healthy continued life,” she said. “That is what the blessing does.”
Church grants annual blessings to local pets
About 100 animals were blessedThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Last week, writers, readers and rhyme 
enthusiasts alike celebrated National Poetry Day. They shared short verses 
on social media and encouraged oth-
ers to pick up their favorite collections. 
Twitter especially lit up with screenshots and quotations from poets as varied as Maya An-
gelou and Rupi Kaur. It made me think: Isn’t 
it incredible that there really is a poem out there for everyone?
I’ve always loved poetry for the way it si-
multaneously conveys messages and moods. As beau-
tiful as prose gets, it never seems to hit this level of 
expression. I wouldn’t say I’m particularly good at cre-ating or understanding poetry, but I know it’s some-thing special. I still have a lot to learn about poetry if 
I ever want to get better at either of these skills. Re-
gardless, I think we all have lessons to take away from poetry itself, and through this column, I’m going to try to tease out some of the wisdom of this timeless art.
I want to begin with a short tweet from Lin-Manuel 
Miranda, the creator and star of the play “Hamilton.” In the last week or so, Twitter began rolling out a new feature among a select group of users: the 280-charac-ter tweet, up from it’s standard 140. One user lamented 
the fact that Miranda was not part of the chosen group 
and therefore couldn’t write more than 140 characters. Miranda replied that he probably would’ve quit Twit-ter: “Ya don’t add syllables to the haiku, or limerick, or sestina. The fun is what you can do within the form.”
And here we have our first lesson from poetry, 
straight from a lyrical genius himself. We can create innovative works of art (and have fun doing it) even while working within a set of boundaries. In fact, part 
of the beauty of poetry — and life itself — comes from 
what we build with what we have. Poetry teaches us not to take anything for granted, even if it’s just one syllable; we can derive power and meaning from a single sound or a lone letter. Work-ing within a form need not limit us for we 
can construct beauty from seemingly small 
sources.
Poetry also demonstrates to us the com-
monalities of human experience. A good 
poem is like a best friend wrapping her arm 
around your shoulders and saying, “Yeah, me too.” We learn we are not alone in our joys, our tragedies or our mundanities when we 
read another person’s stanzas. A poem can be unique 
from others in its word choice or rhyme scheme, but it 
can still hit you like you wrote it yourself.
Poetry is what allows the human experience to go on 
living even after our bodies have withered away. Po-
etry, in essence, is immortality. Like other works of art, 
a poem can survive centuries, resonating with readers and audiences even as civilizations crumble and new societies take their places. Just look at Homer’s “Odys-sey.” 
Poetry reminds us that, yes, we are fickle creatures 
limited by the scope of our human bodies and brains, but we are also beautiful with strange problems and unbridled delights. Our art can remain on this world 
even after we’ve left it, and future humans can read 
about our trials and tribulations for years to come.
I’m certainly no poetry expert. I’ve still got a lot 
more poetry I need to read (see: Eve Ewing’s “Electric Arches” and Rumi’s “The Essential Rumi”). But that’s 
the magic about one’s poetry education — it never has 
to stop, and it’s always got at least one more thing to teach us. Let’s celebrate poetry every day.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Poetry and the beauty behind shared experiencesTrump does not 
want a united nation
President Donald Trump’s job of aiding Puerto Rico in re-
cent weeks can be described as pathetic, at best, and his public displays on the issue are nothing less than a dis-grace.
The U.S. territory has been pummeled back to back by 
devastating hurricanes, the most recent of which being Hurricane Maria, which left the island in a state of crisis. This weekend, our commander in chief sat back leisurely at his New Jersey golf club and aggressively posted tweets defending his response efforts and attacking Puerto Rican leadership and the media. In a social media rampage composed of 18 tweets, the president accused Carmen Yulín Cruz, the mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico, of poor leadership and insisted the people of Puerto Rico were not doing enough to help themselves.
It’s bad enough that rather than working diligently to help his 
constituents in Puerto Rico, the president took yet another recre-ational visit to his golf club. What makes his vacation even worse is while he was relaxing and slacking off, he still managed to ﬁ  nd the time to publicly attack his own country. His displays made it clear — Trump does not want a united nation, he wants a gaggle of loyal followers.
His attacks on Puerto Rico and its leadership were simply inap-
propriate. This is a territory he should be leading, not attacking 
and belittling. We believe Sen. Bernie Sanders said it best in a 
tweet posted Sunday: “What world does Trump live in where it’s acceptable to attack the mayor of San Juan while he plays golf with his billionaire friends?” We too would love to know the an-swer to this question.
Self-preserving, immature and frankly embarrassing tweets 
are nothing new from Trump. Puerto Rican leaders, citizens and supporters asked Trump to do his job, and the media didn’t cut him any slack. We expected nothing less than an outrageous and 
fervent display from his personal Twitter account. The real prob-
lem at hand is that he was doing this while he should have been eagerly doing everything in his power to help Puerto Rico.
We understand the president is not God. We know he does 
not have magical powers nor does he know of some elusive secret that will ﬁ  x Puerto Rico with a snap of his ﬁ  ngers. We know the island was devastated and reparations will take time. That being said, we do not expect to see immediate results from restoration efforts. What we do expect to see, however, is our president doing 
everything humanly possible to restore the ravaged island.
Since Puerto Rico is a U.S. territory and not a recognized state, 
the island does not have representation in Congress, and they are 
not entitled to electoral votes during the presidential election. This means that schmoozing Puerto Ricans and keeping them safe and happy has little to no gain for the president. Trump cares about one thing and one thing only — himself — and he wants to pre-serve his reign and gain more supporters in order to do so.
Puerto Ricans can’t vote for him, so why would he care about 
them? While his efforts in Texas after Hurricane Harvey were not much more impressive than his efforts in Puerto Rico, he didn’t attack their leadership and people via Twitter.
His social media displays and lack of committed action have 
made it clear he does not care about having a united America. He claims to want a better America, a “great” America. It seems to us what he really wants is an America that worships him and him alone.
He has relentlessly pitted liberals and conservatives against 
each other and done everything in his power to further divide our nation, paying attention only to those who are likely to re-elect him. Trump, we beg of you, start doing your job, and please start serving all of your people, not only those you see as potential supporters.
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgI am writing in response to Victoria For-
tier’s column, verbosely titled, “It’s time to 
stop kneeling during the national anthem.” 
I’m a teaching assistant for ENC 1101 at 
UF, a class I really enjoy teaching. My stu-dents learn how to identify and write co-herent arguments. One of the first things I 
teach them to do is to support claims with 
“receipts,” commonly known as evidence. I’m calling Fortier out because, while I re-spect her use of pathos, one of three rhe-torical appeals (she’s really trying to rile 
people up), she hasn’t substantiated her 
claims with evidence. Dare I call unsub-stantiated claims “fake news?” It’s true. More than 30 million people tune in ev-ery week to watch football games. It’s true 
that fans are now watching athletes kneel 
to protest the continued murder of black men, women and children. I disagree with Fortier’s claim that freedom has nothing to 
do with making a statement. I would back 
that claim up by providing my first receipt, the Declaration of Independence. Maybe Fortier has not had the chance to take his-tory yet (however, I think it is a require-
ment), but this document is a literal state-
ment of freedom written by our Founding Fathers. NFL protesters like Colin Kaeper-nick are very aware of their rhetorical situ-ation. They understand their audience and 
have a specific purpose. Protest is a very 
specific strategy for making an argument. It’s often a dangerous and unpopular strat-egy in that it does not always care about 
being polite. While black men and women 
continue to die at the hands of corrupt police officers, Kaepernick and his fellow NFL players do not have time to be polite. Your plea for protesters to consider where 
and when they decide to make a statement 
isn’t needed. They have already consid-ered where and when they protest. They have decided making you uncomfortable for a few minutes at the beginning of a 
football game is worth your discomfort. 
The Huffington Post reports that more than 250 black people were killed in 2016. These protesters want the murders to stop. 
If you were in my class and you turned 
in a paper without receipts, you’d receive an F.
Jacob Guajardo is a UF student.
Letter to the EditorMONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Does taking a knee make you uncomfortable? Good. You know what’s beyond 
uncomfortable? Not know-
ing whether the police are 
there to help or hurt you. 
Earlier this week, Victoria Forti-
er wrote a column called, “It’s time to stop kneeling during the nation-al anthem,” which takes the stance that there are better ways to protest, such as “turn the halftime show into an equality 
speech seminar or sit literally at any other 
time.”
Sitting at literally any other time or giv-
ing a speech about equality at halftime are 
not nearly as impactful. Protests are effective 
because of their ability to disrupt. Those who would not normally pay attention are forced to because the protest has become a part of their beloved game. They wouldn’t read an 
article with a headline such as, “Kaepernick 
gives speech about police brutality during halftime.”
While kneeling during the national an-
them has turned into a free speech argument, it originated with Colin Kaepernick kneeling to protest police brutality. Making this about the First Amendment distracts from the true purpose.
Speeches, tweets and articles about equal-
ity are written on a daily basis. Black activ-ists have spoken about police brutality and other issues for hundreds of years — it didn’t 
start with Black Lives Matter. But have you 
been listening?
There hasn’t been a time in history when 
an oppressed group asked for something and just got it. Those in power will always feel like 
equality takes away from them. They won’t 
willingly tune into something that reminds them of their privilege — they’ll change the channel. Kaepernick’s protest is clever in 
that it happens right under their noses during 
something they would be watching anyway.
The issue is not that Kaepernick’s mes-
sage is misinterpreted, it’s that people aren’t listening. People with privilege have no rea-
son to listen unless there’s a disruption to 
their life, whether it’s sitting at the front of the bus or taking a knee during the national anthem before their favorite pas-time. Simply being right does not mean that people with privilege 
will listen. 
Yes, Americans do in many 
ways have it better than other 
parts of the world. But that doesn’t 
mean that we should settle. The 
U.S. may be one nation in terms of how it appears on a map, but it is 
divided from within. Asking people to tone down their protests so we can pretend oth-
erwise betrays the supposed American ideals 
of justice and equality. Or are the ﬂ  ag and the national anthem more important? Why is the need for American unity more important 
than ensuring police don’t attack black and 
brown people?
At the end of the day, the ﬂ  ag is a piece 
of fabric and the national anthem is a song. What are we doing to ensure America is 
great for all Americans? No one died for a 
ﬂ  ag, they died for the ideas behind it.
Stop putting patriotism on this untouch-
able pedestal. Asking people to stand for the 
national anthem while unjust killings by po-
lice are still happening is oppressing people and then giving them the additional burden of keeping the country together. If disrespect is the only thing that affects change, then it’s 
what has to be done. If simply asking and 
educating was ever effective then we’d live in a much more just society than we do now.
Standing for the national anthem won’t 
make America better. It will make it easier for those with privilege to ignore the prob-lems this country is facing. While they may think they have problems as well, they do not have to question the intent of the people 
who were sworn to protect them. The change 
I want to see is not more people standing up for an anthem, and I wouldn’t care if my children sat for the anthem. I would want 
a more just society in which no one has to 
worry about being discriminated against. If that means no one stands for the anthem, then so be it.
Nicole Dan is a UF journalism and politi-
cal science senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.You realize you’ll 
make, like, no money doing 
that, right?”
“Can you 
even make a living with that 
job?”
“Why would you spend so 
much time in school and not want to be rich?”
These are questions I have 
been asked and have heard others be 
asked time and time again when reveal-
ing their dream jobs. I have scrambled to defend myself, and I have watched others scramble to defend themselves. 
Some fend it off with an easy, “I plan 
to marry rich.” Some say, “I don’t have expensive taste” or “I don’t really plan to live somewhere with a high cost of living.” What they should say is, “I care 
more about discovering who I am and 
contributing to society than I do about the number of zeroes on my paycheck.”
That’s probably one of the most col-
lege things I’ve ever written in my life. However, it is true for me, and it is also true for a lot of people. The truth is, some of the most important and fulﬁ  ll-ing careers out there just don’t pay well. 
Let’s talk about teachers. If you are in 
college, there is a very high chance some teacher somewhere along the way in your schooling had a positive impact 
on you. They are ridiculously under-
paid. Police ofﬁ  cers and ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters pro-tect our communities and save lives for very little pay. Sadly, sometimes when choosing a career, you have to decide 
whether you’d rather feel fulﬁ  lled or 
make a lot of money.  
I recognize the practical purpose of 
having a job is money. I also recognize 
a great number of people in this world 
probably would not have a job at all if not for the motivating factor of money. That is absolutely reasonable and un-derstandable. However, not everyone 
feels this way and those who don’t 
should not be looked down upon or chastised.If you are lucky enough 
to feel a call toward a profes-sion that will make you a six-
ﬁ  gure salary, I am happy for 
you. I really am. I think that is great, and I would never insinuate that all careers that 
are important and worth pur-
suing are low-paying. Howev-er, many of them are. Making more money does not make 
you a high achiever or mean you are 
contributing more to society. Making 
more money does not put you above those who make less. Making more money does not make you a better per-
son. Next time you ask a person what 
they do or want to do for a living, don’t talk down to them when they respond with a career that doesn’t make a lot of money.
Look, I’m a double major in journal-
ism and psychology. Do you think I’ve never been told there’s no money in ei-ther of those? Do you think I sat down, 
opened the course catalog and thought 
to myself, “Hmm … I’m interested in making a huge salary. Reporting it is!” No. That sequence of events did not occur. I thought about what I love do-
ing and what I am interested in, and I 
decided on those two. I have been told many times by many different people that these ﬁ  elds are not where the mon-
ey is. I know, and I don’t think I am a 
better person or more “woke” because I have picked these. My passions and tal-ents led me to them, and a lot of others can say the same. 
So, to answer the questions posed at 
the beginning of this whole thing: Yes. Yes. And because I love what I want to do, and money isn’t everything. Pas-
sion, love, dedication and determina-
tion are everything. And you just can’t put a number on those.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism 
and psychology junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays. Protests are meant to make you 
uncomfortable; that's the pointAt the end of the day, a fulﬁ  lling 
job is worth a lot more than moneyColumn Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org“
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
The Chinese Student Association Dance T eam presents a dance 
that portrays a legend involving a tragic love story and alludes to the origin of the Mid-Autumn festival.
SHE LEARNS ABOUT CIRCUS 
ANIMALS AND THEIR HARDSHIPS.
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
Each morning, Megan McDowell would 
wake up, uncover herself from her mos-
quito net and find her friends for the day: 
elephants. 
McDowell, a UF animal sciences sopho-
more, traveled to Chiang Mai, Thailand, 
in July with Loop Abroad, a volunteer 
program, to gain experience working with 
animals. She said she cared for exotic and domestic animals, including elephants and dogs. 
McDowell, 19, worked in Elephant Na-
ture Park for a week to practice medicine on the elephants who have been poorly treated in Thailand. She said elephants are treasured and glamorized for circuses and 
the tourism industry, which causes them 
harm. 
“I got to learn about each individual el-
ephant and its story,” she said. “The ele-phants are made to look happy, but behind 
the scenes they are being tortured.” 
The group of 12 volunteers, includ-
ing McDowell, worked with five to 10 el-
ephants each day. She and her peers would 
clean their wounds, which are spread over 
their feet, ears and neck, and give them medication. 
The volunteers developed a relationship with the elephants, she said. As she pet and 
tended to the elephants, McDowell said she 
felt as though the animals were comforted. 
All students on the trip were on the pre-
veterinary track and came from universities across the U.S. McDowell said the students, 
veterinarians and Thai volunteers who par-
ticipated all shared one goal — helping ani-mals. 
“It was great because all the people I 
worked with were very passionate and genuine for their love for elephants, which I could relate to,” she said. 
Going on the trip opened her up to a 
new, welcoming culture, McDowell said. 
She said she gained a new perspective of 
the world that is more open — something she keeps in mind now.
Even though she wasn’t used to the un-
refined conditions she was staying in, Mc-Dowell said it taught her patience and how to live without nonessential items. 
“It was rustic just because I’m not used 
to living in cabins and roughing it out with 
mosquito tents,” she said. 
Taylor Paddock, a UF management se-
nior, said McDowell has been committed to 
helping animals since her freshman year. 
She said McDowell would wake up before 
sunrise and drive 35 minutes away to an exotic animal refuge to volunteer there.
“Megan has an incredible passion for 
animals and for accomplishing her goals,” 
the 20-year-old said. “She is driven and 
hard working, and excels past obstacles most college students get deterred by.”UF student travels to Thailand to work with elephants 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Megan McDowell, a 19-year-old UF animal sciences sophomore, bonds with an 
elephant she’s been treating in Chiang Mai, Thailand.
GAINESVILLE, UF CHINESE 
GROUPS CELEBRATED 
THIS WEEKEND.
By Heaven T aylor-Wynn 
and Julia Renner
Alligator Contributing Writers
The Mid-Autumn Festival, which is every Oct. 4, celebrates family, community and giving thanks in the Chinese culture. The holiday typically falls on a full moon and is commemorated with eating tra-ditional Chinese pastries called mooncakes and solving riddles. 
Chinese Student 
Association
When she sat in the Reitz Union 
for the Mid-Autumn Festival on Saturday night, Grace Li felt at home.
The student from China said 
the Chinese Student Association’s annual festival was the only place she found that was celebrating the holiday. 
“Every year I come here,” said 
Li, a 26-year-old UF electrical engi-neering sophomore. 
This year, Li brought a friend 
she met through the International Friendship organization to expe-rience the festivities and share a mooncake with her.
The CSA’s president, Yifei Liu, 
22, said the Mid-Autumn Festival is comparable to Thanksgiving. She 
said it’s a time to bring everyone in 
your family together in unity and 
share a mooncake.
“That’s like the traditional 
food,” she said. “Just like you eat turkey for Thanksgiving.” 
During the show, students per-
formed a ballet duet, hip-hop rou-tines, live music on traditional Chi-nese instruments and ballads sung in Chinese. 
Liu, a UF mathematics senior, 
said since many CSA students aren’t from the U.S. and can’t cel-ebrate with their family, they come to the festival to celebrate with friends.
“We feel very happy that we 
can provide them a place to be to-gether with their friends and their classmates here to celebrate this awesome festival.” 
Savannah Lai, the director of 
public relations for the association and a UF biological engineering junior, said Mid-Autumn Festival is one of the biggest Chinese tra-ditional festivals. It’s an event the CSA holds annually, but this year the organization reached out to other communities. 
“So we’re not only inviting a 
lot of people from the Chinese community, we also invite a lot of people who’s like outside of the Chinese community,” the 21-year-old said. “We’re trying to bring people in and share our culture to them.”   Yucai Chinese School
Yuquin Weng and her son, Yan-
jun, worked on a riddle together. 
It didn’t matter to Yuquin Weng 
what the puzzle was about — she was happy to spend time with her son.
“It is all about family being to-
gether,” said Xiaoman Wang, an event organizer.
Weng was one of about 20 
people who participated in Mid-Autumn Festival activities at Yucai Chinese School, located at 4426 SW 35th Terrace, on Sunday from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. Although the holiday isn’t for another three days, participants ate mooncakes and solved riddles that were writ-ten on the wall and on orange and pink lanterns. The lanterns were donated from the CSA event, Wang said.
Children who attend the Chinese 
school, like Yanjun, ran around the common room and enthusiastical-ly ate traditional Chinese candies from a buffet table of treats. There were about six varieties of candy. 
On Oct. 4, Weng will be at her 
parent’s house. Weng said she vis-its her parent’s home every year and shares a meal with them.
“The most important (of the 
holiday) is that the family will all stay to eat and drink together and talk with each other,” she said.Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival brings families togetherMONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Marcela Mulholland, a 20-year-old UF political science and sustainability studies junior, speaks to the crowd with a megaphone at the World’s Biggest Eye Contact Experiment 2017. The event was centered around making eye contact with strangers for a full minute or longer.
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Julie Anspach, 61, makes eye contact with a stranger. Anspach, who is retired military, said she had “done something like this before, and I just loved the connection. ”
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
The ﬁ  rst time Marcela Mulhol-
land gazed into someone’s eyes, she laughed so hard she nearly fell out of her chair.
As a freshman at UF, she was 
instructed to ﬁ  nd a partner in her class whom she didn’t know well. After settling down across from him and meditating brieﬂ  y with the class, she opened her eyes to ﬁ  nd him staring stoically back at her. Mulholland lost it.
“I was, like, so uncomfortable and squirming and falling out of the chair,” the 20-year-old said.
What started out as one of the 
most uncomfortable experiences of her life turned into one of the most powerful, she said. The UF political science and sustainability studies junior found that eye-gazing — pro-
longed eye contact with no commu-
nication — is a meaningful way to 
foster human connection.
“It made me feel like my core 
was the same as his, like we’re 
more alike than we are different,” 
she said.
Mulholland’s experience with eye-gazing is what prompted her 
to organize the ﬁ  rst World’s Big-gest Eye Contact Experiment in Gainesville on Saturday.
About 50 people gathered in 
ponchos and rain coats on the stage of Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., 
from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. and sat 
across from one another to stare.
Some made small chitchat, oth-
ers dove right in. Whatever the 
method, the goal was the same: ex-
perience human connection.
The experiment is part of the 
World’s Biggest Eye Contact Ex-periment that was held around the 
world Sept. 23, according to the website. In various cities, people shared one minute of eye contact with each other. The experiment was created by The Liberators In-ternational, an international social movement that creates participa-tory public demonstrations that encourage people to look past their differences.
Although Mulholland didn’t ex-
pect everyone to have a life-chang-
ing experience, she at least wanted 
people to leave with a new friend.
Raquelle Wallace got both.The UF theatre senior had never 
participated in anything like this 
before but felt rejuvenated after ﬁ  ve minutes of eye contact with her 
partner.
The 21-year-old said after the 
initial awkwardness, you start to feel deeply connected with your partner.
Taking the time to really ac-
knowledge people has become in-creasingly rare, Wallace said. It’s events like these that remind people of each other’s humanity, she said.
“I think everyone else is look-
ing at everything else besides other 
people,” she said. “I feel like this 
is the way people should meet new people.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Eye contact experiment sees success among locals, pupils
About 50 people attended the event10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
ART WALK GAINESVILLE
James Holdgrafer, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, observes an art display by Kristin 
Kozelsky at the Gainesville Arts Studio’s art show.
UF’S FINDINGS CAN 
REDUCE MORTALITY OF 
GAY AND BISEXUAL MEN 
BY 80 PERCENT.
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
New research from UF suggests 
proper treatment for early stages of 
anal cancer can lead to an 80 percent decrease in mortality risk in gay and bisexual men.
Ashish Deshmukh, an assistant 
professor in the UF Department of Health Services Research, Manage-ment and Policy, said anal cancer is caused by the human papillomavirus 
(HPV) infection. If the infection goes 
undetected or untreated, it may lead to anal cancer. He said about one out of two men in the general population has HPV.
The disease is also correlated 
with HIV, Deshmukh said. Accord-ing to the study, almost 620,000 gay and bisexual men in the U.S. were 
living with HIV in 2014, and 100,000 
of these men were not aware of their infection. These men are 100 times more likely to have anal cancer than HIV-negative men who only have 
sex with women.
For the study, UF researchers 
used a mathematical model to simu-late the life course of 100,000 hypo-
thetical HIV-positive men who have sex with men, 27 years or older, with 
precancerous cells present.
Researchers found that HIV-in-
fected gay and bisexual men who are 
38 years or older should be surgically 
treated and given an HPV vaccina-
tion once they’re aware of their dis-ease. This can decrease the lifetime risk of anal cancer up to 80 percent in those men.
“Due to the absence of any pre-
vention guidelines, a majority of anal cancer cases are diagnosed at stage III or worse, when 5-year survival 
is less than 50 percent,” Deshmukh 
said.
Deshmukh said anal cancer is 
dominant in all states but especially among southern states where preva-
lence of HIV is high.
Sydney Britt, a 20-year-old UF 
international studies junior, said 
it’s important for students to know 
about anal cancer because there is a 
stigma surrounding people who are HIV positive.
“Learning about the disease will 
hopefully give students more un-
derstanding,” she said. “Hopefully 
more understanding will help people feel open to speaking up about their experiences and not feel silenced by 
the stigma.”Early treatment of HIV 
can decrease anal cancer
ACSO: Woman cuts pants and steals wallet 
DEPUTIES FOUND A HOLE IN THE PANTS.
A Gainesville woman was arrested early Sunday morn-
ing after she cut the pants a man was wearing to steal his 
wallet, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said. 
Paige Maxine Dreyfuss, 23, went to 
the man’s house at about midnight Sun-day intending to settle a debt she had with the man by prostituting herself to 
him, according to an arrest report. 
The man said he welcomed Dreyfuss 
into his home and offered her something to eat, according to the report. 
He told police when he wasn’t look-
ing, Dreyfuss pushed him to the ﬂ  oor, 
took a knife out and cut into his back pants pocket. She grabbed his wallet and then ﬂ  ed the scene, according to the report. 
A deputy could see a rip in the man’s pants pocket, ac-
cording to the report. The man positively identiﬁ  ed Drey-fuss, according to the report. 
Dreyfuss ﬁ  rst told police she was never at his house but 
later said the man had attempted to give her money in ex-
change for sex. She said she refused and left the residence, 
according to the report. 
Dreyfuss told police when she denied to have sex with 
the victim, he threw a “tantrum” and threw something at the wall, according to the report. 
Dreyfuss was arrested on a charge of robbery with 
weapon and was taken to the Alachua County Jail, where she remains as of press time in lieu of a $5,000 bond. 
- Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
Dreyfuss
GPD: Two men beat man with a machete
SIX WITNESSES SAW THE BEATING.
Two Gainesville men were arrested Friday afternoon af-
ter they beat a former co-worker and cut him with a ma-chete, Gainesville Police said.
Max Phenky Francois, 23, and Enodi-
ral Andre, 22, confronted the man about an argument the three got into several months ago at about 6:16 p.m. Thursday 
near The Pavillion on 62nd apartments, located at 1000 SW 62nd Blvd., according to an arrest report.
The man told police Andre slapped his 
iPhone out of his hand and swung a black 
machete at him, according to the report. 
The victim sustained multiple cuts on his left arm, and po-
lice said Francois took the man’s phone.
Before Andre and Francois left, Andre accidentally 
dropped his phone, and the victim took it, according to the report.
Andre approached the victim minutes later and demand-
ed he give him the phone back. He bit him on his right wrist when the victim refused, according to the report.
Six witnesses told police they saw Andre and Francois 
beat the man. Francois told detectives he had tried to break up a ﬁ  ght between Andre and the victim and denied a ma-chete was used, according to the report.
Police located a black machete in Andre’s wife’s car. The 
two were arrested on charges of robbery and aggravated battery. They were taken to the Alachua County Jail, where they remain, as of press time.
Francois is being held in lieu of a $100,000 bond. An-
dre’s is $160,000.
- Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgGPD: UAA graduate assistant attacks tow-truck driver
HE CHOKED THE DRIVER THROUGH THE CAR WINDOW.
A University Athletic Association graduate assistant was 
arrested Friday after he tried to choke a tow-truck driver who was trying to tow his car, Gainesville Police said.
Marc Daniel St. Felix, 29, ran out of 
Taylor Square Apartments, located at 621 SW 10th St., wearing only shorts and 
began arguing with the driver, who was 
trying to tow his car, according to an ar-
rest report. 
The driver refused to release St. Fe-
lix’s car, which didn’t have a parking de-cal. St. Felix reached into the tow truck through the window and grabbed the 
driver by his arms to pull him out of his truck, according to the arrest report. 
The driver attempted to roll up his window but failed. 
St. Felix tried to choke the driver, according to the report. 
St. Felix began chasing the driver, who was on the 
phone with police. St. Felix called police to tell them the driver should not tow his car, according to the report. 
The driver wasn’t visibly injured, according to the re-
port. St. Felix was arrested on a charge of battery. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released on his own recognizance Saturday afternoon. 
The driver was the owner of Ultimate Towing, accord-
ing to Alligator archives.
St. Felix works for the UAA as a graduate assistant, ac-
cording to their staff directory. 
St. Felix could not be reached for a comment. 
- Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.orgFrancois
St. Felix
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
2 - 2015 Kymco Like 200i motor scootersBoth in showroom condition. 500+/- miles. Electric start, smooth-shifting CVT automati Trans, 200 CCSOHC 4-stroke engine w/ EFI, front/rear disc brakes, 85-90 mpg., storage, windshield, new helmets included. Navy/black, Ivorybrown. $1500 each. Cash only. No delivery. Pick up in Sarasota. For more info call  941-809-3444    10-6-17-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
1966 FORD T-BIRD
Runs. Fair condition. $7500. Call 352-213-
3901     10-2-17-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14Violinist seeking treble-clef-reading duet partner for paid gigs (flute or violin). Must be advanced (Bach Double, 3rd position, vi-brato). Please call Elizabeth 503-473-3295.     10-2-5-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring! Managers, Assistant Managers, & Associates for Goodwill stores. Start at $9.15/hr. Call (352) 335-1311 or visit Job Junction at 3520 SW 34th St. Apply online at goodwilljax.org      10-2-17-5-14
PROFESSIONAL NANNY looking for FT po-sition. Over 20 yrs exp w / newborns & tod-dlers. Excellent references & a reliable car. rosaredford56@gmail.com    10-4-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Massage Therapy $50 a hour 352-872-2907Counseling $50 a hour 352-871-1750Office close to campus on West Newberry Road a block past movie theatre. Call/txt anytime to schedule appointment. mention this add and receive $5 off first session.     10-2-17-1-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Another Saturday night without 
a date?Read The Alligator.
ACROSS
1 Ophthalmic sore
5 Season-ending
college footballgame
9 Stories spanning
decades
14 __ hygiene15 Bounce off a 
wall
16 Chopin piece17 Evening show
with headlinesand stories
19 Flabbergast20 Swiss convention
city
21 Fist-pump cry23 Sales force
member
24 ’60s protest org.25 Periods that 
may decide 5-Acrosses,briefly
27 Andean animal
29 Like perceptive
hindsight
33 Promise before
testimony
36 Take to court
37 Journalist 
Couric
38 German coal
valley
39 Lifts on slopes
42 Gotten a glimpse
of
43 Uncomfortably
pricey
45 One collaring a
perp
46 Watch displays,
briefly
47 Generic 
pre-sunrise hour
51 Prefix for Rome’s
country
52 Use a shovel
53 Pound sound56 __ Palmas:
Canary Islandscity
58 “No damage
done”
60 Five cents62 Yellowish brown64 Farm’s remote
acreage
66 French sweetie67 Inland Asian sea68 Eve’s opposite69 Frankfurt’s state70 Lowdown71 Soon, to a bardDOWN
1 Billy Joel
creations
2 Trapped on a
branch
3 Signs of boredom
4 “Is there
something __?”
5 Software trial
6 Halloween mo.
7 Food for Miss
Muffet
8 Needing
company
9 Seattle athlete
10 Fast-cash spot,
for short
11 “Money-back”
assurance,
perhaps
12 Carving tool
13 Ooze18 Swear to be true
22 Bottom-row PC
key
26 Dismiss with
disdain
28 Insultingly small,
as a payment
29 “... or else!”
remark
30 Instruct
31 Even on the
scoreboard
32 Strong desires33 Not exactly
34 Writer: Abbr.35 Things to wash
after dinner
40 __ rage: PED
user’s aggression
41 Very light rain44 Grassland48 Netherlands
airline
49 “That’s a shame”50 Jubilant end-of-
week cry53 Ohio rubber city54 Back in style
55 Swashbuckling
Errol
56 __ Ness monster
57 Steady pain59 Corn syrup brand61 Unconscious
state
63 Ambulance
destinations:Abbr.
65 Golfer’s hat
By Brock Wilson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/02/1710/02/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 2, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
ACROSS
1 MTV toon teen
7 Sings the blues
14 Planned city in
California’s
Orange County
15 Conquered
17 General courses
18 “Could be
worse”
19 __ talks
20 Ones in a mess,
briefly
21 Celestial body
22 Chug-__
23 Persuaded25 Instrument
dating to thePaleolithic age
27 “Go ahead”
29 One 
determining 17-Across
30 Wikipedia is an
example of it
32 Like most
capital costs
33 Kind of
response tomortal danger
39 Brody who was
the youngest
Best ActorOscar winner
40 Contingency
plan
43 Double-check
44 Old Italian
capital
45 “__ oui!”
46 Provoke47 San Francisco’s
__ Valley
48 Presages49 Symbolic
attitude?
52 Star close to
Venus?
53 Field of
dreams?
54 Pucker-inducing
55 Denies56 Parks with
games
DOWN
1 Digital image
format2 Jazz virtuoso
Garner
3 Street in
Manhattan’s
Alphabet City
4 Salad bar item
5 __ 500
6 His, to Henri7 Reunion
discovery
8 Bypass9 Last team to
play in the PoloGrounds
10 Sounds from the
stumped
11 Base fig.12 Bulgur salad13 Spruce (up)16 Swedish tennis
great
23 Like some
patches
24 Harder to
explain
25 Precede26 Inc. kin28 Blackened from
combustion
29 Exfoliation
material31 NFL Titan, 
once
33 Pasta pellets in
Jewish cuisine
34 Thoughtful 
guy?
35 Breakfast bar
36 Sought
anonymity
37 “Just play along,
okay?”
38 Exploit41 “Burnt” crayon
color
42 Prose pieces44 More than a little
foolish
47 BCS org.48 It’s often tapped
out
50 North Sea
feeder
51 They, in Tours52 Radical ’70s org.
By Pawel Fludzinski©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/30/1709/30/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 30, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comMONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
REALISTICALLY-$500-$1000 or More Returning Phone Calls!!! No Explaining, No Selling, NOT MLM. Call: 1-888-267-1889     10-6-4-20
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1.  Frozen spike
1.  Away for the shore5.  Greatest extent 
2.  Huge6.  Childlike, trusting 
3.  Trellis 7.  Only, nothing more than
4.  Prompt CLIEIC
DAILNNMITLI
ANEIV
MEEMSNI
ACEITLTEMERYL
MIYTLEANSWERS: 1A-Icicle  5A-Limit  6A-Naive  7A-Merely
1D-Inland  2D-Immense  3D-Lattice  4D-Timely  B-Atlantic City10-2-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: By 1874, about 500,000 passengers a 
year took the train to visit ____ ____. BONUS
1. Who had more career victories as 
a pitcher for the Detroit Tigers: Jack 
Morris or Justin Verlander?
2. Between 1972-79, an Angels 
pitchers led the A.L in strikeouts each season. Nolan Ryan did it seven of the eight seasons. Who did it the other 
one?
3. Who was the youngest coach to 
lead a football team to the college 
Division I national championship?
4. Name the first European-born 
player to win the NBA Most Valuable 
Player Award.
5. When was the last time the Wash-
ington Capitals reached the NHL’s 
Eastern Conference finals?
6. Who holds the record for the fast-
est qualifying lap at the Indianapolis 500?
7. Earlier in 2017, in three different 
events, Rafael Nadal won a tennis tournament for the 10th time. One 
was the French Open. Name either of the other two.
Answers
1. Morris had 198 victories in 14 
seasons; Verlander had 183 in 13 sea-sons.
2. Frank Tanana had 269 strikeouts 
in 1975.
3. Danny Ford was 33 when he led 
Clemson to the 1981 season title.
4. Dallas’ Dirk Nowitzki, in the 
2006-07 season.
5. It was the 1997-98 season.
6. Arie Luyendyk ran a lap of 
237.498 mph in 1996. 
7. The Monte Carlo Masters and the 
Barcelona Open.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 2, 2017King Features Weekly Service20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
SOCCER: UF 3, UGA 0
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Shouts of frustration and 
disbelief rang throughout 
the Turner Soccer Complex. 
Moments earlier, during the 
54th minute, Florida junior midﬁ  elder Briana Solis saw her free kick deﬂ  ected into 
the net by a Georgia defend-
er, breaking the scoreless deadlock and giving Florida the lead. 
No. 10 Florida (9-2, 3-1 
SEC) moved into a tie for third in the SEC standings after going to Athens and defeating Georgia (4-7-1, 0-4 SEC) by a ﬁ  nal score of 3-0. The win was the program’s 11th straight over the Bull-
dogs and proves critical with 
conference foes Missouri and Vanderbilt due up next on the schedule.
An offensive surge in the 
second half led UF to victory, but it appeared the team’s road struggles were haunting it in the ﬁ  rst half.
Florida failed to create 
anything early against the physically imposing Georgia side, which collected a total 
of 12 fouls on the night.
For the third straight 
match the Gators didn’t reg-ister a corner kick in the ﬁ  rst 
half, as they were unable to keep the ball in the Georgia 
half for extended periods of 
time.
They were also outshot 
5-4 by the Bulldogs, who de-
veloped the only dangerous 
opportunities of the half.
However, in the second 
half Florida began to heavily press the Georgia attack, cre-
ating turnovers on defense 
that led to an inﬂ  ux of scor-ing chances. 
“We just did a better job 
of offering offensively for Gators  snag critical SEC road 
win over Georgia BulldogsVOLLEYBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
It took Rhamat Alhassan three tries 
before she made the ﬁ  nal point count.
With Florida up 24-19 in the deciding 
set, the senior drilled the match-winning 
kill, putting away a pesky LSU team — 
until the point was waved off because of 
a net violation.
The next play, up 24-20, she found 
herself in position to win it once again. But just like the previous play, the kill was waived because of another net vio-lation.
Finally, after the Tigers clawed back to 
within one, Alhassan got the kill.
The top-ranked Gators (11-0, 3-0 SEC) 
managed to complete a sweep of the vis-iting Tigers (11-4, 2-2 SEC), although the match could have easily gone to ﬁ  ve sets.
LSU kept it interesting, but ultimately 
the Gators pulled away (25-17, 26-24, 25-23) on Sunday.
The Tigers kept pace with Florida ear-
ly in the ﬁ  rst set and pushed them past 
25 points for the ﬁ  rst time this season in 
the second.
In the third, they nearly erased a 24-
18 Gators lead before Alhassan ended the match.
“LSU pushed back,” Alhassan said. 
“They did some really good things. We’d much rather have that challenge of a team pushing us back. We don’t want to roll over teams. That doesn’t make any-one better.”
Carli Snyder’s game-high 16 kills paced the Gators, followed by nine from freshman Paige Hammons and eight more from Alhassan. 
The numbers were part of an offen-
sive effort by UF that had just nine at-tack errors, the lowest of any match this season.
Redshirt junior Allie Monserez (19 as-
sists) and sophomore Cheyenne Huskey (13 assists) helped move the ball in one of the Gators’ best hitting performances of the season.
Senior libero Caroline Knop had 11 
digs, including several that kept a num-ber of rallies alive for the Gators in a tight second set.
As a team, Florida more than doubled 
LSU’s block total and hit an efﬁ  cient .353 while holding the Tigers to just .182.
Both teams were sloppy at times. The 
Gators had a season-worst 11 service er-rors, and LSU botched seven of their own serves.
“We had a lot of service errors to-
day,” Alhassan said. “That’s something 
that we’re going to go back into the gym 
and focus on — being conﬁ  dent with our serve, placing the ball, speed, loca-tion, that kind of thing. We’re going to be working on our offense.”
Florida now has seven sweeps in 11 
games this season, and improved to 29-2 all time when ranked No. 1.
The Gators return to the O’Connell 
Center on Wednesday to face Texas A&M (4-6, 1-2 SEC).
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org  No. 1 Gators stay undefeated with three-set win over LSU
UF football team has proven 
nothing so far this seasonYou’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators senior middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan had eight kills in Florida’s three-set win vs. LSU.
Kylan Johnson couldn’t 
help but ﬂ  ash a smile from 
ear to ear Saturday after-noon as he sat down to 
speak with reporters.
Florida had just defeated 
Vanderbilt 38-24 at home, 
improving its record to 3-0 
in SEC play.
Johnson, a redshirt 
sophomore linebacker, beamed even more as he began to an-
swer questions, his excitement clearly 
plastered across his face while discuss-
ing UF’s strong start to the conference 
season.
“It’s a great feeling,” he said. “It’s 
an amazing feeling compared to the teams that have lost.”I’m sure it is, Kylan. I’m 
sure it is.
I’m sure it feels great 
to be one of the few teams left in the SEC with a big, 
whopping zero in the loss 
column of the league stand-
ings. Congratulations.
But, unfortunately for 
you and the rest of your teammates, coaches and all 
of Gator Nation, I’m going to have to rain on your parade for the next couple 
of minutes.
Florida has proven absolutely noth-
ing through the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve weeks of the 
college football season. Absolutely nothing.
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixonMONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach J.C. Deacon and the UF 
men’s golf team are in a tie for ﬁ  fth place after the opening round of the Nike Colleigate Invitational. Read the story, pg. 15. Gators are nation’s only unbeaten volleyball team
No. 1 Florida is the only team in the country to start 11-0 after a win against 
LSU on Sunday afternoon.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsSEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
The first couple days of tournament play 
at the ITA All-American Championships in 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, brought a series of ups 
and downs for the Florida men’s tennis 
team.
The only Gators who played in the pre-
qualifying rounds on Saturday and Sunday 
were freshman Andy Andrade and sopho-
more Stephen Madonia.
On Saturday, Andrade played his first 
singles match of the tournament against Mathieu Scaglia of Oklahoma State.
Andrade dropped the match in three 
sets (2-6, 6-3, 6-0), moving him into the 
consolation bracket for Sunday.
In his pre-qualifying consolation match 
on Sunday, Andrade lost to Matthew Gam-
ble of Notre Dame by a score of 6-4, 1-6, 
6-4.
Madonia won his first match on Satur-
day against Rok Krizaj of Nebraska in two swift sets, 6-0, 6-0.In his match against Diego Giraldo Re-
strepo of the University of Missouri-Kansas City, Madonia won in another two short sets, 6-1, 6-4.
Madonia’s next opponent was Alvaro 
Verdu of Marquette, whom he played in the third round of the pre-qualifying draw 
on Sunday. Madonia lost the match by a 
score of 7-5, 7-6.
Qualifying doubles competition will 
pick up on Monday with two Gators pairs. 
Freshmen Duarte Vale and Oliver Craw-
ford will play together while senior Chase 
Perez-Blanco will pair up with Andrade.  
Qualifying singles play will also begin 
on Monday with Perez-Blanco, junior Mc-Clain Kessler, sophomore Johannes Ingild-
sen, Vale and Crawford.
This will be Crawford’s first appearance 
on the court as a Gator.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgFlorida having mixed results 
in Tulsa tennis tournamentBy Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
After coach J.C. Deacon didn’t 
get what he expected out of his 
starting lineup, he once again de-
cided to make a change.
Deacon put freshman Won 
Jun Lee, from Seoul, South Ko-
rea, into the men’s golf team’s 
starting lineup at the Nike Colle-
giate Invitational in North Plains, 
Oregon, on Sunday. 
After Day 1, the switch has left  
the Gators tied for fifth place, not the performance No. 5 Florida was looking for after securing its first win of fall on Tuesday. 
Bright spots for the Gators 
were freshman Chris Nido and sophomore Andy Zhang, who were 4 under and 3 under, re-
spectively. Nido is tied for sev-
enth and Zhang is tied for 13th. 
Deacon remains optimistic 
about UF’s chances despite the fact that his team is sitting six 
strokes behind first-place Okla-
homa.
“Good, solid start for the 
Gators,” Deacon said in a re-
lease. “Andy Zhang continued 
his fine play and freshman Chris Nido came up huge with a 67. Tomorrow is going to be a re-
ally good test for us as we need a 
great round to get in contention before the final round on Tues-day.”
The addition of Lee (1 over) 
into the starting lineup came af-ter back-to-back below average performances from freshman John Axelsen, who Deacon said has struggled since the season’s first tournament. 
Alejandro Tosti, whom Dea-
con has referred to as the “on-course leader,” had the Gators’ worst score. He was 2 over for the day and is currently tied for 46th.
Unfortunately for Florida, 
when Tosti underperforms, the rest of the team has to pick up the slack in order to succeed, and 
the golfer who did that last week, 
Gordon Neale, had a mediocre even par round on Sunday.
Neale currently sits in a tie for 
28th, and Florida will need both 
him and Tosti, the only upper-
classmen in the Gators’ lineup, to improve if it has any hope of stringing together two-straight 
tournament victories.
With two rounds left in Or-
egon, Deacon still believes his 
team can improve throughout the remainder of the tournament.
“We are building this year 
around being patient, disci-plined, and emotionally in con-trol,” Deacon said. 
Florida will look to implement 
that discipline Monday in Round 2.
“It’s so much fun watching 
our guys improve on these skills 
every day,” Deacon said. “An-
other great chance to grow to-morrow.”
@TylerNettuno
TNettuno@alligator.orgUF tied for fifth after Day 1 of Nike Collegiate Invitational
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
In last week’s Schooner Fall Classic, 
Florida found a star in Marta Perez. The sophomore scored a career-low 5 under 
in the final round on her way to a tie for 
ninth place. 
As a result, Perez will play in the top 
spot of Florida’s starting five when the 
women’s golf team begins its third tour-
nament of the year Monday at the Windy City Classic in Highland Park, Illinois, at Northmoor Country Club (par 71).
The Gators finished third at the Schoo-
ner Classic in Oklahoma, and they will look to improve upon that result this week.
For that to happen, they’ll need more 
consistency from their lone senior, Taylor Tomlinson.
Tomlinson was 3 under in the first 
round of the last tournament, but back-to-back 2 over rounds foiled her chance 
at a top-10 finish. For Florida to reach its potential this season, Tomlinson will need 
improved performances moving forward rather than being outshined by freshmen 
Addie Baggarly and Elin Esborn.
Both Baggarly and Esborn have im-
pressed Florida’s coaches during the first 
two tournaments of this fall. Esborn, in 
particular, possesses one of UF’s two in-
dividual top-10 finishes, coming in fifth at the Ocean Course Invitational at the beginning of September. However, she posted the worst total score for the Gators 
in the tournament, so she will look to get 
back on track this week.
Florida’s lineup is rounded out by soph-
omore Carlotta Ricolfi, one of four Gator 
golfers who finished below par in the final 
round in Oklahoma, which was her lowest single-round score of the season.
Rounds 1 and 2 from the Chicago area 
will take place on Monday, beginning at 
8:30, followed by the final round on Tues-
day.
@TylerNettuno
Tnettuno@alligator.orgGators begin play today at 
Windy City Classic in Illinois
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Andy Zhang shot a 3-under 68 in UF’s first round at the Nike Collegiate Invitational in Oregon.MEN’S GOLF
WOMEN’S GOLF MEN’S TENNIS16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2017
one another,” UF coach Becky 
Burleigh said in a release. “Once 
we did that, combined with I 
think tiring them out in the first half, that was a lot for Georgia to handle. That’s when we got our breakthrough.”
The first came on set pieces by 
Solis, who opened the scoring in the 54th minute and assisted via a corner for UF’s second goal in 
the 61st minute. UGA goalkeeper 
Louise Hogrell poorly dealt with Solis’ corner kick, redirecting it in front of the goal for senior de-fender Cassie Owens to pounce 
on. Owens doubled the Florida 
lead, scoring her first collegiate goal.
Freshman forward Madison Al-exander also scored her first goal 
as a Gator, which came in the 87th 
minute. Alexander nicked the ball away from the Bulldog defense on a weakly played back pass to Hogrell, sending the ball into an 
empty net to seal the match. 
“All week, we’ve been work-
ing on pressing so it is nice for it 
to pay off,” Alexander said. “So 
exciting to get my first goal.” 
Burleigh was happy to have 
three players earn their first goals. 
“It was really exciting to see 
three different people score who haven’t scored before (this sea-
son),” Burleigh said. “That was really cool.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgIt hasn’t proven it can le-
gitimately compete for the SEC 
East. It hasn’t proven it can win 
an SEC Championship. It hasn’t 
proven it’s even worth consid-
eration for a spot in the College 
Football Playoff.
Yes, wins are impressive, but 
they can also be very, very de-ceiving if you don’t take the time 
to analyze who you beat.
This is one of those instances.Florida’s three victories in 
2017 have come against the 
three worst offenses in the 
SEC: Tennessee, Kentucky and 
Vanderbilt.
For the Volunteers, they are 
as putrid as they’ve ever looked 
under disgraced coach Butch 
Jones, falling to the Georgia Bulldogs this week in an embar-rassing 41-0 loss.
When UF faced them on Sept. 
16, the Gators needed a last-sec-
ond prayer from Feleipe Franks 
to Tyrie Cleveland just to keep 
the game from going to over-
time.
Geez.
Similar issues exist with the 
Wildcats and Commodores. Nei-ther team puts up eye-popping 
numbers, averaging 322.2 and 
285.2 yards per game, respec-
tively, good for the two lowest 
marks in the conference.
And yet, the Gators barely 
squeaked by UK with a one-point 
victory and needed a breakaway 
touchdown from Malik Davis in 
the final minutes of this week-end’s contest to get past Vandy, 
a team that only one week prior 
lost to Alabama 59-0.
If the opponents Florida is beating by one possession are 
the same opponents the Bulldogs 
and Crimson Tide are annihilat-
ing into oblivion, what does that 
say about UF?
A lot, and the things it’s say-
ing aren’t very positive.
The Gators have a long way 
to go if they want to reach the same level of success they did 
in 2015 and 2016. But with how 
they’ve performed so far against 
the bottom feeders of the SEC, 
it’s hard to picture much more 
than mediocre results at the sea-
son’s end.
 
Dylan Dixon is the assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at ddixon@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @dylanrdixon.Grace King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt junior quarterback Luke Del Rio left the game in the second quarter Saturday after breaking his collarbone. 
Gators improve to 9-2 
after win at GeorgiaGators haven’t proven anything yetDel Rio out for season; Franks becomes Gators starting QB
COLUMN,  from pg 14
SOCCER,  from pg 14the win, they won’t have much time to rest before a 
Homecoming matchup with LSU on Saturday. 
The Gators had their closest game of 2016 against 
the Tigers, winning thanks to a last-minute goal-line stand. To add to the storylines, Franks was once com-mitted to play for LSU before decommitting and an-nouncing his switch to the Gators. But he insists he won’t be thinking about that next weekend. 
“I don’t get any special feelings,” Franks said. 
“You just wanna go out there and get the W.”
And while Franks has the starting job to himself 
now, it doesn’t mean McElwain won’t criticize his 
performance. In the past, Florida’s third-year coach 
has said the offense isn’t as organized under Franks as it is under a veteran like Del Rio. McElwain saw more of the same on Saturday. 
“The substitutions, the personnel, the flow … I 
didn’t think were great,” McElwain said. 
But on a positive note, McElwain had praise for 
Franks’ composure and ability to step in and lead Florida into field goal range in his first series.
“He’s very steady in everything he does, and I 
think it really showed up on that drive,” McElwain said.
Overall, Franks completed 10 of 14 passes for 
185 yards. He didn’t throw any touchdowns, but he 
didn’t need to as the Gators relied heavily on their 
running backs group. Florida ran the ball a season-high 51 times for 218 yards and five touchdowns, its best game on the ground in 2017. Freshman Malik 
Davis shined, capping a two-touchdown day with a 
39-yard dash to the end zone that ended any chance of a comeback by Vanderbilt (3-2, 0-2 SEC). Sopho-more Lamical Perine found the end zone three times as well.
“Opening up the run game is going to open up the 
pass game as well,” Perine said. “We’re going to be real dominant when we start doing that.”
The Gators will have a chance to prove that they’re 
already dominant in The Swamp on Saturday with a win against an LSU team (3-2, 0-1 SEC) that has a lot 
to prove after losing to Troy at home. 
“I’m sure that the people next week are gonna be 
licking their chops,” McElwain said.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1