We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Florida ﬁ  ghting through injuries
With multiple starters injured, the Gators 
opened as a 14.5-point underdog vs. Georgia, pg. 14Halloweener Derby draws disguised dogs 
Half of all donations went toward tumor research, pg. 9
UF organizations to host Fall Wellness Fair 
The fair will raise awareness for mental heath issues, pg. 4VOLUME 112 ISSUE 26
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
GAINESVILLE PRIDE
Phoenix Midnight, 29, laughs during the Gainesville Pride Festival on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave. Check out the photo story on pg. 8.
By Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer
Though the crowds dimin-
ished, police presence faded and 
closed buildings reopened, signs 
of Richard Spencer’s Thursday 
visit to UF still remained Friday.
Orange and white barricades 
lined sidewalks and uplift-
ing chalk messages stuck out 
against the beige pavement.
About one day after avowed 
white supremacist Spencer spoke at UF, the Jewish group 
UF Hillel, located at  2020 W. 
University Ave. held its ﬁ  rst Solidarity Shabbat on Friday night. The goal of the event was 
to have the about 40 students 
reﬂ  ect on their feelings and dis-cuss how to stand against hate, said Emily Snider, the student success director and Spring-
board Fellow for Social Justice 
at UF Hillel.
At the service, speakers from different backgrounds and reli-gions discussed the importance 
of conversation, love, celebrat-
ing differences, hope, unity and education.
People sat in a circle and 
sang songs about peace and 
unity. Near the end of the event, 
the audience discussed the best way to develop a plan to extend the conversation beyond that 
night’s Shabbat.
Snider said she began work-
ing at UF Hillel about three 
months ago, before the Charlot-tesville, Virginia, riots occurred.
Her role at UF Hillel as a so-
cial justice fellow gives her pur-pose, she said.
“This is not my side gig,” she 
said. “This is my full-time job.”
Snider said Spencer’s visit 
has created a mix of emotions. Though she feared his visit, she found the community’s re-
sponse reassuring.UF Hillel holds Solidarity 
Shabbat after Spencer
By Cameron Rivera
Alligator Contributing Writer
Duane Olsen has listened to 
Tom Petty’s music for more than 
40 years, and the way he celebrat-
ed Petty’s 67th birthday was no dif-
ferent.
The 53-year-old watched doz-
ens of musicians cover nearly all 
of Petty’s discography  — from his bands Mudcrutch and Tom Petty 
and the Heartbreakers to his solo 
career — during a tribute concert 
Friday. Heavy Petty, a Petty trib-ute band, closed the night. About 1,500 people in attendance, includ-
ing parents, children and music-
lovers, danced, swayed and sang along.
“It’s a beautiful thing. There’s a 
lot of beautiful people here and a lot of friendliness,” Olsen said.
Dave Melosh, one of the owners 
of Heartwood Soundstage, located at 619 S. Main St., and Jason Hedg-es, the lead singer of Heavy Petty, started planning the tribute concert 
a few days after Petty’s death in 
early October. Melosh offered his venue, and about 25 people volun-teered to organize the event.
“(Petty) is really the person who shined a light on Gainesville as a music town,” Melosh said. “Seeing 
the outpour of grief from people 
when they lost him showed he was more than just a celebrity, he was someone who they really consid-
ered family. This was needed.”
Posters and T-shirts that read, 
“birthday bash” and featured a 
similar logo to the design of the 
Petty tribute on the 34th Street Wall were available in limited 
quantities.
Orlando artist Andrew Spear 
painted a mural of Petty behind the stage.
“I love the music. I love all these 
musicians,” Olsen said. “Every one of these people is awesome, but I’ve really enjoyed watching the 
Gainesville businesses pay tribute to late Tom Petty SEE SHABBAT,  PAGE 3
SEE PETTY,  PAGE 3A BLACK MAN AND A FORMER 
ARYAN BROTHERHOOD 
MEMBER BONDED.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
While Randy Furniss strolled with his 
hands inside his pockets Thursday during 
Richard Spencer’s speech at UF, a group of 
protesters attacked him.
Furniss’ appearance prompted the swarm of people. He wore a white shirt with four 
black swastikas and beige shorts that show-
cased a swastika tattoo on his lower leg.
“I wanted to see what Spencer had to 
say,” said Furniss, who said he identiﬁ  es as 
a former racist.
The 31-year-old said he attended the 
white supremacist’s speech out of curiosity and wore the shirt with swastikas, which 
he got when he was a teenager, because he 
wanted to ensure he got an event ticket.
When Julius Long, a black man who at-tended the event to understand Spencer’s followers’ point of view, saw some of the 
2,500 protesters chasing Furniss, he jumped 
in.
“I didn’t see racism from him, but I did 
see a lot of racism from people who had 
‘Black Lives Matter’ shirts on and ‘Love 
Conquers All’ signs,” said Long, a rapper and promoter from Gainesville.
As Long, 29, watched the police hold 
Furniss forcefully to the ground, he said he 
recalled how many times he had found him-self in Furniss’ position.
So he offered Furniss a ride to his car and 
an open mind.
Long and Furniss ate chicken and waf-
ﬂ  es together at Celebrity’s Soul Food. Long 
drove Furniss to the Gainesville Police De-
partment to ﬁ  le a report for his assault.
Long said social discourse is essential for 
people of all races and cultures to under-stand each other, especially for white peo-
ple to understand what it’s like to be black.Unlikely friendship forms out of Richard Spencer event
SEE FRIENDSHIP,  PAGE 3
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
HIGH  79° LOW  62°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply now for 2018-2019 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s 
“on-time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. Apply well 
before the deadline to ensure the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student 
Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-
served basis, so apply as early 
as possible to be considered for 
the most and best aid. For more 
information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit-
fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser at sfa.ufl.
edu/contact-sfa.
What I Did this Summer: Seedy 
AdventuresMeet Melissa DeSa, a self-de-
scribed local seed-aholic and 
biodiversity addict. Learn why 
seeds are important for the fu-ture, and get a taste of the travels 
and connections that have been 
made over the last few years. 
The workshop will be held to-
day from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Forage & Working Food, located 
at 219 NW 10th Ave. The work-
shop is free to the public but do-
nations are always welcome at 
the door. For more information, 
visit workingfood.org.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters meets every Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology and Nematology Building, Room 
1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to the public. For more information, visit talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org.
English and citizenship classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program of-fers free English and citizenship 
classes at the Alachua County Library District Millhopper 
Library Branch, located at 3145 
NW 43rd St. English classes are 
Tuesday evenings from 6 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14, and 
citizenship classes are Thursday 
evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through this week. For 
more information or to register, visit latinawomensleague.org 
or email info@latinawomens-leaguer.org.
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Pride eventsUF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program is hosting a panel 
called “Queer in the Capital: DC Pride 2017 Fieldwork Trip 
Roundtable,” for students to hold a multimedia presentation 
on their trip to Washington, 
D.C., for the Equality March for 
Unity and Pride. The panel will be Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 3 
p.m. in the second floor atrium 
of Ustler Hall on UF’s campus.
Slavery and the Humanities in 
the university
Alfred Brophy, a legal scholar 
from the University of Alabama, 
will give a free lecture on the 
relationship between pre-Civil 
War Southern universities and slavery Thursday at 5:30 p.m. 
The event will be held in the 
Smathers Library, Room 100. 
This is the inaugural event for 
the UF Center for the Humanities 
and the Public Sphere’s 
Animating Conversations pro-
gram. For more information, 
visit humanities.ufl.edu.
UF Fulbright information session
UF Fulbright Program is host-
ing “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” 
on Thursday from 5:30 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. at the UF International 
Center in the Hub. Presentations 
will be quick and concise. The 
event will be an opportunity 
to network with U.S. and in-
ternational Fulbright partici-pants. Light refreshments will 
be served. To register, visit 
eventbrite.com and search 
by event title. The presenta-
tions are: “Determination, Recklessness and Luck: The 
Feasibility of Improbable Paths” by Sergio Marconi; “Nerve 
Tissue Engineering” by Syed-Mustafa Jamal; and “How Do 
Photojournalists Make Such 
Great Pictures?” by Mindy 
McAdams. For more informa-
tion, email mcardec@ufic.ufl.
edu.
GatorNights: Terror at the Reitz
Bring a friend and enter a haunted house that takes up 
nearly half of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Get crafty and celebrate the fall season as you 
make a paper pumpkin or cre-ate a creepy can cooler to bring 
home some Halloween pizazz. Catch a Halloween-themed 
improvisation performance by Theater Strike Force in the Arredondo Cafe and grab some 
Halloween treats while you’re there. Test your sleuthing skills 
with a ghost tour scavenger hunt from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. and sign 
up for a psychic and tarot card reading appointment at any time throughout the night. Bring your 
friends to our scary-oke event in the Orange & Brew from 9 p.m. 
to 10:30 p.m., followed by a costume contest with prizes for 
best solo and best group cos-
tumes. If you’ve seen the movie 
“Anabelle: Creation,” use movie clues to solve the “Annabelle: 
Creation”-themed escape 
room. If you haven’t seen it, 
you’ll have a chance to catch 
“Annabelle: Creation,” showing 
at both 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. 
Midnight Munchies will be pizza 
in the food court. GatorNights is 
always Friday and always free 
for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate and 
are allowed to bring a maximum 
of one guest to the event.
Free tango classes 
Want to learn tango? Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free 
lessons every Sunday. Whether you’re a beginner or a sea-
soned dancer, everyone is wel-
come. No experience, partner 
or special shoes are required. 
Just bring a thick pair of socks. 
Beginner-level lessons are held 
every Sunday at 6:15 p.m., fol-
lowed by advanced-level lessons 
at 7:15 p.m. Classes are held in 
the Reitz Union, Dance Studio 
A. Find the UF Argentine Tango Club on Facebook for more de-
tails.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 26
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
mural being painted at the same time.”
Though the event was free to attend, 
many chose to donate to MusiCares, a charity 
from The Recording Academy that provides medical, ﬁ  nancial and personal services to 
musicians in need.
Melosh said he would like to make the 
tribute an annual show.
A day after, John Denny, the co-owner of 
First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., hosted an event at the 
brewery to remember the musical legend that had personal ties to Gainesville.
Denny said he moved to Gainesville as a 
freshman in college, and he couldn’t wait to live off U.S. 441, or 13th Street, the road Petty wrote about in his songs.
“I’m just so proud that we’ve been able to 
provide a venue for this celebration,” Denny 
said.
About 1,000 people, including childhood 
friends and family of Petty, stopped by the 
brewery to watch the live music in the beer garden, which included bands like The Im-postors, the Mudpies and Heavy Petty from 
noon to 6 p.m. The bar distributed 450 free 
tickets online.
Zoey Hendrickson, a Florida State Univer-
sity biology senior, was raised on Petty songs 
in her hometown, Gainesville. Hendrickson 
sat in the beer garden and listened to her fa-vorite song, “Free Fallin’,” since she never got to hear it live from Petty himself.
“It’s a good community builder,” the 
21-year-old said. “It’s nice to remember good people this way, plus his music was so good.”
STRI   E
to end interpersonal violence
SEE IT. CHOMP IT. CHANGE THE GAME. SEXUAL VIOLENCE BYSTANDER TIP #4*
*adapted from
 HollabackCHECK IN
“Are you ok? Do you need
help? Is that person 
bothering
you?”
Sophia Zayas / Alligator Staff
Lead singer Joe Ruiz of Heavy Petty, a T om Petty and the Heartbreakers cover band, gets 
the crowd excited during the T om Petty tribute show held at Heartwood Soundstage, located at 619 S. Main St., on Friday night. That day would have been T om Petty’s 67th birthday. Hundreds of Gainesville locals came to the free event to celebrate the life of the local musician. 
PETTY,  from pg. 1More than 1,000 attended the events honoring Petty
“If I don’t explain it, how will 
they ever be able to look at it?” 
Long said.
Furniss, a former member of 
the Aryan Brotherhood, said he 
started being a racist at about age 
15.
“I used to hate everybody — 
everybody who wasn’t white,” 
said Furniss. “And honestly, I 
don’t know why.”
Furniss, who lives in Umatilla, 
Florida, with his wife and two daughters, said he refused to go to 
Walmart before because too many 
people of other races went.
But when Furniss was about 23, 
he shot a friend who he thought 
owed him money and, a year later, 
shot himself in the abdomen be-cause he hated his life, he said. 
“I’m trying to not be racist any-
more, but it doesn’t happen over-night,” Furniss said.
Furniss has to remove his two 
top teeth after being punched in the face at the protest. He was 
also ﬁ  red from his job after his 
boss found out about the incident, 
he said.
But Furniss said he doesn’t re-
gret leaving his house Thursday.
“That shirt started a friend-
ship,” he said. “It was meant to 
be.”
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgFRIENDSHIP,  from pg. 1He was a 
racist at 15“It has been a great source of anxiety 
and fear,” she said. “But it’s also been em-
powering and strengthening.”
Though UF Hillel had been planning a 
solidarity event for a while, Snider said Spencer’s visit sped up the plans.“Watching people come together and 
celebrate diversity has been so amazing and empowering,” she said.
Rabbi Adam Grossman, UF Hillel’s CEO, 
said there was no doubt there has been a growing tension in town.
“Our opportunity at this moment is de-
termining where we as a community seek 
to go,” he said.  He said the Solidarity Shabbat “provides 
a spirit and soul and light that guides us 
forward together.”
“My hope is that this is the springboard 
for people to come together,” he said.
Julia Sabra, a 20-year-old UF psychol-
ogy junior, is the president of UF Hillel and led the service for the night.
“This week was the opening of a con-versation we don’t typically have,” she said.
Sabra said the event was not just be-
cause of Spencer, saying “he simply served as a reminder to stand up for each other.” She hopes the event was the start of build-ing closer relationships with the UF and Gainesville community. About 40 students attended, discussed building community
SHABBAT,  from pg. 14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
THE CLUB OFFERS DISCOUNT 
JUMPS ONCE A SEMESTER.
By Savannah Austin 
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the back of the red Kodiak plane and 
more than 12,000 feet in the sky, the red 
light flashes, signalling the open door. 
The world below is revealed. Someone 
scans the ground and checks the position of 
the tarmac. About 30 seconds pass, then a 
green light flashes. It’s time to jump. 
That experience is something everyone 
should feel at least once, said 21-year-old Taylor Thelander, the president of the UF Falling Gators Skydiving Club and a UF pub-lic relations senior. 
Once every semester, the skydiving club 
takes advantage of a discount on tandem 
skydiving with Skydive Palatka for UF and Santa Fe College students. From Friday to 
Sunday, students and faculty with a valid ID were able to check an activity off their buck-et list for the discounted price of $140, said Nikki Soles, the Skydive Palatka manager. 
The tandem skydiving special took place 
at Palatka-Kay Larkin Airport in Palatka, Florida, located at 4015 Reid St. Without the special, it normally costs $185. Skydive Pal-atka has been offering the discount to stu-dents for more than 10 years, said owner Art Shaffer. 
The goal of the event is to promote sky-
diving to college students and attract more 
people to the sport and the club, Thelander 
said. 
“Take those 20 seconds of courage … 
because there’s nothing else on Earth that can simulate seeing Earth from that perspec-tive,” Thelander said. “With our rigorous, busy lives, it’s nice to take that step back and experience something you’ve never ex-perienced before.” 
The event brought out 21 participants 
who used the student discount, many of whom were with Falling Gators or friends of club members trying tandem skydiving 
for the first time. One of the first-timers was 
21-year-old Ryan Walsh, who heard about the event from Thelander. “It’s something I’ve always wanted to do at some point,” said Walsh, a UF management senior. “I felt like it would either be now or never.”
Walsh was the first of Thelander’s friends 
she convinced to try skydiving. On Saturday morning, the two jumped out of the plane 
together, strapped to instructors.
As Walsh fell through the sky, he said the 
experience was pure adrenaline.
“I recommend it to people even if it’s just 
once,” he said. “It’s something so different 
from anything else that I would say try it.” 
Rather than making her first jump, Madi-
son Cydis, a member of the skydiving club, took her 30th jump Friday. Cydis jumped solo instead of tandem. The UF biomedical engineering sophomore has been skydiving since May of this year.
“If you’ve ever been on a flight, it’s basi-
cally the same thing,” the 19-year-old said. “It’s more of a surreal thing because you’re actually going to jump out of this plane in-stead of looking out the window.” 
Cydis said she was nervous when she 
first went skydiving, even when she was strapped to an instructor who had done more than 30,000 jumps. Once she left the plane and started falling, though, she said it was 
an “instant switch from fear to adrenaline.”  
“It’s normal to be scared, but that’s what 
makes it so incredible,” Cydis said. “Because 
you overcome something that you were ini-tially scared to do. Once you land on the ground it’s this incredible feeling of knowing you got over a fear you once had.” 
Skydiving club brings first-time jumpers to discounted event
By Kelly Daly
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Student Government Cabinet is work-
ing with the UF Counseling & Wellness Center student ambassador program, AWARE, to des-tigmatize mental illness.
On Wednesday, the Fall Wellness Fair will 
take place on the Plaza of the Americas from noon to 3 p.m. All students are welcome to at-
tend the fair and learn about on-campus orga-
nizations working to improve mental health, 
said Amanda Lawson-Ross, a clinical assistant professor at the CWC and the faculty advisor for AWARE, which stands for awareness wellness ambassadors reaching everyone.
GatorWell, the CWC, SG, the Dean of Stu-
dents Office and other organizations will be at the fair.
“The main goals are twofold,” Lawson-Ross 
said. “We want the students to know what’s go-ing on and what’s available, and then we want to make sure the organizations are all collabo-rating.”
Lawson-Ross said there are a number of 
stressors that impact a student, and many of these depend on what stage a student is at dur-ing their college career. A younger student can become stressed about being in a new environ-
ment, while an older student may stress about 
career planning. 
Although all participating organizations will 
focus on bodily wellness, the center will have focused discussions on mental health, on-the-spot counselors and biofeedback therapy, Law-son-Ross said.
“We’re noticing the stigma surrounding 
mental illness is breaking down little by little, and the more we make it a regular part of the conversation the more the stigma will erase,” Lawson-Ross said. “The less we talk about it, the greater that stigma will grow.”
Gianella Perez, a 20-year-old UF psychology 
and Spanish junior, plans to attend the event. 
“I want to become more involved with the 
counseling and wellness facilities on campus, and I want to understand how they are used to help our students,” Perez said.
Perez described herself as a very anxious 
person and said she is interested to know what resources she can take advantage of.
“Regardless of major, I think every student 
should be interested in this event because we all have stress at some point, and it’s important 
to be aware of the many ways UF can help us,” 
Perez said.
The fair comes almost two weeks after UF’s 
local fee committee voted against the CWC’s proposal for a student fee increase, citing af-fordability and other methods to possibly raise money for the center. The decision has been met with backlash, and at last Tuesday’s Stu-dent Senate meeting dozens of students came 
to complain.
Even if students can’t make it to the fair, 
Lawson-Ross said just setting aside time for 
themselves every day can benefit their mental health.
“Just stop and take a breath, and a breath 
can look different for everyone,” Lawson-Ross said. “For some people, it can physically be taking a breath, and for other people it can be 
calling a friend or getting lunch with somebody. 
Just take a moment do whatever it is that brings you joy.”Fall Wellness Fair to discuss 
mental health and wellness
THE EVENT RAISED 
ABOUT $4,000.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
While Bex Weaver crossed the finish 
line breathless and flushed, her dog Titus 
rushed through it with a wagging tail.
“I was holding the leash, but he was 
pulling me the whole race,” Weaver, 25, 
said. “He loves running.”
Weaver, a UF veterinary fourth-year, 
and Titus, a 2-year-old brown cattle dog 
mix with a black spot around his right eye, won first in his weight division at the 5K at the 36th annual Dog Days Run, held by UF’s chapter of the Student American Veterinary Medical Association.
The race, which included a 5K and a 
1-mile fun run, attracted more than 200 people — about 100 more than last year — at 8 a.m. Saturday at the Westside Rec-reation Center, located at 1001 NW 34th St.
For the 5K, event organizers gave out 
prizes for first male, first female, first dog over 45 pounds and first dog under 45 pounds. For the fun run, they recognized 
the slowest dog, smallest dog, biggest 
dog, dog most likely to pull owner and best costume.
Colton Doll, the race director, said at-
tendees fundraised about $4,000 for Josh & Friends, an organization that comforts kids in hospitals by giving them books that feature Josh, a sick puppy who visits the veterinary office.
Doll, a UF veterinary second-year, said 
a team of 15 people have been organizing the event since March. He said it’s a tradi-tion among veterinary students.
“It’s a good time for everyone,” the 
28-year-old said. “It’s a casual event so you’ll get happier people, because they’re not too concerned to win.”
As songs like “The Dog Song” by Nel-
lie McKay roared through the speakers, dogs and their owners sauntered around, some wearing Halloween costumes.
A pair of runners wore red shorts and 
white shirts that read “Lifeguard,” and 
their dog was dressed as a shark, with a 
cardboard dorsal fin. One man dressed as a jailer brought his dog dressed as a police officer, while another woman matched with her dog in bright yellow tutus and striped shirts, resembling bumblebees.
Katie Graves, a Gainesville resident, 
and Taylor Scheffing, a UF alumna, both attended the race with their dogs dressed 
as loofahs. Penny Lane, a 2-year-old 
white mix hound, and Lincoln, a 1-year-old black lab, ran with bright-colored pink-and-blue mesh surrounding them. It took their owners, who were themselves dressed as rubber ducks, three hours the previous night to create the costumes.
“I don’t typically like waking up at 6 
a.m. on a Saturday, but if I’m going to 
dress my dog as a loofah, I’ll get behind 
that,” Graves said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.orgDogs, owners run in race 
held by veterinary students
By Emily Long
Alligator Contributing Writer
A dark green, 12-foot-tall Hulk stood over 
customers of Blackadder Brewing Company 
on Thursday as they snapped pictures and answered superhero trivia.
Superheroes For Hope donated the mas-
sive hero to the local pub, located at 618 NW 60th St., for a fundraiser at 4 p.m. The Hulk statue will remain at the pub through October. The $500 raised at the event will go to Superheroes For Hope, which provides emotional and financial support for families of children with terminal illnesses, said Sissy 
Hart, a co-owner of the brewery.
“Something about a child with an illness 
just pulls at the heartstrings,” she said. “Su-
perheroes For Hope isn’t trying to find a cure for cancer, they are simply trying to put a smile on a child’s face.”
The charity gives gas cards to families 
who need help getting to hospitals, as well as grocery gift cards.
Customers 21 years and older could do-
nate $10 for a wristband that gave them entry, a dollar off each beer and a spot in the superhero trivia game. All proceeds from the wristband sales went to Superheroes For 
Hope, Hart said.
Participants in trivia were in groups of 
five to eight people and were asked ques-
tions about heroes from DC Comics and Marvel Comics. The first-place prize was a mini-photoshoot with the Hulk statue, the second-place prize was beer shots for the entire team, and the third-place team won a $12 gift card to the brewery.
The brewery has hosted similar fundrais-
ers in the past exclusively for local charities, including Girls Place, Inc., a group to em-power young girls in business; Gainesville Goes Gold, which raises awareness for pe-
diatric health; Second Chance Rescue & 
Rehoming, a pet rescue; and the Lubee Bat Conservancy.
“A smaller donation is just going to get 
lost in the sea of everything that (the Ameri-can Red Cross does),” said Chris Hart, a co-owner of the brewery and Sissy Hart’s hus-band. “But with a local thing, every dollar counts, and it’s important and you know it’s 
getting used somewhere close to home, so 
we’re really helping people that are around us.”
Brewery hosts superhero-themed fundraiser for charityMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Henry Coburn
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jessica Finkel and Michael 
Marder woke up Saturday pre-
pared to be chased by zombies.
The couple and about 75 other 
adrenaline junkies visited Zom-bie Run Gainesville, a haunted house-style, 3.1-mile-long ob-
stacle course, located at 1404 
NW 122nd St., where runners are 
chased by fake zombies.
Finkel, a 20-year-old UF pub-
lic relations junior, and Marder, a 23-year-old UF alumnus, found the run on Facebook.
Tickets are either $35 or 
$45, depending on the regis-tration date, said Eric McTure-ous, the creator of Zombie Run Gainesville. McTureous, who is 
also the coach of Buchholz High 
School’s junior varsity basketball team, said the run will help pay for the team’s jerseys, which cost $1,200.
McTureous said the next zom-
bie run will be Friday at 6:30 p.m.
Groups of 20 to 30 runners 
sporting two ﬂ  ag-football-style ﬂ  ags sprinted into awaiting hordes of zombies and through tunnels, steep hills and mud 
pits. In infected zones, zombies 
chased runners to snatch ﬂ  ags.
“The mission of this run is 
to try and survive,” McTureous 
said. “You will start the run with 
two ﬂ  ags on your belt. Your mis-sion is to survive with at least one.”
Finkel and Marder ﬁ  nished 
the run in about 45 minutes.
“It was much more intense 
than I expected,” Finkel said. “That was the most fun I’ve had 
running in a while, and I’m glad 
we could help out a basketball team in the process.”Zombie run beneﬁ  ts 
high school basketballIT IS ONE OF THE 
ONL Y LABS TO USE 
MODEL ANIMALS FOR 
VETERINARY STUDENTS.
By Kacey Finch
Alligator Contributing Writer
After working over weekends 
and holiday breaks to construct a 
high-tech laboratory, a local con-struction company and UF won a prestigious design award.
On Oct. 12, the UF College of 
Veterinary Medicine’s Clinical Skills Laboratory addition received the Design-Build Project of the Year Award in the educational facilities category from the Design-Build Institute of America. The lab is a large, ﬂ  exible teaching space used for clinical simulation models and 
microscope labs, said John Haven, 
the executive director for the Col-lege of Veterinary Medicine.
The award recognizes projects 
that surpass design expectation and successfully apply design-build practices, wrote Karen Wallace, the executive director of DBIA Florida Region, in an email.
“It shows that they are one of 
the best design-build ﬁ  rms in the state,” Wallace said.
Design-build is a process where 
the project owner handles design and construction from the begin-ning to the end of the project, Wal-lace said. 
The $4.8 million, three-story lab 
addition to the Veterinary Academ-
ic Building was completed in Fall 
2015, Haven said. 
“(The award) is just a further 
validation that we spent the tax-payer’s money really efﬁ  ciently, and we built a great space,” Haven said.
Oelrich Construction, Inc., lo-
cated in Jonesville, Florida, was 
selected by UF to construct the lab, 
said Josh Blackford, Oelrich’s proj-ect lead and operations manager.
The building was constructed 
over a six-month period, Blackford said. The majority of it was con-structed after hours, on weekends and during holiday breaks, so noise would not disturb nearby classes.
Blackford said the lab is one of 
the only of its kind in the country that has a simulation lab, meaning model animals are used for stu-
dents to practice their clinical tech-
niques.
“The University of Florida’s 
pushing this program, and they’re one of the only programs like this in the nation,” Blackford said. “They pulled the strings they needed to pull to get this in place as quick as possible and to really be a leader 
in this type of education training.”
Hannah Poole, a UF senior vet-
erinary graduate student, said the 
mock exam rooms, which simulate those in an actual hospital, are her favorite part of the space.
Poole took the required clinical 
skills course before and after the addition was built. During the year 
without the lab, she said students 
were crammed into small rooms.
“Once they were able to do that 
lab, I feel like the curriculum in that class has been able to run a lot smoother,” the 25-year-old said. “They’ve been able to adjust things to really help further our education and help us be more prepared for 
the technical and clinical aspects.”
UF Clinical Skills Lab wins award
POLICE FOUND A TASER AND 
WINDOW PUNCH ON THE MAN.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested for a car 
burglary Friday after several burglaries were re-
ported at the same place and time, Gainesville Police said.
Ferrie Vashaun Cook Jr., 20, was seen by a 
witness at about 4:36 a.m. walking in a parking lot at 3425 SW 29th Terrace with another man, according to an arrest report.
A responding ofﬁ  cer spotted the men walk-
ing in the parking lot and hid behind a car, ac-cording to the report. When the ofﬁ  cer jumped out from behind the car, both suspects ran away.
The unknown suspect jumped a fence and 
ﬂ  ed west while Cook ran north across South-west 35th Place, according to the report. A po-lice dog tracked and found Cook in the woods nearby.
When Cook was detained, he had a red 
backpack on him, which contained about $500 
of belongings including purses, jewelry, tech 
gear, a window punch and a Taser, police said. Ofﬁ  cers also found hydrocodone prescribed to someone else on Cook and glass shards in his pants pocket.
Ofﬁ  cers suspect Cook in at least ﬁ  ve more 
car burglaries that occurred in the same area and time, police said.
Cook was arrested on charges of burglary, 
petty theft, possession of burglary tools, grand theft of a controlled substance, possession of a controlled substance and resisting arrest. Au-thorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $132,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: Man suspected of ﬁ  ve burglaries
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Hawthorne woman was arrested 
for driving drunk after she hit a stopped car on UF Plaza in Midtown on Saturday, Gainesville Police said.
Erica Ann Cassels, 32, was questioned 
by police for driving her car into a stopped car at 1700 W. University Ave. at about 3:09 a.m., according to an arrest report. A responding ofﬁ  cer noticed her breath smelled like alcohol and her eyes were glassy and bloodshot.
Police also said Cassels slurred her 
words as she spoke and had trouble stay-ing balanced while she talked and during 
the ﬁ  eld sobriety test, according to the re-
port.Ofﬁ  cers said Cassels was initially indif-
ferent but became increasingly angry and verbally abusive. At some moments at the 
police station, Cassels would cry and then 
start laughing, according to the report. 
Cassels’ blood alcohol content was 
.092 and .093, according to the report. The legal limit is .08.
Police arrested her on a charge of driv-
ing under the inﬂ  uence. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail, where she was released on her own recognizance 
Sunday morning.
Cassels was convicted of a misdemean-
or in 2014, according to court records. 
Cassels could not be reached for com-
ment.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgGPD: Woman drives drunk 
into stopped car in MidtownThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Column
Mental health is not merely a per-
sonal struggle. It is not something a person should be left to deal with 
alone. It is not something that can 
be swept aside. Mental health is-
sues come from within. They stem from the mind — what makes a person who they are. 
In the past few decades, there have been ma-
jor strides in mental health advocacy, and the negative stigma associated with mental health struggles have certainly decreased. However, we are far from ﬁ  nished.
We live in a society where people feel afraid to share 
they have received mental health counseling. We live in a society where people worry others will view them differently — think they are insane, incompetent or out 
of control if they see a therapist. We live in a society 
where people will say it’s completely OK to need help, then look down on those who actually seek it. It is al-most as if you actually have to have sought help your-self to understand and show empathy.
I can understand why it may be easier to empathize 
with someone once you’ve walked a mile in their shoes, but it should not take a shared experience for you to wish the best for someone and believe them. So many 
people have stood up and testiﬁ  ed the UF Counseling 
& Wellness Center either greatly helped them or could have but was unable to because of the lack of personnel or funding.
I know it’s been said a lot over the past week or so, 
but I’m going to say it again. The fact our representa-tives in Student Government thought we would rather save a few dollars each semester than help our friends get the help they need is, in my opinion, disgusting. I 
don’t entirely blame SG, although I think this decision 
was a poor one. I understand there is more going on be-hind the scenes with these decisions than we know about. I know it’s not personal. I know it’s not as easy as signing a paper. However, I 
have to wonder: What do our representatives 
think of the rest of us if they are more focused on keeping their promise to not raise student fees than they are on doing things that may 
reap huge beneﬁ  ts? I know not everyone uses 
these services, so not everyone is as focused on this area of UF as students who use them or personally know people who do.
You may be thinking, “Well, my friends haven’t ben-
eﬁ  tted from the center.” Are you sure? Even if you think they haven’t, you might be wrong. Even if those who beneﬁ  t from the center are not people you would call your friends, does that mean you shouldn’t care? 
It may be up to SG to represent us, but it is up to 
all of us to let them know what we want. If they think we’d rather have lower fees and a music festival, that’s what they’re going to want to provide. They are aiming to provide for their constituents who speak the loudest.
There is a degree of common sense to this, I’ll admit, 
but we need to not only have priorities, but make them clear. Personally, I would be delighted to pay an extra few dollars each semester to hire more counselors for 
the CWC. I encourage you to do the same. Sign that pe-
tition. Attend that meeting. If you’re passionate, apply for a seat in Student Senate. Make it happen, Gators. After last week, we know what we’re capable of do-ing when we come together and stand up for what we 
believe. Make your voice heard, and make your voice 
matter, because it does.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.Help each other and make your voices heardEditorial
Tolerance and 
kindness are far 
from the same
In light of recent events on our campus and the current state 
of our country as a whole, it seems like everyone is aggres-sively preaching tolerance and dubbing it as the one true so-lution that will bring our nation back together. Tolerance is a great concept, don’t get us wrong, but it’s not what America 
needs now in terms of an all-inclusive solution. What America needs is an increase in kindness and a boost in action.
By it’s very deﬁ  nition, tolerance does not demand action. In 
fact, it demands a lack of action. When you are tolerant, it doesn’t mean you accept other people for who they are, it just means you don’t persecute them for being different. When we are tolerant, we don’t work toward eradicating feelings of racism or bigotry, we just work to hide it.
Consider this example. When you were younger, maybe 
in elementary or middle school, you probably had a close-knit group of friends. You probably also had one kid in your class who everyone deemed “weird.” You could have even been that kid. Despite the unspoken label your classmates placed on this individual, you, out of the kindness of your heart, might have still let them hang around you and your friends because you felt bad. In other words, you tolerated them.
They’d receive an obligatory birthday party invitation because 
your mom said you couldn’t leave them out. You’d allow them to 
sit with you at lunch when they came up to the table and asked 
because you didn’t want to be mean. 
You didn’t go out of your way to exclude them, and you 
never bullied them. But did you make much of an effort to be their friend or be nice to them? Chances are, you didn’t. Chances are, no one talked to this kid who everyone painted the oddball. Chances are, they weren’t treated like everyone else, and chances are, they noticed. But hey, you weren’t mean to them, so at least you were being tolerant, right?
This example is a universal one which most people can relate 
to. Now consider this on a much larger scale. A black person at the movies whom no one will sit next to. An openly gay college classmate who never gets called on when they raise their hand in class. A female co-worker who is constantly spoken over in meetings. All of these examples play out in the same way as the kid you tolerated when you were younger. An absence of malice does not equal kindness, just tolerance. 
Tolerance is not a solution, it’s merely one component to a 
much larger and necessary movement we should be working to-ward. Our country is at a point where pretending racism and prejudice don’t exist is not enough. Our country is at a point where passively allowing others to be different from you while internalizing your hatred behind closed doors is not enough. Our country has gotten to a point where our minority groups deserve an apology. They deserve to be treated as equals and lifted up as much as white middle-class Americans. They deserve more than to be simply tolerated.
America does not need people to be tolerant, we need people 
to be kind, inclusive and fair. We need people to start taking ac-tion and standing up for those who we have oppressed or ignored over the years as we tolerated them.
We urge you, dear reader, to re-evaluate the ways you accept 
those around you. Do you really treat those who are different from you the same way you would anyone else? Are you doing what you can to create an inclusive America, or are you choosing the passive route of tolerance?
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
Here’s a quick hypotheti-
cal for you. You’ve been tasked with appointing 
the new leader of the 
National Fire Preven-
tion Association (this is not real, so just go with it). Your options 
range from veteran firefighters 
to expert industrial engineers to dedicated safety officials and ev-eryone in between. With all of these choices in mind, would you pick an 
arsonist?
This seems a bit farfetched and foolish, 
but this is, in effect, what President Don-
ald Trump is doing to our Environmental 
Protection Agency, bit by bit. Back in May, 
news broke that the Trump administration had appointed Nancy B. Beck, a high-level official and representative of the Ameri-can Chemistry Council, to an administra-
tor position within the EPA unit in charge 
of overseeing toxic chemicals.
Yes, you read that right. The Trump ad-
ministration picked a person representing 
the chemical industry to help supervise a 
toxic chemicals unit. If you’re like me and missed this terribly ironic appointment in the flurry of news this summer, you can now fully digest what this means for pol-
lution, public safety and environmental 
health. Let’s take a look.
This past Saturday, The New York 
Times published an in-depth story on 
Beck. Soon after being appointed, Beck 
“insisted upon the rewriting of a rule to make it harder to track the health conse-quences of (perfluorooctanoic acid), and therefore regulate it,” reporter Eric Lipton 
writes.
According to the EPA, these types of 
chemicals pose dangerous health haz-
ards to humans and wildlife, lingering 
in the environment long after exposure 
and capable of causing reproductive and developmental problems. The Times got ahold of an internal memo from the Of-fice of Water, a division within the EPA, 
that “ensures drinking water is safe,” ac-
cording to its own website. Yet the memo states Beck’s changes could make it more difficult to fully understand the risks to humans and wildlife posed by these chemicals. This 
quite clearly and directly con-
flicts with at least one aspect of the office’s stated mission.
Can we really pretend to be 
surprised at this point? Just look at who Trump has running the entire EPA. The agency’s cur-rent administrator, Scott Pruitt, 
has repeatedly worked toward rolling 
back regulations put in place to ensure a 
safe and healthy environment for humans and wildlife alike. 
The Huffington Post analyzed Pruitt’s 
official calendars using a Freedom of In-formation Act request in June. During his first months as administrator, Pruitt “spent more time meeting with fossil fuel executives than environmental and public 
health advocates ... Since then, he’s spent 
less than 1 percent of his time with en-vironmentalists,” Alexander C. Kaufman writes. It’s only natural the EPA adminis-
trator would have matters to discuss with 
folks in the fossil fuel industry, but should those matters really be the focal point of his entire leadership?
We must stay vigilant as the Trump ad-
ministration and company name unquali-fied and biased nominees for positions in highly important national agencies. The EPA serves to do just that: to protect us 
and our natural resources. Yet what we 
have is the equivalent of pyromaniacs leading a council on fire prevention. Is this really what we want for our country?
As we contemplate and reflect on this, 
we must channel our disgust and anger into productive outlets, whether that’s through our own environmental initia-tives and programs or by reaching out to 
our representatives in Congress. We must 
sign and share petitions. We must vote, vote, vote. And above all, we must pay attention.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology 
and philosophy senior. Her column 
appears on Mondays.Harvey Weinstein’s ac-
tions are well-known to many within his 
company and others 
in the industry. Over 
the years, a few women have spoken out who were affected, 
but that number could climb as 
more speak out. Quentin Tar-antino, for example, has taken responsibility for knowing about what the Hollywood mogul was doing but not 
taking action. Weinstein’s actions may 
seem like a narrow story that only ap-plies to Hollywood, but it does have broader implications.
Whether it’s Weinstein or President 
Donald Trump, cover-ups of sexual as-sault allegations happen daily — they are out there, right in front of our eyes. Weinstein’s behavior was an open secret 
in Hollywood for years, but even when 
a journalist was able to develop a solid story on the issue, it was buried.
NBC specifically tried to make this 
story go away, heavily scrutinizing it be-fore deciding not to publish it. According to The Huffington Post, Ronan Farrow first approached NBC with the story and had a source who would go on camera 
in silhouette to say Harvey Weinstein 
had raped her, along with a recording in which he admitted to groping an Italian model. NBC thought this wasn’t enough 
to go on air and would not let him con-
tinue working on it but allowed him to take it to The New Yorker.
NBC is also the channel that runs 
“The Apprentice,” which means they 
must have hours of tape of Trump that 
could be revealing. They haven’t re-leased anything yet, despite a former producer on the show saying there were 
remarks far worse than the infamous 
“Access Hollywood” remarks.
Some see the Weinstein story as evi-
dence victims who are more famous have power over their situation, but in 
fact it’s just the opposite. I’m not sure 
the story would get as much traction if it just involved Rose McGowan and Am-bra Battilana Gutierrez — the sheer volume of women makes this indisputable. To blame 
victims of Weinstein’s harass-
ment and assault, even if they have become more successful actresses since then, is wrong. 
No matter how powerful they 
become it’s not their fault for not speaking out. Why is it up 
to them and not the prominent male pro-ducers and actors of Hollywood to speak 
up when they see injustice?
This cover-up for a sex offender 
wasn’t a product of Hollywood culture, 
but rather a symptom of rampant mi-
sogyny which is still all too present in 
the U.S. This is the most visible part of our culture — women manipulated and harassed in all industries whose accusa-tions are not taken seriously. Not much 
has changed since Anita Hill testified that 
she was harassed by Clarence Thomas, and then there’s Anthony Weiner, who most recently targeted an underage girl 
with explicit images online. In sports, 
there are doctors and coaches who take advantage of athletes.
Not believing victims is equivalent to 
being complicit in rape culture. So many 
people have knowledge of what is hap-
pening, and they choose to not do any-thing about it, even when it is meticu-lously reported, and yet NBC and people 
within Hollywood prioritize their careers 
over doing what is right.
The Weinstein scandal reminds us 
rather than blaming victims, we have to create an atmosphere that makes victims 
feel they can speak out. It’s wrong to at-
tribute this to Hollywood. Whether it’s a doctor on the U.S. women’s national gymnastics team, an entertainment exec-
utive or fellow classmate, it’s important 
to be vigilant and prioritize victims over protecting institutions.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
and journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Mondays.We need to keep a close eye on the 
EPA under President Donald TrumpColumn Column
Rape culture is very present — 
Harvey Weinstein has proven this
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
Hundreds of people gathered in down-
town Gainesville on Sunday after-
noon to celebrate members of the LG-BTQ+ community. The event included a parade and a festival that lasted for hours.  Photos by Lawson Nuland, Alligator Staff.Gainesville 
celebrates Pride  
ABOVE LEFT:
Blake Matchett, 31, who is a pianist 
as well as a vocalist, sings Elton John’s “Tiny Dancer” onstage as a part of the Gainesville Pride Festival. 
ABOVE RIGHT:
Performers from Dr. Sinn’s Freak Island Musical Sideshow play their instruments as they walk in the Gainesville Pride Parade.
LEFT: 
The Gainesville Roller Rebels carry rainbow flags as they skate in the Gainesville Pride Parade on Saturday.RIGHT:
Parade watchers proceed to Bo Diddley Community Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave., for the Gainesville Pride Festival on Saturday. The parade, which started at noon, finished at the festival, where there were vendors and musical performances.MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gatorsZombie Hunt
Oct. 27 - 30  •  7 pm- 11 pm
For tickets and more info: charitynerds.org/zombiesAll proceeds benefit
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By Shelby Cohron
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF groups are competing in the Field & 
Fork Food Drive Competition to raise dona-
tions for the pantry.
Teachers and faculty will donate non-
perishable items and toiletries to the Field and Fork Pantry, also known as the Alan and Cathy Hitchcock Pantry, by Nov. 7. The group that donates the most items will win a delivery of party snacks to celebrate, said Ambre Hobson, the assistant director of 
student success at UF and the supervisor of 
daily Field and Fork operations. 
The pantry provides food and toiletries to 
anyone with a valid Gator 1 Card, Hobson 
said.
As of Thursday, six groups are partici-
pating, including the College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences; the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce; the anthropology department; languages, lit-
eratures and cultures department; academic 
advising; and the English Language Institute. 
Anna Prizzia, the campus food systems 
coordinator, spoke with Hobson about start-
ing a food drive, Hobson said. Prizzia asked 
for the best time of year to donate, which is 
just before the holidays, she said.
“We are grateful for this food drive, but 
really any food drive and people who donate to the pantry,” Hobson said. 
Ashley Novello, an 18-year-old UF mar-
keting freshman, said she appreciates the 
food drive and Field and Fork Pantry for 
helping people at UF.
“We are so focused on problems outside 
of UF, and those are important,” Novello said. “But it is also important to remember 
that there are still people here within UF and 
in Gainesville who are struggling.” Field and Fork Pantry raises donation with campus competitionZachariah Chou / Alligator Contributor
DASHING DOGS
Tracker, a miniature dachshund, struts down the runway dressed as a minion from the 
movie series “Despicable Me. ” Tracker won second place in the costume contest that was held after the races.
ABOUT 22 DACHSHUNDS 
COMPETED IN THE RACE.
By Courtney Mims
Alligator Contributing Writer
Grifﬁ  n, a 3-year-old dachshund, dashed 
for a green tennis ball with his tongue ﬂ  ap-
ping.
A blur of blue wearing a No. 34 runner’s 
bib competed in the Third Annual Hallow-eener Derby at Westside Park, located at 
1001 NW 34th St., on Sunday. Grifﬁ  n, along 
with 21 other dachshunds, were cheered on 
by a crowd of about 60 people in the quali-ﬁ  er for the quarterﬁ  nals. Four rounds from 
1:30 p.m. to 2 p.m. determined the two 
dachshunds who raced in the ﬁ  nal round. Bowie, a reigning champion, beat out the 
other dogs for a second year.
This was Grifﬁ  n’s ﬁ  rst race, said his own-
er, Calie Osborne. Grifﬁ  n, who has a cleft lip, was the only special needs dog participating.
“We’re hoping that he’s going to be able 
to prove everybody wrong, the doctors that told us to put him down and the people who 
told us it’s not right to keep him, that he isn’t a normal dog,” Osborne said. “We’re trying 
to prove everybody wrong and win a race.”
The event was hosted by the Climb for 
Cancer Foundation, which gives ﬁ  nancial support to cancer patients and families. Ron Farb, a co-founder of the foundation, esti-
mated the event would raise $4,000.
“A small amount of money can make 
such a big difference,” Farb said. “It really resonates with our donors because a lot of 
people don’t have much money to give, but 
when they hear that a $20 donation will buy a gas card, they can feel that and touch that.”
Half of the money raised will go to the 
UF College of Veterinary Medicine for re-search in sarcomas, soft tissue tumors that 
are found in children and dogs.
This year’s event featured a new race for 
Chihuahuas. Four dogs participated in the race, which a dog named Bruno won. Farb 
said he added the race after seeing a similar event in Winter Park, Florida.
“When I saw it online, I said it was too 
funny,” Farb said. “The animal lovers are so passionate about their animals, so I thought 
this would be a nice addition to the event.”
The dog owners could also enter their 
pets into a costume contest. Osborne said she thought the event’s proceeds went to a 
great cause.
“You take something like cancer and you 
turn it into a positive thing and bring the community together, which I think is great,” Osborne said. “I couldn’t think of a better 
way to do it, especially with how much peo-
ple love their dogs.”Dachshunds race to raise money during Halloweener Derby By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Hunched over, eyes squinted and ﬁ  st closed 
tight, Leah Cobb-Lee stared at her husband on 
the other side of the ring.
Watched intently by a referee, the two pre-
pared for battle.
Rock, paper, scissors, shoot.The ﬁ  erce competition was for charity Sat-
urday night when about 75 people participated in a rock, paper, scissors tournament from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. to beneﬁ  t the Keira Grace Foun-dation. At First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., some participants dressed up in Halloween costumes, others just came to play. The groups raised about $2,000 for children diagnosed with cancer in develop-ing countries, said Eileen Lauzardo, co-found-er of the Keira Grace Foundation.
Lauzardo named the Keira Grace Founda-
tion after her daughter, whom she lost to leu-kemia. The foundation, created 12 years ago, uses its funds to help children in the Domini-can Republic who have been diagnosed with cancer, Lauzardo said.
“There are children every day who are be-
ing diagnosed with cancer that need our help, and if we don’t do these fundraising events for them, these children will die,” she said.
It was $20 to preregister or $25 at the door 
to participate in the tournament and receive a First Magnitude pint glass, said Patrick Bizub, board member of the Keira Grace Foundation. 
In high-stakes, single-elimination rounds, par-
ticipants matched up in different rings around the beer garden. With The Jazz Bandits play-ing in the background, people competed for 
the $100 ﬁ  rst-place cash prize and trophy, a 
$50 second-place prize and a $25 third-and-fourth-place prize.
Bribery was valued just as much as skill in 
this tournament, where losing players could 
pay their way into the next round, Bizub said. For $10, participants who didn’t win the ﬁ  rst 
round could proceed to the second.
When they weren’t going head-to-head in 
the ring, attendees grabbed food from food 
trucks parked outside including Relish Burg-ers, Mayﬂ  ower Cellars and Endless Summer 
Ice Cream Co.
Scissors cut paper, and Cobb-Lee came out 
victorious over her husband, Benjamin Lee. 
The two also dressed up for a costume con-test. Cobb-Lee came as Belle from “Beauty and 
the Beast,” and her husband dressed as Ash 
Williams from “The Evil Dead,” a 1981 horror 
movie.
Win or lose, the couple said they were hap-
py to dress up and spend time bonding with 
the community.
“It’s just nice to come out and support a 
good cause and have fun at the same time,” Cobb-Lee said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
YOUR CHOICE
• Bacon, Egg & Cheese Biscuit
• Sausage & Egg Biscuit
• County Ham Biscuit
• Steak Biscuit
Combos served with  1 fixin’ & a drink.
LIMITED TIME ONLY
We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!BREAKFAST COMBOS
ALL DAY, EVERY DAY!
3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com
$4
EACH
THE CANS ALERT 
FACILITIES SERVICES 
WHEN THEY’RE FULL.
By Katie Varan
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Paul Gruber ﬁ  nishes a 
building model he’s worked on for weeks, the ﬁ  rst thing he does is breathe a sigh of relief. 
The second thing he does is 
dispose of his leftover scraps and papers.
Gruber, a 20-year-old UF archi-
tecture junior, said he creates a large amount of paper and wood scraps with his projects. 
Gruber and UF’s more than 
50,000 students contribute to the large amount of waste produced at a university of it’s size. Between the dorms, dining halls and every-
day activities of the students and 
staff, about 9,000 tons of trash are 
sent to the landﬁ  ll from UF every year, said Liz Storn, a program co-ordinator at the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustain-
ability. 
To help manage campus gar-
bage, UF Facilities Services in-
stalled Bigbelly trash cans on campus in early October to keep waste contained and out of sight, said Mark Helms, the assistant vice 
president of Facilities Services.
The trash cans can be found 
in 70 high-trafﬁ  c locations around 
campus, like the Hub and the Plaza of the Americas, Helms said. The 
cans can hold ﬁ  ve times as much 
landﬁ  ll waste as traditional trash 
cans and send alerts to Facilities Services when they are full.
“The real value is the reduced 
number of times the units have to 
be emptied,” Helms wrote in an 
email.
The trash cans come at a price 
— each unit costs about $2,000 per year, Helms said. However, be-cause they are leased from Bigbel-
ly, the company is responsible for 
yearly maintenance and cleaning.
“We believe that the majority of 
the lease cost will be recovered in 
reduced pick up,” Helms said.
Storn said there has been an in-
crease in both recycling and com-posting on campus. About 2,500 tons of campus waste are recycled each year and about 4,000 tons are 
composted.
Still, the high amounts of waste 
take an environmental and ﬁ  nan-
cial toll, Storn said. 
“If you look at it, producing waste takes energy, and it takes money,” she said.
Storn said it’s inevitable that 
a large university will produce a lot of debris, but partnerships be-tween different groups on campus work to reduce the environmental 
impact.
Gruber said it’s important to be 
sustainable on campus.
“I think there comes a point 
when our Earth can’t handle all the waste that we’re producing at the 
rate we’re producing it,” Gruber 
said. “We need to ﬁ  nd alternative ways to reduce if we want to con-tinue this lifestyle.”
UF installs new trash cans to manage waste on campus Jessica Giles / Alligator Staff
Leah Cobb-Lee, 28, beats her husband Benjamin Lee, 35, in the second round of the rock, paper, scissors tournament Saturday. The event raised money for the Keira Grace Foundation.
Rock, paper, scissors tournament raises $2,000 for charityBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com  1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
2/1 + office
across from beef unit great street very quiet. $775 month. W/d hookup large screened porch. 3522581752     10-23-17-2-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYLooking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.
Family business in Alachua.
Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      
10-27-17-7-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas.
The ideal candidate has an AWESOMEpersonality, a FUN attitude, and is thetype of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $11.60/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.      11-13-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
15 - 20 hours / week. Fast & accurate typ-
ing required. Send resume to combehserv@
gmail.com    10-30-17-5-14
1.  Downpour, flood
1.  Oust, dethrone 5.  Clear, obvious
2.  ____ jacket6.  Moonshine 
3.  Slender boat 7.  Task
4.  ____ a check GLUDEE
PESDOEIANPL
HCOHO
AEEHTLR
DALOOGNNADRER
HCADSEANSWERS: 1A-Deluge  5A-Plain  6A-Hooch  7A-Errand
1D-Depose  2D-Leather  3D-Gondola  4D-Cashed  B-Poland10-23-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This covers 120,726 square miles and 
is home to about 40 million people.
BONUS1. Name the last Toronto Blue Jays 
pitcher before Aaron Sanchez in 2016 
to win 10 straight games.
2. Who holds the record for most 
All-Star Games on the National 
League roster?
3. In 2016, Oakland’s Sebastian Jan-
ikowski became the NFL’s all-time 
leader in field goals of 50 or more yards. Who had held the mark?
4. During the 2016-17 season, two 
Division I men’s college basketball 
coaches reached the milestone of 800 
career victories while coaching at 
their alma mater. Name them.
5. Who was the fastest NHL coach 
to 400 career wins?
6. Who was the last rookie driver 
before Alexander Rossi in 2016 to win 
the Indianapolis 500?
7. For the first time in 40-plus years, 
the ATP men’s tennis rankings at one 
point in 2017 had all five of its top players age 30 or older. Name them.
Answers
1. Roy Halladay won 15 in a row in 
2003.
2. Hank Aaron, Willie Mays and 
Stan Musial all played in 24 All-Star Games for the N.L.  
3. Detroit’s Jason Hanson, who had 
52 field goals of 50-plus yards.
4. Bob Huggins (West Virginia) and 
Roy Williams (North Carolina).
5. Bruce Boudreau did it in 663 
games (2007-16).
6. Helio Castroneves, in 2001.
7. Andy Murray, Novak Djokovic, 
Stan Wawrinka, Rafael Nadal and 
Roger Federer.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 23, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Elder and special needs law firm seek-
ing a receptionist for a part-time position. Candidate should be familiar with Microsoft Office, be comfortable on the phone, and have reliable transportation. Please email resume and cover letter to amandam@millerelderlawfirm.com.     10-30-17-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 10/30- 11/2 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.   10-30-17-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Eydie who sang
with Steve
Lawrence
6 Began a typical
triathlon
10 Went lickety-split
14 Construction
girder
15 Prefix with legal
16 Epitaph starter
17 Six-inch putt, say,
in golf lingo
18 Distinctive flair
19 Eye part
20 *A little bit at a
time, to a mason
23 Heavy favorites26 Those women, in
Spain
27 Shabby homes
28 Huge
31 Surprise police
action
32 *Next step up
after a crib, for
some toddlers
36 Grecian vessel of
verse
37 What “is yet to
come,” in aSinatra classic
39 Shogun
stronghold
40 *Hit by *NSYNC
about the end ofa relationship
42 When repeated,
a Samoan city
43 Sleep clinic study
44 Got via hard work
46 Chicago airport
49 Diplomatic office
50 *Iconic refrain
from the
Trammps’ 1976
hit “Disco
Inferno”
54 Playground retort55 Shapeless mass
56 Biting
60 Space Race
destination
61 Theater level
62 Cygnus’ brightest
star
63 “Rule, Britannia”
composer
64 “Goodness
gracious!”
65 Founded: Abbr.
DOWN
1 Jazzman’s job2 Japanese sash3 Sleep stage4 Did a Cuban
dance
5 TV chef Lagasse
6 Contractor’s
details
7 Base on balls
8 Spirited horse
9 Scads of
10 Child star Temple
11 Danger
12 “All My Children”
vixen
13 Newsroom
fixtures
21 Helpful
connections
22 Fathered,
biblically
23 Landscaper’s
planting
24 White with age
25 Sheeplike
28 Tripoli’s country
29 1958 Pulitzer-
winning author
James
30 Football carriers:
Abbr.
32 “Cheers” actress
Neuwirth
33 Spilled the __:
told all
34 Barely beats
35 Puppet Howdy __37 Easygoing sort38 Egg layer
41 Without exception
42 Struts like a
horse
44 Australian runner
45 Use sandpaper on46 Trump
predecessor
47 Funny stuff48 Felonious flames49 Subsided51 Ready, willing
and __52 Modern diary53 Discipline with
mats
57 Tolkien tree
creature
58 Stephen of 
“The CryingGame”
59 Consumer
protection org.,and a hint to the
answers to
starred clues
By Jeff Stillman©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/23/1710/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Get lovey-dovey
8 Ramble
15 Fertilizes, in a
way
16 Spousal consent
17 Dryer component
18 Creamy rice dish
19 Tiruchirappalli
title
20 California region
named for aliterary hero
22 It can lead into
day or night
23 Shade-loving
plant
25 Big chunk of time26 State probably
named for aFrench province
28 Mobile app?29 Relay settings31 Object of
veneration
32 Edible conifer
seed
34 Part36 Many an IKEA
buy
37 Slangy refusal
38 Brought down a
Giant, say
42 Arrivals
46 Kyrgyzstan range
47 Interior design49 Glitzy affair50 Informed, with
“in”
52 Sound heard
going up amountain, maybe
53 Film in which the
title character
says, “I don’t
permit thesuffering. Youdo”
54 Yoga class
syllables
55 “Please, 
please ... ”
58 Half-hearted
59 Asphalt
61 Prevailing
conditions
63 Absinthe
flavoring
64 Solemnly
commands
65 Gets new players
for
66 Hooks or luresDOWN
1 Road wreck
2 Capital south of
Addis Ababa
3 Not yet up
4 Bloke’s address5 Actress Scacchi
6 Siberian river to
the Arctic Ocean
7 Where the Boss’
band oncerehearsed
8 Hard heads
9 Buttermilk holder?
10 Indian tea region11 Bachelor’s last
words?
12 Rodents on
wheels, perhaps
13 Attended
informally
14 Like the wind
21 Muppet friend of
Elmo
24 Any one of the
male “Big Bang
Theory” maincharacters
27 Shoot for the
moon
29 Softened30 Man of La
Mancha
33 Nada35 Whale group
38 Buffet featuring
tortillas and
fixings
39 Hog’s call?
40 Biting41 Conditioned
response?
42 Repro man?43 Source of some
annoying online
messages
44 Crowing type45 The blues
48 Gear tooth51 Mercury money53 Medium board56 Source of folic
acid
57 Quaint retail
adjective
60 Letters on some
tee tags
62 Ancient Greek
statuary site:Abbr.
By Ed Sessa©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/21/1710/21/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, October 21, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesCoach Mary Wise and the 
Gators volleyball team won a road matchup with the Auburn Tigers on Sunday, Read the story, pg. 15.Four-star recruit commits to Gators
Offensive lineman Richard Gouraige (6-foot-5, 271 pounds) announced his 
decision to attend Florida instead of Clemson on Friday. Gouraige is now the fourth-highest rated recruit in UF football's 2018 recruiting class. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
UF receiver Dre Massey 
said he’s never been on a 
team with so many season-
ending injuries.
Safety Marcell Harris tore 
his Achilles in July. Quar-
terback Luke Del Rio broke 
his collarbone in September. 
And against Texas A&M, de-
fensive end Jordan Sherit 
was carted off the ﬁ  eld with a 
hip injury that sent him into surgery. 
“It’s crazy,” Massey said. 
“I’ve never seen anything 
like this.”
With a depleted roster, the 
Gators (3-3, 3-2 SEC) opened 
as 14.5-point underdogs, ac-
cording to Vegas Insider, in 
their matchup against No. 3 Georgia (7-0, 4-0 SEC) this weekend in Jacksonville. The Bulldogs likely would’ve 
been favored to win anyway, 
but in a game where every-thing needs to go right for 
UF, the injuries stand out as 
a factor Florida can’t control.
It’s more than just the 
season-ending injuries. Five 
other Florida starters were 
hampered by injuries in prac-tice last week. Tyrie Cleve-land had a high-ankle sprain and hasn’t caught a pass since September. Also deal-ing with an ankle injury is defensive end Jabari Zuniga, 
who sat out Florida’s loss to 
the Aggies. Receiver Kadar-ius Toney and safety Nick Washington also missed the Texas A&M game with shoul-
der injuries. On Wednesday, 
coach Jim McElwain said safety Chauncey Gardner and offensive lineman Martez 
Ivey were “very limited and 
basically out” for practice last week.
McElwain is trying not to 
use the injuries as an excuse. 
“I’m sure there’s not a 
coach in America who hasn’t been through something like this,” he said. 
It’s the same attitude 
McElwain’s had about his nine suspended players who are being investigated for credit card fraud: Ignore it 
and play with what you’ve 
got. 
Even looking past the in-
juries, the odds are against 
the Gators in Jacksonville. 
Georgia is averaging about 14 more points per game than Florida this season (37.6 vs. 23.7) and allowing about 10  Depleted Gators open as 14.5-point underdogs to Georgia
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators receiver Kadarius T oney (17) hasn't played since Florida's 17-16 loss to LSU on Oct. 7. T oney, a freshman, 
suffered a separated shoulder and was "very limited" in practice last week,  UF coach Jim McElwain said. 
A white man in a black V-
neck stood outside the Phillips 
Center on Thursday. On his 
right shoulder, he had pinned a 
pro-Nazi button. He proceeded to speak about how he disliked transgender people.
“If that triggers you,” he 
said, “then you can go cry.”
He had come to hear Rich-
ard Spencer, a white supremacist, speak at the University of Florida.
I also went, stepping out of my usual 
duties as a sports reporter to help cover the protests for this newspaper.
In the middle of it, in the middle of 
the police-lined street, the crowd chant-ing “Black lives matter” and “Nazi Scum” and “This is what democracy looks like,” I felt an 
overwhelming resentment for 
my day job: covering sports.
That feeling was confirmed 
the next day, when it was re-
vealed the man in the black 
V-neck, along with two others, had been arrested after one 
of them shot at, and missed, a group of protestors at a Gainesville bus stop late 
Thursday afternoon.
Nothing like Nazis shooting up your 
neighborhood to put things in perspec-In the wake of Spencer controversy, 
it’s OK to take a break from sportsIt’s Cohen Down / Opinion
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SOCCER: UF 2, UT 1
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Redshirt sophomore midﬁ  elder Parker 
Roberts, starting her third consecutive 
game on the back line, watched as Ten-
nessee’s Danielle Marcano received a 
headed pass into the box. Goalie Kaylan Marckese charged toward the Volunteer forward but couldn’t get to the ball before 
Marcano got a foot to it to chip it over her.
Roberts, following the ball the entire 
way, raced for the goal, left her feet, and 
bicycle kicked the ball away from the box just as it approached the goal line.
“It was funny because we talk about bikes (bicycle kicks) in practice a lot,” coach Becky Burleigh said in a release. “So for her to do it today to save a goal 
was pretty amazing.”
The No. 20 Gators (13-4-0, 7-2-0 SEC) 
rode Roberts’ timely save to a 2-1 victory 
over the No. 11 Volunteers (13-3-1, 5-3-1 
SEC) on Sunday afternoon at Regal Soccer 
Stadium in Knoxville, Tennessee.
“I thought our possession was the an-
swer,” Burleigh said. “We did a great job of keeping the ball. The combination play 
was very difﬁ  cult for them to deal with.”
Although the Gators and Volunteers Bicycle-kick save helps UF 
stave oﬀ   Vols  in Knoxville
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
VOLLEYBALL: UF 3, AU 1
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Positioned on the right side of the floor, 
Shainah Joseph jumped up and sent a kill 
to the back left corner of Auburn’s half of 
the court.
The spike from Joseph helped Florida 
clinch its third set of the match against 
the Tigers in its 16th win of the season on 
Sunday afternoon.
After the Gators (16-1, 8-1 SEC) won 
the first set, the Tigers evened things up 
by winning the second set with a .321 hit-ting percentage. UF, however, was able to 
hold Auburn to a .115 mark in the game, 
defeating the Tigers, 3-1 (25-16, 17-25, 25-
19, 25-15).
Florida had one of its best offensive 
days of the season. UF had 52 kills on 
116 attempts and committed only 13 at-
tack errors. Five Gators had eight or more 
kills and four of them hit over .250 in the match.
Coach Mary Wise said her offense’s 
ability to minimize mistakes played a big 
role in the victory.
“We limited our errors, made some de-
fensive adjustments,” Wise said. “I can’t 
say enough good things in tonight’s per-
formance by Allie Monserez and Shainah 
Joseph.”
Joseph led all players with 13 kills and eclipsed a hitting percentage over .500 for the third time this season.
“She’s a very physical player,” Wise 
said. “One of the things that was happen-
ing is she wasn’t getting into a really good rhythm. And what we need her to do is 
just go and explode to the ball.”
Sophomore Rachael Kramer also con-
tinued her recent stretch of solid play. In 
Florida’s two games against Alabama and Auburn this weekend, Kramer had 25 kills and a hitting percentage of .535.
Monserez, the redshirt junior setter for 
Florida, rebounded from a rough game against Alabama and more than doubled her assist total from Friday with 41 against Auburn.
Senior Carli Snyder continued her dom-
inance behind the back line as well, gath-ering three aces and nine kills on Sunday.
For the Tigers (11-8, 4-6 SEC), only one 
player — junior Brenna McIlroy — had double-digit kills (10). They also had 24 attack errors and committed six service aces.
The Gators will now travel home and 
prepare for their match against South Carolina on Friday night at the O’Connell Center. Florida will then hit the road once again with trips to Mississippi State and Kentucky the following week.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgJoseph leads Gators to road victory over Auburn Tigers
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Redshirt senior Shainah Joseph led Florida on Sunday with a team-high 13 kills in a 3-1 victory over Auburn. “She’s a very physical player, ” coach Mary Wise said.
MEN’S GOLF
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Freshman John Axelsen had a rough 
start to his season, finishing 7 over in 
both of the Gators’ first two tournaments of fall before being removed from the line-up ahead of their next competition.
He bounced back in a big way on Sun-
day.
On Day 1 of the Tavistock Collegiate 
Invitational at Isleworth Country Club in Windermere, Florida, Axelsen was 5 un-der, carding eight birdies on his way to a share of the individual lead in the tourna-ment. As a team, Florida sits in second place, trailing only Illinois.
“Today was a great start for us,” coach 
J.C. Deacon said in a release. “We were solid across the board. I love when all our counting rounds are par or better. It’s the sign of good things to come.”
Axelsen carded six of his eight birdies 
on the front nine, before slowing down on the back nine. “To have John Axelsen lead us the way he did is also really excit-
ing,” Deacon said. “We all knew the great 
play was coming and we’re happy his work paid off with a 67 today.”
Axelsen wasn’t the only Gator golfer to 
bounce back on Sunday. Senior Alejandro Tosti finished 1 under and is currently tied for 11th.
After winning the first tournament of 
the season, Tosti struggled in back-to-
back tournaments, and Florida had to 
look elsewhere for production. However, if the senior can continue to put together solid rounds like he had in Round 1, it will likely mean good things for the Gators.
Junior Gordon Neale and Fresh-
man Chris Nido both carded respectable rounds as well, finishing even par, and 
are both tied for 22nd.
Redshirt sophomore Blake Dyer made 
his season debut on Sunday, but his day 
didn’t go as smoothly as it did for the rest of the UF team, as Dyer finished 7 over. He was sitting at 2 under after the front nine, but he shot a nine on a par 4 to open the back nine, and subsequently posted two double bogeys, falling into a tie for 
84th.
Despite Dyer’s collapse, Florida still 
has four golfers in the top 25, and as it 
only trails Illinois by 3 strokes.
“We know there is a lot of golf left and 
we will have to remain super patient and disciplined at Isleworth,” Deacon said. “It’s nice to have ourselves in position again.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgAxelson’s 8 birdies put  UF 
in second place at TavistockWOMEN’S TENNIS
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
After a long weekend of competition in At-
lanta, one member of the Gators women’s ten-
nis team remains in the main draw of singles play at the ITA Southeast Regionals.
Anna Danilina defeated Georgia Tech’s 
Paige Hourigan on Sunday afternoon, clinch-ing her spot in the tournament’s final match. The Russia native has five singles wins going into this morning’s championship match.
On Sunday, No. 15-ranked Danilina faced 
off against No. 105-ranked Marta Gonzalez of Georgia in the quarterfinals and took the win in straight sets, 6-4, 6-4.
Danilina moved on to the semifinals against 
the No. 49-ranked Hourigan of Georgia Tech and won the match, 6-2, 7-5.
“I’m really happy Anna will play for the 
title tomorrow,” assistant coach Dave Balogh said in a release. “I was impressed with her ability to make some adjustments and keep her cool at the end of the match when it got close. It’s going to be a great and challenging singles final.”
No. 93-ranked Brooke Austin saw her run 
in the singles tournament end after losing to No. 11-ranked Estela Perez-Somarriba of Miami, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.
On Saturday, in the doubles portion of the 
tournament, the duo of Danilina and Peggy Porter lost to Mariana Gould and Katarina Jokic of Georgia in the semifinals, 8-7(4).
The pair of Austin and Katie Kubicz were 
also unsuccessful in advancing past the semi-final round after losing to Ulyana Grib and Maryna Veksler of Florida International, 8-4.  
In singles play, Austin defeated Monica Ma-
tias of UCF in two sets, 6-0, 6-2. Danilina had a successful match against No. 103-ranked Kenya Jones of Georgia Tech as well, winning the contest, 6-3, 6-3.
On Friday, Kubicz and Porter both won 
their first singles matches of the main draw but then fell in the second round in three sets.
Kubicz lost to No. 23-ranked Johnnise Ren-
aud of Georgia Tech, 6-3, 5-7, 6-1, and Porter was defeated by Annette Goulak of Georgia, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2.
Kubicz and Porter finished their singles 
play in the tournament during the second round of consolation play on Saturday.
Kubicz lost to Jessica Cortes Chaves of 
South Florida, 2-6, 7-5, 1-0(8). Porter was de-feated by Ulyana Shirokova of Miami in two sets, 6-2, 6-4.
Overall, the Gators have racked up 10 wins 
and five losses in singles play and four wins and two losses in doubles play for the tourna-ment.
A win for Danilina will secure her spot in 
the Oracle ITA National Fall Championships in Indian Wells, California, in November. No other Gator has received an automatic bid for the fall championships.
Danilina will take the court this morning at 
10 against Jokic of Georgia in the main draw of singles play for the title.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgUF’s Danilina reaches singles 
final of Atlanta tournament
John Axelsen (-5) T1
Alejandro Tosti (-1) T11
Gordon Neale (E) T22
Chris Nido (E) T22
Blake Dyer (+7) T84Individual standings16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2017
played to a scoreless tie in 
the first half, UF needed 
just nine minutes to break through in the second. Flor-ida’s leading scorer, Deanne Rose, took a pass near the 
far side of the Tennessee box 
from Gabby Seiler. Rose took on her defender one-on-one, dribbling a few paces into the box, then reversed course to pass to Sarah Troccoli, who was streaking into the box unmarked. Troccoli hit 
the ball first-touch from the 
penalty-kick spot at the Ten-nessee goalie, who only man-aged to get a couple fingers 
on the shot as it trickled by 
for the first goal of the game.
Tennessee tied it up eight 
minutes later off a free kick from about 45 yards out. 
However, Florida contin-
ued to press the attack and force multiple turnovers in its opponent’s territory. The 
Gators’ winning goal ulti-
mately came from one such sequence.A Volunteer midfielder 
took a heavy touch just shy of midfield, and junior Briana Solis pounced on the mistake. She tackled the ball away and into possession of freshman 
Madison Alexander. Solis, 
continuing her run, streaked past the UT back line that had converged on Alexander. She received the pass back, lined up her shot and drove the ball into the far corner of the net just beyond the reach 
of the Volunteer goalie for 
the game-winning score.
“It was a classic late-in-
the-season SEC meeting be-
tween two good teams,” Bur-
leigh said.
The Gators return to 
Gainesville to wrap up their regular season when they 
take on No. 3 South Carolina 
(14-1, 8-0 SEC) on Thurs-day night at 7 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14Gators leave Tennessee with a 2-1 win against the Volunteers
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Briana Solis (11) scored in the 80th minute to put the Gators up, 2-1, and secure a win 
in Knoxville, T ennessee, on Sunday. With the win, the Gators improved to 13-4 on the season. 
tive.
That perspective? In times like 
these, in times of divisiveness so 
close to home and hatred so close 
to where we live and where we go to classes and where we teach and where we work, it’s OK to forget 
about sports for a little.
It’s OK to not tweet about 
Thursday Night Football. It’s OK 
to take a break from logging on your Twitter account to type “#Fi-
reNussmeier” at the Florida Gators 
football Twitter handle.
It’s OK to take a break from 
tweeting at a four-star recruit that 
he’s making a big mistake by com-
mitting to LSU.
It’s OK to put that aside and fo-
cus on things that matter. Things that aren’t decided by numbers on 
a scoreboard, but which have real 
impacts on us, our loved ones and the people around us.
I wrote something similar in 
a column last year. And while it bothers me that I feel the need to write this again, it seems just as important now as it was then and bears repeating.
Sports are great and lots of fun, 
but please, don’t be consumed by them.
Pledge to take a break from silly 
games when real life is happening on your doorstep. Leave the com-forting escape hatch that sports provides and become involved in your community. In something 
other than passing yards and bat-
ting averages.
Go outside your comfort zone. Feel things other than fandom. Feel hurt. Feel joy. Feel sadness. Feel anger. And really feel them. Not at the opposing team.
Feel saddened at people who 
truly hate. Or happiness at people who truly love.
Because sports are great and 
fun and a big, silly game, but 
that’s all they are. 
That hit me again on Thurs-
day, and I was scared. As a Jewish 
American, I couldn’t help but hold back tears as I saw black swasti-
kas drawn on a man’s shirt, a sign 
of such hate and barbarism that drove the movement which anni-hilated millions of people like me 
less than a century ago.
Sometimes, it’s OK to realize 
there are a few select things in life 
bigger than your fantasy football team and what your incoming, 
highly-rated quarterback recruit 
has to say about how he loves the coaching staff.
Because can’t that wait? Can’t 
sports always wait? Can’t they be suspended for a day or two and everything will still be OK?
They can. But some things 
can’t. Some things will always be 
there, no matter how good it feels 
to escape from reality into a game, no matter how your fantasy team did this weekend.
So try taking a break. Sports 
will still be there when you get back.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.
org and follow him on Twitter @icohneb.COLUMN,  from pg. 14It's OK to put sports on pause
fewer points (12.6 vs. 23.3). 
Both teams have faced Ten-
nessee and Vanderbilt this year, 
with the Bulldogs averaging a 
36-point margin of victory in those games compared to UF’s 10. Gardner, a sophomore safe-
ty, said Florida beat itself in its last two games.
“We can’t think about the 
past,” he said Wednesday. 
While the odds are against 
the Gators, Gardner’s focusing on what he and the team can 
control going into Saturday’s matchup at 3:30. 
“Just prepping for Georgia’s 
offense and defense," Gardner 
said, "knowing personnel and 
what they like to do best and 
knowing their weaknesses and executing practice."
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Gators face No. 3 Georgia on Saturday
Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain isn't using his team's injuries as an excuse for losses to LSU and T exas 
A&M. "I'm sure there's not a coach in America who hasn't been through something like this, " he said. 
