We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 18 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF men’s basketball team begins 
practice
Coach Mike White is looking to build off last year’s Elite Eight run, pg. 14Kal Penn to speak at UF
He is a comedian and former White House employee, pg. 5
Flooding closes northbound lanes on US 441
Extreme ﬂ  ooding caused the closure Monday , pg. 5ABOUT 100 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE MEETING.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Residents of Meadowbrook used 
to live on an expansive golf course, but now it’s more like a lakefront 
property. 
Severe ﬂ  ooding was just one of 
the numerous complaints voiced at 
the post-Hurricane Irma town hall 
meeting Monday night. 
At 5:30 p.m., about 100 people 
gathered at the Alachua County Senior Recreation Center, located at 5701 NW 34th Blvd., to discuss recovery successes and failures fol-lowing the Category 1 storm. The speakers included County Com-
missioner Ken Cornell, Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe, Alachua Coun-ty Sheriff Sadie Darnell, Emergency Management Director John Shaw and FEMA representatives. As the county continues through 
the recovery phase, local ofﬁ  cials wanted to address the needs of those who are still struggling in the 
aftermath, Poe said. 
“Some of you have gotten back 
to normal, and your life is proceed-
ing as according to plan, and some of you are still looking for some so-lutions to some problems,” he said. 
One of the most common issues 
was ﬂ  ooding, which was primarily in Meadowbrook neighborhood, 
the Hills of Santa Fe and Robin 
Lane. 
Frustrated Meadowbrook resi-Residents air grievances at post-Hurricane Irma town hall 
SEE STORM,  PAGE 3T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
VIGIL FOR VEGAS
David Ruiz holds a candle in front of Gainesville City Hall during a candlelight vigil Monday night 
honoring the victims of the Las Vegas shooting.
THE MUSICIAN SUFFERED 
CARDIAC ARREST 
MONDAY MORNING.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
The same day that Tom Petty, 
a musical legend and Gainesville 
native, died, Jason Hedges found a puppy he wants to name “Tom-my.”
Hedges took the labrador and 
pitbull mix dog to a mural that appeared Tuesday morning on the 34th Street Wall after Petty’s manager, Tony Dimitriades, an-nounced his death Monday.
“Love you always, Gainesville 
No. 1 Son, Tom Petty,” the mu-
ral reads.
Early Mon-
day morning 
in his Malibu home, Petty suffered cardiac arrest and was rushed to the UCLA Medical Center. The 66-year-old singer could not be revived and died at 8:40 p.m. surrounded by loved ones, Dimitriades wrote in a statement posted on Petty’s web-site. 
Petty is survived by his wife, 
Dana York; and two daughters, Adria and Kimberly Violette, ac-
cording to ABC news. 
To the world, Petty was a rock 
‘n’ roll giant, but to Gainesville 
locals he was another hometown boy. 
Petty’s roots run deep through-
out the local community. Born and raised in Gainesville, Petty was a Gainesville High School alumnus. 
After catching his big break with 
Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, he returned home in September of 2006 to play at the O’Connell Cen-ter. His hometown welcomed him back with open arms and a key to the city. 
“He’s part of our town,” Hedg-
es said. “The music sounds like 
Gainesville to me.”Gainesville native 
Tom Petty dies at 66
SEE PETTY,  PAGE 3IT WAS THE DEADLIEST 
MASS SHOOTING IN 
THE NATION’S MODERN 
HISTORY.
Alligator Staff Report
For a brief moment Monday 
night, all was still at the base of 
Gainesville City Hall.
Only the sound of 59 bell 
chimes ﬁ  lled the air as about 40 
residents and organizers stood 
with bowed heads and candles in hand to honor the 59 killed and hundreds injured after the Las Ve-gas Strip shooting Sunday night.
Each chime was meant for ev-
ery individual who passed away, 
said Amanda Welch, a member-
ship organizer for the Gainesville branch of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America.
“This is not normal, this is not 
inevitable,” Welch, 35, told the crowd. “This is not the price we have to pay for living in a free so-ciety, and it never should be dis-
cussed as such.”
The shooting killed at least 59 
people and injured more than 500, including one UF student, at the 
Route 91 Harvest Festival, accord-ing to ABC News. The lone gun-man, Stephen Paddock, was found 
dead in his hotel room by police. 
The FBI said there is no evidence it was an act of international ter-rorism. 
Kristin Babik, a third year law 
student at the UF Levin College of Law, is in stable condition af-ter being shot on Sunday. Babik is suffering from a collapsed lung 
and broken ribs, the law school 
dean Laura Rosenbury wrote in an email. The bullet missed her spine and other major organs.
Rosenbury wrote in the email 
that she has been in contact with Babik as she rests.
“We look forward to welcoming 
her back to Gainesville as soon as she recovers,” Rosenbury said.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlan-
do said Babik was also a UF un-dergraduate student. She studied criminology and psychology, grad-uating cum laude in May 2015. 
Shian Knuth didn’t know Babik 
well when the two were in Phi Mu  Sorority together at UF. But when Knuth, a Las Vegas resident, heard Babik had been injured, she drove over to the hospital.
“What if this poor girl is all 
alone in Vegas?” Knuth said. “Can 
you imagine waking up in a hos-
pital and not having your mom or sibling there?”
Since about 8 a.m. Monday, 
Knuth and another of Babik’s friends have been in the hospital room with Babik. Knuth said she’s in and out and is still in a lot of pain. She said Babik wants to get 
better and has asked about when 
she can get back to school.
UF student injured, Gainesville mourns after Vegas shooting
SEE VEGAS,  PAGE 4
Petty
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 18
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives John Lopez, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Lucy Baez, Valentina Sokolova   
  Ryan Chase, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  85° LOW  68°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
‘Rare, Beautiful & Fascinating: 
100 Years @FloridaMuseum’ 
exhibit now openThe Florida Museum marks its 100th anniversary with a free 
exhibit. The “Rare, Beautiful & 
Fascinating” exhibit features sci-entists in a working lab, extinct species, a humpback whale skel-
eton and a 3-D printer. For more 
information, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/exhibits/100-years.‘Paris Noir’ showing 
The UF African American Studies 
Program is showing “Paris Noir: When African Americans Came to Paris” on Thursday at 6 p.m. in Room 100 of Smathers Library. The filmmaker, Julia Browne, 
will participate in a Q&A session 
after the film. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Faculty Member from the  
UF College of Journalism and Communications 
and
Student Member at Large
(unpaid members of the Board of Directors)
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 6.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes 
at that time to read information regarding the application process. The 
application must be returned to The Alligator by Monday, October 
9 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and 
selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on October 26 at  10 a.m. Applicants 
must be present at that meeting to be considered. Student Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university students. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the openings of the following:WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
dents recalled the lack of action 
taken by local government after severe ﬂ  ooding from hurricanes in 2004. Now, 13 years later, resi-dents wonder why they are faced 
with the same problem.
Other attendees brought 
concerns about debris that remained uncollected on private roads. 
Patrick Irby, from the Alachua 
County Public Works Department, 
assured residents that all debris in mandatory areas would be picked up, but resources are stretched thin 
from natural disasters around the 
country. 
Alachua County spokesperson 
Mark Sexton said local ofﬁ  cials knocked on nearly 600 doors to offer assistance to those who suffered serious damage from the storm. 
Now, the county has four large 
trucks to help clear debris along with their normal waste management crews. Even still, the county expects 
it will take about 83 days to collect all 
of the remaining debris and dispose of it, Sexton said. 
“It’s an enormous job,” he said. 
“We’re doing the best we can with the resources we have.”
The county also addressed the 
unmet needs of pet shelters. Cornell said that the county has secured 500 animal crates to be used for future pet shelters.
Local leaders praised the unity 
the community showed during the storm but recognized there were ﬂ  aws in the preparation for and recovery from Hurricane Irma, such as addressing ﬂ  ood-prone areas and communicating debris pickup. 
“We did a lot of things not so 
well,” Cornell said. “We need to work on how we improve not only on our response, but certainly on 
our preparation and on the legacy 
issues that exist throughout our community.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
STORM,  from pg. 1Cleaning all the storm’s debris will take about 83 days
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
GAINESVILLE’S NO. 1 ONE SON
A mural dedicated to Gainesville native T om Petty appeared on the 34th Street Wall in Gainesville, 
Florida following the death of the musician Monday evening. 
Petty’s music was so inﬂ  uential 
to Hedges that he created Heavy 
Petty, a Tom Petty tribute band well-known around Gainesville. Although the band has been around for a little 
more than ﬁ  ve years, it takes on a 
whole new meaning after Petty’s passing, he said. 
Petty’s music resonates with so 
many, particularly in the Gainesville community, because his lyrics were real and honest, Hedges said.
“He wrote about things that were 
true to him, and that’s why people 
connect with it,” he said.
Samuel Lack has connected with 
Petty’s music since he was 7 years 
old. 
The UF political science and eco-nomics senior said songs like “The 
Waiting” were the soundtrack of his 
life. 
Lack remembers listening to Petty 
at Gator game tailgates at 10 years old while he tossed a football with 
his dad. 
“It evokes these memories that 
will be hard to replace and hard to 
get over,” the 21-year-old said. 
Petty’s music is reﬂ  ective of the 
town that raised him, Lack said. 
“Gainesville’s got such a unique 
atmosphere and such a unique char-acter that I think Tom Petty personi-ﬁ  es,” he said. 
The inﬂ  uence is mutual, Lack 
said. Gainesville would not be the city it is without the life of Tom Petty. 
“I think Gainesville has been 
shaped by him and the music,” he said.PETTY,  from pg. 1Petty received a key to 
the city in 20064   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
From her apartment Sunday 
night, Knuth heard the police sirens 
and distant shouts of “move, move, move!” She called all her loved ones to check on them, then settled 
in for a night of restless sleep.
“It was surreal,” the 26-year-old 
said. “When I woke up I was a lot 
more shaken.”
Knuth started a GoFundMe, 
called “Help Kristin, Vegas Shoot-ing Victim,” with Babik’s permis-sion. The money will help cover medical bills and travel costs for 
Babik’s family, Knuth said. As of press time, the page has raised 
$18,157.
“Something really horrible hap-
pened,” Knuth said. “And this per-son needs help.”
One of Babik’s friends Matt Ru-
mack described her as energetic and friendly. The two worked to-gether at the University Athletic As-sociation from 2011 to 2013.
He knew Babik had been work-
ing at an internship in Las Vegas for the past few months and had re-cently posted concert videos to her Snapchat. He immediately thought 
of her when he heard about the 
shooting. Babik’s brother posted on her Facebook to say she was hit and in the hospital.
“Obviously, your heart sinks at 
that point, knowing somebody you know is involved, because you nev-er really think that’s going to hap-pen,” said Rumack, a 28-year-old 
UF alumnus. 
At the Monday night vigil, 
Gainesville residents prayed for 
Babik and others.
In the moment of silence, as 
residents passed the candles to one another, Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe knelt to the ground.
“Here we are again,” Poe said in 
his address ahead of the silence.
Just a little more than a year 
ago, residents gathered in the very same courtyard to honor those lost in the Pulse nightclub shooting, Poe said. 
Terry Fleming, a co-president of 
Pride Community Center of North Central Florida, said some of the 
500 candles and candle holders 
used at the vigil were extras from the Pulse shooting vigil 15 months ago.
The Pulse shooting was the 
deadliest mass shooting in modern history in the United States until the Las Vegas shooting. 
Fleming said he was dumb-
struck when he saw Facebook com-ments Monday morning about the shooting.“It makes you think of Pulse,” 
he said. “It’s the same senseless slaughter for reasons we probably never fully understand.”
Fleming said he worries about 
how ubiquitous mass shootings 
have become in the country. The 
Las Vegas shooting was the 237th mass shooting nationally in the past year, according to CBS News.
“When we become inert, when 
this is normalized, we stop caring,” he said. “I hope that’s a place we never get to.” 
Romy Ellenbogen, David Hoff-
man and Meryl Kornﬁ  eld contrib-uted to this report. 
VEGAS,  from pg. 1The student’s friend started a GoFundMe to help the familyBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Student senators from both sides 
of the aisle emphasized bipartisan-
ship after Inspire candidates were 
sworn into their seats Tuesday 
night. 
Inspire members took 20 out of 
100 Student Senate seats after last 
week’s election. Instead of unani-
mous appointments, Inspire nomi-nated their own for the member-at-large positions: two regular senators who sit on the replacement and 
agenda committee, which appoints 
replacement senators when seats are empty. 
Inspire members nominated Joel 
Kratt (Inspire, Tolbert) and Nathan 
Morse (Inspire, District D) for the 
positions. Both lost to Impact can-didates Nicholas Adams (Business Administration, Impact) and Noah 
Harden (Impact, Freshman). 
During the elections, some sena-tors abstained from voting. Harden 
won 48 to 21, and Adams won 46 
to 17. 
“There’s still a lot of work to be 
done, and that’s not going to hap-
pen if we bicker at each other,” Morse said.
Senators elected Ian Green (Im-
pact, Business Administration) as Senate President and Janae Moodie (Impact, College of Liberal Arts and 
Science) as Senate President Pro 
Tempore. Former Senate President Jackie Phillips was appointed the new Action SG chairwoman despite 
opposition to appoint her unani-
mously. 
Green said this is the ﬁ  rst time 
the senate president and pro-tem-pore positions will be held by black 
students. 
“America is very diverse nation 
and our college should reﬂ  ect and 
represent that,” he said. 
Green also mentioned the impor-tance of bipartisanship.
“I hope they reach across the 
aisle as much as possible,” Green 
said. “That’s the only way we’ll  succeed.”
The one tied seat between Im-
pact candidates went to Maria Perez 
after the other candidate, Santiago 
Gutierrez, withdrew. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgNew Inspire, Impact members sworn into SG Senate WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
HE WILL BE PAID $65,000.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Actor, comedian and former White House 
employee Kal Penn will speak at UF later this 
month.
Accent Speakers Bureau is bringing Penn, 
known for his work in the “Harold and Ku-
mar” comedy ﬁ  lm series and his former role as White House Associate Director of Public Engage-
ment, will be paid $65,000 to speak, Accent chairwom-an Shelby Buchanan wrote in an email.
Penn will speak on Oct. 
11 in the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts, with the show beginning at 8 
p.m. and doors opening at 7 p.m. Each student can pick up two tickets with a Gator 1 Card on 
Oct. 10. 
“This year, we’re really interested in ﬁ  nd-
ing speakers who have amazing stories to tell 
who will still appeal to as many students as possible,” Buchanan said. “Kal’s acting experi-ence and time spent in the White House are a unique combination, and we’re very excited to hear him share his experiences.”
Buchanan said Penn will participate in an 
hourlong discussion and a student question and answer session. 
Dustin Tyson, a UF history junior, said he’s 
excited to hear from Penn as a fellow come-dian. Tyson performs stand-up comedy at The Midnight and Rocky’s Piano Bar.
Tyson said he’s seen Penn’s movies and 
thought they were funny, and hopes it trans-lates in person.
“Some of the people are just actor types and 
not that funny when you go see them in per-
son,” the 21-year-old said.Kal Penn, actor and public servant, to speak at UF
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Both northbound lanes and the outer 
southbound lane of U.S. Route 441 have 
remained closed on Paynes Prairie since Monday morning due to extreme ﬂ  ooding. 
At about 2 a.m., Florida Highway Pa-
trol ofﬁ  cers shut down both northbound lanes and one southbound lane of U.S. 441 beginning at County Road 234 in Micano-py, said Lt. Patrick Riordan, public affairs ofﬁ  cer for FHP Troop B. The remaining southbound lane is not expected to close.
“We just want to ensure, especially 
during nighttime hours, that people have a safe place to travel,” he said. 
There will continue to be a patrolman 
on that stretch of road monitoring condi-tions while ﬂ  ooding persists, Riordan said. 
In the meantime, FHP encourages northbound motorists to use CR 234 west-bound to Interstate 75 north, according to the press release.
Deborah Petronella, who lives near 
Bivens Arm, said she uses U.S. 441 three to four times a week. For her, the closures aren’t catastrophic, but they are an incon-venience. 
“Life can still go on,” she said. The Gainesville resident believes that 
a little foresight would have been helpful prior to building the road through a ﬂ  ood-
prone area.
As far as the wildlife goes, it’s nothing 
Petronella isn’t already accustomed too. 
“I’m more worried about seeing (alliga-
tors) in my own backyard from the swamp 
than I am on the roadside,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgFlooding closes US Route 441Penn
HE WAS FOUND WITH 
BLOOD ON HIS HAND.
By Catie Wegman
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested 
early Monday morning after he kicked in a glass door at Lake-side Residential Complex, Uni-versity Police said. 
Sean Weaver Reagin, 19, 
was arrested more than an hour after ofﬁ  cers responded to a noise complaint at Lakeside at 5:17 a.m. The ofﬁ  cers noticed the glass door was completely shattered, ac-
cording to an arrest report. 
A witness 
told the of-ﬁ  cer he saw Reagin kick the glass door 
and leave the 
scene, ac-
cording to the report.
Ofﬁ  cers located Reagin, who 
was walking down Fraternity Drive. An ofﬁ  cer noticed he had blood on his right hand, which was an injury from the broken glass, according to the report. 
In an interview, Reagin told police that he lived in Lakeside and admitted to breaking the door. He told police he was frus-trated that he left his property inside the dorm, according to the report. 
Reagin is a UF architecture 
freshman, UF spokesperson 
John Hines wrote in an email.
Reagin was arrested on 
charges of property damage and 
criminal mischief. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released on his own recognizance Tuesday afternoon. 
Reagin could not be reached 
for comment. UPD: Student arrested for  
breaking glass door at Lakeside
Reagin
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITOR
Stop putting off applying for internships
I would like to (metaphorically, of course) 
pull the hair of whoever came up with the concept that waiting until your last two 
years of college to take on internships is 
a good idea. Maybe this person was hop-
ing more people would relax during their first two years or was concerned that most col-
lege freshmen don’t have the knowledge they 
need to intern, but I’m here to tell you that simply isn’t true.
As I work through applying for jobs post-grad I’m so 
glad I started working in my field from the beginning, 
because so many post-grad jobs require several years 
of experience. I can assure you my career field isn’t the only one that requires this.
The way our system is setup today, you go to col-
lege, intern the last two years and then hope and pray that’s enough to land you a decent job. With the com-petition becoming fiercer, however, I encourage those of you who are currently freshmen and sophomores to start applying for internships now. While you might 
feel like you’re too young to be thinking about your 
life after you graduate, it’s important to remember that three to four years from now is not far away at all. Be-fore you know it you’ll be scanning Indeed and other 
mediocre job sites to try to find something that doesn’t 
bore you half to death and pays a livable wage. The way to get that job is to start working or joining a club that helps go further down your career path now. 
Whether starting now means that you actually go 
to career fair this month, or you simply call or email places nearby that you’d like to work for is up to you, but do something to show that your first two years here weren’t spent completely at Midtown or in the library. 
I stress this because I want the best for you, and I was 
lucky enough to have family and older friends in un-dergrad that stressed the same thing to me. It is never too early to start investing in your dream job.
Since I came to UF with an associates de-
gree, I was pushed into getting an internship my first semester here. While it took me until my second semester to land a job that I ended 
up loving and still work at today, I was glad I 
went to the career fair during my first semes-ter. By going and talking to employers for the 
first time, I figured out the do’s and don’ts of small talk and networking, the things that employers found most 
interesting about me and most importantly, I was able 
to shake off my fears of talking to powerful people in my industry. This kind of experience is essential. It not only helps you grow, but gets your name thrown out 
there a bit and might even land you a job somewhere 
down the line.  
While I’m grateful that I came to UF with two years 
under my belt, at times I wish I had the entire four years to intern at a few more places than I did. While 
my time for internships is almost up, if you’re a fresh-
man or a sophomore there are endless opportunities for you now. Please don’t be foolish and ignore them, as you’ll only hurt yourself in the long run. 
So, dear readers, I encourage you to get out to a 
career showcase, make yourself vulnerable and, most importantly, learn. Learn if the major you’re in is the career field you want to be in, and learn how the pro-fessionals in your career act and dress. Pick up all of 
these things now while you’re still in college so that 
one day, when it actually matters, you’ll know. 
Sara Marino is UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.When tragedies hit 
close to home 
We at the Alligator, along with everyone else in the 
U.S., woke up to some terrifying statistics Monday morning. The deadliest mass shooting in recent U.S. history. This tragic event occurred in Las Ve-gas, where one man managed to bring 17 guns into 
a hotel room, knock out the windows and begin indiscrimi-nately firing into a crowd hundreds of feet away. This one man took away a record from Florida that never should have been established in the first place. 
For journalists, our initial reaction is to run to the scene 
of the crime and get as much information out to our readers. When we’re thousands of miles away from the incident, that turns into obsessively checking Twitter, zoning out of your morning history lecture and maybe even shedding a few tears for strangers across the country.
Through our shock and disbelief we would like to thank 
some UF College of Journalism and Communications alumni in Las Vegas right now. Scott Davidson, Rachel Crosby, Wade Millward, editor-in-chief J. Keith Moyer and recent graduate Briana Erickson, who are all working at the Las Vegas Review-Journal. They and all the other reporters in Vegas have been working tirelessly to send the rest of the nation information. We can only imagine the horror of watching this senseless violence unfold while still keeping it together enough to do your job.
It is rather unique that so many UF alumni migrated to 
Las Vegas. Our current editor-in-chief interned there this sum-mer, while Spring 2017’s managing print editor interned there the summer prior. Our point is that we may be far away, but to some of us here in Gainesville, Vegas feels a little bit like home. Plus, one of our own Gators was injured in the shoot-ing: Kristin Babik, a third year law student. 
We don’t have to go over how we were feeling when the 
Pulse tragedy occurred more than a year ago. We’re feeling it again: helpless, confused and angry. All we can do is ask our-selves: How can this be prevented in the future? 
If the aftermath of this shooting isn’t the time to talk about 
gun control, then when is? Nothing was changed when chil-dren were shot down at Sandy Hook Elementary. Nothing was changed when our Florida LGBTQ+ and Latino neigh-bors were killed while trying to enjoy a night out. Is anything going to change now? Why would you need military-grade, high-powered rifles for anything other than murdering other humans as fast as possible?
Amid the recent controversies in our political climate, peo-
ple keep insisting that the U.S. is the greatest country in the world. If we want to keep that title, we need to at least try to prevent our citizens from being shot down from hundreds of feet away while trying to enjoy a concert. The record for deadliest mass shooting should not have been set at Sandy Hook, and then in Orlando and now in Las Vegas. We don’t want to see this again, but the heartbreaking reality is that if something doesn’t change, this won’t be the last time. 
If you are able, please consider donating to Babik’s go -
fundme account at gofundme.com/4ipc5i0, and the gofundme for all the shooting victims, started by Nevada’s Clark County Commission Chairman, Steve Sisolak, at gofundme.com/dr2ks2-las-vegas-victims-fund. 
Sara Marino
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
If there’s one thing I’ve learned as a UF 
student, it’s that college students are not as tolerant as they claim to be. Are you surprised? I’m not. The hypocrisy of those who claim to be tolerant is stun-
ning, and it was on full display last week after Victoria Fortier wrote a column for the Alliga-tor titled “It’s time to stop kneeling during the national anthem.”
Fortier was subsequently mocked and at-
tacked on social media simply for expressing her views. Readers and students accused her of being a “privileged white sorority girl” and of publishing propaganda. Other students chose to attack the Alligator for even publish-ing Fortier’s column, even though the Alliga-tor published two additional columns that challenged Fortier’s views. 
Although I do agree with Fortier’s central 
argument, I want to be clear that this column is not a defense of Fortier, what she wrote or how she wrote it. I do not know her or what her general political views are, but I am writ-ing to defend her right to those views because there are some on this campus (and campus-es across the country) who believe opposing viewpoints should not be published, discussed or promoted. Even worse, there are those who believe that purveyors of oppos-ing views should be personally at-tacked. I would know, as I myself have been attacked and smeared for sharing my views. 
I’ve written several columns for 
the Alligator this semester, none of which have come without controversy. I believe in writing about difﬁ  cult and contentious sub-jects. I want my writing to spur thought, in-spire debates and challenge my peers. I un-derstand what I write may not be easy to read or accept, but that’s the point. I don’t believe in writing ﬂ  uff pieces or columns that gener-ate 100 percent agreement. What would be the point in reading a column like that?
The response to Fortier’s column made 
me think about tolerance for opposing views at UF in ways I had not thought before. In addition to the attacks on those who would dare publish an unpopular viewpoint in the Alligator, I realized that there were several instances of intolerance by the very same students who likely demand tolerance for their own views. For an example, look at last semester’s speech by Ben Shapiro. Leading up to the event, liberal students vandalized posters and erased chalking that advertised Shapiro’s speech. I’ve also spoken 
to students who have expressed fear at the thought of sharing their views in the class-room for fear of retribution from their profes-sor or classmates. 
The odd thing is, according to the Higher 
Education Research Institute at UCLA, most American college students consider them-selves tolerant of opposing views. Surprising-ly, left-of-center students scored higher than centrists and right-of-center students. 86.6 percent of left-of-center students consider themselves tolerant of opposing views. 
However, another study by the Brookings 
Institution shows a greater divide. More than half of college students (62 percent of whom identify as Democrats) believe it is accept-able to “loudly and repeatedly shout” to shut down a speaker on campus. The institution also found 20 percent of all college students believe it is acceptable to use violence to shut down a speaker. Aside from being highly alarming, these statistics clearly do not rep-resent tolerance. 
So, why the divide? Well, the data seems 
to suggest one of two things. Either the stu-dents who identify as tolerant liberals aren’t actually liberals, or they aren’t actually toler-ant. It is more likely the latter reason explains the divide, but I’ll leave that for you to decide. 
While I can acknowledge that left-wing in-
tolerance is worse on other campuses, I hope students at UF reﬂ  ect on how they have re-ceived and responded to opposing points of view. One day, it might be you who is fac-ing backlash for expressing your views and beliefs. 
Eduardo Neret is a UF ﬁ  nance senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
You know, it’s OK if you don’t actually want to go out,” my friend told me via FaceTime while I begrudgingly high-lighted my cheekbones. That 
night, I didn’t have to study, and 
I didn’t really have to catch up on sleep. I didn’t have any excuse not to go out, so I felt like I had to. I felt like I should want to. My friend is a recent graduate so I assume she must have forgotten about that inner con-ﬂ  ict we all get when we consider going out or staying in. The former always wins. I re-minded her why: College is only four years! I don’t have much longer to buy $5 triples! We’re all going to graduate and have to be adults soon! 
I told her the most compelling reason I 
had to go out that night was the unavoidable FOMO I would experience if I didn’t. 
FOMO, or fear of missing out, is nothing 
new. I can picture paleolithic people staying back to gather berries while won-dering if they should have gone hunting instead. With the rise and reign of social media, the phenom-enon gained some serious traction. We no longer had to wonder what was going on where we weren’t — we had to watch it on every plat-form in real time. From then on, it was no longer the fear of missing out, but the certainty of it. 
As millennial overachievers (and typical 
UF students) we have upped the ante. FOMO is gone, and the inevitable fear of FOMO has taken its place. Basically, we’re screwed. 
Without even noticing, we’re chipping 
off ﬂ  akes of our own free will every time we drag ourselves to places that we actu-ally don’t want to go. We’re choosing to do something because we fear the potential fear of missing out, and we’re letting that drive us more than our own desire to do or not do something. 
I love a vodka soda just as 
much as the next girl, but I’m pret-ty sure I won’t be telling my grand-children about that one Thursday night I spent pushing through a sea of people in wedges I regret wearing. I don’t know if there are any of us who can say that every night spent at Midtown is one for 
the books. Still, though, when I think about staying home and watching people have fun on a phone screen, I wonder if skipping out is worth the risk.
Potential FOMO is luring us into bars, 
clubs and parties more than any drink spe-cial ever could. And it doesn’t stop there: it’s pulling us to ﬁ  ll out applications for organi-zations, go to informational sessions and buy tickets for events. Just last week, it brought all of us out to stand in suits in the sun wait-ing for the chance to hand out the business cards we’d printed the night before. Was that actually because we all thought we’d leave with jobs? Or was it because we knew if we didn’t go, we might regret it? That’s a risk we just weren’t willing to take. 
Look, I’m not saying it’s a bad thing that 
we’re all trying to make the most of our time in college. We’ve always been told that these would be the best four years of our lives, and it’s admirable that we’re trying to make that true. But we can’t do everything, and we’ll waste our supposedly precious time trying. 
The thing about potential FOMO is that 
it’s unavoidable. It’s impossible not to miss out on something when you decide to do anything. The sooner we accept that we can’t do it all, the sooner we can start mak-ing decisions based on (get this) what will make us happy. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays. 
'Tolerant' college students aren't as tolerant as they might think'Fear of missing out' is a fact of life, so let's learn to accept it
ColumnColumn
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.org“
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Soulfest recap:
This year’s winners will perform at Gator Growl (pg. 
10)The Sewing Coop: 
Popular YouTuber opens sewing studio (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
It’s time to slip on your favorite ﬁ  shnet 
stockings; the cult-classic musical “The 
Rocky Horror Picture Show” is returning to High Dive on Wednesday. 
The show, which is returning for the ﬁ  fth 
time due to high demand, will include live action skits to accompany the musical pre-sented by shadow cast performance group Frankie and the Pretenders. 
Tiffany Grifﬁ  th, the assistant director of 
Frankie and the Pretenders, said seeing the movie live with the interaction between the shadow cast and fans creates an exclusive experience that fans wouldn’t get by just 
watching the movie at home. 
“We pride ourselves with being a little 
more unique with how much we like to in-
clude the audience and not just perform ev-erything on stage,” Grifﬁ  th said. “We also strive every year to make the show better, whether it’s adding new scenes, updating our costumes or building additional props. We want to give people a reason to keep 
coming back year after year.”
Grifﬁ  th recommends fans of the show to 
buy tickets early, because they often sell out. 
There was so much high demand from fans this year that the show was extended to four nights, allowing fans to purchase tickets for the evenings of Oct. 4, 12, 17 and 25. Tickets range from $7 to $12, and shows begin at 9 p.m. or 10 p.m., depending on the night (The show on Oct. 12 will be the only night to start at 10 p.m.). 
“It’s amazing to see the response this 
show gets from the community, as it has a very dedicated fan base and brings everyone out to play,” Grifﬁ  th said. “We put a lot of love into making the show happen, so it’s a wonderful feeling when people get excited for it.” 
Kristen Jackson, a 19-year-old UF civil 
engineering sophomore, said she’s only seen “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” movie at 
home. She’s wanted to see the musical live 
with friends for some time and ﬁ  gured now would be the perfect opportunity to do it.  
“I’m a little nervous about what will hap-
pen and if I’ll have to do anything embar-rassing, but I’m excited,” Jackson said. Grifﬁ  th said ﬁ  rst-time goers should not 
feel worried and that it’s simply a night to relax and enjoy themselves in a judgement-
free zone.
“Come in with an open mind and expect 
a lot of off-the-wall fun, but don’t be intimi-
dated,” Grifﬁ  th said. “The show is kooky and fun and our troupe does a lot of audience engagement, but we’d never make someone participate who was uncomfortable.”
Grifﬁ  th said there will be prop bags for 
sale for $1 which will help anyone who 
wants to get more involved with the show. 
Cody Vaughn, a 22-year-old political sci-
ence junior, stressed that, for a lot of people, 
“The Rocky Horror Picture Show” is more than just a musical.
“A “Rocky Horror” performance is always 
a great cultural event for the community that promotes acceptance and inclusion,” Vaughn said. 
Vaughn said the musical has been es-
pecially impactful for him, as “Rocky Hor-ror” depicts people being honest and true to themselves. 
“Seeing this show has allowed me to be 
more open with myself and others about who I am,” Vaughn said. 
The 18 and up performance, which will 
include dancing, audience participation 
and drinking games, will be sure to leave 
Gainesville fans shivering with antici…pa-tion. ‘The Rocky Horror Picture Show’ returns to High DiveBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
So you don’t scare easy, right?The 27th annual Universal Orlando’s Hal-
loween Horror Nights has arrived, boasting nine haunted houses, two live shows, nearly 1,000 of its famous “scare-actors,” infamous 
roaming chainsaw hoards and a myriad of vi-
sual and interactive displays throughout the park that require a posted statement in all of its campaigns: 
“WARNING. Event may be too intense for 
children and is not recommended for children under 13. No costumes or masks allowed.”
Five of the nine houses portray stories and 
characters from popular horror movies and 
shows. These are “The Shining,” “Saw: The 
Games of Jigsaw,” “American Horror Story: Volume 2,” “Ash vs. Evil Dead” and “Horrors of Blumhouse,” based on the ﬁ  lmmakers’ “In-sidious,” “Sinister” and “The Purge.” 
The other four houses are built on the twist-
ed imagination of Halloween Horror Nights creative directors. These are “Dead Waters,” “The Hive,” “Scarecrow: The Reaping” and 
“The Fallen.” “The Hive” is Halloween Horror 
Nights’ take on a vampire story, but according to Charles Gray, director of creative develop-ment for the houses, you should throw what-ever you think you know about vampires out the window.
“These are nasty, disgusting, animalistic 
vampires,” Gray said, “In fact, half the cast has agreed to shave their heads completely bald. They are bald, we’ve taken their eyebrows off, given them prosthetic noses, long teeth, UV contacts and prosthetic ears. They look the 
part, like rats and bats.”
Each stop presents a uniquely terrifying 
scene, from depictions of the classic psycho-
logical thriller “The Shining” and the modern terrors of “American Horror Story: Volume 2,” to the ﬂ  ying demons of “The Fallen” and the towering 6-foot-3-inch haunted scarecrows of “Scarecrow: The Reaping.”
“Every year we try to check all the boxes,” 
said Gray. “Do we have a ghostly house? Yes. Do we have a super gory house? Yes. Do we have a house that’s maybe a little more fun or funny to go through? That’s Ash vs. Evil Dead ... Everybody has their thing, and we want to make sure your thing is in the event.”
Through Hollywood connections, Hallow-
een Horror Nights creators are able to give guests a ﬁ  rst look into highly anticipated ﬁ  lms. 
Portions of “Horrors of Blumhouse” are based 
off of the script for “Insidious 4: The Last Key,” which is set to premiere in January. “Saw: The Games of Jigsaw” is also based on scenes from the upcoming movie, “Jigsaw,” the eighth movie of the franchise, set to open in October.
“When you walk through there, it’s like 
walking through a movie trailer,” Gray said. “Lots of gore in that house.”
Gray has worked with Universal Studios 
since 1993 and started his work with Hallow-een Horror Nights as a scare-actor in a house called “Bone Yard” during one of the ﬁ  rst years. He has since risen through the ranks, now serving as director. As it takes a full year to pull something as massive as this event together, Gray is immersed in horror almost every day. Personally, Gray says the things that still always scare him are creepy kids and 
werewolves, adding, “the houses don’t scare 
me but the scare-actors do.” Universal Orlando’s Halloween Horror 
Nights will run on select dates from Sept. 15 to 
Nov. 4. Tickets start at $59.99 on halloween-
horrornights.com. Universal Orlando provided 
the Halloween Horror Nights ticket for the 
writer of this article. Halloween Horror Nights returns to Universal Orlando 
Courtesy to The Alligator.
Universal Orlando’s Halloween Horror Nights will feature nine haunted houses, in-cluding “The Shining” and “Saw” themed attractions, this year. 
Courtesy to The Alligator.
This will be the ﬁ  fth year that High Dive hosts “The Rocky Horror Picture Show, ” which features live action skits and audience engagement. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
HomecomingKick Off a Season of Great Business
DEADLINE
SEP . 29
RUN DATE
OCT. 6
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Homecoming
Edition 2017
More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. T ell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the Homecoming souvenir Edition which is passed out along the parade route.
Contact the Alligator Advertising Department today.
ADVERTISING@ALLIGATOR.OR   352-376-4482  Zombie Hunt
Oct. 27 - 30  •  7 pm- 11 pm
For tickets and more info: charitynerds.org/zombiesAll proceeds benefit
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
By Isabelle Resnick
Avenue Writer
In 2009, a UF law graduate began her rise 
to Internet stardom when she started upload-
ing knitting and quilting tutorial videos to 
YouTube. Eight years and 381,000 subscrib-
ers later, what was once a creative outlet is 
now Vanessa Vargas Wilson’s take on the 
American dream.
From 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday, Wilson 
will host the grand opening of The Sew-ing Coop, a sewing and quilting studio on 
the 700 block of Northwest 23rd Avenue in Gainesville.
Wilson studied anthropology as an un-
dergraduate at UF and began knitting and quilting as a hobby during law school. Years 
later, when she became pregnant with her 
ﬁ  rst child, Wilson posted photos to her per-sonal Facebook account of a diaper bag she had made.
“People began asking me to make these 
diaper bags for them, and suddenly I had 
all these orders to ﬁ  ll,” Wilson said. “Then 
I realized that I didn’t like making the same 
product over and over. I liked designing and 
creating and then moving on to the next proj-ect.”
Wilson’s husband suggested that she 
teach classes at Santa Fe through their Com-
munity Education program. She taught be-
ginner sewing and quilting, and taught class-
es to make small projects, like pillowcases. 
Wilson’s dress making classes were especial-ly popular, and she was requested to teach 
these for weeks in a row.
“The thing is, I was having a boy and I 
didn’t want to make all these dresses,” Wil-son said. “And again, I got bored of the rep-
etition, so my husband suggested ﬁ  lming me teaching and putting the videos on YouTube 
where they’d be archived there forever.”
Since her ﬁ  rst upload in 2009, Wilson has 
taught seminars, hosted weekend retreats and participated in a weeklong quilting cruise 
on the Caribbean. Her husband retired three years ago and now handles all of her busi-
ness inquiries, customer service exchanges, 
inventory management and event planning.
The Sewing Coop is inspired by the lifestyle Wilson and her husband always 
dreamed of having; they live on a chicken 
farm in Alachua and homeschool their two 
children, doing all business from their home.
Now that she has decided to stay in one 
place for a while (the Wilson family rented a house for a month in March in the rainforest of Costa Rica, to give an idea) she will teach 
more intimate courses at the studio, schedul-
ing sessions that ﬁ  t her schedule.
“We had a soft opening in May, and I 
only taught a few classes here and there, just as a trial run. After the ofﬁ  cial opening, one day a week I will have an ‘ofﬁ  ce hours day’ 
where people can come in and see samples 
of upcoming classes, ask questions and even buy some of the products that I make and 
manufacture or that we use in classes,” Wil-
son said. “Apart from that, there are no set hours. The business is open when classes are scheduled.”
The course schedule for October and 
November will be released before Sunday’s 
grand opening, but fans and followers can 
expect classes for creating leggings, workout wear, T-shirts, quilts, crochet projects, after -school kids projects and introductory inten-
sives for beginners.
Wilson’s introductory courses are for 
people who have never sewn on a sewing machine before. She teaches project-oriented 
classes because, while she wants people to learn technique, she also wants them to walk 
away having made something.
“I’ve seen that when people hear or think 
about sewing they refuse to pay to be taught 
because they think it’s something that’s sup-
posed to be just passed down in the family. 
How I teach at The Sewing Coop is different than how your mom or cousin or grandma 
would teach you,” Wilson said. “There’s no 
other place where you can walk away with 
the kind of knowledge, experience, enthusi-asm and ﬁ  nished project that I teach with.”
When Frances Vasquez, a 21-year-old 
criminology student at UF, realized the You-Tuber she had been following for years was 
opening a business in Gainesville, she was 
ecstatic.
“When I came across Vanessa’s videos 
three years ago and started sewing, I found it to be so therapeutic,” Vasquez said. “I’ve sewn a ton of things for my little brother, 
who’s now ﬁ  ve. He still uses the pillow I 
made for him when he was an infant.”
Wilson can be found online at youtube.
com/thecraftygemini or craftygemini.com.Popular YouTube star to open sewing studio in Gainesville
Couresty to The Alligator.
The Sewing Coop will host classes for all ages and skill levels. 10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
SCHEDULE YOUR 
FLU SHOT TODAY!
H
H
E
E
A
A
LTHYGATOR
R
S
S
• Flu vaccination can reduce flu illnesses, doctors’ 
visits, missed work and school due to flu, as well as prevent flu-related hospitalizations. 
• It takes about two weeks after vaccination for antibodies to develop in the body to protect against flu.
• Getting a yearly flu vaccine as soon as possible is the best way to prevent flu illness.
shcc.ufl.edu/flu
Advertise in The Alligator’s  
2017 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY! 
Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
352-376-4482
Northern Colorado Sep 8
Tennessee  Sep 15
Vanderbilt Sep 29
LSU Homecoming   Oct 6
Texas A&M Oct 13
Georgia  Jacksonville Oct 27
UAB  Nov 17
Florida State Nov 20
SEC Championship Dec 1
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Soulfest, a multicultural talent 
showcase held in the Curtis M. Phil-lips Center, kicked off the 2017 UF homecoming week Sunday night. The showcase presented a variety of acts including music, dance, spoken word and more. The winners of 2017 Soulfest will perform at Gator Growl, 
UF’s annual homecoming pep rally 
and concert.
Out of 12 performances, winners 
were chosen from the group as well 
as individual/small group categories. 
The victor of the group category will 
perform at this year’s Gator Growl alongside Snoop Dogg and Daya. The winners of the individual/small group category were Veronica Men-
tor, an 18-year-old health science 
freshman, and Juliette Armswor-thy, an 18-year-old political science freshman. Sabor Latino, the ofﬁ  cial 
dance team of the Hispanic Student 
Association, took the top spot for the 
group performance category. This is their second year winning Soulfest; their ﬁ  rst win was  in 2016. Each of the talented perform-
ers that braved the Phillips Center stage were met with encouragement and applause from the audience. Many performers touched on topics 
of race, gender, violence, love and 
more. The event promoted unity and 
expression of culture, opening with a choreographed dance number from a group of diverse performers.The show also presented a special 
performance from representatives of each chapter of the UF National Panhellenic Council, and a tribute to past directors of Soulfest, including 
the 2017 director, Bernard Green.
Gator Growl is Friday at 5 p.m. 
Sabor Latino will perform before 
Daya and Snoop Dogg. Tickets are available at gatorgrowl.org. 
Sabor Latino wins Soulfest, will perform at Gator GrowlBy Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Contributor
After Tom Cruise’s recent performances 
in the Jack Reacher series and box ofﬁ  ce ﬂ  op “The Mummy,” it seemed as if Cruise’s leading man persona was being boxed-in by established franchises.
“American Made” is the ﬁ  lm that Cruise 
desperately needed to show off his acting chops as he takes on the real-life story of pi-lot Barry Seal, a CIA-operative-turned-gov-ernment-informant-turned-drug-smuggling pilot.
Seal, a Trans World Airlines pilot in the 
’70s, gets bored with the life of a commer-cial airline pilot — the constant shuttles, the overnight stays at the Holiday Inns and in-cessant greeting of passengers.
While on a layover, CIA agent Monty 
Schafer (Domhnall Gleeson) confronts Seal about his ongoing smuggling of Cuban ci-gars. Instead of arresting Seal, Schafer is impressed by his aviation skills and recruits him to take reconnaissance photos of Sand-inista bases in Central and South America. 
Tired of mundane ﬂ  ight checks on 707s, 
Seal accepts the offer.
One of Seal’s missions goes terribly 
wrong when he gets kidnapped by the bur-
geoning Medellin cartel of Pablo Escobar 
and the Ochoa brothers. Instead of killing him, the cartel offers him a deal he can’t 
refuse: $2,000 per kilo of cocaine smuggled 
to the U.S. on his CIA issued plane.
From there, Seal gets entangled into a 
web of illicit activities while working for 
the drug smugglers, the CIA, the DEA and 
the White House. In doing so, Seal builds a 
cash empire so large that he doesn’t even know what to do with all the money.
“Edge of Tomorrow” director, Doug Li-
man, and writer Gary Spinelli portray Seal 
as a dubious hero that got caught up in the 
whirlwind of corruptness and greed.
He doesn’t do drugs, doesn’t kill any-
one, remains faithful to his wife and uses 
his newfound fortune to provide a great 
lifestyle for his family. As Seal says, he’s 
simply “the gringo that always delivers.”However, it’s hard to question whether 
or not to root for Seal, a man who rational-izes smuggling drugs, trafﬁ  cking guns and laundering money. The ﬁ  lm’s fast pace and dazzling ﬂ  ying sequences leave little time 
for the audience to question if Seal was a 
pawn or if he knew exactly what he was getting himself into.
The ﬁ  lm’s secondary characters are de-
void of any depth and seem to be included 
just for some extra laughs. Even Seal’s wife (Sarah Wright Olsen) gets little screen time 
and is a carbon copy of Margot Robbie’s 
Naomi in “The Wolf of Wall Street,” albeit 
with a southern drawl.
Nonetheless, it’s refreshing to see Cruise 
in a ﬁ  lm not based on or kicking off a ﬁ  lm 
franchise (it’s been quite a while, actually). 
It’s almost as hard to believe that Cruise did 
all his own stunts as it is to believe that the ﬁ  lm was based off a true story.
If you’ve missed the days where Cruise 
isn’t saving the world or defeating aliens, 
mummies, etc., “American Made” is the 
ﬁ  lm for you.  Tom Cruise delivers in ‘American Made’ 
Photo via Wikipedia.
“American Made” premiered this past Friday to mostly positive reviews.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03701-8-17-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-11
2 - 2015 Kymco Like 200i motor scooters
Both in showroom condition. 500+/- miles. Electric start, smooth-shifting CVT automati Trans, 200 CCSOHC 4-stroke engine w/ EFI, front/rear disc brakes, 85-90 mpg., storage, windshield, new helmets included. Navy/black, Ivorybrown. $1500 each. Cash only. No delivery. Pick up in Sarasota. For more info call  941-809-3444    10-6-17-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-16-17-22-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     10-11-17-124-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
Part-Time / Full-Time Cook
No Experience Necessary
Café Risqué - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Must be 18 Years or Older
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
10-11-14-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14GIRLS LACROSSE COACH - local high school looking for assistant JV level coach.  Min. 3 yrs lax exp required. Must have own transportation & be able to attend practices & games from Oct. - April.  Salary possible. Contact 352-214-3840 for more info.   10-4-2-14Now Hiring Foreman, Stone Masons & Tenders. Foreman must have 5-8 yrs exp. w/ all phases of masonry, be computer literate, physically capable to do job and have proven track record w/ references. Stone masons must have 5 yrs. exp. & tenders must have 2 yrs. exp. Contact Shelley between 8:00am-5:00pm. @ 352-636-1431  DFWP.   10-13-17-5-14
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Who 
were the founders of the magazine 
Reader’s Digest?
2. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
novel “Fantastic Mr. Fox”?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent started the annual Easter Egg Roll 
at the White House?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Where is Mount 
Etna located?
5. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the skipper on “Gilligan’s 
Island”?
6. U.S. STATES: Which states are 
bordered by more states than any oth-er?
7. ART: By what name was the 
famous American folk artist Anna Mary Robertson Moses better known?
8. ENTERTAINERS: Which famous 
actor/comedian was born with the name Joseph Levitch? 
9. HISTORY: In what year did the 
United States’ first nuclear-powered submarine take its first voyage?
10. BIBLE: What was Paul the Apos-
tle’s real name?
Answers
1. DeWitt and Lila Bell Wallace2. Roald Dahl3. Rutherford Hayes, 1878
4. Sicily, Italy
5. Jonas Grumby6. Tennessee and Missouri, each 
with eight border states
7. Grandma Moses8. Jerry Lewis9. 195810. Saul of Tarsus
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 2, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Another Saturday night 
without a date?Read The Alligator.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
REALISTICALLY-$500-$1000 or More Returning Phone Calls!!! No Explaining, No Selling, NOT MLM. Call: 1-888-267-1889     10-6-4-20
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
PROFESSIONAL NANNY looking for FT po-sition. Over 20 yrs exp w / newborns & tod-dlers. Excellent references & a reliable car. rosaradford56@gmail.com    10-6-17-3-15
ACROSS
1 Fancy parties
6 [This is gonna be
really bad!]
10 OutKast rapper
Big __
13 Hi in Hawaii
14 Senior golfer Aoki
15 Lends support to16 Likely to speak
out
17 *Vodka cocktail
often served witha sugared rim
19 Text update from
an Uber driver:
Abbr.
20 Trippy ’60s drug
22 Milked for all it’s
worth
23 Mai __: rum
drinks
25 Post-CrossFit
woes
26 With 49-Across, it
keeps repeating
itself ... and,
based on the first
and last letters,an aptdescription ofeach answer to astarred clue
28 “__-ching!”29 Down with the flu32 NFLer again in
2016
33 Early American
furniture style
36 Casino cash
source
37 Oft-injured knee
part, for short
40 Bit of texting tact41 Sine __ non42 Interest-arousing
promo
45 More accurate47 Mud bath offerer48 Night before49 See 26-Across50 Burton of “Star
Trek: TNG”
52 Wild swine
53 Win out
56 Tiny drink
57 Go wrong
60 *Largely bygone
penal colony
62 “Paper Moon” girl
64 Notable times
65 Mideast dignitary66 Brownish gray67 Susan of “L.A.
Law”
68 Fix, as a feline69 Promoted heavilyDOWN
1 Conceded, with
“up”
2 Tons
3 *Store website
feature
4 “I thought so!”
5 Education
financingcompany,
familiarly
6 Coat, as 
jewelry
7 Put in the game
8 *Shari Lewis
puppet
9 Place for a
break?
10 Dove or robin
11 Campfire
attraction
12 Kids’ game for
car trips
15 Includes
18 Maiden name
intro
21 Nine-digit ID24 Wanted poster
letters
25 Duke’s conf.26 Cry from a 
sheep
27 Motel postings
30 *Totally drunk
31 “Today” co-host
Matt34 Manipulative
health care
practitioner
35 Pie crust fat
38 Mountain
climber’s pitonspots
39 *Light source
with hypnotic
bubbles
43 Artillery bursts
44 Essen article46 Electronics giant49 Hitter’s stat51 Sound-detecting
organ
53 Claimed in court
54 Hard to find
55 “Buy It Now” site
56 Agile
58 Like orange or
red persimmons
59 Marsh plant
61 Athletes for Hope
co-founder Hamm
63 Calendar square
By C.C. Burnikel©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/04/1710/04/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 4, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Develop, progress 
1.  Command5.  Excursion
2.  Rich, luxurious 6.  Your home
3.  Pro, old hand7.  Offensive smell 
4.  Uranus, for exampleVELEVO
JNIENOJNUTA
RAHET
PUNETLO
EAVENRTCSENTH
HHEGTIANSWERS: 1A-Evolve  5A-Jaunt  6A-Earth  7A-Stench
1D-Enjoin  2D-Opulent  3D-Veteran  4D-Eighth  B-John Travolta10-4-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor has appeared on the cover of 
“Rolling Stone” magazine four times. BONUS
18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
ACROSS
1 Carpet thickness
5 Crowbar,
basically
10 Vanishing ski lift
14 Preemptive
rescue op
15 Wear down
16 MasterCard rival
17 *Boot camp
newbie
19 Not fer20 Slap in the face
21 Play the hand
you were dealt
23 Smooth engine
sound
25 __-Locka, Florida
26 Aetna’s bus.
27 Michelin product
31 Ancient vase in a
museum, say
33 Fuel-efficient
Chevy
34 Physics work unit36 Starts the kitty39 Truth stretcher40 Nebula Award
genre
43 Undiluted44 Untrue46 Acquired47 __ Minor: Little
Bear
48 Chinese menu
promise
51 Company 
co-founded byJ.P. Morgan
53 “The Simpsons”
disco guy
55 Sport-__: 4 x 456 90 deg. at the
North Pole, e.g.
57 Overly long and
generallyunproductiveactivity
60 One of Santa’s
reindeer
65 “SOS” pop group66 *Defensible alibi68 Baked desserts69 Latest craze70 Ointment additive71 Tortoise racer72 Spiritual guardian73 Identity hider
DOWN
1 Prefix with scope2 Hall of Fame
catcher Rodriguez
3 Newton’s motion
trio4 Color of raw silk
5 Professors’ talks6 Boot the ball7 “Parlez-__
français?”
8 Manuscript fixer
9 Make another
recording of
10 Promo on the
tube
11 *Grand scheme
of things
12 From China, say
13 Tirades18 Pre-college,
briefly
22 Simba’s
playmate
24 Defunct Ford
division, for short
27 Baby whale28 Sports shoe
brand
29 *It may be
rational, in math
30 Sculptor’s subject32 Data to be
processed
35 Band tour
booking
37 Highland tongue38 Close tightly41 Basketball
transgression42 “Agreed!” ... and
what can be said
about the start of
the answers to
starred clues
45 Grounded Aussie
birds
49 Mark of 
disgrace
50 Columbus, by
birth
52 Lay’s chips-in-a-
can brand53 Dangerous
bacterium
54 Knee-to-ankle
bone
58 Lessen, as pain
59 Skull Island ape
61 Rip-off62 Island dance
63 Those, in Mexico
64 Cause serious
nose-wrinkling
67 Stop working, as
an engine
By Roland Huget©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/03/1710/03/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 3, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.15 Services 21 Entertainment
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida volleyball coach Mary Wise will look to keep the Gators as the NCAA's only undefeated team when they host T exas A&M tonight at 7. Read the preview, pg. 15. Four-star recruit commits to UF men's basketball team
Four-star recruit Noah Locke, a 6-foot-2 guard from Baltimore, committed to 
Florida on Tuesday. Locke picked the Gators over Ohio State, Michigan, Prov-idence and Xaiver. He is the second four-star recruit to commit to UF this week, with guard Andrew Nembhard announcing his decision on Monday.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Quarterback battles. Off-ﬁ  eld scandals. 
Last-second wins.
There’s been a lot to distract Florida fans 
from the Gators’ problems between the side-
lines.
But one person who has remained ﬁ  xated 
on the Gators defensive struggles is coach 
Jim McElwain, who expects more out of his 
unit. 
“I think we’ve played better,” McElwain 
said Monday. “I think they’ll be the ﬁ  rst ones to say that. And, you know, playing up to the 
standard.”
That standard is one that’s ingrained for 
Florida defenses. Since the start of the 2011 
season, the Gators have consistently ﬁ  nished 
as a top-20 defense in terms of points al-
lowed per game.
In 2016, they were sixth in the country. 
This year? They rank 69th.
Last season, Florida gave up six points to 
Vanderbilt and seven to Kentucky. This sea-son, they gave up 24 to the Commodores and 27 to the Wildcats.
On Monday, McElwain attributed Flori-
da’s troubles to tackling. The Gators came into their matchup against Vanderbilt on Sat-urday with the SEC’s highest missed-tackle percentage, according to CFB Film Room. UF's 27.2-percent ﬁ  gure is more than triple 
the amount of missed tackles that Alabama 
has let slip away this season. 
McElwain acknowledged that the Gators 
have to “grab cloth” better when LSU comes 
to The Swamp on Saturday.
“You’re going to have to do everything 
with just a higher sense of urgency,” he said.
One player in particular, safety Chauncey 
Gardner, has caught the ire of fans for his failure to wrap  up runners.
“I think he was in position this week (vs. 
Vanderbilt) and didn’t grab cloth and drag 
to the ground,” McElwain said. “Now, it’s a matter of keeping your feet moving.”
Gardner came into the game failing to 
ﬁ  nish 47.8 percent of his tackles, the worst mark in the SEC. But McElwain expects Gardner, a sophomore, to improve.
“I’m glad Chauncey is on our football 
team,” McElwain said. “He’s a good player.”Another problem McElwain has taken is-
sue with is a lack of turnovers generated.
The Gators forced ﬁ  ve interceptions in 
their ﬁ  rst two games against Michigan and 
Tennessee but haven’t hauled in any take-
aways since. 
“Creating turnovers is something we’ve 
got to do and we haven’t done it,” McEl-wain said. “We got (ﬁ  ve) picks early, but we 
haven’t had that lately.”
The Gators are also one of ﬁ  ve teams in the country that hasn’t recovered a fumble, 
an area UF has an opportunity to exploit against an LSU team that lost two fumbles in a loss to Troy. 
“(We’ve got to) continue working on 
wrapping up and stripping the ball,” McEl-wain said.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org  Gators defense struggling to tackle, generate turnovers
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coming into their last game, the Gators had the worst missed-tackle rate in the SEC at 27.2 percent.
One head coach, three as-
sistant coaches and 13 basket-
ball players walk into a locker room. They’re fresh off of a trip to the NCAA Tournament’s 
Elite Eight, but they just lost 
four very productive seniors, three of their top-four leading scorers from a year ago and their would-be starting center for several months due to an ACL injury.
No, this isn’t the setup for some weird, 
depressing riddle. It’s the Florida Gators 
men’s basketball situation this season. 
Despite Florida’s roster turnover and in-
jury to center John Egbunu, the Gators are 
primed for what could be one of the most exciting basketball seasons in Gainesville in a while.
Here’s why:
Florida’s offense should be 
better than last year. Coach 
Mike White thinks so, too:
Yes, Florida lost Canyon 
Barry, the 2016-17 SEC Sixth 
Man of the Year, who was us-ing up his ﬁ  nal season of NCAA eligibility as a graduate transfer 
last year. The Gators also lost Devin Robin-son, one of three UF players who averaged double-digit scoring.
But White thinks he has weapons to re-
place both. And I agree.
The Gators brought in another grad trans-
fer this season — guard Egor Koulechov Three predictions for men's basketballIt's Cohen Down / Opinion
Ian Cohen
Twitter: @icohenb
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
Last year, the Florida men’s basketball 
team improved from a middling NIT at-tendee in the 2015-16 season to a legiti-mate NCAA contender in 2016-17.
Now, heading into the ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial prac-
tices with a little over a month remaining before the start of the season, expectations are high.
But instead of shying away from it, the 
team is embracing the challenge.
“I feel like it’s added a little pressure,” 
junior forward Kevarrius Hayes said. “Ev-erybody’s looking at us now more than they were last year ... so it’s actually like a target on our back.”
Florida ﬁ  nished last year with a 14-4 
conference record, earning notable wins 
against top-conference opponents like Ken-
tucky and South Carolina. UF's conference win total was the highest it's been since the 2013-14 season.
But instead of dwelling on the past, the 
Gators want to see what this year’s team is capable of.
“I think we could really win a lot of 
games,” freshman guard Mike Okauru said. 
“It’s a great team, everybody is gelling to-
gether, I think we could really do some big With high expectations for UF , 
Gators look to their freshmen
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
VOLLEYBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Last year, Florida lost its first 
match of the season to a No. 1 team. 
This year, the Gators knocked off two 
top-five teams in the first weekend 
and have jumped out to a perfect start as the lone undefeated team in the na-tion.
In terms of wins and losses, it’s 
the best start for UF volleyball since 2007, when the team finished 29-3 and made the NCAA Regional semifinals. Now, UF (11-0, 3-0 SEC) has the top 
spot in the AVCA rankings, a feat the 
team had not accomplished since its 
2010 campaign.
But none of that matters to 
the Gators and coach Mary Wise. 
Throughout the season, Wise and her 
players have emphasized that, while 
the rankings are a nice accolade, the team is focused on playing better vol-
leyball and improving so they can 
peak in December.“Sure, we’re ranked No. 1 in the 
country, but that’s for everyone else,” senior Rhamat Alhassan said. “But we 
don’t think that we’re No. 1. We don’t think that we’ve reached our potential, and we’re not done getting better.”
And getting better is what the 
Gators have done. In the nine games since its opening weekend, Florida has eclipsed a hitting percentage of .250 or greater and has swept seven of those nine opponents with two of those sweeps coming against ranked teams.
Now, the Gators have shifted focus 
to their fourth SEC foe of the season in the Texas A&M Aggies. The Aggies (4-6, 1-2 SEC) come in with a win against Georgia last Friday after losing four straight matches prior.
Texas A&M currently sits toward 
the bottom half of the SEC standings early in conference play. Last year, the Aggies made the NCAA Tournament on an at-large bid, but have strug-gled early this season with poor play against ranked opponents.
Wise, however, is not overlooking today’s opponent.
“(Texas) A&M runs a very fast of-
fense,” Wise said. “They present some unique challenges to us.”
In Wise’s tenure, the Gators have 
won 10 of 11 matches against the Ag-
gies. Despite the wins, not all of them 
have come easy for Florida, with six of the 11 total meetings between the programs going to four or five sets, including a four-set match that ended with a UF win last season in College Station, Texas.
And coming off of a game where 
the team committed a season-high 11 service errors against LSU, the room for error is minimal with an upset-po-tential team in Texas A&M coming to the O’Connell Center.
“They’ve had some injuries, so 
what we don’t know is how healthy they will be,” Wise said. “But they’re well-coached and they do some things that give every team fits.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org
No. 1 Gators look to stay unbeaten tonight vs. Texas A&M
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise has the Florida volleyball team ranked No. 1 in the country for the first time since 2010.
GOLF MEN’S TENNIS
WOMEN FINISH FOURTH
 IN ILLINOIS TOURNEY; 
MEN TAKE FIFTH PLACE 
IN OREGON.
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s women’s golf team 
overcame a difficult and windy 
day to finish strong, putting three 
golfers in the top 20 and earning a fourth-place finish at the Windy City Classic in Highland Park, Illi-
nois. 
“The conditions were tough to-
day,” coach Emily Glaser said in a 
release. “It was windy and the pins were tougher and less accessible. 
I thought relative to the field we 
played better today. I was happy to see our team try and implement some of the strategy we have dis-
cussed this fall. I thought we made 
some good pars and some saves that helped us move up. Everyone fought hard all the way to the end and it was very good to see.”
Senior Taylor Tomlinson led the 
way for the Gators, shooting 1 over in the final round and finishing in a tie for 12th, her best result of the 
season.
She was joined in the top 20 by 
sophomore Carlotta Ricolfi and red-
shirt freshman Elin Esborn. Ricolfi  was solid on Monday, shooting 
2 under, but struggled Tuesday, 
shooting 3 over. However, the struggles of other golfers around her allowed her to move up a spot 
on the leaderboard, and she fin-
ished tied for 18th.
Esborn was the hero of Florida’s 
first tournament last month, but she didn’t play well in either of her 
rounds on Monday. She seemed to 
have fixed her problems on Tues-day, when she scored 1 over and finished tied for 20th.
Sophomore Marta Perez was 4 
over Tuesday, and dropped to a tie for 28th, and freshman Addie Bag-garly was 5 over, finishing tied for 53rd.
While it wasn’t Florida’s best 
tournament, a strong final day put it in better position than it appeared it would be after Monday.
“As I said earlier this week, this 
was a really great experience for our team,” Glaser said. “This is the type of golf course that requires you to pay attention and can expose some 
weaknesses. I thought we gained a 
lot of valuable information to help us prepare for our next event at the end of the month and also just to 
help us get better overall.”
Freshmen shine for men’s golf 
team:
The story of Florida’s first two 
tournaments was the play of upper-
classmen like Alejandro Tosti and Gordon Neale.
However, in this week’s Nike 
Collegiate Invitational, the play of freshmen Chris Nido and Won Jun Lee, as well as sophomore Andy Zhang, led Florida to a fifth-place finish in North Plains, Oregon. 
While the result wasn’t as impres-
sive as the one the Gators hoped for, the team saw its younger play-ers show some promise.
“We got two massive rounds 
from our freshmen today,” coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. “Won Jun and Chris really came to play. We knew coming into this year the young guys were going to have to 
step up. It’s amazing to see them 
doing it.”
Lee had another solid round 
Tuesday, shooting 2 under and fin-
ishing tied for 14th, while Zhang 
had his worst round of what has otherwise been a solid tournament for him, shooting 3 over and finish-ing tied for 27th.
Nido struggled Monday, but put 
together a good bounce-back round, shooting 2 under and finishing tied for 38th.
“Overall, we just didn’t have our 
best this week,” Deacon said. “To beat the caliber of teams we played this week, you need to perform at a high level. We just didn’t have 
it. I’m still very proud of the guys’ 
fight and grinding out that fifth-place finish.”
Neale had an average tourna-
ment by his standards, shooting 3 over in the final day and finishing tied for 38th alongside Nido, while Tosti finished last among Florida golfers, tying for 50th after a 3 over 
day.
Florida has yet to put together 
good performances from both its 
upperclassmen and underclassmen, 
but this week showed signs of im-
provement for the team, even if the leaderboard didn’t reflect it.
“We look forward to getting back 
to Gainesville and working on all 
the lessons we’ve learned the past 
two weeks,” Deacon said. “It’s been a great start to the year, can’t wait to see where the journey takes us.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
DUARTE VALE AND 
JOHANNES INGILDSEN 
TURNING HEADS AT 
ITA CHAMPIONSHIPS.
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
The men’s tennis team is 
off to a strong start in the ITA 
All-American Championships  
in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and the underclassmen continue to stand out amidst tough com-
petition.
By the end of Day 3 (Tues-
day) in the qualifying draw 
for singles, freshman Du-arte Vale and sophomore 
Johannes Ingildsen had con-
tinued their winning streaks into tournament play.
So far this season, Vale 
and Ingildsen are the only two undefeated players on the team in singles and dou-bles tournament play. They both claimed titles in dou-
bles play and Vale claimed 
a singles title from the Gator Ranked +1 tournament.
On Day 2 in Tulsa, Vale 
took down the No. 1-ranked Gergely Madarasz of Purdue in a tough three-setter, 6-0, 3-6, 6-4. 
Ingildsen also found 
some success in his first-round match as he defeated Dominik Stary of Northwest-ern, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1.
In doubles play, Vale played well with junior Mc-
Clain Kessler as they won 
both of their matches against duos from Minnesota and Mississippi State. Vale’s dou-
bles winning streak extended 
to five matches by the end of Day 2.
On Day 3, Vale extended 
his undefeated career win-
ning streak to six matches as 
he beat Oscar Mesquida of Arkansas in the second round of singles play, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3.
Ingildsen also extended 
his winning streak to six matches after he defeated Christian Langmo of Miami in the second round, 2-6, 6-2, 
6-3.
Ingildsen moved on to 
play Tyler Schick of Tulane 
in round three and won, 7-5, 
7-5.
The Gators faced Schick 
back in September when he 
defeated Kessler in singles play at the Gator Ranked +1 
tournament, 6-4, 6-2.
The performances from 
Vale and Ingildsen are prom-
ising signs for Florida, es-
pecially on a team that will 
have to rely on youth with half of its players being un-derclassmen. 
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgWomen’s, men’s teams place in top 5 UF underclassmen 
stand out in Tulsa16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2017
— who has a smooth three-point 
stroke and scored 18.2 points per game for Rice last season. White is also excited about junior guard Jalen Hudson, a transfer from Vir-ginia Tech who was forced to sit out last season due to NCAA trans-fer rules, but could turn into one of 
the team’s most talented offensive 
players.
Throw in another year of devel-
opment from KeVaughn Allen — UF’s leading scorer from last year — and rising senior point guard Chris Chiozza, and it’s easy to see why White is optimistic.
“I could be eating my words in 
December, but I’m being honest with you,” White said on Tuesday. “I think we could be better offen-sively.”
Keith Stone will have his 
breakout year:
Stone is entering his third year 
at Florida and his second year on the active roster.
This should be his season.The redshirt sophomore is a tal-
ented, versatile forward who can 
rebound, shoot the ball and defend 
— a near-seamless ﬁ  t for a Florida defense that likes to apply pres-sure and an offense that could take more shots from three-point range this season.
White made it clear that Stone 
will likely be given more minutes than last season, when he averaged 
12.1 minutes per game, fourth few-
est on the team. He also lauded Stone’s maturity and his improve-ment on offense, and said he could replicate the improvement that Robinson showed between his ju-nior and senior seasons, when the former UF forward went from a role player to a starter and one of 
the team's leading scorers.
“Keith could potentially be one 
of the guys, if not the guy that en-hances his role the most,” White 
said. “He’s very talented.”
Don’t expect improvement on  
Elite Eight appearance:
While Florida’s offense could 
be better, and a bunch of young, talented players — and one recent transfer — have the potential to replace the production lost by four seniors, expectations for this sea-son must be tempered. 
Florida, with an offensively tal-
ented lineup, could have its most exciting season of basketball under 
White, but could still fall well short 
of an Elite Eight appearance. 
Elite Eights are hard to come by. Billy Donovan, a UF basketball coaching legend, made it to seven of them in 19 years. 
I still believe White has a ways 
to go — and a couple recruiting cycles — before his teams are at a 
consistent championship level. But 
I do think he can get there. 
My best prediction? Trust in White and enjoy the 
ride, Gators fans. This year could be fun.
Ian Cohen is a sports writer. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.
org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14Florida's men's basketball team should have no problem scoringthings.”
If the Gators want to repeat their 
success from last season, they will 
need some immediate help from their incoming freshman class.
Okauru, guard Deaundrae Bal-
lard and forwards Chase Johnson and Dontay Bassett will all don the orange and blue for the ﬁ  rst time and will need to mature quickly with in-juries already depleting the roster.
Senior center John Egbunu will 
remain sidelined until at least Janu-ary with an ACL injury he suffered 
Feb. 14, and freshman forward Isa-
iah Stokes is still recovering from a torn ACL he suffered in his senior year of high school.
Add that with a lack of depth be-
hind starting point guard Chris Chi-ozza, and there will be some glaring voids to ﬁ  ll.
But head coach Mike White is 
already impressed with his younger players' willingness to improve. 
“One thing I can say across the board with our freshman class, I’ve been blown away by their work eth-ic,” White said. “My freshman class lives in the gym... they’ve been ter-riﬁ  c in that regard.”
White also understands the 
team’s limitations. The possibility of multiple freshmen earning important minutes means the defense, which was a large part of last season’s iden-tity, might take a lapse.
“I think we could be better offen-
sively,” White said. “I’m not sure we could be quite as good defensively. If this team is as good defensively 
as last year’s team, we’ll be really 
good.”
Florida has a lot to ﬁ  gure out in 
terms of players, rotations and ex-pectations, but the desire to match or surpass last season is already alive.
“It tasted real sweet, just winning 
so many games,” redshirt sophomore forward Keith Stone said. “Dudes 
just want to experience that.”
 
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14UF center John Egbunu is out until January with a torn ACL
Alligator File Photo
Gators forward Keith Stone took part in UF's 2017 tournament run. "It tasted real sweet, " Stone said.
