We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 134 THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
Assistant coach pumping up 
gymastics team
Owen Field is energizing the Gators heading into the NCAA Championships, pg. 14
National health conference begins today at UF
Ticket prices range from $60 to $395, pg. 5
Chicken Salad Chick closes its doors
The owner couldn’t ﬁ  nd another buyer to take over, pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorEIGHTEEN UF STUDENTS TOLD 
THEIR STORIES ON WEDNESDAY . 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Their stories were all different.
In some cases, it was a family member, a 
boyfriend, a student at UF.
It happened within the walls of a frater-
nity house. In a foreign country. On an air 
base.One by one, eighteen UF students stepped 
forward Wednesday night and recounted 
their sexual assaults on Norman Field, as others in the crowd wiped away tears  and rubbed each others’ backs.
They shared their experiences during the 
open-mic portion the annual Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Vio-
lence, a decades-old event organized by UF 
peer-education group STRIVE, or Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education.
Peter Nguyenho’s assault happened 
when he was only about 8 years old. Nguyenho, a 19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore, said he only began telling peo-ple this past year. 
First, he told his girlfriend. Then, his 
therapist at UF’s Counseling & Wellness Center. 
But on Wednesday, he shared his story 
with about 150 listeners.
“It hurts, but it’s something that makes 
me, me,” he said. “I’ve learned to love my-self more, despite what happened in the past.”  
Nguyenho said he still struggles with the aftermath of the assault and battles anxiety, but sharing his story lifted a boulder from his back.
“Now you all know,” he said, “and it 
feels good.”
Normally, participants march through 
campus, but this year the march was can-celed because of inclement weather, said 
Rita Lawrence, an interpersonal violence 
prevention counselor with STRIVE. 
Instead of marching, attendees stayed S tudents recount sexual assaults at Take Back the Night
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
At 12 years old, Hen Mazzig was 
almost blown up by a suicide bomb-er while on his way to an ice-cream shop.
Amid the smoke and ﬁ  re, the 
27-year-old Israeli said he only re-members people crying. 
“I was seconds from not being 
here today,” Mazzig told a small crowd gathered to hear him speak Wednesday at UF.
During his one-hour talk at Little 
Hall, Mazzig told about 25 students about his experience growing up in Israel and serving in the Israeli Defence Force as the ﬁ  rst openly-gay commander. This Is Israel, the 
Committee for Accuracy in Middle 
East Reporting in America and UF’s Jewish Student Union sponsored the talk.
It was part of Mazzig’s tour of 
16 schools, said Eyal Abadi, the treasurer of This Is Israel. Mazzig’s appearance was 
organized by the 
committee, he 
added. They in-vited Mazzig to discuss Israel’s culture. 
“We really 
want to highlight how the views 
people have about Israel are some-times missing facts,” the 18-year-old UF computer science freshman said. “To better understand the facts, you have to understand the people.”
Mazzig joined the IDF six years 
after his near-death experience, in compliance with Israeli law requir-ing military service of all citizens. 
He said he served in a division 
that protected Palestinian citizens.
That same year, his best friend, 
also serving in the IDF, came out as gay to him, Mazzig said.
“I remember telling him it was  First openly-gay Israeli 
Defense commander 
visits UF while on tour
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Gainesville movie theater is in the pro-
cess of renovating to offer new luxury seating 
right before the summer movie season. 
The Regal Gainesville Cinema Stadium 14, 
at 3101 SW 35th Blvd., is replacing its old seats with new recliners, according to a press release from Regal Entertainment Group. The King Size Recliners will be able to adjust to multiple positions. The seats, which will of-fer individual footrests, are scheduled to be completed in June. 
The theater will remain open while the 
renovation is being completed, according to the release. Two of the new chairs are currently on display for guests to try in the lobby. 
Ines Telebak, a 20-year-old UF neurology sophomore, goes to the theater two to three times a month, she said. She ﬁ  gures the new seating might appeal to guests who normally avoid movie theaters altogether.
“You’re usually sitting two hours at a time, 
and for some people, they can’t stand to sit that long,” she said. “It’ll probably make the experience that much more enjoyable.” 
While Telebak has never felt like the seats 
needed replacement, the addition could draw new business to the theater, she said. 
The chairs are not the only upgrade for 
Regal Gainesville Cinema Stadium 14. Re-cently, the theater switched from celluloid ﬁ  lm to digital cinema, according to the re-lease. 
The upgrades are part of a national reno-
vation effort by Regal Entertainment Group called “Lights, Camera, Recline!” Gainesville 
 Regal Gainesville replacing seats with ‘King Size’ recliners 
Mazzig
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
BUSINESS IS BOOMIN’
A line of more than 40 people formed at Bojangles’ Famous Chicken ‘n Biscuits on Wednesday night. Since opening on Tuesday morning, the 3100 SW Archer Road restaurant has been popular.
SEE 
THEATER,  PAGE 4SEE ISRAEL,  PAGE 4SEE NIGHT,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  74° LOW  46°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT'S HAPPENING? 
The Body of Sex: Redefining Sex 
on Campus
There will be a free workshop today from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. at the Reitz Union, Room 3315. 
It’s open to all students to ad-
dress sexual culture on college campuses. Leader, speaker and sacred sexuality educator Sarah Byrden will address systemic issues including “hook up” cul-ture. It’s unlike any sex educa-tion course you’ve previously had, so come be part of a world-
changing movement on what 
empowerment can be in a sexual context. Expect to gain clarity, agency, freedom and trust. The event is appropriate to all gen-ders and orientations. For more information, visit facebook.com/theelementalself or contact Leif Stringer for questions at string-
er@law.ufl.edu or 352-727-5417.
Forum on immigrants and refu-
gees
Alan Cross, who is represent-ing the Evangelical Immigration Table, will give an update on what is going on nationally with churches to address refugee and 
immigration issues. An open dis-
cussion will follow. Welcoming Gainesville, InterVarsity and the Evangelical Immigration Table are sponsoring the event from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. today at Parkview Baptist Church, located at 3403 NW 13th St.
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as Connecting the Living to the DeadA historian of the Islamic world, France and medicine from McMaster University will give a free public lecture today at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 
100. Ellen Amster will discuss 
the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in precolonial Morocco. For Muslim pilgrims visiting the tombs of the saints, these holy bodies offered cures by linking heaven and Earth. These traditions and beliefs were challenged by French colonialism 
and notions of science in the late 
19th century and early 20th cen-tury. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and dis-cussion.
Visiting Artist Lecture with Mike 
Calway-Fagen
The UF School of Art + Art 
History is proud to present visit-ing artist Mike Calway-Fagen as part of the Spring 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series today at 6 p.m. in Fine Arts Building B, Room 103. The lecture offers the community at large an important opportunity for dialogue about contemporary art and culture in 
relation to national and interna-
tional trends. For more informa-tion, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Asian Pacific American Heritage 
MonthCelebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month with UF Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs 
at three events this week. The or-
ganization will release its annual anthology, which is a compila-tion of Asian American art, at the art event today from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 2201. On Friday from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m., there will be a conference in the Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs spaces, which will cover 
topics such as white feminism and activism after college. On Saturday, there will be a cel-ebration held at the Hippodrome State Theatre from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. For more information, visit facebook.com/ufapia.
Graduate Student Appreciation 
WeekThe UF Graduate School is excited to announce UF’s Second Annual Graduate Student Appreciation Week from now until Friday. This weeklong event is designed to celebrate the accomplishments and contributions of more than 
12,000 UF graduate students. The 
week will showcase the work of UF’s graduate students and high-light the services they provide to the university and commu-nity through research, teaching and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, Graduate Wellness Day with the 
Counseling & Wellness Center, 
professional development op-portunities through the Career Resource Center, a student orga-nization showcase, an ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring game. To learn more, visit gradu-
ateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
Discover how you can make an 
impact abroad
UF faculty are encouraged to participate in a Faculty Fulbright Workshop on Friday from noon to 2 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. The facilitators 
for this workshop, entitled How 
to Prepare a Successful Fulbright Application, are Anna Calluori Holcombe from the UF College of the Arts, John Freeman from the UF College of Journalism and Communications and Greg Kiker from the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences. Lunch will be served. Please register at eventbrite.com (search the event by the title) or contact Dr. Claire Anumba at canumba@ufic.ufl.
edu.
GatorNights: Go Green, Go Gators
Get ready to help save the 
planet at this green edition of GatorNights on Friday. Explore Mars through virtual reality in the Gator Hatchery or test your knowledge of our own world at 
Global Trivia in Wing Zone at 
Orange and Brew. Take a break from your quest to preserve the environment and join Alpha Phi Alpha in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 8 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. for the Miss Black and Gold Scholarship Pageant, or check out the film “Fences” in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is Always Friday, Always Free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Florida Museum to host speed 
dating science evening event April 12Join the Florida Museum of Natural History for an evening of science and snacks April 12 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. At Speed Science: Night at the Museum, guests may ask scientists their 
most burning questions one-on-
one. Pre-registration is required, and participants must be 18 years of age or older. The cost is $10 for members or $15 for nonmem-bers. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/speed-science-1 or call 352-273-2064.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 134THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
on the field and listened to sto-
ries or spoke with representatives from UF’s Office of Victim Services and the UF student organization Aware, a mental health awareness 
organization, among others.
Attendees chanted, “Unite to-
night, take back the night” and 
“Two, four, six, eight, no more 
violence, no more rape” while sit-
ting.
Lawrence said the event helps 
give survivors a voice and edu-cates others.
“If people come and they didn’t 
understand how to support a sur-vivor, they can learn something 
from hearing from survivors,” she 
said. 
Maggie Powers, a 21-year-old 
UF health science senior, said it was her third time attending the event.
Powers didn’t mind the march 
being canceled, because she felt the students who decided to share their stories were more important.
“Hearing people speak is al-
ways more powerful,” she said. “It reminds us how much this is a 
problem that needs to be solved.”
To close the event, Juliun Kin-
sey, a coordinator for Green Dot 
GNV, a local educational organiza-tion, spoke about the importance of bystander intervention. He said if everyone tries to intervene, the culture around sexual assault can change. 
“No one has to do everything, 
but everyone has to do some-thing,” he said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Attendees at the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence wait in line for food and 
mingle prior to the first speaker coming on stage on Wednesday. Eighteen UF students recounted their sexual assaults during an open-mic portion of the event.
By Spencer Thompson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Even though Chicken Salad 
Chick closed its doors in late March, unknowing customers are still met with disappointment at an empty restaurant and a mint green “closed” sign. 
Less than a year and a half after 
opening, Chicken Salad Chick shut down the franchise restaurant for good March 18. 
The 3045 SW 34th Street restau-
rant was known for its sandwiches, chicken salads and soups. 
Based in Auburn, Alabama, the 
company has 16 locations in Florida and has expanded throughout the Southeast. 
Emily Scott, who worked as a 
prep cook at the restaurant, said the staff had a feeling the restau-rant might be closing. Owner Mark Singletary was trying to find a new buyer for the place after he de-cided to step away to spend more time with his kids. Singletary never found another buyer, and that’s when the closure was made official. 
“In the beginning, I was an-
noyed and upset, because I loved that place, and I know people loved it, too,” Scott said, “but life throws you punches sometimes, and you just have to roll with it.” The sudden closing of the restau-
rant has upset others, too, like Tiffa-ny Williams, a UF health education and behavior junior. She only went to the restaurant once this semester but was planning on going again be-fore she heard it closed. 
“It was so all of a sudden. I 
wanted to go again because it was so good,” the 21-year-old said. “It was upsetting, because I liked it a lot.”Williams said the restaurant was 
good to have in a college town be-cause it always gave her a good por-tion for the price. She also said she liked the homey nature of the place. 
Future plans for the space are 
still uncertain.
Scott said the corporate office is 
trying to find a new owner because they want to keep the location. If that becomes a reality, she says she would work there again.
Chicken Salad Chick permanently closes after owner leaves
NIGHT,  from pg. 1Students continued to 
chant during the event
is one of 14 cities currently planned to receive the 
upgrade, according to Regal’s website.  
The general manager declined to comment on ren-
ovation costs, and corporate public relations could not be reached after multiple requests for comment. 
@chesnesmax 
mchesnes@alligator.orgTHEATER,  from pg. 1It is part of a 
national effort 
just a phase and he’d get over it,” he re -
called as he hid his identity at the time. 
The next day, Mazzig said he was 
talking to his commander who figured 
it out and forced him to admit it. During the rest of his time in the IDF, Mazzig 
said his superiors defended him from 
those who mocked him.
“It really means that my commanders 
support me,” he said.
Originally, Pride Student Union sup
-
ported Mazzig’s talk but later withdrew its support in a now-deleted Facebook post from April 1.
“(PSU) will not be expressing support 
for the event as an entity out of respect and support for the Palestinian commu
-
nity,” the post read. In a new post the next day, the organization apologized for reactions received after withdrawing their support in the original post. PSU declined to comment for this story.
Abadi said he was unfazed by PSU 
withdrawing support.
“It was more of a misunderstanding,” 
he said. “They have nothing against us, and we have nothing against them.”Mazzig has faced criticism before on 
college campuses. In October 2016, pro
-
testers at the University College London called Mazzig a war criminal and killer.
“I’ve never killed anyone in my life,” 
he said.
Although he has been protested, 
Mazzig said he wants to have a conver
-
sation with people who disagree with him.
“Dialogue is a way to peace,” he said.
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgISRAEL,  from pg. 1The talk was part of a tour at 16 schools THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THE INSTITUTE IS IN THE 
CITY OF ALACHUA. 
By Harrison O’Keeffe
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF business incubator Sid Martin Bio-
technology Institute was named the 2017 Top 
Global Incubator of the Year.
The International Business Innovation As-
sociation recognized the institute March 28, said Mark Long, the institute’s director. The in-
stitute received $1,500 for winning the award out of 30 other incubators.
The biotechnology institute provides lab 
space, equipment, business and legal advice at a low cost for new biotech companies, Long said.
“Scientists need help understanding busi-
ness and addressing the market,” he said. “We’re here to help them out with that.”
The institute’s 40,000 square foot facility is at Progress Park in Alachua. It’s used as ofﬁ  ce and laboratory space that’s rented out to new companies unable to afford commercial space.
“Getting an award like this is a real market-
ing tool in attracting new companies and in-vestors for these companies,” Long said.
He said since the institute started in 1995, 
businesses they’ve served have a 78 percent success rate, meaning 78 percent of businesses stay open after the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve years. Since 2003, the success rate has improved to 93 percent.Meekah Chaderton, a manager at the start-
up food development company Captozyme, said the institute helped improve the compa-ny’s business.
Chaderton said Captozyme plans to move 
out of the institute and into their own space in June.
“Small companies can’t afford to buy a lot 
of equipment and lab space, so renting afford-able space from Sid Martin has made us more competitive,” Chaderton said.  UF biotechnology institute named Incubator of the Year
IT WILL BE HELD AT 
THE REITZ UNION TODAY 
AND FRIDAY.
By Isa Perez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A national conference about 
healthy academic communities is 
coming to UF.  The National Consortium for 
Building Healthy Academic Com-munities will be in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom today from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Friday from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. The conference, which started 
at Ohio State University in 2013, will 
deal with how to improve health and wellness programs at national universities, said Angie Brown, the marketing chair for the conference. “The summit wants to make sure 
that the programs and services that these academic institutions are offer-ing are the latest and best evidence-based practices,” Brown said. 
Single-day tickets are available, 
and prices for both days range from $60 to $395, depending on if attend-ees are a member of the organiza-tion, a student or faculty, according to the organization’s website. Brown said the conference will 
have ﬁ  ve speakers, including a neu-roscientist and a behavior-change expert. They will discuss topics in-cluding universities’ cost-effective wellness programs, managing stress 
in the classroom and using data to 
build healthier academic communi-ties. 
Corey Zimmerman, a 22-year-
old UF public relations senior, said she plans to attend the conference to learn about health and wellness from professionals for her wellness blog. 
“I am not a scientist nor a re-
searcher, but I do know that taking 
care of your body is the only way to 
live a long life, and that starts with the decision to educate yourself,” Zimmerman said. 
 National health conference at UF to oﬀ  er wellness advice
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
‘MY BODY, MY RIGHT’
A sign is taped down to a table at the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to End 
Sexual Violence on Wednesday. Attendees at the event could take markers and make their own signs at one of the booths.
By Jordan Folkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
A nonproﬁ  t organization dedicated to pro-
tecting the Santa Fe River is ﬁ  ghting back against pollution in the river through music.
Our Santa Fe River is hosting its Seventh 
Annual Songwriting Contest and music festival RiverFest, which includes a silent auction. The festival will be held Sunday from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m., at Rum 138, located at 2070 SW County Road 138, Fort White, Florida. The Songwrit-ing Contest will be held from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
Seven contestants from around Gainesville 
will take part in the contest, said Pamela Smith, the president of Our Santa Fe River. The silent auction will feature photography and paintings from local artists John Moran, the co-creator of the Springs Eternal exhibit, and Margaret Ross Tolbert, an environmental artist and springs painter. 
“Hopefully we can have a good time with 
food, good weather and fun,” Smith said.
The organization is expecting more than 
300 people to attend.
The purpose of the festival is to bring 
awareness and funds toward increasing the 
water quantity and improving the water qual-
ity in the Santa Fe River, Smith said. The entire 
event is put on by volunteers who seek to ﬁ  ght 
back against the nitrate, agriculture, pesticide 
and septic tank pollution that affect the river.
“We’re hoping that we can form a connec-
tion with the UF community,” Smith said. “We 
need some people to get involved — you guys 
are the ones that are going to carry the torch 
moving forward.” Conservation group  to host 
annual songwriting contestThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
What PBS Kids’ 
‘Arthur’ can still 
teach us
If you don’t remember the PBS Kids show “Arthur” from your 
late ’90s-early ’00s childhood, you might be more familiar with its surge into internet culture around fall 2016, in which the most ubiquitous image was Arthur’s curled fist. To the average person in their 20s, the mention of “Arthur” nowa-
days offers a chuckle and a flash of nostalgia. But if we take a look back and really think about the adventures of our favorite aardvark and his friends, we find that “Arthur” has a lot more to offer.
In addition to the usual lessons of children’s television pro-
gramming, “Arthur” stood out by having a surprisingly diverse cast. No, we’re not just talking about the fact that there were different animals. Instead of a uniform cast of middle class, cul-turally similar children, the characters of “Arthur” came not only 
from different cultural backgrounds, but also from different so-
cioeconomic levels, religious identities and family situations. Ad-ditionally, “Arthur” also depicted a number of characters with disabilities.
“Arthur” is not the first nor the only show to do this, but a lot 
of other children’s programming falls flat. They showcase what is supposed to be a diverse cast, but the differences are shallow and never really explored. Everyone gets along without any conflict. The beauty of “Arthur” is the conflict. There are misunderstand-
ings, clashes and misguided attempts to bridge these gaps. Arthur 
gets a Turkish pen pal, Adil, in one episode, and since the only knowledge he has of Turkey is from the in-universe Indiana Jones equivalent, he makes very ignorant assumptions about Adil’s life. Throughout the episode, Arthur realizes where he is wrong and admits to Adil that he based his stereotypes on a comic book.
This pattern repeats throughout the series: Upper-class Muffy 
Crosswire is offended by the fact that her friend Francine (whose father is a sanitation worker) serves her leftovers for dinner. 
Prunella goes to great lengths to “help” her blind friend, Marina, 
do simple tasks, which makes Marina upset. The primary cast is concerned when Buster, whose parents are divorced, says he’s going to miss the Father’s Day picnic. They try to find a substitute dad for him, only to realize that Buster is fine with his real dad, thank you very much.
These conflicts all get resolved in the span of 11 minutes. 
What is particularly impactful, though, is the exact nature of some of them. There’s still the ones that stem solely from misun-
derstanding — Arthur and his pen pal, Muffy and the leftovers. 
But it’s interesting to note how many of them come from mis-guided attempts to reconcile the differences between characters. You can have all the best intentions in the world, but it’s not until you take a moment and really listen to the other person and what they want that you can truly understand them.
To quote the opening theme: “It’s a simple lesson.” We 
learned it as children, and children are still learning it (“Arthur” still runs, folks, though now it’s switched to flash animation). 
But it seems we forget this sometimes. The cast of “Arthur” is 
diverse, but its characters aren’t perfect. In the end, they learn to listen to one another, take pride in their own identities and learn from others, and (quoting the theme song again) “to work and play and get along with each other.” It’s a message common in a lot of children’s media, but “Arthur” takes it and explores it more complexly. We should remember this. Diversity is not cookie-cutter, nor is it easy, but by keeping open minds and listening to our peers, we can all learn to get along with each other.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORLetters to the Editor
UF doesn’t support conservative students
On April 3, famed conservative Ben Shapiro spoke 
to a packed crowd of more than 750 students in the University Auditorium. Throughout the week, liberal students tried to bring down conservatives in their opinion posts by destroying promotional 
material and even trying to prevent students from attending the event by destroying their tickets. While there were little to no reports of this, there was zero outrage or any reports of the student in charge of the protest posting, “Hope this dude gets seriously taken out while he’s here. And not in the date way” on Facebook.  Yet conservatives were la-beled as the “dangerous” ones. We were the ones labeled in an opinion piece as not representative of “the morals and values UF promotes.” So, is threatening the life of another person the values UF promotes because they fit the narra-tive? It is sad, because in a meeting for the event, a school official asked me to make sure no conservatives brought signs that say “kill all trans people.” The only ones doing this were the protesters. Regardless of how disappointing this is to have a university official label nearly half of Gator students as murderous, it shows just how bad ignorance on conservatism has become. This is the U.S., not a coun-try dictated by Sharia where LGBTQ people are murdered for being born the way they are. To deny conservatives their humanity — their wanting to be viewed as people with problems like anyone else — is the reason our political culture is so militant.  
An opinion piece by Nicole Dan claimed Student Govern-
ment should not be promoting hate speech through speak-ers like Shapiro because they are dangerous to students. Hate speech is the vague term used for anything someone disagrees with or is offensive to someone. While clearly some things should not be said, trying to silence conser-vatism with this is a poor excuse. Dan, who was mocked by Shapiro during his speech for her fallacies, claimed “a dramatic rise in anti-Muslim hate groups, and attacks on Muslim communities can come within hours of an incendi-ary speech by Trump. It’s not an overstatement to say that Shapiro could have similar effects.” It has been two days since Shapiro spoke, and I still have not seen anyone being attacked. Yet another call to arms with zero evidence.
Dan also does not believe Shapiro should be funded by 
student activity and involvement fees.  This is fine as every-one is entitled to their own opinion. But, the Constitution, the supreme law of the land, disagrees with her. The Accent Speakers Bureau by law must maintain ”viewpoint neutral-ity” with the money given to events and clubs on campus. This was decided by the court cases Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Board of Re-gents of the University of Wisconsin System v. Southworth. Though this is required by law, Accent and SG have stood behind all students. This was proven in the recent Senate bill that reaffirmed free speech on campus as well as bring-ing diversity of thought through the Shapiro event. Sadly, the university itself does not keep this same standard. The university would much rather keep liberal students happy than conservatives. Even UF President Kent Fuchs would much rather neutralize events than do what is right. This is where I do feel for my fellow Gators on the left. Many times, it has taken extreme outrage for Fuchs to speak out about something. And that’s it. No change or action. Our university cares more about its image and neutralizing the bad than it does its own students.  
The conservative movement at our university is gaining 
momentum. You saw this with the thousands of students who wanted to attend the Shapiro event. With such a large population, it is important our university represent ALL Gators, and not just the most outspoken. As president of Young Americans for Freedom at UF, I cannot tell you the amount of times students have thanked our organization for bringing this speaker. Students feel like they are finally being heard. There will be more events on campus, and we will work to make conservative students feel welcomed, not just those who are the loudest.
Daniel Weldon is a 20-year-old UF political science soph-
omore and the president of Young Americans for Freedom.Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Third Fandomonium event comes to town
It will take place Saturday, pg. 10 THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Best and worst second hand stores in GNV
Goodwill, Plato’s Closet  and more, pg. 9By Ana-Katarina Stanic
Avenue Writer 
From Gainesville to a utopian 
city in the Arizona desert, a group 
of artists decided to spread their message by founding a new type of music festival.
“We had a desire to do a show 
somewhere really different,” said Zach Tetreault, a founder of FORM Arcosanti and a member of the band Hundred Waters. “Arco-santi is one of those places that looked interesting to us.”
When Tetreault met Nicole 
Miglis and Trayer Tryon at UF, a friendship was formed. Hundred Waters was created in 2011 and 
signed to Skrillex’s record label, 
OWSLA, in 2012.
This will be the fourth year for 
FORM. 
It was founded in response to 
Hundred Waters’ experiences per-forming at music festivals around the world. Located in Arcosanti, Arizona, the festival mirrors the location.
Arcosanti is an experimen-
tal town conceived by Italian-American architect Paolo Soleri. It shows how urban conditions can be improved while minimiz-ing the destructive impact on the earth. The center of the city is a performance stage, where most of the festival takes place, Tetreault 
said.
“I was blown away,” said Da-
vis Hart, the operations manager 
of Gainesville art cooperative Elestial Sound and a co-creator of FORM’s 2016 stage. “Arcosan-ti kind of swept me off my feet. It’s an incredible place and being there is really inspiring.”
Hart said he believes the space 
contributes to the atmosphere of the festival. 
He cites Soleri’s architecture 
as inspiration for the stage last year.
“The design is relatively sim-
ple,” Hart said. “It’s basically 
a square with a circle cut-out. 
Soleri built structures with this simplicity all over Arcosanti.”
Hundred Waters was sick of 
mass festival culture. FORM of-fers something truly unique. The vibe is more like an artist retreat than music festival.
“No performances overlap, 
and that’s really important to us at the festival, because it’s very intimate,” Tetreault said. “Every-thing’s important. We want ev-ery artist to be able to have their voice and be heard.”
Performers trade off between 
two stages and don’t overlap. This opens people up to artists 
they would usually opt out of, 
Tetreault said. There’s no real backstage or barriers between art-ist and fans, and spontaneous art abounds.Most of FORM Arcosanti 2017 
is already planned.
The festival is designed to take 
you on an emotional and creative journey, Tetreault said. The festi-val, taking place from May 12 to May 14, will bring vibrant energy to the Arizona high desert.
Friday night will kick off the 
festival and is sure to be an ener-getic start, Tetreault said.
“Saturday morning everyone 
will be hungover,” Tetreault said. “It’s usually pretty mellow.”
FORM maintains an environ-
mental and ecological message by sponsoring engaging conversa-tions throughout the festival. 
Talks on all kinds of environ-
mental issues are set to take place in-between music or art perfor-
mances, Tetreault said.
There are only 1,500 tickets 
available for sale, and they’re 
selling fast, Tetreault said. 
FORM also offers 200 free tick-ets in an attempt to stay connect-ed to its roots.
“FORM was free for everyone 
in the beginning, but that’s not sustainable,” Tetreault said.
By offering free tickets, the 
team hopes to open up the con-servation and experience to those who wouldn’t be able to afford the $389 ticket price. 
There is also a $1,500 “glamp-
ing” option for those who don’t 
want to worry about food or ac-
commodations, although a camp-site is included in the normal ticket price.
The festival is invite only, but 
you can apply online at experi-enceform.com.
When he graduated UF in 
2010, Tetreault didn’t think he 
would be organizing festivals in 
the near future.
“What happens after college is 
more up-in-the-air than you think it will be,” Tetreault said.By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Herobust had a formidable start 
to 2017 with the February release 
of his “Vertebreaker” extended play. The Atlanta-based producer’s collection of six tracks is gritty, powerful and heavily inﬂ  uenced by hip-hop, with a title that makes perfect sense after listening to it. 
“Vertebreaker” joins a host of 
other popular tracks made by the producer, some of which were re-leased on notable labels such as OWSLA and Mad Decent. The ﬁ  rst 
song on the EP, also titled “Verte-
breaker,” has climbed to nearly 1 
million plays on SoundCloud in less than two months. 
The overall sound of the EP is 
not for the faint of heart, featuring 
growling basslines and heavy rap 
vocals that pound through speak-ers of all kind. 
Shortly after the EP’s release, 
Herobust set out on a tour that 
will take him all over the nation 
throughout the spring and sum-mer. This Saturday, Herobust will be taking his talents to the Florida Theater for his ﬁ  rst ever Gainesville performance. 
The show will take place from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m., with tickets ranging from $15 to $25. Florida-based art-ists FLTHYVBZ, Illegal Maneuver, 
MarSHen and EazyBaked will per-
form as openers. 
The show will be one of Lu-
cid Nightlife’s last events for the spring, closing off a semester of 
one massive show after another.
Matt Collins, the owner of Lu-
cid Nightlife, said it made sense to 
bring Herobust to the Florida The-ater. 
“He has a very large fanbase, 
and it’s the end of the year so we ﬁ  gured having it at a larger venue would be best to accommodate ev-eryone,” Collins wrote in an email. 
Collins has personally been a 
fan of Herobust for a long time, and he had the artist on his radar to bring to Gainesville since last fall. 
“He is just such an amazingly 
talented producer and always puts on excellent performances,” he said. “Also, Gainesville enjoys to headbang with the best of them.” 
Krista Kingsbury, a 20-year-old 
UF botany and pharmacy sopho-more, attended many of Lucid Nightlife’s shows this semester. Kingsbury saw a snippet of Hero-bust’s performance at the Imag-ine Festival in Georgia, and she plans on seeing him once again in Gainesville on Saturday. 
“You look around and every-
body’s just smiling and having a great time,” she said. “You feel en-ergized, and you see how hard ev-
erybody in the crowd’s going. I feel 
like it’s a good way to get out that 
stress of school and everything.” 
Kingsbury said that beyond 
being excited for the show, she thinks Lucid Nightlife has stepped their game up, especially over the past semester. 
“I like how they’ve moved the 
majority of shows from Simon’s to Florida Theater,” she said. “We had to get a new venue to hold ev-erybody, and to have sound that’s actually worthy of people like Tchami, Herobust and everybody that’s been coming on these types of tours. I can tell that Matt and his whole crew have been giving it their all this semester. It’s pretty great.” 
Herobust is certainly not the 
last big name Lucid Nightlife is 
going to bring to Gainesville, with 
some shows already in the works for the fall. 
“Everybody that’s in Gainesville 
is so into the music scene that no 
matter who is backing Lucid, it has 
a good rep,” Kingsbury said. “This town has a good name. They’re just going to keep doing bigger and better things.”
UF grads start Arizona music festival, now in fourth yearProducer Herobust to perform at Florida Theater 
MUSIC
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Atlanta-producer Herobust will perform at the Florida Theater on Saturday starting at 9 p.m. Tickets range from $15 to $25 for the show, which will be one of Lucid Nightlife’s last this semester.
8   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
This weekend, the Hippodrome State 
Theatre will celebrate the 15th anniversary 
of Hayao Miyazaki’s hit 2001 animated ﬁ  lm “Spirited Away.” The Hippodrome’s re-re-lease screening of this classic anime will be 
shown Friday at 8:30 p.m., Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. and 10 p.m. and Sunday at 7 p.m.
“Spirited Away” is arguably the most suc-
cessful of Studio Ghibli’s releases. It was the highest-grossing ﬁ  lm in Japanese history at the time of its release, outselling “Titanic” in the Japanese box ofﬁ  ce.
“I know the studio put a lot of work and 
subtlety into ‘Spirited Away’s’ animation 
style, and it seems like just about every mod-
ern animator has seen it,” said Rio Lumapas, a 20-year-old UF psychology junior. “Hayao Miyazaki is kind of like the anime Hitchcock.”
Studio Ghibli, the production company 
behind “Spirited Away,” is a Tokyo-based 
studio known best for its work on Japanese 
anime-fantasy ﬁ  lms. 
“I remember renting ‘Spirited Away’ often 
when I was a kid and watching it on repeat until it had to go back to the video store,” said Jessica Lowell, a 20-year-old UF English ju-nior. “Whenever I see it now, I feel nostalgic.”
“Spirited Away” has been lauded by crit-
ics and fans alike for its emotional depth and 
stunning visuals. It is also valuable in that it 
gives Americans insight into Japanese culture in the form of a coming-of-age, family-friend-ly story.
Tickets for “Spirited Away” at the Hippo-
drome cost $12 and can be purchased at the Hippodrome Box Ofﬁ  ce or online at thehipp.org.The Hippodrome celebrates 
Spirited Away’s 15th year By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
UF School of Theatre and Dance’s staging 
of Shakespeare’s “King Lear” will encapsulate 
the deception and intrigue of tragedy.
This interpretation, directed by Judith Wil-
liams, runs from Friday to April 15 in the Con-
stans Theatre on campus near the Reitz Union. 
The play highlights King Lear’s descent into 
madness as he steps down from his throne and 
passes the kingdom down to his three daugh-ters.  
Michael Krek, a UF ﬁ  ne arts in acting mas-
ter’s student, said the themes of forgiveness and mistakes are still relevant today. 
The surrealist point of view highlights the 
persistence of time, Krek said. He refers to the perspective as a reﬂ  ection of Lear’s madness. 
“Shakespeare’s plays have a universality to 
them that sort of transcends time,” he said.
Krek, who plays the titular role, noted the 
magnitude of taking on such a character. “On one hand it’s like an opportunity of a 
lifetime,” he said, “but on the other hand, you feel woefully inadequate in the role, because it 
demands so much of you physically and men-
tally and emotionally.”
The journey of redemption is a theme Krek 
ﬁ  nds important in this show. 
“We all do things that we’re not proud of, 
say things we shouldn’t have said, and we hurt people that we shouldn’t have hurt,” he said. “Lear, at a certain time in his madness, under-stands that.”  
The actors work together with the set, en-
semble and storyline to create the show. 
“Basically your job is to merge all those 
factors into what will hopefully be a cohesive story,” he said.
Tickets are available through the Univer-
sity Box Ofﬁ  ce or online at ticketmaster.com. The show is $18 for the general public, $15 for seniors, UF faculty and staff, and $13 for stu-
dents. Tickets can also be purchased prior to 
the performance at the theater. ‘King Lear’ to open at UFTHURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Mackenzie Duffy
Avenue Writer
With summer break approach-
ing, it is important to save money for 
vacations, internships, study abroad and so on. However, with the chang-ing weather comes the need for a changing wardrobe. That is why shopping second hand is so great for college students: Besides being environmentally friendly, it saves 
money. Through extensive research 
(and probably too much money and time), I have amassed a list of some secondhand clothing stores to check 
out, and others to steer clear of.
Goodwill Thrift Store
If you want a fast thrifting experi-ence, do not go to a Goodwill. Find-ing gems through vast amounts of racks at any Goodwill takes time, pa-tience and energy because you have to sift through an endless array of unorganized clothing.
It is important to note before go-
ing to  Goodwill that ﬁ  nding a trendy piece is unlikely, but that doesn’t mean you can’t make one yourself. Shirts can be cropped, dresses can be hemmed and jeans can be dis-tressed. If you have the dedication to 
go to a Goodwill, it is well worth it.
Plato’s Closet
Plato’s Closet is the fool-proof so-
lution when you need to add some-
thing to your wardrobe. Whether 
you are shopping for a beach-themed frat party, a dress for a night out or 
a Gator shirt for gameday, Plato’s probably has it.
Out of all the secondhand cloth-
ing stores I ventured to during my research, the men’s section at Plato’s is the most diverse. Normally, sec-ondhand stores have a lackluster men’s section that is either abys-mal or ﬁ  lled with Hawaiian button-downs and corny graphic T-shirts. However, Plato’s has a wide variety of men’s styles and sizes.
There are some drawbacks to 
Plato’s. Based on the way they buy clothing, accepting items they be-lieve are the most current and have 
little-to-no wear, there is a lack of di-
versity in the brands they have. And even though they have this buying 
method, many of the pieces I have taken interest in are incredibly dam-aged. All in all, if you are a thrifting beginner, Plato’s is your best bet, but it’s not perfect.
Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale 
Boutique
With a mirage of gaudy denim at 
the front of the store, your ﬁ  rst im-pression of Sandy’s Savvy Chic Re-sale Boutique might be off-putting.
Although Sandy’s closely re-
sembles Plato’s in terms of available styles, sizes and clothing layout, you can ﬁ  nd some hidden gems that would’ve been rejected by Plato’s 
for being too old. If you did not have 
success in Plato’s, Sandy’s would be the next place to check out.
Flashbacks Recycled Fashions
If you are looking for the classic 
thrifting experience, Flashbacks Re-cycled Fashions is the place to go.
The smell of old fabric, the make-
shift dressing rooms, the shine of garish vintage jewelry and the feel-ing of materials like velvet and satin all add to the experience.
Not only does Flashbacks offer a 
great selection of vintage clothing, I have found pieces that were virtually 
unworn, with some still garnering 
their original tags from brands like American Apparel and Levi’s. 
Thrifting in this kind of environ-
ment may be intimidating, but going 
to Flashbacks is worth the effort.
The best and worst: shopping second hand in Gainesville
LOCAL10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Speaking on the phone with New 
York Times best-selling author Kami 
Garcia, there was a moment inter-rupted by the excited yipping of her two dogs.
“My dogs are named Spike and 
Oz, after Buffy the Vampire Slayer,” Garcia said after the barking had subsided. “Spike is just like his char-acter — blond and bad.”
Garcia’s decision to name her 
dogs after two characters from a cult-classic ‘90s TV series showcas-es how her passion for the fandom 
plays a role in both her novels and 
personal life.
The Alachua County Library 
District will host its third Fandomo-nium Comic Con on Saturday at the Headquarters Library, where Garcia will appear alongside graphic novel-ist and illustrator Andre Frattino and musician Brian Ross.
Garcia, who is attending Fando-
monium for the ﬁ  rst time, said the conventions she’s been to in the past have primarily been focused on movies and comic books, so she’s excited to see what people do for their book fandoms.
“I think the idea of going to a fan 
convention is really cool, and so I 
want to see if everyone is going to be 
dressed up like comic con,” Garcia said. “I’m really interested in seeing what the overall feel of the conven-tion will be like. For me, personally, I’m in a lot of different fandoms, so 
it will be interesting to see a bunch of 
fandoms in the same place.”
Garcia was previously a teacher 
for 17 years, and she routinely in-corporated her love of fandom and fantasy into her life by working on a side project with her friend Margaret Stohl for their book club. The result of that ﬁ  nished project was her nov-
el “Beautiful Creatures,” which has 
now reached International Bestseller status, nabbed a spot on The New York Times Bestseller List and was made into a movie in 2013 starring Viola Davis and Emma Thompson.
“We wrote the book as serialized 
ﬁ  ction for the seven teens in my fan-tasy book club, two of which were 
Margaret’s daughters,” Garcia said. 
“The book has now been published in 49 or 50 countries, and we never imagined that kids all over the world would be reading our book.”
Garcia, who is looking forward 
to meeting with her fans to connect and compare notes this Saturday, said her favorite feedback to get from 
fans is when they tell her that her 
books helped them feel less alone.
“I remember when I was a teen-
ager in high school and junior high, and I had books that I carried around and read over and over again when I was having a hard time, and they always made me feel stronger or like I could get through my problems,” Garcia said. “It’s really rewarding for your book to be that book for an-other person.”
The recent surge of fandoms 
could easily be summed up by the takeover of social media. Garcia commends networking sites like Tumblr, Twitter and Instagram for creating an inclusive environment for people within fandoms to con-nect and interact with people who love the same things they do.
“My friends, a lot of us are much 
older now, but we still have shows and fandoms that we follow and read about online,” Garcia said. “Fandom is like an online commu-nity for people who are interested in comics, books and TV, and I think it’s really a part of our culture now.”
Fandomonium, which runs from 
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday, will have a variety of events dedicated to cel-ebrating fans of comics, anime and sci-ﬁ   pop culture.
According to the press release, 
these include a presentation on the history and production of comic strips, comic books and graphic nov-els from Frattino at 10:30 a.m., an 
appearance by Garcia at 12:30 p.m. 
to talk about her rise to New York Times stardom, a performance by the Harry Potter-inspired band Dra-co and the Malfoys at 2 p.m. and a bunch of unique panels that discuss topics such as feminism, fanﬁ  ction and cosplay.
Amber Grifﬁ  n, a 21-year-old Gainesville resident, is no stranger to conventions. In fact, this will be the second year she’s attending Fan-domonium.
“I really enjoyed it for being such 
a small con,” Grifﬁ  n said. “My fa-vorite thing to do was the live ac-tion trivia board game. We had to answer questions about our favor-
ite fandoms and progress through 
different categories laid out on the ﬂ  oor. It was so much fun that my boyfriend and I did it twice.”
Grifﬁ  n, who is attending the 
convention dressed as Raven from “Teen Titans,” will be co-hosting the panel “Cosplay, Make Up!” on how to properly create the best cosplay 
outﬁ  ts.
Garcia has sat in on her fair share 
of panels, and she said there have 
been many times where she was the only woman on stage, which shined a light on the evident amount of sex-ism within the fandom community.
“I’ve been on panels for science 
ﬁ  ction where guys will assume that I don’t know anything about Star Wars or science ﬁ  ction because I’m a girl,” Garcia said. “I do notice that when I do Comic Con, I get a lot of suspicious looks when I do geeky panels that’s talking about fandoms and things.”
Garcia praised Marvel comics 
writer Jonathan Maberry for being 
supportive of women artists, but 
she also admits there is still a large amount of progress yet to be made, especially for women writers in the male-dominated science ﬁ  ction genre. Garcia advises those women to continue to keep ﬁ  ghting.
“You go and write your book and 
do your thing, do your cosplay, race 
a car or do whatever it is and show 
that you can do it,” Garcia said. “We can do it just as well as any guy, and I think that eventually no one will be able to say, ‘Oh, a woman can’t do that,’ because, well, a woman just did. That’s the key, to just keep go-ing and to not give up, and I think a lot of women do that, and it’s why 
Third Fandomonium Comic Con comes to Gainesville 
LOCAL
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-2
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-12-17-10-2
1BR/1BA condo, walking to UF/Shands, cov-ered parking, washer/dryer, AC, dishwasher, refrigerator, oven/range, microwave, $775/m (includes high speed internet), July 1st, 352-871-2871.      4-11-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a recovering brain-damaged woman who takes care of herself, in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bk-grnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    5-9-17-17-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
BRUNSWICK BILLIARD
slate table, leather pockets, mother of pearl sights, brass rosettes, newer felt, cue sticks, balls & rack included $1200. 352-870-0521     4-6-17-5-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT$8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, internet surf-ing, computer savvy. Resume & daily avail -
able hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    4-19-17-12-14Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   4-7-17-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.SUMMER SWIM CAMP COUNSELORSThe 200 Club is hiring summer swim 
camp counselors. Camp held M-F, 1-5pm. 
Counselors must be strrong swimmers, high 
energy & great with kids. Apply in person at 
the 300 Club 3715 NW 12th Ave.    4-7-17-
3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACROSS
1 Highlands hat
4 Serenade, as the
moon
9 Pearl seeker
14 Botanist Gray15 Naproxen brand16 “__ Mio”17 *Judy Blume
genre
19 Bags with
handles
20 Calendario start21 Sierra __
23 Former
Radiohead label
24 __ Valley:
Reagan Library
site
25 *Got from the
cloud?
27 Not having the
know-how
29 Locomotive, e.g.30 Compose, in a
way
31 Single-celled
creature
35 Sinusitis docs36 *Like much
Chinese cooking
39 Reebok rival42 Dapper43 Cal. pages46 Like49 Unite securely51 *Three-year
school,commonly
55 Julie’s “Doctor
Zhivago” co-star
56 Subj. with
unknowns
57 “Cool!”58 Concert venue59 Softens61 Some football
linemen ... andwhat the answersto starred clueshave?
63 1999-2004 Olds64 Vast, in verse65 How-__: do-it-
yourselfers’ buys
66 Printing flourish67 Freelancer’s
supply: Abbr.
68 FusedDOWN
1 Occupies oneself
with, as a hobby
2 Just plain silly
3 Mob inductee
4 Scott of “Arrested
Development”
5 Tavern favorite6 Mello __7 “__ From the
Bridge”: Miller
8 Wyoming county9 Act grandmotherly
toward
10 Metric lead-in11 Elected12 Gold or silver
13 Lives
18 Trifle22 N.Y. Mets
division
25 __-glace: rich
sauce
26 Got on in years28 Long. counterpart32 Coastal eagle33 Museum
curator’s deg.
34 Oils, e.g.36 __-Flush:
household
cleaner37 Bite symptom
38 Network logo
39 Overnight bag
item, maybe
40 Elvis played one
in “Blue Hawaii”
41 One working the
crowd
43 Souvenir44 With no end in
sight
45 Berlin boulevard47 Myriad
48 Pay dirt
50 “Encore!”
52 Can’t take
53 Turner
autobiography
54 “We Got the
Beat” band
58 Casino fixtures60 Part of TNT
62 Charlemagne’s
domain: Abbr.
By Kurt Krauss©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/06/1704/06/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, April 6, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
WR Tyrie Cleveland thinks he's faster than Dre Massey
"I mean, he's pretty fast, " Cleveland said. "He's fast. I'm not going to lie. I'm 
fast, too. So we've got to see. We haven't raced yet. I think I could pull it off. " Basketball season may be over, 
but men's coach Mike White has a few recruits for Florida's 2017-18 season. Read the story, pg. 16.By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Two years ago, Owen Field was 
waiting for the call.
The call from the newly-hired Jenny 
Rowland letting him know if he was going to be the Gators’ newest assistant coach. 
And he missed it.But when he eventually got Rowland 
on the phone, he found out the coveted position was his.
“Basically I was kind of in shock 
at ﬁ  rst,” Field said. “Then I saw a Gainesville area code on my phone pop up and I was very surprised and honored that I was even being looked at.”
Two seasons later, Field, along with 
fellow assistant coach Adrian Burde, has helped Rowland keep the No. 3 Gators ranked near the top.
The two assistants were named 
Southeast Region Assistant Coaches of the Year following Florida’s regional win on Saturday.
Though they have worked together 
for two years, the assistants have a shared past.
Field was with Nebraska’s gymnastics 
team for six years, serving as a manager and then as a volunteer coach. During that time, he helped the team to a Super Six appearance in 2014.
Burde, who is in his 11th season with 
Florida, served as the vault and ﬂ  oor coach for the Huskers from 2002-2006, before leaving Lincoln to join the Gators.
When the Gators take on Nebraska 
in the NCAA semiﬁ  nals on April 14, it will be the ﬁ  rst time Field, who is also a Nebraska alumnus, has faced his former team and school.
“I get along with the staff there really 
well. I was there for a long time,” Field said on Wednesday. “They are like a sec-ond family to me still. I talk to them. It will be nice to see them.”
As the coach on bars, he has brought 
energy to an apparatus that the Gators rank No. 4 in the country on.
After every stuck landing on bars, 
Field ﬁ  st pumps the air and is the ﬁ  rst person to high-ﬁ  ve and congratulate his athletes.
“He’s a goofball,” Kennedy Baker 
said. “It deﬁ  nitely is a great feeling to see one of your coaches excited for you.”
Not only do Florida’s gymnasts appre-
ciate his and Burde’s work, but so does the team’s leader.
“It’s a privilege to have two guys on 
the staff that (have) the ability to get the most out of all of our athletes,” Row-land said. “They are Gators through and through, and it’s an honor and privilege to be able to work with them every day.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org GYMNASTICS
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Assistant coach Owen Field cheers during Florida's win over Kentucky on Jan. 13 in the O'Connell Center. 
It’s April, which means Major League Baseball is in full swing.
Man, that felt good to type. Opening day was just this Monday and we’ve 
already seen one pitcher blast two home runs, a dif-
ferent pitcher spike a ball about 20 feet from the mound and, oh yeah, an enraged New York Mets fan unleash an epic tirade after he was late to his team’s ﬁ  rst game due to public transportation problems. (Don’t worry. He eventually made it and received free tickets.)
Since we’re less than a week into a 162-game 
season, why not predict a few outcomes seven months too early?
In an attempt to not write 12,000 words, I’ll keep 
it to World Series, MVP and Cy Young winners. (I promise.)
World Series: Houston Astros over the 
Washington Nationals
Houston, we have liftoff. Sure, the Astros ﬁ  nished third in the American 
League West and didn’t make the playoffs last season. But there’s so much to love about this squad that went 84-78 in 2016. 
You can start with two of the best middle inﬁ  eld-
ers in the game in shortstop Carlos Correa and second baseman Jose Altuve. My only concern is the starting rotation, which will need to be anchored by a bounce-back year from 2015 Cy Young winner Dallas Keuchel. 
Also, there’s a reason I didn’t pick a rematch of 
last year’s Fall Classic between the Chicago Cubs and  Way-too-early MLB 
superlative predictions
Patrick Pinak
Twitter: @pinakk12
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
After sending a ball over 
the center field wall in the first 
inning, Amanda Lorenz stood in 
the batter's box aiming for the 
same result in the second. 
The sophomore from 
Moorpark, California, got a 
hittable pitch, smacking a hard-
hit ball toward center field.  
Once again, the ball soared 
over the wall.The second homer marked her 
first multi-home run game of the season.
“Pregame, I was a little 
frustrated. Didn’t feel that great,” 
Lorenz said. 
“So I was taking deep breaths 
and trying to get something going 
for my team.”
Behind her hitting, Florida 
took down the North Florida Ospreys 5-1 on Wednesday evening at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.Lorenz went 2-for-3 in the 
game and had four RBIs. She also forced a walk with the bases loaded in the third to make the score 5-0. To coach Tim Walton, 
that was her best at-bat of the 
game.
“After hitting two home 
runs,” Walton said, “there is not 
one person in the ballpark who’s 
not going to come up here and try to hit the third home run. She stayed really disciplined in that at-bat.”Meanwhile, freshman Jor-
dan Roberts, who was moved to cleanup hitter for the first time in her career, had a pair of hits on the day. 
The most recent recipient of 
the SEC Freshman of the Week award had a single to both right field and center field.
“It feels good to be able to 
move from the four-spot, to the five-spot, to the six-spot,” Rob-erts said. “It means I can do whatever (coach) needs me to do.”
All of Florida’s runs were 
scored in the first three innings, and the team totaled seven hits. But because the Gators also 
left eight on base, the victory 
was also thanks to their tough defense. 
Six straight Ospreys were 
retired to begin the game, and even then, it was a walk in the third inning that allowed North 
 Lorenz homers twice in UF softball's win over North Florida
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15 Assistant coaches pumping up GatorsNO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINIONTHURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Florida to reach base.  
In the fourth inning, shortstop 
Sophia Reynoso forced a double 
play with North Florida in scor-
ing position to send the game into the fifth inning.
Junior Aleshia Ocasio pitched 
a solid game for Florida, toss-ing a complete game with four 
strikeouts.
“Aleshia came in and pound-
ed the zone,” Walton said. “And 
we played really good defense behind her.”
As No. 3 Florida (34-2) has 
only allowed three runs in the past four games, the team will aim to continue its tough defense when it faces Georgia in this 
weekend’s SEC series.
“We’re going to have to shift 
gears and get ready for a very 
athletic, fast Georgia team,” Walton said.
                         @camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgOcasio struck out four in a complete gameLACROSSE
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Attacker Lindsey Ronbeck 
walked the ball back into play af -
ter a Florida shot went wide.
When the referee blew the 
whistle, Ronbeck took off, run -
ning in front of the goal and find -
ing the back of the net. Her goal 
continued a scoring run that put the Gators ahead 5-1. 
But she wasn’t done there.Attacker Mollie Stevens won 
the next draw control, retaining possession for Florida. Marching downfield and working the ball 
around, the Gators benefitted 
from another Ronbeck goal, this time off an assist from attacker Madisyn Kittell. 
The goal put the Gators up by 
five and showed that Florida’s of
-
fense was in full force. 
“Everyone worked hard in our 
ride, and we had quite a few play -
ers see success on the offensive end,” coach Amanda O’Leary said in a release. “A great day for Florida lacrosse.” 
Behind a strong offensive per
-
formance in which four Gators scored at least three goals, No. 3 Florida (10-2, 4-0 Big East) defeated Marquette (4-8, 2-2 Big East) 21-7 on Wednesday after
-
noon in Wisconsin. 
The Gators held the Golden 
Eagles to 19 shots while taking 43 and caused 16 of Marquette’s 22 turnovers. The 14-point mar
-
gin of victory is the largest gap for the Gators this season. 
Ronbeck led the offense with 
seven points on five goals and two assists, tying her career-high. 
Attackers Sammi Burgess and 
Kittell each recorded six points in the game, with Kittell recording a career-high in goals (three), as
-
sists (three) and points (six).
Attacker Mollie Stevens scored 
four goals, midfielder Brianna Harris had a hat trick, and mid
-
fielders Sydney 
Pirreca, Allie Pavinelli, Car
-
oline Benitez and Madi Hall rounded out the scoring with a goal 
each. 
With the score tied at 1-1 ten 
minutes into the game, Florida went on 7-0 run to build a com
-
manding 8-1 lead. After Mar -
quette scored three straight goals to cut into the Gators’ lead, Flori
-
da went on a 9-0 run that started at the end of the first half and lasted until halfway through the second half. 
While the offense takes a large 
part of the credit for the runs, the defense also propelled the Gators forward.
Defender Caroline Fitzgerald 
caused five turnovers and scooped two ground balls, and defenders Taylor Bresnahan and Cara Trombetta caused two turnovers each.
“I’m really proud of our effort 
on the defensive end. Especially being able to force turnovers without fouling,” O’Leary said.
The Gators were able to cycle 
through all three of their goalies, with Haley Hicklen making seven saves and Olivia Cole and Kenzii Kittell combining for eight min
-
utes of playing time. This was also Florida's second consecu
-
tive game where every player who was eligible to play received playing time.
“A true team effort today,” 
O’Leary said. “It is never easy 
traveling such a distance mid-
week, but our team stepped up and played very well.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgUF routs Marquette 
in lopsided game  
Ronbeck
Cleveland Indians, clearly the two 
best teams in baseball.
There hasn’t been a World Series 
rematch since 1978, when the Yan-kees won back-to-back titles over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
It’s just not happening. 
MVP: Jose Altuve and A.J. 
Pollock
In the AL, I’m going with the 
aforementioned Jose Altuve. 
The 5-foot-5 second baseman 
should’ve won the MVP last year 
and would’ve if it weren’t for Bos-ton’s Mookie Betts and the Angels' Mike Trout. 
All Altuve did was lead the ma-
jors in hits (216), lead his league in hitting (.338) and blast 24 homers while swiping 30 bases. What else does a guy have to do?
You may not even know Arizona 
Diamondbacks’ A.J. Pollock, which is why he’s a super deep sleeper 
pick here to win the National League 
MVP. 
But for a guy that hit .315 along 
with 20 homers and 39 stolen bases 
in 2015 before missing nearly the 
entire season last year with a frac-
tured elbow he suffered at the end of spring training, it makes some sense. Why not?
Cy Young: Chris Sale and Noah 
Syndergaard
These are the two filthiest start-
ing pitchers in the game right now. 
Hands down. 
Sale, who was traded from the 
Chicago White Sox to Boston in December, is one year removed from 
a 17-10 season in which he posted a 3.34 ERA and struck out 233 hitters 
over 226.2 innings. 
He’s a lanky, herky-jerky left-
hander that has finished in the top 
five of AL Cy Young voting each of the past four years, and I say 2017 is his year. 
In the NL, the New York Mets’ 
Noah Syndergaard is my pick.
Known as “Thor” for his locks of 
blonde hair, Syndergaard owns the fastest fastball among all starting 
pitchers per MLB’s Statcast. The 
result last year was a 14-9 record 
with a 2.60 ERA.
There might be infinite arms in 
the NL you could argue here, includ-
ing Clayton Kershaw and Madison 
Bumgarner, but Syndergaard has the 
stuff to put it all together and win it this year.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz bats in UF's win vs. Bethune-Cookman on March 29.
SOFTBALL,  from pg. 1416   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2017
“I’VE BEEN RUNNING IN 
THE INDEPENDENT FLORIDA ALLIGATOR SINCE I OPENED IN 2006. IT’S LOCAL AND A GOOD PLACE TO ADVERTISE. WE GET GOOD RESULTS BECAUSE THE STUDENTS FOLLOW IT ON A DAILY BASIS.”
- B.J. WEBSTER
Downtown Barber Shop
15 West University Avenue 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s basketball team is 
losing seniors Kasey Hill, Canyon Barry, 
Justin Leon and Schuyler Rimmer to graduation, and it could possibly lose junior starters Devin Robinson and John Egbunu to 
the NBA Draft. 
But with his ﬁ  rst full year of recruiting 
completed, UF coach Mike White hauled in 
a top-30 recruiting class that includes four prospects who could have a big impact next year and for years to come.DeAundrae Ballard, 
Small Forward 
Ballard, a four-star 
small forward out of South-
west Atlanta Christian Academy, is the Gators’ highest-rated recruit. Rated 
the 18th-best prospect in 
the nation at his position, the 6-foot-6 Ballard is a 
wiry athlete who could provide versatility to a frontcourt in need of fresh talent.
White said Ballard reminds him of South 
Carolina guard and 2017 SEC Player of the Year Sindarius Thornwell.“(Ballard’s a) high-motor guy,” White said. 
“Can score it. Can defend. Got some tough-ness to him… . He reminds me of (Thornwell) because of his intangibles, because of his mo-tor and because of his frame.”
At 170 pounds, Ballard doesn’t quite have 
the girth to hold his ground against some of 
the NCAA’s larger forwards, but a summer 
spent in the weight room should help with that.
Isaiah Stokes, Power 
Forward
Regardless of whether 
Egbunu returns to Florida, Stokes, a four-star power 
forward out of IMG Acad-
emy,  will be the heaviest player on the Gators’ roster. At 6-foot-8, 285 pounds, the Memphis, Tennessee, 
native will add much-needed size to a lineup that started 218-pound forward Kevarrius Hayes at center for much of the 2016-17 sea-son.
Stokes made headlines in 2016 for break-
ing the backboard on a dunk during an AAU game.
He’s also not quite the same athlete as 
his brother, former Tennessee big man Jar-nell Stokes, but he possesses great footwork inside the paint to go along with a feathery touch from the perimeter. Stokes’ offensive versatility will be an added asset off the 
bench — once he’s healthy, that is.
White said Stokes is dealing with an ACL 
injury and doesn’t know when he’ll return to 
the court.
“Isaiah Stokes has a chance to be a really 
good player here,” White said. “ I’m not sure how much of an impact he’s going to make next year or if he will even play next year… . (But) he’s got great skill-level girth. Obvious-
ly he’s a really, really big kid, highly skilled 
guy, big soft hands, very quick feet.”Chase Johnson, Power 
Forward 
Johnson, a three-star 
forward out of West Virgin-ia’s Huntington Prep, is the ﬁ  nal addition to the Gators’ frontcourt.
At 6-foot-8, 205 pounds, 
Johnson is a “quick-footed athlete,” White said, with a 
high motor and solid touch inside the paint.
White added that in time, Johnson could 
potentially develop an outside game.
“He’s developing his offensive game,” 
White said. “Another guy with good intan-gibles. Another culture guy.
“I like his toughness, as well.” 
Michael Okauru, 
Point Guard
Okauru, a three-star 
prospect from Raleigh, North Carolina’s Brewster Academy, was the only point guard to sign with 
Florida in the most recent 
recruiting cycle. The 6-foot-3 Okauru will add length to 
a position that’s been relatively undersized for the Gators the past few seasons. With Hill (6-foot-1) graduating, White will surren-der the reins at point guard to Chris Chiozza, who stands at 6 feet. Okauru has the ability to score at all three levels but will likely have 
a hard time breaking into a backcourt that al-
ready features talented scorers in rising junior KeVaughn Allen and rising redshirt junior Jalen Hudson. Okauru has shown a willing-ness to play defense, though, and that could earn him some playing time.
“I’m gonna play guys based on how they 
defend and how they rebound,” White said.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org  Hoops recruiting: Gators to add four freshmen in 2017-18
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White speaks with a referee during the Gators’ 70-77 loss to 
South Carolina in the Elite Eight on March 26 in Madison Square Garden.
Ballard
 Johnson
Stokes
Okauru
