We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 131 MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
Gymnastics team advances to 
NCAA Championship
“It was pretty lit,” one Gator said after Saturday’s win, pg. 16
UF Student Government hosts day of service
About 760 students participated in about 45 locations across Gainesville, pg. 8
Gainesville blacksmith oﬀ  ers axe-making class
Each class costs $100 and lasts ﬁ  ve hours, pg. 5FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorIsabel Bonnet / Alligator
Khem B. Banjara, a 30-year-old neuro technologist at UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital, throws colored powder during the UF Holi Festival of Colors, organized by the UF Indian Student Association and UF Student Government, on Sunday afternoon. About 3,000 people attended the event. See the photo story on pg. 9.
COLORS OF THE WIND
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs an-
nounced Saturday that a new execu-
tive order would ban all alligators from UF’s campus and effectively “drain the swamp.”
In an April Fools’ Day Facebook 
video, which received about 450,000 
views, Fuchs declared alligator 
statues, Gators merchandise, the Gator Chomp and the Rowdy Reptiles would be banned from UF.
“We’ve all worked hard over the 
past two years to make our campus inviting, supportive and friendly,” Fuchs said in the video posted on UF’s social media pages on Saturday. “The image of the swamp, 
and Gators, does not convey the 
message that I want associated with our great university.”
Last April Fools’ Day, UF spent 
$9,000 in private funds to make a series of videos announcing that UF and Florida State University would be merging, WUFT reported.
This year, Fuchs’ April Fools’ 
Day joke didn’t cost anything, said UF Spokesperson Steve Orlando.
No money was required for 
traveling, and a video team from the UF College of Journalism and Communications shot the announcement for free.
Around noon, UF released a 
second video with Fuchs rescinding his executive order and wishing 
everyone a happy April Fools’ Day. 
UF College Democrats member 
Daniella Mora said she thinks some 
students may have perceived Fuchs’ joke as poking fun of President Donald Trump, who frequently used the term “drain the swamp” during his campaign speeches. 
“I do see how some students 
would have taken it as a form of mockery,” the 19-year-old UF telecommunication freshman said. 
Fuchs could not be reached for 
comment.
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.org On April Fools’ Day, UF President 
promises to ‘drain the swamp’ 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
When Ahmed Shareef speaks English, his native Arabic 
tongue slips out, eliciting strange looks from peers.
 It’s why the Kuwaiti-born UF student often hesitates when 
called upon to speak. That and being asked to repeat himself. 
But as of Saturday, after attending TEDxUF and hearing how 
the assistant director of UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs 
deals with being mocked for her Spanish accent, Shareef feels empowered to speak up.
“I learned to step up and speak, even if I don’t fully like my 
accent,” the 18-year-old said.Fourth annual 
TEDxUF attracts about 1,200 people
SEE TED,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editors  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
  Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie  
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Jessica Giles, Alexandria Ng, 
  Nealy Kehres
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Jaclyn Campbell, Kylie Johnson, 
  John Lopez, Hannah Mahdavi, Sydney 
  Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva Sailly   
  Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Parker Allen, Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Graduate Student Appreciation 
Week
The UF Graduate School is ex-cited to announce UF’s Second Annual Graduate Student 
Appreciation Week from today 
until Friday. This weeklong event is designed to celebrate the accomplishments and con-tributions of more than 12,000 UF graduate students. Events will showcase the work of UF’s graduate students and high-light the services they provide 
to the university and commu-
nity through research, teach-ing and mentoring via events like Graduate Student Research Day, Graduate Wellness Day with the Counseling & Wellness Center, professional develop-ment opportunities through the Career Resource Center, a stu-
dent organization showcase, an 
ice cream social and a closing event at the University House before the Orange and Blue Debut Spring game. To learn more, visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/gsaw.
University Galleries presents 
‘Currents 2017’University Galleries and stu-dent organization H.O.T. Clay at UF are pleased to present “Currents 2017 — Perception: Color and Content” in the Gary R. Libby Gallery from now until April 19. “Currents” is an an-nual national juried exhibition 
co-juried by Linda Lopez and 
Katie Parker. “Perception: Color and Content” is thematically focused on the idea of how the perception of color can change the way content is seen. This important annual exhibition selects jurors and addresses contemporary themes in ce-
ramic art. “Currents 2017” will 
expand the educational experi-ence for students in UF’s School of Art + Art History and en-gage the public with color and content within contemporary ceramic art. The exhibition and opening reception are free and open to the public.
Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual ViolenceJoin Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, the UF Student Health Care Center and plan-ning partners as they "take back the night" to demonstrate 
support for sexual violence sur-
vivors, share stories and create a culture of care. The event will take place Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. on Norman Field. It in-volves a 1-mile march around campus that ends with an open-mic event. There will be speak-ers, resources for survivors, free T-shirts, food and amazing 
performers. Learn more at face-
book.com/StriveUF or email RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu.
A Doorway to the Divine: Islamic 
Bodies and the Sufi Saints as Connecting the Living to the DeadA historian of the Islamic world, 
France and medicine from 
McMaster University will give a free public lecture Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Ellen Amster will discuss the role of the bodies of saints in healing the living in precolonial Morocco. For Muslim pilgrims visiting the 
tombs of the saints, these holy 
bodies offered cures by link-ing heaven and Earth. These traditions and beliefs were challenged by French colonial-ism and notions of science in the late 19th century and early 20th century. This event is the seventh in an eight-part series 
called “Death: Confronting the 
Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars and filmmakers explore unique cultural and historical confron-tations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and discussion.
FSDC Spring Formal
This Saturday the Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you to its annual Spring Formal. The dance will be located at the Reitz Union with lessons start-ing at 8:30 p.m. in the Dance Studio on the lower level and 
social dancing from 9:30 p.m. to 
midnight in the Grand Ballroom on the third floor. There will be a photo booth and all the people you can dance with for the price of $7 or $5 if you bring a group of four or more. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, find the 
club on Facebook. For more in-
formation, visit facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.canumba@ufic.ufl.edu.
India Fest and Health Fair 2017
Join the India Cultural and Education Center on Saturday for its fun-filled, exuberant, 
colorful and exciting annual 
festival at the Santa Fe College Gymnasium, Building V, lo-cated at 3000 NW 83 St. It will give you a chance to experience India, a nation that epitomizes unity in diversity, and get a glimpse of a rich cultural show, exquisite jewelry, intricately de-signed fabrics and good food. Admission  is $5. Children ages 5 and under get in for free. Free health screening will be of-
fered, along with basic blood 
tests for $55 plus entry will be offered from 9 a.m. to noon. For more information, contact IndiaFestGainesville@gmail.com, call 904-428-8714 or visit icec-florida.org/indiafest.
Free tango classes with the UF 
Argentine Tango ClubJoin the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels, including first-time dancers. Classes will take place in Dance Studio A in the Reitz Union on Sundays. The begin-ners class will start at 6:15 p.m., followed by an intermediate/
advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be 
sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. Jazz, ballet, salsa shoes or even a pair of thick socks work just fine. If you have any questions, please visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Florida Museum to host speed 
dating science event April 12Speed date a science subject. Join the Florida Museum of Natural History for an evening of science and snacks April 12 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. At Speed Science: Night at the Museum, guests may ask scientists their 
most burning questions one-
on-one. Pre-registration is re-quired, and participants must be 18 years or older. The cost is $20 for members or $25 for non-members. For more information or to register, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/speed-sci-ence-1 or call 352-273-2064.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  88° LOW  67°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 131MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
all over the place
The UF English Learning Institute student was 
one of about 1,200 people who attended the fourth 
annual TEDxUF conference in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. The event featured nine speakers who gave TED-style presentations on top-ics ranging from the battle against mosquito-borne illnesses to the effects of street art on a community. The conference, which cost about $21,000 to pro-duce, was free to the public, but it might not be next year, said Alex Touchton, the event’s curator.
Shareef, who emigrated from Kuwait to learn 
English last fall, said he related to Moreno, who spoke about navigating identity in higher education.
The event’s theme was transparency, an abstract 
topic that could elicit all kinds of talks, Touchton said.
“The theme should be abstract so it’s never con-
fining,” the UF chemistry and linguistics senior said.
Touchton said TEDxUF 2018 organizers might 
have to charge attendees for the event if they don’t get enough sponsors. This year’s event drew in fewer partcipants than last year, when about 1,600 people showed up.
“I firmly believe that ideas should not cost mon-
ey, but it’s really difficult for us to get sponsorships since we’re a student organization,” the 22-year-old said. 
The event also had three dancing acts and a po-
etry performance, as well as an art exhibit and two activity rooms for people to share ideas. 
A project called “Art in Progress,” where four UF 
students created a painting while hearing the talks, 
also took place at the conference. 
Erin Cooper, a UF English senior, said she teared 
up during UF professor Ryan Duffy’s talk about 
gratitude.
Duffy, a UF psychology professor, shared a story 
about how his mom once thanked his deaf sister for giving her the ability to feel empathetic. He chal-lenged the audience to thank those who might be going through a hard time, because they need it the most.
“When you think about it, it’s something every-
one can do every day, but for whatever reason, we don’t,” Cooper, 21, said.
Chantel Cummings, a UF political science and 
history freshman, said her favorite talk was LB 
Hannahs’, a genderqueer parent who has to correct 
people about their identity in order to feel authentic.
“I’m a Christian, but it was interesting because 
I hold a different perspective,” the 18-year-old said.
@taveljimena
jtavel@alligator.org
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
ABOUT 142 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE  
EVENT FRIDAY.
By Kelby Martin 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three panelists spent two hours 
explaining U.S. health care’s cur-
rent state and its possible future at UF’s Levin College of Law on Fri-day. 
About 142 people gathered at the college to discuss health policy under President Donald Trump’s administration. The UF Journal of Law and Public Policy hosted the event with UF’s Health Care Law Society. 
Panelists included Diane Ung 
and Myla Reizen, health care law-yers from the national firm Foley & Lardner LLP, and Carol Gorm-ley, Florida House Speaker Richard Corcoran’s deputy chief of staff for policy.
Jonelle Joseph, a UF sociology sophomore, said she attended to gather data for a project about how the health care system failed peo-ple of lower socioeconomic status.
“I feel like I definitely learned a 
lot about where health care is go-
ing,” the 19-year-old said.
James Roberts, the senior vice 
president of UF Health Shands 
who also spoke at the event, said Trump’s proposed federal budget, released March 16, cuts nearly $13 billion from the Department of Health and Human Services.The White House’s website lists 
$12.6 billion being cut from the de-partment. 
During the panel, speakers dis-
cussed efforts to dismantle and replace the Affordable Care Act, 
which was instituted in March 2010 
by former President Barack Obama and requires Americans to be in-sured, allows people up to 26 years old to use their parents’ health care and requires insurance companies to cover pre-existing conditions. 
Gormley said conflicts about health policy in Congress are caused partly by Democrats and Republicans refusing to work to-
gether, such as divisions over the 
Affordable Care Act and it’s pos-sible replacement. 
“It is possible for any angry per-
son to reach a lot of people with anger and without much thought, debate or analysis,” she said. “I think that’s affecting our elections, it’s affecting our policymakers once 
they’re in office and what they’re 
capable of doing.”
Panelists at UF discuss US health care policy changes 
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
UDDER-L Y FASCINATING
Liliana, 6, from Lake City, Florida, milks a plastic cow’s rubber udder to simulate 
milking a real cow at the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Dairy Unit in Alachua on Saturday.
TED,  from pg1Four UF students created a painting inspired by the talksBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF professor and her students want 
more than UF President Kent Fuchs’ condem-
nation of recent hateful events on campus. 
After multiple acts of hate speech at UF, 
including a man wearing a swastika-embla-
zoned armband on Turlington Plaza and rac-
ist writings on whiteboards, a class of about 15 students is sending a letter to Fuchs asking him to take action. Shelby Boehm, who teach-es the course Examine Race, said she and her students came up with the idea for the univer-sity to add courses that teach minority issues as an alternative option to What is the Good Life, a mandatory humanity course.
Boehm’s one-credit class normally evalu-
ates literature and current events about race, but after seeing multiple race-related instanc-es on campus, she changed the material. 
She printed every article she could find 
about the occurrences on campus and UF ad-ministration’s responses. 
“We all collectively agreed that these re-
sponses, while they’re appreciated, they’re 
not enough,” she said. 
Boehm will deliver the letter the class 
wrote to Fuchs at the end of Spring.Boehm said she wants the university to 
consider offering multiple classes for students 
to choose from about minority issues such as 
race, gender and sexuality. This would teach 
students to be more empathetic, she argues.
“These are conversations that need to hap-
pen at the university level,” she said. 
It’s unclear if UF will include classes about 
race issues in its updated mandatory-course program for Fall 2018: UF Quest. It’s a four-part program that will require students to take What is the Good Life, a social-science 
or natural-science course and other work out-
side of the classroom requirements, according to Alligator archives. 
Sophia Eikenberry, a UF neuroscience 
freshman in Bohem’s class who’s currently taking What is The Good Life, said she no-ticed the course doesn’t include many sec-tions about race. When it does touch on the topic, she said she thinks minority students 
don’t feel comfortable speaking up.
But in Boehm’s class, the small, diverse 
group of students are comfortable discussing 
taboo topics and thinks every student should experience that, Eikenberry said. 
“I’d like to think that we represent a good 
amount of the demands of the students of the University of Florida,” the 18-year-old said.Professor calls on Fuchs 
to add diversity course
Courtesy to the Alligator
At the conference, four UF students from different art departments created 
a painting inspired by the talks. “It’s relaxing, ” said Maddy Nave, a UF print-making art junior. “You just have to say yes to what everyone else is doing. ”By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man Satur-
day for racing his truck on West University 
Avenue while he was drunk.
Robert Michael Latner, 27, sped a gray 
2004 Nissan Frontier, passed an ofﬁ  cer and 
swerved into the right lane to pass another 
car, according to an arrest report. As the of-ﬁ  cer pulled behind Latner’s car, which was stopped at a red light at 3400 W. University Ave., Latner yelled at the other car’s driver.
“Let’s go! Green light! Green light!” 
Latner yelled while hitting his hand against the outside of his truck, according to the report.
Both drivers inched forward across the 
stop bar, despite the light being red, with the intention of racing, police said.
When the light turned green, the driv-
ers raced westbound on West University Avenue, reaching 65 mph, according to the report. Latner swerved to avoid hitting a curb.
Police stopped him on Northwest 36th 
Street, and he told an ofﬁ  cer he sped to impress girls, according to the report. His speech was slurred, and he smelled like al-
cohol, police said.
He admitted to drinking two beers at 
The Social at Midtown, according to the re-
port. He refused to ﬁ  nish ﬁ  eld sobriety ex-ercises, and his blood-alcohol levels were .142 and .148.
Police arrested Latner for driving under 
the inﬂ  uence and racing on a highway. Au-thorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Saturday after-noon on a $12,500 bond.
Latner declined to comment.
@mkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
As Jan Tomasz Gross addressed a 
crowd Sunday night, a single image was projected behind him.
About 30 Polish peasants and 
uniformed ofﬁ  cials stood with farm 
tools in a desert-like ﬁ  eld. Near the 
end of his lecture, Gross drew atten-tion to the previously unmentioned image, inviting the crowd of about 50 to look closer. Skulls laid at the feet of the Polish peasants. He said the desert-like ground was not sand, but rather the ashes of hundreds of thousands of slaughtered Jewish res-idents. He said the peasants standing above were riﬂ  ing through the ashes to try to ﬁ  nd Jewish gold and jewels.
“Those involved in the crime 
were opportunists,” he said. “Where the opportunity arose, they were not shy to take it.”
Gross, a Polish-born professor at 
Princeton University, is known for his work looking into the role of Pol-ish people in the massacre of Jew-ish Poles during World War II and the Holocaust, said Norman 
Goda, a professor 
with the Center 
for Jewish Stud-ies. On Sunday 
night in Smathers Library, Room 100, Gross talked about his work and how historians can use ﬁ  rst-hand accounts to build their studies. Goda said he wanted to bring 
Gross to UF because of the impact of his work. After Gross released his 2002 book “Neighbors: The De-struction of the Jewish Community in Jedwabne, Poland,” which chal-lenged the national narrative about 
the Holocaust in Poland, he received 
backlash, including the country ﬁ  l-ing a criminal libel investigation against him.
The Polish narrative surround-
ing the Holocaust was that Germans committed most of the atrocities in the country.
Makaelah Barrett, a 20-year-old 
UF international studies junior, said she cried while reading Gross’ book. She came to the event to hear more about his reaction to being shunned by his own country and community.
“It’s so exciting just to see him go 
against the grain of the Polish cul-ture,” she said.
When asked about the backlash 
he received, Gross shrugged.
“You can’t please them all,” he 
said. 
 Controversial Princeton Holocaust historian visits UF  
Gross
Latner
Police arrest man for driving drunkenly, racing car 
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Loud, synchronized banging ﬁ  lled a 
junkyard Saturday morning.
Three men took turns hammering a 
thick piece of heated metal at The Repur-pose Project, a nonproﬁ  t that lends space 
to community members, located at 1920 
NE 23rd Ave.
They were learning the art of axe-
making from Jordan Borstelmann, a 36-year-old blacksmith living in Gainesville.
Each class costs $100, is limited to 
six students and lasts about ﬁ  ve hours. He said the workshops are so popular 
they get booked one to two months in 
advance.
Borstelmann also teaches a knife-
making class. So far, no one has been hurt in any of his classes. 
“As long as you wear safety goggles, 
and you know that the metal is hot, there is not much that is dangerous,” he said.  
Martin Kipp, who enjoys pottery and 
is a recent UF landscape architecture graduate, attended the workshop for the ﬁ  rst time.
The 26-year-old said he always liked 
blacksmithing and heard about the class through a friend. 
“When the metal is cold, it’s such 
a solid material,” he said, “but once it 
heats up it’s like a putty. It’s such a dif-
ferent material when it’s hot, almost like the clay I use in pottery.” 
Although Kipp recently got a job in 
Atlanta, he said he enjoyed the class so much he is willing to make his way back for one more. He said he hopes to use his axe when he goes camping.   Gainesville blacksmith’s 
axe-making class popular
Emily Mavrakis / Alligator Staff
CURRENT MOOD
A cow drinks water from a sprinkler that sprays and cools the cows in their enclosure at the 
UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Dairy Unit in Alachua on Saturday.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Privacy versus 
convenience in the 
information age 
In case you haven’t heard, Congress recently voted to al-
low Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to sell your browsing 
history to corporations. Not that they weren’t doing that 
already to a degree — anyone who has seen a targeted ad 
on Facebook will know this — but with the repeal of the 
2016 Federal Communications Commission broadband privacy 
regulations, ISPs won’t need our permission to gather and sell 
sensitive private information. This includes things we kind of 
ﬁ  gured they were selling, like browsing history and app down-
loads, but also things we didn’t really want to think about them 
selling, like location, ﬁ  nancial and medical data.
The good news is there are ways to combat this. Using a 
VPN — Virtual Private Network — masks what IP address (the 
unique number assigned to a computer by the network) net traf-
ﬁ  c originates from by routing that trafﬁ  c through other servers 
owned by the VPN. This means all your ISP can see is that you connected to the VPN, but not what sites you visited (as long 
as DNS leak protection is enabled — just check the settings on your VPN).
One of the cheapest ways to set up a VPN is to use the web 
browser Opera, which you may recall from the Blackberry age and which began advertising plans for a free built-in VPN last 
year. This isn’t perfect, though: Unlike a full VPN, Opera only 
masks your browsing activity, not any other activity that uses 
your internet connection. It is also important to keep in mind 
Opera is a business and must proﬁ  t from the decision somehow. 
While the exact terms of Opera’s VPN are not quite clear yet, 
it is likely that while the browser will prevent ISPs from selling your browsing history, Opera may be selling that data itself or at 
the very least collecting it. For a full VPN that does not log your 
data, you’ll need a subscription, usually in the neighborhood of 
$5 per month depending on bandwidth restrictions. 
Tor — short for The Onion Router — is another browser-
based method of masking your IP address. The nonproﬁ  t brows-
er works like a VPN by routing trafﬁ  c through servers owned by 
volunteers who maintain the Tor network. Unfortunately, Tor’s 
use for pirating, black-market transactions and child pornogra-
phy led Congress last year to allow the FBI to issue warrants, 
hack, search or surveil any device used to download or run Tor. The same goes for any VPN, however, so Tor isn’t the only op-
tion that leaves you open to government surveillance.
For many of us, that was a lot of information to take in at 
once, and some may be wondering why using Google Incognito 
won’t do the trick. The only thing Incognito does is not save your browsing history on your own computer; Google and ISPs 
still keep that data in their records.
It may seem like you don’t have many options to protect 
your privacy online. One way or another, corporations and the 
government have ways to get ahold of your personal data. The 
future of privacy is bleak, but there is something else you can 
do. We’ve seen many ﬁ  ne examples in the last few months.
The solution is activism. Take the ﬁ  ght ofﬂ  ine, to your city 
and state representatives. Even in the last few weeks we’ve seen representatives change their votes, hold town halls and other-
wise take into account the wishes of their constituents. If you 
care about your privacy, let them know. We have the capacity 
to create change, both in the real world and online.
Student fees shouldn’t go toward hateful speakers
When a liberal speaker comes to UF, 
there’s conservative outcry. “How come we never get any conservative speakers?” they say. They claim to be suffocated by safe spaces, when 
their safety was never actually threatened. Yet when there’s opposition to a conservative speaker, those on the other side of the political spectrum are called snowﬂ  akes and crybabies. 
In what seems like an attempt to cover its 
a-- over complaints, Accent Speakers Bureau invited Ben Shapiro, the former editor-at-large of Breitbart, to speak today. While fake news might seem like something Presi-dent Donald Trump came up with, Shapiro was spewing it years ago. He perpetuated the idea that a group named “Friends of Hamas” was contributing to Chuck Hagel’s campaign. In a 2007 article he wrote, “The Palestinian Arab population breeds terrorism, anti-Semitism and anti-Americanism.” It’s insensitive to invite someone to speak when he demonizes whole populations regularly.
UF students have committed to protesting the speak-
ing engagement, and their voices should be heard. Our tuition dollars go to these speakers through student fees, which means that each and every student has chipped in for these speakers. According to Alligator archives, Ac-cent is paying $15,000 of Shapiro’s $20,000 speaking fee. What kind of message does it send when speakers who make UF students feel unsafe are paid using student fees? If this is considered partisan and political, so be it — but when a person on the left speaks on campus, conserva-tives have no reason to fear. The speaker comes and goes but does not actually threaten the majority.In this case, Shapiro’s rhetoric can make 
people unsafe. According to the Southern Pov-erty Law Center, there has been a dramatic rise in anti-Muslim hate groups, and attacks on Muslim communities can come within hours of an incendiary speech by Trump. It’s not an overstatement to say that Shapiro could have similar effects. Although Shapiro is not a Trump fan, he and the president do have some-thing in common: a history of hateful rhetoric.
Aside from riling up conservatives with misinforma-
tion, Shapiro has impacted minorities with unrestrained hate. During one of his TV appearances, he repeatedly misgendered Zoey Tur, and he has exhibited other trans-phobic behaviors, yet Accent thought it was appropriate to bring him to UF this month: Pride Awareness Month.  He also stated that Black Lives Matter is a threat to black men and called the killing of Mike Brown fully justiﬁ  ed in videos on his website, the Daily Wire. One of his speech-es is called “Truth is a Microaggression.” There’s no room for dialogue when someone believes that a group doesn’t have the right to exist and there is no basis of respect.  
Accent should be more conscious of who it invites to 
campus. When it comes to people who perpetuate intoler-ance and outright violence against minority communities like Shapiro, what kind of message is it sending to stu-dents who are part of those communities? One that says they are not valued at UF.
Inviting conservatives to be impartial — without re-
gard for what they said about those who are LGBTQ+, Muslim or any other marginalized identity — is insensi-tive, especially when tuition money is being used. Using student fees to pay for a speaker like Shapiro makes it seem like Accent is oblivious to the makeup of our Stu-dent Body.
Nicole Dan is a journalism and political science ju-
nior. Her column appears on Mondays.
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“Accent should be more conscious 
of who it is inviting.”MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!I recently read a collection of short essays by 
Oliver Sacks titled “Gratitude.” These es-says, particularly “My Periodic Table,” got me thinking about my own experiences, and this got me writing about my life.
This piece doesn’t stack up against the mar-
velous work of Sacks, but it’s where I’ll start.
A lover of the sciences, Sacks mentions 
his adoration of the elements, matching their atomic numbers with his recent birthdays (e.g., mercury for 80, thallium for 81). In the essay “Mercury,” Sacks is 79 (“…I am gold,” he re-marks). In “My Periodic Table,” he just turned 82 and has a little lead casket containing radio-
active element No. 90. I’ve never quite under-
stood chemistry; I often joke with my friends that science is something I “admire from afar.” It’s something I deeply respect and enjoy learn-ing about, but not something I do actively.Still, after I read Sacks’ piece, I 
wanted to know what element corre-sponded to my age now — 20, soon to be 21 — and what that means for me. Element No. 20 on the periodic 
table is calcium. I had to Google all 
of this, including the following in-formation from the Royal Society of Chemistry website: “Calcium is essential to all living things, particu-larly for the growth of healthy teeth and bones.”
I had ideas for some metaphors behind this, 
but I worried I’d come off trite or insincere. I didn’t want to superﬁ  cially connect my 20 years 
to calcium. I thought, though, that with some 
mindfulness and introspection, I could try. 
Twenty, like most years, has been quite 
mixed. I learned about myself, my friends and my family. I felt stress, fury, ecstasy, hurt, inspi-ration, sorrow, gratitude, love and indifference. Yet even in this year's similarity to other years, it has felt different in that everything has felt necessary. All of the events that oc-
curred — the feelings that burned, 
the tears that fell and the laughs that burst — felt essential. In retro-spect, they have been necessary for my “healthy growth.”
This brings me to another amazing read by 
another inspiring individual: “When Breath Becomes Air” by Paul Kalanithi. In it he says, “You can’t ever reach perfection, but you can 
believe in an asymptote toward which you are 
ceaselessly striving.” This is what I want to do, and what I think I am doing now: striving toward an inﬁ  nite end, and determining what that end is. That is what Kalanithi did, and even in death, he is a force of light. 
With the messages of Sacks and Kalanithi 
in mind, I’ve concluded that maybe what I’ve experienced at 20 are essential to me, the way calcium is essential to life. The “feelings-at-20” 
help deﬁ  ne the asymptote. Alternatively, they 
might muddle up the asymptote even more, and it’ll take years or decades to uncover it. That’s OK. It’s all part of the process.
I couldn’t resist a quick peek at the future. 
I looked up element No. 21. It’s scandium, and the Royal Society of Chemistry says it’s “main-ly used for research purposes.” That actually seems to line up, doesn’t it? Another year of re-
search, of trying to ﬁ  gure it out or messing it up 
even more. I can’t wait. 
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and law 
and philosophy junior. Her column appears on Mondays. 
 I am grateful for the elements of my 20 years and look forward to 21Column
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Mamie Leath sat inside the 
small, light-peach home in Gaines-
ville’s Porters Community where she has lived for most of her life. 
Outside, in the heat of mid-day, 
a group of strangers worked. 
At 89 years old, Leath cares 
for herself, but her yard remains a challenge. Rusted bicycles and heaps of fallen leaves lie just out-side her window.
On Saturday, as the sun beat 
down, a group of about six UF stu-dents dressed in bright orange T-shirts volunteered to help.
“I feel grateful,” Leath said, as 
a breathing tube laid across her face and a walker assisted her slow movements.
At about 44 other locations, 
about 760 students worked for four 
hours around Gainesville as a part 
of The Big Event, a service event organized by UF’s Student Gov-ernment. Although The Big Event 
is a nationwide program universi-
ties across the country take part in, 
Saturday marked the ﬁ  rst time UF hosted its own, said Zachary Mor-ris, The Big Event chairperson at 
UF.
Earlier that morning, student volunteers gathered at the North Lawn for the event’s opening cer-
emony to learn where they would be volunteering.
Student Body President Su-
san Webster said she wanted UF students to participate in The Big 
Event after learning of it from 
Texas A&M University student rep-resentatives, who said it started at 
the university in 1982.
“We have a Student Body that’s 
dedicated to the Gator good,” she 
said. “We don’t just say it, we show it.” 
Webster chose Morris, a UF ac-
counting junior, to organize the 
UF program. It cost $15,000 to set 
up with SG funding and sponsors, Morris said. The event, which will grow in future years, is an opportu-
nity for students to show the com-
munity their gratitude, he added.
“All of us are part of the 
Gainesville community,” the 
20-year-old said.
After the ceremony, students 
dispersed throughout the city to paint fences, clean yards and vol-unteer in different neighborhoods. 
At the Porters Community, GiGi 
Simmons, 44, navigated neighbor-
hood streets in her SUV, overseeing  
the roughly six groups of students stationed there.She checked on their progress 
and handed out bottles of water, admiring the good the volunteers were bringing to the community she has lived in her entire life.
“It’s such a great thing for col-
lege kids to get out here,” she said. 
“They are the future.” 
Simmons worked with Morris to place the students where they 
were most needed, like 60-year-old Marvin Anderson’s backyard — an area left untouched for the past three years. 
BriAunna Palmer, a UF indus-
trial and systems engineering fresh-man, was happy to spend her Sat-urday helping.
Palmer, 18, wore gloves as she 
carried trash from Anderson’s backyard to the sidewalk for about half an hour.
“When you’re actually helping, 
you don’t care that it’s hot, you don’t care that it’s a Saturday — you’re just here to help,” Palmer said. 
Anderson, who said he may turn 
his backyard into a garden, smiled.
“It feel good to have somebody,”
 he said.
         @paigexfry                    pfry@alligator.org 
UF Student Government leads citywide volunteer eﬀ   ort
About 760 students participated
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Amol Patadia, a 20-year-old UF biomedical engineering sophomore, rakes fallen leaves behind the home of a visually impaired woman in Gainesville’s Porters Community on Saturday as a part of The Big Event.
MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer 
Blue, pink, green, yellow, orange, 
purple and red flew through the air 
Sunday.
And in seconds, a crowd of about 
3,000 people was covered in roughly 12,000 pounds of colored powder — almost half the weight of the UF football team.
“It was beautiful,” said Manuela 
Kalissi, a 20-year-old Santa Fe Col-lege film studies sophomore who at-tended the UF Holi Festival of Color with friends.
Colored dust stained her skin and 
hair as they celebrated the start of spring on UF’s Flavet Field.
The festival, organized by the UF 
Indian Student Association and Stu-
dent Government, saw its crowd size 
double from last year, when the fes-tival was rescheduled for rain.
Observers of the Hindu festival, 
primarily celebrated in India and 
Nepal, mark the start of spring  by 
throwing colorful powder in the air and at each other.
Volunteers passed out about 
12,000 pounds of colored powder to 
attendees, said Gupta, a 20-year-old 
UF biochemistry sophomore. The powder cost organizers $3,000, but the event was free to attend.
Gupta said she always attended 
the festival in her hometown of Pen-sacola, Florida.  
“I’ve done this every year since I 
could walk and throw powder,” she said.
The first 1,000 participants re-
ceived a free shirt, designed by a UF 
student who won the shirt’s design 
contest. Food from Hare Krishna 
was also served and sponsors like 
the apartments West20 and The Retreat Gainesville, along with res-
taurants like Lollicup and Bonefish 
Grill, handed out fliers and hosted 
giveaways, Gupta said. Students 
placed their hands in colorful paint and left handprints on a banner for 
the event.
While students threw powder, 
a Gainesville Fire Rescue truck 
sprayed participants with water. Others threw water balloons passed 
out by volunteers and sprayed water 
guns.
When the powder settled, partici-
pants danced to popular American 
and Bollywood songs. 
Gupta said the event was moved 
from Hume Field to Flavet Field this year because it had more parking and a stage. 
Gupta said she hoped attendees 
at the festival, meant to welcome 
everyone, learned more about Hindu 
culture.
“At UF, I like how it brings to-
gether so many different people,” 
she said. “It’s nice that other 
people are interested in learning 
about our culture.”
@mkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
A group of students laugh as more than 3,000 people throw paint during the UF Holi Festival of Colors on Sunday.
T anish Vyas, 6, originally from India, celebrates Holi with his family on Sunday afternoon during the UF Holi Festival of Colors on UF’s Flavet Field.
Simran Giri, 19, a UF microbiology and cell science freshman who is originally from India, hugs her friend during the UF Holi Festival of Colors on Sunday afternoon. After participants began throwing powder at each other, they danced  to American and Bollywood songs. 
Spring comes in different colors at 
Holi
Photos by Isabel Bonnet
                      Alligator Staff
Participants drag one another through mud during the UF Holi Festival of Colors on Sunday. The event was organized by the Indian Student Association and UF Student Government. MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
3 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! 
Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     4-5-17-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-12-17-60-23 BR 3 Ba Condo in Haile Plantation! Great for professionals, students or family. Furnished, Vault. ceilings, walk-in closets, w / d , computer/work area, balcony Nearby shopping. Less than 5 mil. from UF and SFC. $2,100 (352) 870-1545     3-20-17-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
5 BLOCKS FROM UF● 1BR APT      ● 4 & 5 BR HOUSES
Available Aug. 1st. Pets ok. All appliances including DW & W/D. Call Claudette 352-359-5584. dalyproperties.com    4-19-17-21-2
***Condo for Rent $900/mo*** Two miles from campus! A 2BR, 2.5BA townhouse in Brighton Park $900/month Rent, utilities not included. Includes dishwasher, washer/dryer & 2nd story BRs with private baths. Call Claudia 941-391-0416    5-11-20-2
August 2017: Several Cute & Clean 1 & 2 BR vintage apartments near UF & downtown, with wood floors, fans, & blinds. Rents: $485 to $1090. Call/text: 352-575-4395; www.CozyGator.com      4-5-17-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2 health prof students (RN/MD/PT/OT/ST/PSY) as live-in companion for overnight shift to a re-covering brain-damaged woman in exchange for $150 rm rent w/ utils. Email qualifications, ed bkgrnd, teacher refs: gatorfun@att.net    4-4-17-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
BRUNSWICK BILLIARD
slate table, leather pockets, mother of pearl sights, brass rosettes, newer felt, cue sticks, balls & rack included $1200. 352-870-0521     4-6-17-5-6
West Elm 5x7 Wool area rug
new condition no pets and non- smoking home 100.00 (352) 870 -0521      4-4-17-3-6Wrought Iron Buffetwith granite top
2x36x18 *one of kind* $600.  352 870 0521     
4-4-17-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-19-17-70-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real EstateMONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                  4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-64-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-19-17-65-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Alligator is looking to fill a full-time 
position. Applicant must be extremely 
comfortable with using and teaching 
Adobe Creative Design Suite.
Position Responsibilities:
• Hire, fire and train student employees.
• Work around hectic student schedules.
• Meet various deadlines throughout the night.
• Supervise the nightly activity of the production department.
• Coordinate newspaper design and layout with content from student editors.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience working with students.
• Must have experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Illustrator and Photoshop.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule changes during summer semester. 
Summer hours alternate between 
three night shifts and two day shifts.
40 hours per week. Weekends off. 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume 
to tcarey@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for 
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to sutdents, and applicants 
must be enrolled in summer classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
• Duties include page layout and design using InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
• Knowledge of newspaper design.
• Experience with Adobe InDesign, 
Illustrator and Photoshop is preferred.
• Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday during the fall and spring semester. Schedule is less demanding during summer semester. 
• A one year commitment is expected.
• Previous applicants are welcome to reapply with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
late April and/or early May.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Aubrey Stolzenberg
at astolzenberg@alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  4-19-17-70-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Spiders’ fly
catchers
5 It forms over a
healing abrasion
9 Casual talk
13 Mine, to Marcel
14 Batted ball into
the dugout, say
15 Lane at the Daily
Planet
16 Awkward
situation
19 Mournful poem
20 IDs shown at
airports
21 Close tightly
again
23 Business suit 
go-with
24 Weekly
paycheck, e.g.
31 Pose a question
34 Actress Shire35 Courtroom
hammer
36 Sheet music
symbol
38 Henry or Jane of
“On Golden
Pond”
40 Walrus feature
41 Vague
emanations
43 Gymnast
Comaneci
45 Live __: Taco
Bell slogan
46 Golf practice
facility
49 Bullring shout
50 Anatomical
sculpture
subjects
54 Signed, as a deal
59 Skin transplant,
e.g.
60 Start of a hopeful
rhyme about bad
weather, and ahint to what the
first word of 16-,
24- and 46-Across maydescribe
62 Catcher’s glove63 Swedish furniture
giant
64 Scrabble square
65 Hearty meal66 Where Anna
danced with theking
67 Doesn’t feel wellDOWN
1 Nilla product
2 Novelist Zola
3 What fillets lack
4 All-out attacks5 Northern Cal.
airport
6 Monastic hood7 Quattro
automaker
8 Political alliance
9 Genetic
duplication
10 Shelter adoptee11 Helper12 General __
chicken
17 High-end hotel
chain
18 Bigfoot cousin22 Metaphorical new
thing to “turnover”
25 As a companion26 Iraqi money27 When tripled,
“and so on”
28 Egg cell
29 Flat-topped
elevation
30 Lodge fellows31 Many a prep sch.32 Speak
indistinctly33 Emmy nominee
Russell of “The
Americans”
37 Underdog’s
opposite
39 “__ Misbehavin’”
42 Feature of words
beginning with“wr”
44 Disco era term47 At no time, to
bards
48 List of mistakes51 2005 slasher film
sequel
52 Considering
everyone
53 Eyelid maladies54 Weapons55 Trot or gallop
56 Orator’s platform
57 Polynesian
carving
58 Most eligible for
service
61 Pinup’s leg
By Brock Wilson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/03/1704/03/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, April 3, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. Pitcher Wandy Rodriguez set a 
Texas Rangers record in 2015 for con-
secutive batters retired (34). Who had 
held the team mark?
2. How many times did Hall of Fame 
pitcher Nolan Ryan lead a league in 
shutouts?
3. When was the last time the Uni-
versity of Indiana football team won 
a bowl game?
4. In the 2014-15 NBA season, John 
Wall became the second Washington 
Wizards player to average 10 assists 
in a season. Who was the first?
5. When was the last time before the 
2016-17 NHL season that the Phil-adelphia Flyers won 10 consecutive games?
6. When was the last time before 
2016 that Mexico’s men’s soccer team won a World Cup qualifying match in the U.S.?
7. Boxer Vinny Paz won titles in 
three weight classes during a 60-fight pro career (1983-2004). Name the weight classes. 
Answers:
1. Ken Hill retired 31 consecutive 
batters in 1996.
2. Three times: 1972 (nine), 1976 
(seven) and 1979 (five).
3. It was 1991. 4. Rod Strickland averaged 10.5 
assists per game during the 1997-98 season.
5. It was the 1985-86 season, when 
Philadelphia won 13 in a row.
6. It was 1972.7. Lightweight, junior middleweight 
and super middleweight.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 3, 2017 King Features Weekly Service
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     4-12-17-65-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
Sun Country Sports
is hiring for summer!Camp Counselors, Swim Coaches,Gymnastics Coaches.Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs     4-3-17-14-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sun Country Sports Center is hiringswim instructors who love working with chil-dren. Experience preferred, but willing to train those with similar experience.suncountrysports.com/jobs      4-3-17-1-14
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 501796      4-7-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Lucrative plan to earn a few hundreds of dol-lars a week or several thousands of dollars a month through an innovative, unique company. 2 min recorded overview 773-717-7600; www.
incomewithdebitcards.com  214-962-7027   
4-7-17-15-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-19-
17-73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Budget Lawn CutsFull service lawn careSm $25-$30, Md $30-$35, Lg $40Other services, like pressure washingare available.   Call Chris: 352-328-2473    4-14-17-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Grant Holloway led the Gators to a come-from-behind win in the 4x400-meter relay at this weekend's Florida Relays. Read the story, pg. 15NCAA Men's Basketball T ournament ends tonight
No. 1 seeds Gonzaga and North Carolina will face off in the ﬁ  nal game of 
March Madness tonight at 9:20 on CBS. By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer
Jackson Kowar watched and 
hoped. He needed the bunt to roll 
foul. He waited for it to roll foul. But it teetered right up against the third-base line and ended up fair. 
The bunt loaded the bases 
with no outs for Missouri, which was trying to score its ﬁ  rst run of the game. The next batter for 
the Tigers was Kameron Misner, 
who grounded into a double play. 
However, one run scored. 
Kowar now clung to a one-run 
lead. He needed one more out to preserve it. And he was facing runners on ﬁ  rst and third after hitting a batter. 
With an 0-2 count against 
Mizzou’s Brian Sharp, Kowar delivered, and catcher Mike Rivera 
popped up with an immediate ﬁ  st-
pump. Strike three. 
That was as close as the Tigers 
(21-7, 4-5 SEC) got on Sunday. 
Behind Kowar’s ﬁ  ve solid in-
nings and a dominant outing from 
its bullpen, No. 8 UF picked up a 2-1 win and a series sweep of Mis-souri in Columbia. 
“It was just one of those weekends,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release. 
The sweep was largely thanks 
to UF’s starting pitching, which 
tossed 21.2 innings and allowed 
three earned runs in the three games. That’s an ERA of 1.27. 
Sunday starter Jackson Kowar 
may have been the worst of the 
three — ﬁ  ve innings, one run al-
lowed, ﬁ  ve walks and four strike-outs — but O’Sullivan said the 
sophomore wiggled out of some 
tough situations, including bases 
loaded, no outs in the ﬁ  fth inning. 
“His sinker was good and he 
threw some quality sliders to-
day and threw some really good 
changeups,” O’Sullivan said. “Bot-
tom line, he made some pitches when he needed to.”
Kowar improved to 4-0 on the 
year, and he couldn’t have done 
so without an assist from his bull-
pen. Freshman southpaw Austin Langworthy tossed 1/3 of an in-ning, and fellow freshman Garrett 
Milchin lasted two scoreless. 
He was replaced by sophomore 
Michael Byrne, who picked up his 
fourth save of the season. 
“Michael (Byrne) came in and 
did a nice job,” O’Sullivan said. “The bullpen was outstanding.”
On offense, the Gators (20-9, 
5-4 SEC) did their damage early. 
First baseman JJ Schwarz 
pounced in the ﬁ  rst inning when he pounded a homer to left, giving the Gators a lead they never relin-quished. UF baseball  edges out Mizzou for series sweep
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz bats during Florida's game against William and Mary on Feb. 18. 
President of UF Kent Fuchs made an unbelievable announcement over the weekend.
In a video released Satur-
day, Fuchs said he signed an execu-tive order to “remove all association with alligators” from UF.
No more saying "Go Gators," no 
more statues of the reptiles on cam-pus, none of it.
Gators legend Steve Spurrier even 
responded to defend the nickname.
“What does he want to change 
our mascot name to, like, the rab-bits? The mouses?” Spurrier asked in his video.
Despite falling on April Fool’s 
Day, the false controversy got a few ﬁ  red up on Twitter.
“Over my dead body,” one fan 
wrote, and “Who tf do you think you are...” another tweeted.
But consider this: UF has been 
calling its teams the Gators since around 1908 to 1912, depending on who you ask. And if you ask me, >100 years is too long. It’s time to switch it up. So here are three appro-priate and unique team names that the University of Florida can choose from and adopt. (You’re welcome, Fuchs.)
1) The SpacemenNot only does this nickname lend 
itself to an awesome mascot, but it’s appropriate for Florida. Gainesville is just a few hours from the Kennedy Space Center outside of Cape Canav-eral. And UF has graduated multiple astronauts. Even Bill Nelson, a U.S. senator and UF alum, went to space  Spacemen, 
Skunk Apes 
and Skeeters: 
Renaming 
the Gators
GYMNASTICS
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
As soon as Rachel Slocum stuck 
her landing on vault, she couldn’t 
contain her excitement.
The junior sprinted down the 
runway dabbing before giving 
teammate Alex McMurtry a hug 
and then jumping into the arms of Florida coach Jenny Rowland. 
“When we were at the end of 
the vault, Alex (McMurtry) was wondering what she should do on the way back,” Slocum said. “And then the gears started turning in my head. I had to dab. So then I ﬁ  n-
ished, and I was like ‘of course.'”
Her score, a 9.95, was tied with 
McMurtry (bars) for the highest of the night for the Gators, ending the 
meet on a positive note after the team struggled early.
Two major 
mistakes on bars — a fall from freshman Ra-chel Gowey and an over-rotated handstand by Alicia Boren — and a few shaky beam routines 
had UF trailing Georgia by .325 half-
way through the meet. 
But the Gators got their momen-
tum back during their third rota-
tion bye when they watched their newcomers — Slocum, Amelia Hundley, Sierra Alexander, Gowey and Maegan Chant — dance in the locker room, a team tradition.
“Last night we actually made 
up a choreographed dance, and I’m 
not going to lie, it was pretty good,” 
Hundley said while laughing after the meet. “I think they were happy with the way it turned out. It was pretty lit.”
UF's ﬁ  nal two rotations on ﬂ  oor 
(49.45) and vault (49.475) were the top-two scoring rotations of the night for the regional’s six teams.
They secured the Gators a 
197.125, the top team score of the night, and a trip to St. Louis for the NCAA Championships.
Georgia rounded out the top 
two, also advancing with a 196.775.
“We just had a blast on ﬂ  oor and vault. It was our last time this sea-son in front of our fans,” McMurtry, who won the all-around title, said. “I think we did really well and built 
off every single score.”
Florida now has fewer than two 
weeks before it competes in the 
NCAA semiﬁ  nals on April 14. From there, the Gators hope to advance to the Super Six and earn the pro-gram’s fourth NCAA title.
“I think this team really showed 
a lot of heart, and that was our word of the day today,” Rowland said. 
“We talk about ‘you know what, 
it’s not over until the last routine.’ (I’m) really proud of this team.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org 
 Florida advances to NCAA Championships
Slocum
MONDAY MATTERS
Matt Brannon
Twitter: @MattB_727
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Arkansas shouldn’t have been 
surprised.
The No. 23 team in the country, 
squaring off against No. 2 Florida 
(33-2), had just allowed a double 
to sophomore Amanda Lorenz with 
two outs in the inning. Junior Nicole DeWitt was up next, and with a run-ner in scoring position, she had a chance to tie the game at one.
Going into the game, DeWitt had 
30 hits and 27 RBIs in 34 games this season.
And Sunday afternoon held more 
of the same.
The Garden Grove, California, 
native smacked a double out to left ﬁ  eld, sending home Lorenz to tie the game.
The Gators then earned ﬁ  ve runs 
in the same inning to capture a 6-1 win and the sweep of the Razorbacks on Sunday afternoon in Fayetteville.
The offense seen in that ﬁ  fth in-ning was the kind of answer UF was 
looking for the entire game. Florida 
had only converted four hits in the previous four innings. And after a throwing error to ﬁ  rst base by soph-omore pitcher Kelly Barnhill, the 
Gators found themselves down 1-0 
going into the latter half of the game.
After the tying RBI double from 
DeWitt, junior Kayli Kvistad blasted a two-run homer over left ﬁ  eld to 
break the tie, her fourth home run 
of the season.
And even with two outs hanging 
over their heads, the Gators still pro-duced two more runs in the inning 
to extend their lead.
Following a double from fresh-
man Jaimie Hoover and an Arkan-
sas pitching change from Autumn Storms, new pitcher Caroline Hedg-
cock immediately allowed two con-
secutive walks. Brooke Clemens 
stepped up to bat with the bases 
loaded and hit a single to right ﬁ  eld 
to bring home the ﬁ  nal run of the 
ﬁ  fth inning.Florida totaled 13 hits in the 
game and has now recorded 10 
hits or more in three of its last four matchups. It also went 6-for-13 on the day when batting with two outs.
In comparison, Arkansas went 
1-for-8.
Florida’s defense was tough to hit 
on with two outs, and it all started with Barnhill. She had seven strike-outs through ﬁ  ve innings and al-
lowed one hit in the win, a double 
to right ﬁ  eld. She has yet to lose a 
game for Florida this season and 
boasts the lowest ERA in the country (0.20). 
Senior Delanie Gourley relieved 
her in the sixth inning and struck out 
a pair. UF’s pitching staff has an ERA 
of 0.78, the lowest in the nation, and only allowed two hits on Sunday. 
Florida will hope to continue its 
hot pitching when it hosts North 
Florida on Wednesday in Gainesville. 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org  Florida softball team sweeps Arkansas behind Barnhill
Alligator File Photo
Kelly Barnhill pitches during the second game of UF’s 
doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb 17, 2016. 
MEN’S GOLF
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
Florida was trailing Alabama 
going into the ﬁ  nal round on Sat-urday night. But on Sunday, the Gators rolled past the Tide to win the Mason Rudolph Championship by one stroke. 
Led by sophomore Sam Hors-
ﬁ  eld, Florida shot 13 under on the last day to beat Alabama and third-place Vanderbilt. Horsﬁ  eld, the individual winner of the tour-nament, shot a bogey-free ﬁ  nal round to ﬁ  nish 11 under for the weekend. The sophomore birdied four of the ﬁ  nal six holes, includ-ing holes 17 and 18, to shoot 5 under on the day. And while this was Horsﬁ  eld’s second straight year winning the tournament, he wasn’t the only UF golfer to show up on Sunday.
Both Gordon 
Neale and Ale-jandro Tosti were 
able to match Horsﬁ  eld’s ﬁ  -nal round score. Neale, a sopho-more from Dove Canyon, Cali-
fornia, eagled the ﬁ  nal hole to go along with a birdie on 17. Neale was able to complement a 33 on the front nine with another 33 on the back nine. He ﬁ  nished in a tie for third place.
Tosti, the ﬁ  nal golfer in this 
weekend’s lineup, matched Hors-ﬁ  eld’s round with a bogey-free day. The junior had four birdies on the back nine, including three straight birdies from holes 12 to 14. After missing last week’s tour-nament, Tosti was able to secure his ﬁ  fth top-10 ﬁ  nish of the year. It was the ﬁ  rst time this Spring that the Gators had three players ﬁ  nish in the top 10. Coach J.C. Deacon was more than pleased with his team’s performance.
“It was some of the most 
clutch, gutsy golf that I’ve ever seen from a team,” Deacon said. “They played their best golf when they needed it the most, and that’s what we all strive to do when we’re practicing and preparing for tournaments. And they accom-plished it today.” 
Florida also came back from a Day 2 deﬁ  cit for the second tour-nament in a row. Last week, the Gators trailed Georgia Southern by eight strokes after the second day of play at the Schenkel Invi-tational. This week, the Gators were able to outplay Alabama af-ter trailing the Crimson Tide by a single stroke going into the ﬁ  nal round. It was Florida’s ﬁ  fth win of the season and only the eighth time since 1965 that they have won ﬁ  ve tournaments in a season.
“We’re just getting going,” 
Deacon said. “This is when this team wanted to shine, in the post-season, and this is what we’re built for. This is a great step lead-ing into the postseason, but our work is just beginning, so we’ve got a long way to go and hopefully a lot more numbers to add to the [ﬁ  ve wins this season].”
Andy Zhang ﬁ  nished in a tie for 
12th despite shooting 2 over on the round. He carded two rounds under par over the ﬁ  rst two days of competition. 
Ryan Orr also competed for the 
Gators, ﬁ  nishing in a tie for 49th and shooting 9 over. Ryan Celano, who competed as an individual, also ﬁ  nished tied for 49th.
The Gators don’t compete again 
until the SEC Championship in St. Simon’s Island, Georgia, on April 21. Last year, Florida ﬁ  nished in a tie for third at the tournament.
 
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org 
 Gators win tournament as Horsﬁ  eld takes individual title
Horsﬁ  eld
MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
Then, in the next inning, the 
Gators capitalized on a two-out op-
portunity. Sophomore Blake Reese walked and stole second, and left fielder Ryan Larson drove him in on 
UF’s next at-bat with a double. 
“JJ’s been swinging the bat re-
ally good and ran into a ball in the 
first,” O’Sullivan said. “Larson had a 3-1 count and ran the ball into (the) left-centerfield gap, and it was enough.”
The win pushed Florida to a win-
ning SEC record for the first time this season. It also marked UF's first sweep of an SEC opponent in 2017. 
The Gators will try to keep their 
four-game win streak rolling on Tuesday when they host Stetson and this weekend when they host Tennessee. 
“One-run games are not easy to 
win. Especially not on the road,” O’Sullivan said. “Any time you get a sweep on the road... it’s big for us. I think we’re really starting to come together.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgin the 1980s. It emphasizes UF’s aca-demics, so Fuchs would like it. Al-though we may have to rename the 
Swamp as the Moon, but that would 
make it even cooler when an astro-
naut mascot does a low-gravity gal-
lop from a spacecraft and plants an orange and blue flag on the 50-yard 
line.
2) The Skunk ApesIf you’re too attached to calling 
the stadium the Swamp, here’s an 
alternative.
I know you’ve never heard of a 
Skunk Ape and are 90 percent sure 
that I made it up. But the Skunk Ape 
is essentially swamp equivalent of 
Bigfoot and the yeti. Also known as the swampsquatch, myakka ape and the swamp cabbage man, the Skunk 
Ape is a human-ape hybrid about 7 
feet tall that smells worse than the 
Bat Houses on campus. The Skunk Ape has become more of a B-List mythical creature since no one’s lied 
about seeing it in a while. But that 
just means UF wouldn’t have to fight 
with anybody over the name, since, strangely, no one currently wants it.
3) The Skeeters
Mosquitos are the second thing 
you notice about Florida after you 
get out of your car and say, “Oh sh-t I have a sunburn.” 
Mosquitos are the perfect UF 
mascot: They’re disease-ridden like 
campus, and they’re always after 
your blood, like those red and blue busses everywhere. They’re the third-most common animals on campus behind alligators and frat guys.  
Also, and this part's important, 
they suck. 
BASEBALL,  from pg.13COLUMN,  from pg.13
Larson had 
an RBIWOMEN'S TENNIS
By Spencer Thompson
Sports Writer
After a week with very little prac-
tice and two players sick with the 
flu, the Gators women’s tennis team could’ve played slow. Instead, they dominated. 
Recording two more sweeps, 
Florida defeated Alabama 4-0 on Fri-day and Auburn 4-0 on Sunday. 
The Gators started fast on Friday in a match that lasted fewer than two hours. Belinda Woolcock and Josie Kuhlman were first off the doubles court as they crushed Ala-bama’s Danielle Spielmann and Ju-liana Valero 6-0. Not long after that, the pair of Ingrid Neel and Anna 
Danilina gave Florida a 1-0 lead as 
they defeated Andie Daniell and Jo-anna Savva 6-3.
The Gators were efficient in 
singles, playing with a different lineup as Kuhlman played two and Neel played three. Nevertheless, Florida managed to get off the court quickly as Woolcock beat Erin Rout-
liffe 6-1, 6-0 to put the Gators up 
by two. Danilina was next off the court when she defeated Smith Hin-ton 6-1, 6-1, and Kourtney Keegan handed the Gators the win by beat-ing Savva 6-1, 6-1. 
“I thought we did a good job 
with emotion and playing together today,” coach Roland Thornqvist 
said. “That’s how you beat a team 
like this.”
The Gators carried Friday’s mo-
mentum to Sunday as Thornqvist described the Auburn match as “one of the more complete matches we’ve played in the past month.” 
Florida found itself in a bit of 
a scare in doubles on Sunday, as 
Auburn split the doubles point and started to make a comeback. After 
Woolcock and Kuhlman won their match on Court 3, Auburn’s Alizee Michaud and Taylor Russo defeat-ed Brooke Austin and Keegan 6-3. 
Danilina and Neel went up 5-0 in 
their match before Andie Dikosav-ljevic and Alannah Griffin won four straight to make it 5-4. However, the Gators managed to survive as they took the match 6-4 to give Florida the lead. 
Singles play was a different story. 
Every court won the first set for the 
Gators as they dominated the Tigers. 
Playing quicker than she normally does, Austin was first off the court for the Gators after beating Georgie Axon 6-3, 6-0. Playing on Court 2 again, Kuhlman was next off the court as she wore down Michaud to win 6-4, 6-0. Then, after battling the flu this week, Neel found her stride 
to defeat Russo 6-2, 6-4 and give 
the Gators their ninth sweep of the season. 
“We played well and we played 
tough,” Thornqvist said. “When we were up at games, we were tough at the end of them. That’s how you open these teams up. I thought we were outstanding (Sunday).”
@spencemthompson
sthompson@alligator.org UF plays 'complete' weekend, dominates
WOMEN'S GOLF
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer
Florida hadn’t led the entire 
race. 
The Gators shifted around in 
spots two through five before falling into the sixth spot going into the final leg of the Jimmy 
Carnes Invitational 4x400 Relay 
at the Florida Relays. 
That left Florida freshman 
Grant Holloway with at least 50 meters of ground to make up.
And he did, slowly catching up with each meter he ran. 
Holloway was able to over-
take the fifth-place runner and crept into the fourth spot with about a half a lap remaining in 
the relay.
Then into the third spot go-
ing into the final straightaway, 
and into second when he passed Iowa’s Carter Lilly with about 40 meters to go. 
Then, with about 20 meters 
left in relay, Holloway passed Tennessee’s Nathan Strother to secure the come-from-behind victory for the Gators to conclude the meet.
The relay team’s time, 
3:03.08, currently ranks No. 1 in Division I and was one of many 
national leads set by the Gators 
at the Florida Relays over the weekend.  
On Day 3, similar to the 4x400 
team, the Gators men’s 4x100 meter relay team placed them-selves at the top when the team comprised of Michael Timpson Jr., Holloway, Eric Futch and Ryan Clark ran a 38.73, which also ranks first nationally. 
Another top-ranked time 
came from Futch, who placed first in the men’s 400-meter hur-dle finals on Day 2 to take over 
the top spot nationally.
Futch, who was the 2016 
NCAA Outdoor 400-meter hur-
dle champion, said he doesn’t really let rankings early on in the season get to his head and acknowledged that the past is in the past. 
Read the full story online at 
alligator.org/sportsBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The Gators women’s golf team 
finished the second round of the Clemson Invitational in a tie for second place at 7 under on Satur-day. The only thing to change be-
tween then and the end of the fi-
nal round on Sunday was a lower placement.
UF finished the weekend alone 
in third place after succumbing to FSU and Furman. FSU used a fervent onslaught in the second round, buoyed by senior Matilda Castren’s eight birdies, to card a 
tournament-low round of 278 and 
pull into a tie with Florida. FSU then used a 3-under third round to topple the Gators, as UF couldn’t break par on the final day. Cas-tren, the eventual individual champion, finished 9 under with a steady 2-under third round.
Florida senior Maria Torres 
continued her hot streak for Flor-ida as she produced a 7 under for the tournament, good for a tie for second overall. Torres carded a 3 
under during the final round to 
break out of a tie for fourth over-all. 
“Maria had another great 
week. She is playing solid, but more importantly, playing smart,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “Her smart play is giving her the opportunity to be in contention every week.”
However, no other Gators 
cracked the top 10. Senior Karo-
lina Vlckova and junior Taylor 
Tomlinson finished at even par for the tournament, placing in a tie for 12th.As was the case last year, se-
nior Kelly Grassel bookended a subpar second round with decent first and third rounds in Sunset, South Carolina, carding a 6 over in Round 2. Grassel finished in a tie for 48th, her worst placement in 
a tournament since her freshman 
season at Michigan State.
Tomlinson, who was tied with 
Torres through two rounds at 4 under, seemed to be in a funk from the beginning of the third round, posting two bogeys and a double-bogey before draining her first and only birdie of the round on the 14th hole. Vlckova also had one birdie on the day a day after posting four birdies in an effort 
to card a 3 under in the second 
round.
Glaser was optimistic about 
her team’s chances heading into Round 3.
“We were grinding hard for 
that team score,” Glaser said after the second round. “I’m proud of them. Tomorrow is going to be re-ally fun.”
The final round may have 
been fun to play, but the result was ultimately disappointing for Glaser’s team. 
“It’s a great lesson that every 
shot counts,” Glaser said. “Unfor-tunately, today we made too many mistakes to make any kind of real run at FSU.”
The Gators will now have a few 
weeks off before heading up to Birmingham, Alabama, to prepare for the SEC Championship taking place between April 21 and 23.
@morganmcmuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.org
Gators finish Florida Relays decoratedFlorida falters late at Clemson InvitationalAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Josie Kuhlman returns a shot against Oklahoma State on Feb. 18.
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2017
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHONTUESDAY:
• Baseball vs. Stetson, 6:30 p.m., SEC 
Network+
WEDNESDAY:
• Lacrosse @ Marquette, 1 p.m.
• Softball vs. North Florida, 6 p.m., SEC Network+
FRIDAY: 
• Baseball vs. T ennessee, 5 p.m., SEC Network+
• Women’s T ennis vs. Ole Miss, 5 p.m.
• Men’s T ennis @ Georgia, 6 p.m.
• Football Orange and Blue Debut, 7:30 p.m., SEC Network
SATURDAY:
• Lacrosse vs. Cincinnati, noon 
• Baseball vs. T ennessee, 6 p.m., SEC Network 
• Softball vs. Georgia, 4 p.m., SEC Network+
SUNDAY:
• Baseball vs. T ennessee, 1 p.m., SEC Network
• Women’s T ennis vs. Mississippi State, 1 p.m.
• Men’s T ennis @ T ennessee, 1 p.m.
• Softball vs. Georgia, 7 p.m., SEC Network THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Gymnast Rachel Slocum blows a kiss during the Gainesville Regional on Saturday. The gymnastics team is off this week before traveling to the NCAA Championships next weekend. 