We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 8 MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
White condemns ﬁ  nger 
pointing after loss
UF’s men’s basketball coach trying 
to get team on track,  pg. 13
Man shot dead 2 miles from UF campus
Deputies attempted to serve him a warrant,  pg. 3
Women protest in Gainesville, Tallahassee
See the stories and photos,  pg. 8-9FOLLOW US FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorGrace King / Alligator Staff
YES SHE CAN
Thousands gather on the Ellipse near the back lawn of the White House at the conclusion of the Women’s March on Washington. Many of the marchers placed their protest 
signs along a few small fences to create “walls” near the White House.
By Emily Cochrane                              
and Ariana Figueroa 
Special to the Alligator
WASHINGTON, D.C. — The rain began 
in chilly Washington, D.C., on Friday morn-
ing as Donald Trump delivered an equally 
bleak call for a united America as the 45th 
President of the U.S.
Though Trump, who at 70 is the old-
est president to assume ofﬁ  ce, galvanized 
thousands of supporters with echoes of his 
campaign promise to “make America great again,” he painted a dark — and slightly 
exaggerated — picture of an America held 
hostage by the elite and crippled by what he 
described as job loss, economic downturn 
and a weakened foreign presence.
“This American carnage stops right here 
and stops right now,” he vowed, telling a 
cheering crowd punctuated by red hats from 
his campaign that his election was one that 
gave power back to the people.
“Together, we will determine the course 
of America and the world for many, many  Protests, divisions following 
Trump’s inauguration
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
WASHINGTON, D.C. — A sea of marchers 
donning pink “pussyhats” and holding poster 
boards high over their heads stood shoulder-
to-shoulder on Saturday morning, taking part 
in one of the largest women’s movements in 
U.S. history.
On a city corner around 9:30 a.m., a bus 
stopped and about 250 women, who traveled 
more than 14 hours from Gainesville, stepped 
off. Among them was 70-year-old Jane Sapp, who left her small, conservative town of Wil-
liston, Florida, more than 780 miles behind 
her as she prepared to take a stand for her 
rights and those of others.
“We feel strongly that this is something we 
need to do,” Sapp said, noting that many of 
her neighbors criticized her decision to pro-
test. “This country is great, and we don’t want 
it to be not great.”
In the streets of the nation’s capitol, half a 
million people packed entire city blocks as a 
part of the Women’s March on Washington,  Gainesville women board 
buses to join historic march
SEE INAUGURATION,  PAGE 4 SEE MARCH,  PAGE 4A march of their ownSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
is offering free lessons and danc-es every Monday and Friday. On Friday nights, the organization 
hosts two levels of lessons from 8 
p.m. to 9 p.m. and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the organiza-tion hosts two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing and practice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Reitz Union 
Breezeway. For more informa-
tion, visit the organization's Facebook page.
Geocaching Gators club first 
meetingA new club focused on geocach-ing is having its first meeting today at 6:15 p.m. in Little Hall, 
Room 113. Geocaching is a world-
wide treasure hunt where people use a GPS or their smartphone to find containers. Everyone is welcome. For more informa-tion, please join the Geocaching Gators group on Facebook. 
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to University Galleries in Gainesville Cultural institutions are hosting Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from January to March. Cuban muralists, danc-ers, musicians, authors and aca-demics are among those featured. The first event features “Lights, 
Camera, Cuba! Selections from 
the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.
edu.
352Creates Leadership Team op-
portunity
The UF Center for Arts in Medicine is seeking students to join a 60-hour apprenticeship to work with the management team. Please contact Jeffrey 
Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu with 
a short letter of interest and a resume. For more information, visit 352Creates.com.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club The Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. 
in UF’s Entomology Building, lo-
cated at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. Learn about the Toastmasters’ program of public speaking and leadership achieve-ment. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Fahim AnwarFahim Anwar will be perform-ing stand-up comedy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Jan. 27 from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anwar just wrapped season 5 of “Guy Code” for MTV, and his re-cent film and TV credits include 
“Neighbors,” “Kirstie” and “New 
Girl." Anwar was also featured in Tina Fey’s new war comedy film based on Kim Barker’s mem-oir, “Whiskey Tango Foxtrot,” which was released in March. Currently, Anwar is working on his own one-hour special.
‘The Divine: A Play for Sarah 
Bernhardt’ The UF School of Theatre + Dance presents “The Divine: A Play for Sarah Bernhardt” from Jan. 27 to Jan. 29 and Feb. 3 to Feb. 5 in Constans Theatre. This new play by Canadian playwright Michel Marc Bouchard tells the 
story of Talbot and Michaud, two 
Quebec City seminarians from opposing social classes with con-flicting ideas about life, religion and art. Tickets for the produc-tion are $18 for the general pub-lic, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the 
University Box Office. For more 
information, visit arts.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28 Beginning Jan. 28, visitors of the Florida Museum of Natural History will be able to see the museum’s new featured exhibit 
“Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” 
Guests may view tree frogs, bull-frogs, horned frogs, giant toads and poison dart frogs. The mu-seum will host a public opening celebration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. The cost is $25 for early registration through Tuesday or 
$15 for UF students with a valid 
Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and $7.50 for Florida residents and seniors, $5 for children aged 3 
to 17 and free for museum mem-
bers and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. 
‘Into the Open: What Animals 
Can Teach Us about Death’On Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. at the Millhopper Branch Library, Jessica Pierce will speak on how judgments about animal life af-fect end-of-life care for our ani-mal companions. This event is the fifth in an eight-part speaker 
series called “Death: Confronting 
the Great Divide” organized by UF’s Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere. For more information, visit humanities.ufl.edu. 
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career Expo
The annual College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences Career Expo will be from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Feb. 8 in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers represent-ing the food, fiber, natural re-sources and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities 
for internships and permanent 
employment as well as represen-tatives of graduate programs and professional schools. All students are encouraged to attend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. CALS will host walk-in resume reviews in preparation for the event from 9 a.m. to 
noon Monday in McCarty Hall D, 
Room 2025. For more informa-tion, visit cals.ufl.edu. 
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at 
UF and the UF Student Health 
Care Center are hosting Sex in the Swamp 2017. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. For more information and to register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/condom-design-challenge no lat-er than Jan. 30.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  68° LOW  46°VOLUME 111 ISSUE 86MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A man is dead following a deputy-
involved shooting Friday night out-
side a Gainesville inn about 2 miles south of UF.
At about 11 p.m., a group of 
deputies with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce descended upon the Scottish Inns Southwest, located at 4341 SW 13th St., to serve an arrest warrant to 39-year-old Gino Martin 
Palazzolo, of Gainesville, said Lt. 
Brandon Kutner, a spokesperson with the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
Standing in a parking lot and 
armed with a handgun, Palazzolo refused arrest and made threats to 
harm himself or force deputies to shoot him, Kutner said.
He then ran behind and around 
the inn, ending up in the parking lot again, where he was met by another 
group of deputies. There, with the gun still in hand, Palazzolo ignored commands to drop his weapon, and he repeated his threats.
About 30 to 35 minutes follow-
ing the initial confrontation, deputies ﬁ  red, killing him on the scene, Kut-ner said.
Kutner said he believes the war-
rant deputies attempted to issue Pala-zzolo with a civil order of arrest for a writ of bodily attachment for about $3,000, which is usually issued in cases of back child support.
The deputies involved in the 
shooting, Charles Drake and Jasper Stephenson, were placed on tempo-
rary administrative leave per ACSO 
policy regarding deputy-involved shootings, according to a news re-lease from the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.
The Florida Department of Law 
Enforcement is investigating the shooting, and ACSO’s Ofﬁ  ce of Pro-fessional Standards is conducting an internal investigation, Kutner said.
 Man shot dead by deputies 2 miles from UF campus
They attempted to serve him a warrantMeryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator
A large oak tree fell on a home, located in the 2000 block of 
Southwest Second Avenue, on Sunday. The tree caused no injuries.
By Molly Vossler 
and Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writers
Severe weather hit Southeast 
Georgia and Northwest Florida 
on Sunday, causing some damage and power outages in Gainesville.
The National Weather Service 
predicted possible isolated torna-does and thunderstorm winds of about 60 mph in Alachua County 
between about 5:30 p.m. and 8 
p.m., said Scott Cordero, the head meteorologist at the National 
Weather Service in Jacksonville.
In Georgia and Mississippi, tor-
nadoes killed 18 people and left 
several homes destroyed, accord-
ing to The New York Times.
While no tornadoes were re-
ported in Gainesville, heavy winds 
knocked over trees and power lines. Crews with Gainesville Regional Utilities responded to at least 2,583 power outages in the city by 6 p.m., according to GRU’s Storm Central Twitter ac-count. GRU encouraged residents to report downed power lines and outages by calling GRU emergen-
cy repairs, said Tiffany Small, a 
spokesperson for the utility com-pany.
“We can’t anticipate what the 
weather will bring, but we are ready if any outages do occur,” Small said.
At about 5:36 p.m., Gainesville 
Police dispatch received a call 
about a large oak tree falling 
onto a home  in the 2000 block of Southwest Second Avenue.
When an ofﬁ  cer responded, he 
found no one home or injured.
Although Alachua County was 
clear of severe weather by about 7 p.m., according to UF Weather’s Twitter account, Cordero said 
Gainesville residents can prepare for future incidents by charging 
their cellphones and watching for emergency weather alerts either online or on television.
“It’s a situation that people 
have to pay very close attention 
to,” Cordero said.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said students should regularly 
check for UF alerts, which will be sent if weather conditions worsen or a tornado is imminent.
Students should follow the 
emergency guidelines of whatever university building they may be 
in, she said.
“I think that the big thing for 
students returning to campus is to 
be very aware of the system com-ing through, pay attention and not taking any risks that might threat-en their safety,” Sikes said.
@molly_vossler 
mvossler@alligator.org During tornado watch, fallen trees, downed power lines4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
years to come,” he said.
Emilie Bray, who was in the au-
dience for Trump’s speech, stopped 
telling her high-school classmates she supported Trump after she was yelled at and shamed for support-ing the Republican candidate. Even though the 17-year-old couldn’t vote in this election cycle, she said 
Trump’s economic policies were 
appealing to her and her future.
“As I’m growing up, I need to 
get a job, and I hope the economy will be well enough for me to get it,” she said. Bray still doesn’t plan on voicing her support for him in her New Hampshire hometown for fear of retaliation.
“I hope people will give him a 
chance,” she said.
But even before the peaceful 
transfer of power cited in both Trump’s inaugural address and its preluding speeches, demonstrators had already linked arms to block off entrances to the ceremony it-self and smashed the windows of a 
Bank of America and Starbucks in 
downtown Washington. As Trump spoke, chants of “Not my presi-dent” rumbled through the Nation-al Mall, eventually drowned out by the audience’s own cry of “Trump, Trump, Trump.”
In Gainesville, a crowd of about 
150 gathered outside City Hall at noon to speak out against Trump’s 
inauguration. About 30 students 
marched from UF campus to join in the demonstration.
“We resist, and we stand unit-
ed,” members of the crowd yelled.
Those gathered were met with 
opposition by a small group of Trump supporters, like 20-year-old Brett Jaffe.
“I think people need to get over 
it,” Jaffe said. “They need to wait until he makes a mistake until they pounce on him, because right now, it just looks like they’re all crying.”
As the inaugural parade con-
tinued in D.C., protesters created their own through the streets of downtown Washington. Walkers 
on stilts led hundreds, some play-
ing instruments and others wav-ing rainbow flags. In one parade, the crowd pushed a giant elephant labeled as “racism” as they waved their signs: “Love Trumps Hate.” “Not My President.” “Putin’s Pup-pet.”
“It’s a beautiful thing, practic-
ing our constitutional right,” one woman said as she walked by, a rainbow sticker on her cheek.
But by late afternoon, a small 
group of activists with faces shrouded in black fabric had be-gun wreaking havoc near Franklin Square in downtown Washington, smashing car and store windows, 
starting garbage can fires and over-
turning newspaper racks. Heavily armed police in riot gear formed 
a barricade with shields, chasing 
some away with batons, streams of pepper spray, tear gas and flash bangs. They in turn were pelted with bricks, rocks and bottles.
“Whose streets? Our streets,” 
chanted protesters, wielding cell-phone cameras and cheering even as some people begged them to 
keep the protests peaceful.
The explosions came to a head 
when a large black limousine 
parked outside The Washington Post building caught fire, sending protesters fleeing and black smoke billowing across the sky before fire-fighters quickly put out the blaze.
Atticus Garden, 28, and Eliza-
beth Sullivan, 30, were two of the medics who attended to protesters as they fled police. The majority of injuries were pepper spray to the face, although some were shaken by the flash bangs.
“We may not agree with their 
methods, but we can still treat them,” said Garden, who met Sul-
livan working as medics during the 
Standing Rock protests in North Dakota. It was there, the Colum-bus, Ohio, native said, that they learned the importance of being able to treat protesters on-site.
The protests later calmed as 
the evening went on, the remain-ing protesters gathering in front 
of a rock band who played covers 
for the crowd, including “Kids in America.” Police told The Wash-
ington Post that six officers were 
injured and more than 200 people were arrested.
For Sarah Knowlton, 23, and 
David Majors, 32, who sat with signs near the concert, the violent protests were the exact opposite of what they wanted to accomplish when they drove roughly nine 
hours to the inauguration.
“They’re just individuals who are taking things to the extreme,” said Knowlton, who held a sign 
that read, “Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness: we fought for these ideals, we shouldn’t settle for less,” a quote from the musical “Hamilton.”
“I understand the anger and 
frustration, but that’s how protest-
ers get a bad reputation,” she said.
Alligator staff writer Molly 
Vossler contributed to this report.
INAUGURATION,  from pg.1More than 200 protesters were arrested, 6 officers injured
Emily Cochrane / Alligator
Donald Trump supporters celebrate in Washington, D.C., during the inauguration on Friday.
the Associated Press reported. The 
march drew an estimated 1 million participants in sister marches across the world, a day after Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th U.S. presi-
dent, the AP reported.
Unlike the Inauguration Day pro-
tests, in which 200 people were ar-
rested, no known arrests were made Saturday, the AP reported.
Before stepping foot off the bus, Nancy Ballario, 82, a friend of Sapp’s, recalled when she marched in Miami Beach against Richard Nixon in 1968. Her fear of what a Trump administration may mean for civil rights motivated her to take to the streets in protest again.
“I’m afraid (Trump) will set it 
all back,” said Ballario, who had an 
American flag scarf tied around her 
head.
As they stood a few blocks 
from L’Enfant Plaza, the group of Gainesville women adjusted bright orange sashes, reading “Florida,” that hung across their bodies as they pulled the pink pussyhats onto their heads. The hats served as protesters’ spin on Trump’s red “Make Ameri-can Great Again” trucker hats — and a nod to lewd comments he made in 2005 about grabbing women’s geni-tals.
As the group neared the rally 
location, the women embedded themselves into the crowd, walk-ing alongside strangers, smiling and chatting in solidarity.The buses were part of Gainesville 
resident Kristin Birdsey’s plan to bring part of Gainesville to the capi-tal.
“If I have to be here for this day, 
I’m really glad that I was here with 600,000 like-minded people,” said 33-year-old Birdsey, who owns a preschool in Gainesville.
In an effort to help those who 
otherwise couldn’t afford the trip, she collected donations from those going who could afford to pay extra.
For UF geological sciences gradu-
ate student Karastin Katusin, the donations allowed her to be part of history.
She proudly wore her pussyhat as 
she held a sign reading, “Paid 100% for my degrees/earning 77% of their worth” on one side and “Virgin Mary had more reproductive rights than we do” on the other.
As she stood in the 50-degree Jan-
uary winter and marched, she said she did it for her mother and grand-mother, who weren’t able to make 
it. She wanted to take a stand for 
women’s reproductive and sexual rights, she said.
“Women’s bodies aren’t play-
grounds for other people,” she said.
As speakers pledged their support 
for minority groups before the march began, the crowd grew restless. They pressed forward toward the Wash-
ington Monument before the official 
go-ahead.
Moving as one, they sang along 
with pop icon Madonna, who made an appearance. The protesters held up their fists in defiance as they sang different battle cries.
UF alumna Anna Bandingstee, 
who took a three-and-a-half-hour train ride from her current home in New York City, wore a Hillary Clin-ton pin as she shouted “Tiny hands, tiny feet — all he does is tweet, tweet, tweet.”
Bandingstee graduated from 
UF in 2012, the same year Barack Obama was re-elected as U.S. presi-dent. She said as a lesbian woman 
and as someone who has a best 
friend who is Muslim, it was impor-tant for her to be at the march. 
“I’ve been in and out of tears all 
day,” she said. “This is history hap-pening right now. This many women have not come together in this sort of way in ever.” 
Gainesville resident Heather Vid-
eon, 29, took the trip with her 7-year-old daughter, Maliyah Mincey.
When they boarded the bus to 
head back home, the two reflected on the protest. 
Maliyah, the youngest on the bus, 
was disappointed after she knew Hillary Clinton would not be the first female president. The march, 
her mother said, was a way for her 
daughter to know they still had a voice. 
After a long day of marching, 
Maliyah paused and could only briefly mention what the protest meant to her.
It was “all about women’s rights,” 
Maliyah said. Her mother agreed.
“I am just glad that we were able 
to be a part of it and really proud that I can teach her to be proud of her rights and who she is and fight for them,” Videon said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
MARCH,  from pg.1The Gainesville women took a more than 14-hour bus ride
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Thousands walk down Independence Avenue shouting, “Tiny hands, tiny feet — all he does is tweet, 
tweet, tweet” during the Women’s March on Washington on Saturday. The group marched toward the Washington Monument and then to the Ellipse of the White House.
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
THE INSTRUCTOR HAS 
STUDIED YOGA IN INDIA.
By Katie Schmidt
Alligator Contributing Writer
A semicircle of young girls 
formed around Lauren MacKay on 
Saturday, intently following the yoga instructor’s every move as best they could.The girls stretched out their 
limbs, closed their eyes and learned basic techniques in an effort by MacKay, the 27-year-old owner of Zen Vibe Yoga, to teach them how 
to deal with daily stressors through 
yoga. She taught the inaugural Flower Empower Yoga class, held at the Headquarters branch of the Alachua County Library District, as a way to teach young girls about empowerment and coping.“Raise your hand if you’re ner-
vous,” MacKay said at the begin-ning of class. “Now raise your hand if you’re excited.” 
For most girls, it was their ﬁ  rst 
yoga class.
Flower Empower Yoga is a 
monthly, free-of-charge class of-fered to girls 11 to 18 years old. The class will be held on the third Satur-day of each month at the downtown library, located at 401 E. University Ave.
MacKay said she partnered with 
local nonproﬁ  t Dream on Purpose to hold the classes because she was looking for some outreach opportu-
nities to teach free yoga.
“It’s good to give them tools to 
handle the stress they may encoun-
ter in their daily lives,” she said.
During the ﬁ  rst class Saturday, 
MacKay taught basic principles of yoga like breathing, balancing and posing.
“We’re going to do cow-cat 
pose,” she said as a few girls giggled. “Yes, it sounds a little strange.” 
Friends Leah and Erin, both 11, 
came to the class together to try yoga for the ﬁ  rst time. The girls said they both plan on coming back next month. 
“I thought it was entertaining 
and relaxing,” Leah said. “It refresh-es your mind.” 
 Free yoga classes to teach young girls empowermentBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
In February, the white ﬂ  owers of a new-
ly planted magnolia tree will stand tall, a permanent mark on Gainesville for a fallen UF student.
Below the ﬂ  owers and branches, a 
plaque nestled in the ground, bordered with hearts, will read: “In loving memory, Abigail ‘Abby’ Dougherty, City Beautiﬁ  ca-tion Board.”
Dougherty, a UF applied physiology and 
kinesiology senior, died in a bicycle acci-dent across from campus in late October, according to Alligator archives. She was six days away from her 21st birthday. Along 
with being involved on campus by volun-
teering with the Field and Fork Pantry and working as a RecSports yoga instructor, Dougherty volunteered for about a year as a member of the City Beautiﬁ  cation Board, which works to improve Gainesville’s envi-ronment, said Earline Luhrman, the board liaison.
When board members found out about 
Dougherty’s death, they wanted to turn their heartbreak into action, and they be-gan planning to honor her with the tree.
“It was a very sad, sad thing for all of 
us,” Luhrman said. “To see such beauty, and for it to be removed so quickly, was very sad. I’ll never forget her, because she was just so wonderful.”
The tree, donated by Florida Green 
Keepers, will be planted outside the Mathe-son History Museum’s Library & Archives in February, with a small ceremony to be held Feb. 16, said Anita Spring, another board member. The ceremony will coin-cide with the unveiling of the new archive section of the museum. 
The board hasn’t contacted Dougherty’s 
family or friends yet but hopes to let them know about the plaque, Spring said.
Spring said unlike other UF students, 
Dougherty was consistently involved in the boards beautiﬁ  cation work. She didn’t want to just pad her resume.
“She really liked it, she thought it was a 
good thing for the city,” Spring said. “She was very enthusiastic about being a mem-
ber. That’s why we liked her so much.”
Luhrman said the tree will create a leg-
acy for Dougherty. The magnolia will live 
on, a spot of beauty for those who knew her to visit for years to come. 
“I think it’ll be here for hopefully hun-
dreds of years,” Luhrman said. 
@rellenbogen 
rellenbogen@alligator.org Magnolia tree to stand as 
memorial for UF student 
By Jamie Honowitz
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s chapter of Delta Sigma Theta sorority 
will teach students survival skills and about so-
cial justice this week during the sorority’s 40th-
annual Spring Week.
Students will learn how to cook a meal for 
under $15 and discuss issues, including ﬁ  nan-
cial literacy and social injustice. The theme of 
the sorority’s Spring Week is a “Virus X” break 
out at UF. Events, to be held from today until 
Saturday around UF’s campus and Gainesville, 
will also highlight social-justice issues and in-
cite students to take action in the midst of a changing political climate across the country, 
said Taylor Thomas, the sorority’s vice presi-dent.
“We want to be the campus’ ﬁ  rst respond-ers to any feelings (students) might be going through,” Thomas said.
Thomas, a 21-year-old UF telecommunica-
tion senior, said activities will include a cooking 
demonstration Thursday, a stomp performance 
on Turlington Plaza on Friday and a volunteer opportunity Saturday at the North Florida Re-
habilitation and Specialty Care center.
“Every event has a call to action,” Thomas 
said. “We make sure that attendees walk away 
with something.”
Zandra Walker, a 22-year-old ﬁ  rst-year UF 
law student and alumna of the sorority, said she looks forward to learning from the week’s 
events.
“I am hoping to learn more about the Stu-
dent Body — how to unify the Student Body,” 
she said. “It’s going to hit home for a lot of students.”UF sorority to teach students 
cheap cooking, social justice
LOCATION AND TIMES OF EVENTS
Most times begin 13 minutes into the hour because the sorority was founded in 1913.
Monday: OUTBREAK: “America Divided” movie 
screening in the Reitz Union Arredondo Cafe at 
6:13 p.m.
Tuesday: PANIC: Men’s escape obstacle course at 
The Woodlands of Gainesville Clubhouse at 5:13 p.m.
Wednesday: QUARANTINE: The HeART of 
Gainesville in Norman Hall, Room 250 at 7:13 p.m.Thursday: ANTIDOTE: Serum to Smart Savings, 
location to be announced, at 7:13 p.m.
Friday: CODE RED: Set Stomp performance on 
Turlington Plaza at 12:13 p.m.
Saturday: CURED: Volunteering at the North 
Florida Rehabilitation and Specialty Care center, located at 6700 NW 10th Place, at 2 p.m.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Take a walk in their shoes, and spread the love
Anyone who has read John Green’s 
“The Fault in Our Stars” is familiar with the quote, “You don’t get to 
choose if you get hurt in this world, 
but you do have some say in who 
hurts you.” While I’d argue that this quote is accurate in the context of this novel, it isn’t 
as accurate in the grand scheme of things. 
In this world, you don’t get a say if you get hurt, and you often don’t have a say in who (or what) hurts you either. 
I don’t want to talk about the recent political atmo-
sphere in this country. I’ve spent hours discussing it at length over the last several months. I will never dimin-ish the importance of political activism, and I will never say we shouldn’t talk about it. But today, I’m going to 
take a little detour and talk about the collateral rather 
than the main idea.
I don’t know when it became okay to ignore pain. 
I don’t know when it became okay to make decisions and form opinions considering only ourselves while ig-
noring the voices of others who may be different from 
us. I brought up the quote earlier because I feel some people are under the impression that being oppressed or passed over is a choice. I am not talking about a divi-
sion along party lines (although at this point, it seems 
like almost everything has to do with that). I am talking about humanity. I am talking about being a person with a beating heart. I am talking about empathy.
Not everyone in the world goes through the same 
turmoil as everyone else. However, the fact that you personally cannot identify with another person’s prob-lem should not diminish that problem. 
It isn’t easy to step into another person’s shoes. If 
you’ve never experienced something, it can be hard to take someone else’s word for it. But the fact that it’s “hard” is not an excuse. You don’t have to literally step into his or her shoes to have some sense of understanding. You can be empathetic with-out having to actually experience something. 
It’s not the job of the unoppressed to tell the 
oppressed what is acceptable or unacceptable to feel.
Marginalized or oppressed people don’t 
choose to be oppressed. If you don’t consider yourself to be a part of these categories, I am happy for you. I really am. I am not saying 
you need to join these categories to have the right to hold an opinion or make a statement. I am saying that 
you cannot tell someone they have no right to be up-
set about something you have personally never experi-enced.  
I have seen far too many people speaking negatively 
about men, women, members of the LGBTQ+ commu-nity, immigrants, members of every religion and mem-bers of every ethnicity. I have seen people belittle those who suffer from mental illness. I have seen people be-little those living in poverty. Some groups are attacked 
more than others, but I have seen every group I can 
think of attacked. Dear readers, enough is enough.
Say what you want about our greater purpose for 
being on this planet, but I refuse to entertain the idea 
that we were put here to spread hate. Love is our best 
asset, and at times, it is all we have. If you don’t under-stand why someone is upset, ask them why, and listen when they talk. We each have only had the experiences of one person, but being human means we are able to 
understand more than just ourselves. You have no right 
to say another person’s feelings are not justiﬁ  ed, just as no one has the right to say your own feelings are not justiﬁ  ed. Spread the love this week, Gators. We sure 
could use it.  
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.ColumnIt’s our job to keep 
America great 
On Friday, Donald J. Trump was sworn in as the 45th 
president of our nation, and the winds of change have begun to blow across the country — we felt them quite literally Sunday.
But perhaps this storm isn’t just for us. In Europe, 
stirrings of nationalist parties and the far-right have been felt. Leaders of these movements say it is only natural Europe “wakes up” to follow America’s lead. It’s a bit disconcerting to hear legitimate fascist parties saying they want to follow in our lead. Aren’t Nazis our enemies? Have they not been the bad guys in literally every retelling of history, from “Captain America” to “Indiana Jones”? When did a country of freedom slowly turn into an inspiration for xenophobic nationalists?
We don’t know what President Trump will actually carry 
out now that he is in ofﬁ  ce. Perhaps all the xenophobic and misogynistic comments were just “locker room” talk. Perhaps he will mend our economy and carry out all the unproblem-atic parts of his promises. Perhaps he will be the change his supporters have called for, the change our country apparently needs. Perhaps. We don’t know for sure what the next four years hold, and we will make no claims about that right now. 
What we do know is that right now, our country has swung 
to the bad side of history. At this current moment in time, 
most of the world is bafﬂ  ed by us.
We do have some support: The European far-right who be-
lieve we are leading the world into a great new era. Ever since 
the end of World War II, we’ve held ourselves up as a shining example of democracy — we defeated fascists for crying out loud; that was our rallying cry when we claimed ourselves as a model. And now, groups following the ideals of the very same people we prided ourselves on beating are suddenly using us as their inspiration. 
The other part of our international support at the moment 
is Russia. We’re not going to get into “they-did-we-did” with the whole hacking business or the dossiers or whether Presi-dent Trump is actually best friends with Putin or whatever the latest media frenzy is about. We will say that for a nation that for decades prided itself on two big things — defeating fascists and not being the USSR — we’ve certainly done a complete 180 in the past few months. 
Is this really our fate, though? Are we doomed to be the bad 
guys as fascists and communists alike take inspiration from us?
On Saturday, more than one million people marched in 
women’s marches, protesting this new administration and its implications. These marches happened not only all over our country — the main one in Washington, D.C., of course, with other large cities hosting them, as well as protests in our very own Gainesville and just around the corner in Tallahassee — but also around the world, on all seven continents. Yes, that 
includes Antarctica. 
Maybe the winds are changing, but that doesn’t mean we 
have to change course. We adjust the sails, we prepare for the 
storm. We don’t let the winds veer us away from the direction we’re set on.
We do the fundamental American thing and protest — just 
as our Founding Fathers did, just as our nation has done since its inception. We will rally together, regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, cultural background or political afﬁ  liation, 
keeping in mind what we stand for and doing our best to make 
sure we don’t become the bad guys in the history books, and that the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of hap-piness still hold for all of us.Editorial
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
People are splitting hairs over 
whether protesting Donald Trump is protesting the ofﬁ  ce of the presidency 
or protesting his views.
“But you HAVE to respect the 
ofﬁ  ce,” they say, as if those who oppose 
Trump have ruined the peaceful transition 
of power.
I don’t think anyone is disputing the fact 
that Trump won the presidency. Despite 
losing the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by 2.9 million votes, Trump won the Electoral 
College, which is how the president is 
selected. The issue is that being president doesn’t mean that one is worthy of respect. It’s funny that the Republican Party wants 
Trump to be respected when they spent 
so long casting doubt on former President Barack Obama’s belief system and place of birth and even criticized Trump for comments he made on the campaign trail, before it 
became clear he was the party's best option. 
For someone who so vehemently claimed that an election was rigged and disrespected the electoral process, Trump seems awfully sensitive to protests.
Respect does not mean support 
or endorsement. I respect Trump 
in the way I respected my high-
school principal: I respected that she had the power to potentially make my life a living hell. That 
doesn’t mean, however, that 
I thought she had anything valuable to contribute to the ﬁ  eld of education. My “respect” for Trump is more like a simple acceptance that 
he won the election. Just because someone 
wins an election, doesn’t mean their power should go unchecked by the people. Winning a majority of the Electoral College 
cannot overrule the need to advocate for the 
rights of marginalized groups. Yes, Trump is president, but that’s just a job. There are bad presidents just as there are bad journalists and bad real estate agents. In any other ﬁ  eld, if someone promised to do a bad job, we’d take their word for it. Why is this case any 
different?
Trump said many shocking 
things on the campaign trail — 
that he believes women should be 
punished for abortions, Muslims 
should have to register and a wall should be built along the Mexican border. Many people who voted 
for him said they did so because they felt 
like he told the truth and would do what he 
promised. Many commentators insisted that the American people should wait for Trump to be inaugurated before judging his abilities 
as president, but what can they say now that 
Trump made his priorities clear just hours after the inauguration? Obama’s White House website was archived, and the new White House website does not have sections on climate change, LGBTQ+ rights and civil rights. However, the new administration did have time to add a section promoting 
Melania Trump’s jewelry line. What could 
be more disrespectful than a president promoting his own wife’s business interests before taking the time to add pages to his 
site on the issues that impact the American 
people?
The fact that Trump was inaugurated 
already cannot be an excuse for complacency. Being elected does not mean all citizens 
owe Trump unquestioned and unchecked 
allegiance. Holding the title of president of the U.S. does not mean everything you touch turns to gold. There is still so much 
to be done ahead of the 2018 elections 
that can help us reverse the course of this administration.
It’s clear our current president does 
not respect the people he was elected to 
represent. So why should we respect him?
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
Americans voters have no obligation to respect or support President TrumpColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“Respect does not mean support or endorsement.”8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
LOCAL
By Spencer Thompson
Alligator Writer
In 1987, Jackie Betz was arrest-
ed on UF’s campus for vandalizing 
Tigert Hall in the name of protest.
Thirty years later, and a day 
after Donald Trump was inaugu-
rated as the 45th president of the 
U.S., she channeled the civil dis-obedience of her past along with hundreds of others along Newberry Road in Gainesville.
On Trump’s first full day as 
president of the U.S., the 70-year-old joined a crowd of more than 500 on Saturday afternoon to pro-test Trump’s administration and 
the agenda it aims to implement 
over the next four years.
Across the country, hundreds 
of thousands joined in, organizing 
sister demonstrations in coordina-
tion with the Women’s March on 
Washington.
“He has caused us to build a 
movement that will shape Ameri-
can history,” Betz said. “This is his-
tory in the making right here.”
At about 1 p.m., protesters lined 
up outside the Hobby Lobby on 
West Newberry Road waving signs, chanting and trying to send a mes-
sage about women’s rights, climate 
change and social issues in the era 
of Trump and a Republican-led Congress.
The demonstration, dubbed the 
Women’s March on Gainesville, was coordinated by the National Women’s Liberation, which also organized the Women’s March on Washington, said Kendra Vin-cent, who helped organize the Gainesville protest.The protesters chose Hobby 
Lobby as their location to organize because of the company’s decision to deny birth control to its employ-ees on the grounds of religious free-dom.
In 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court 
ruled 5-4 in the craft store’s favor, The New York Times reported.
Vincent said that while the loca-
tion of the protest wasn’t an acci-dent, the primary target of the pro-test was President Trump.
“My body, my choice,” the 
crowd chanted at one point. “Rac-
ist, sexist, anti-gay; we’ll fight 
Trump all the way.”
Members of the crowd held 
signs reading, “My body… by in-
vitation only,” “Not my president” 
and “Don’t forget to set your clocks 
back 50 years.”
Betz was “beyond thrilled” 
when she arrived to the protest, 
which took up large swaths of side-
walk along the busy road.
“This is like nothing I’ve ever 
seen before,” she said. “He has en-
ergized the left, and he will see a 
force that will shut him down.”
Vincent, who helped lead the 
crowd, said she was shocked at its 
size.
With the National Women’s 
Liberation holding events in Ten-
nessee; New York; Washington, 
D.C.; Gainesville; and Tallahassee, Vincent was confident the nation’s voice was being heard.
“This is a show of force, and this 
is letting people know that we’re not going to stand for the things that Donald Trump and Mike Pence and the Republicans embody, which is anti-women, racist, anti-gay and just all around trying to take rights 
away from people,” she said.
While the protest remained 
peaceful, tow-away-zone signs 
were stolen from the Hobby Lob-by parking lot before it began, Gainesville Police officer Joseph Register said.
Hobby Lobby managers request-
ed that any cars using their parking lot for the protest be towed, he said.
While participants were enthusi-
astic about the turnout of the event, many, like Sonal Desi, believe the fight is just beginning.
“I don’t think that change hap-
pens over night,” the 25-year-old UF environmental and global health graduate student said. “It never has in history and it likely never will, but I think that this event is a good start.”
Desi was diagnosed with con-
genital glaucoma and forced to have eight surgeries by the age of 14, she said, so she decided to pro-test Trump’s plans to repeal the Af-fordable Care Act.She said if the act is repealed, 
when she turns 26 she will no lon-ger have access to the insurance she needs.
Desi said the new administra-
tion needs to hear the combined 
voices of the people and re-evaluate 
its plans.
“I think that this is a good idea 
to help (Trump) to start thinking 
that maybe the other side has a 
point and that maybe he should lis-
ten to them,” she said.500 protesters participate in Women’s March on Gainesville
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Protesters line up on the side of Newberry Road for the Women’s March on Gainesville on Saturday. The protest was held in solidarity with the Women’s March on Washington.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Thousands of Washington marchers break off from the designated path in an attempt to get closer to the White House on Saturday during the Women’s March on Washington. In addition to gathering on the Ellipse, many protesters gathered in front of the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C.
Lawson Nuland / Alligator Staff
Dozens of protesters cross the sidewalk carrying signs during the Women’s March on Gainesville on Saturday. Several hundred people attended the protest, held in coordination with hundreds nationwide.
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
TALLAHASSEE — Ink bled 
from Sarah Pattison’s sign as she 
and other UF students joined thou-
sands marching in Tallahassee 
under a rainbow of umbrellas and raincoats.
“The future is nasty,” the sign 
read, its edges smudged after a mile-long walk in the pouring rain.
The UF political science senior 
made the trip to the state capital with about 40 members of the UF 
College Democrats. At 9:15 a.m., 
the group piled into eight cars to march alongside activists from dif-ferent cities at the Women’s March 
on Tallahassee, said Pattison, the 
organization’s vice president.
It was one of hundreds across 
the country and worldwide — an outcry for women’s rights follow-
ing President Donald Trump’s in-
auguration.
Despite the gray sky and on-
and-off showers, 15,000 people 
from all corners of the state gath-
ered to send a message to legisla-tors and Gov. Rick Scott, who sup-ported Trump, cheering louder as the rain fell harder.
“It’s a march symbolizing the 
fact that we’re not remaining si-lent,” Pattison said. “We’re going to demand equality.”
In preparation, police shut 
down the route leading through Florida Agricultural and Mechani-cal University’s campus. Laura Goodhue, the executive director 
of the Florida Alliance of Planned 
Parenthood Affiliates, said her staff of 10 had only expected a crowd of about 1,500. 
“Today’s the moment, but this 
is the start of a movement,” she said.
Barbara Zdravecky, the CEO of 
the Planned Parenthood of South-west and Central Florida for the past 23 years, pinned a small gay pride ribbon to her jean jacket as she marched for reproductive 
rights.
The latest attack on her orga-
nization, a bill introduced by two 
Florida lawmakers Jan. 10, aims 
to ban abortions after 20 weeks of 
pregnancy.
“Legislators are politicians — 
not physicians — and should not be making these decisions for 
women,” she said. “We have to 
fight back. It’s no time to sit on the couch.”
As she and other protesters 
prepared to make their way down Wahnish Way, small crowds 
formed around Brigitte Stephen-
son, 24, to take pictures of her black, six-layered 1840s-inspired dress and sign that read, “I can’t 
believe we are still fighting for this 
s---.”
The Sanford, Florida, resident 
said she spent months making the dress, a representation of the 
women from the Seneca Falls Con-
vention in 1848, the first women’s rights convention.
“The president has threatened 
to go back on years and years of progress,” she said. “Let’s finally have the voices be heard of wom-en from hundreds of years ago.”
UF history professor Sean 
Trainor also said he thinks back 
to the past when he mourns about 
the future. 
The 31-year-old stood under a 
black umbrella as rain started to pour. He said he felt depressed while watching the inauguration Friday, but being immersed in the crowd of protesters re-energized him.
“I’ve lost a lot of sleep,” he 
said. “I’m ready to make him lose 
some sleep over us.”
At 2 p.m., the protesters made 
their way to FAMU’s Student Rec-
reation Center behind a banner 
reading, “All families deserve jus-
tice and security.” They shouted call-and-response chants as they walked the mile.
After, members of the UF Col-
lege Democrats stood side-by-side in the facility, needing to lean into their neighbors’ ears to be heard.Hunter Wolff, a 19-year-old UF 
political science freshman who came on the UF College Demo-crats’ trip, said this era in history will be remembered — whether it 
be positively or negatively.
“I want to be able to say that 
I was part of something at that 
time,” she said.
During the post-march rally, 
speakers came up and talked about women’s, black and transgender rights. People lined their posters against the walls as they listened.
Among the crowd, Beth Grant, 
a ’60s flower child from Thom-asville, Georgia, said she never thought she would still be fighting for civil rights in 2017.
In the summer of 1970, while 
living in New York City, she marched in the Women’s Strike for Equality with Bella Abzug and 
Gloria Steinem, notable social and 
political rights activists.
Marching 47 years later, she 
couldn’t believe this country elect-ed Trump. But the 68-year-old said 
she’s still hopeful for the future.
“Progress will happen,” she 
said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF students join 15,000 protesters in Tallahassee march
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Signs line a small fence in front of the White House on Saturday 
while many protesters chant, “Welcome to your first day, we will never go away. ” Thousands of people placed their signs on the temporary Ellipse fence to create a “wall” outside the White House.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
During the Women’s March on Washington, held on Saturday, marchers linked hands to show their support for each other. 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Eliana Kupfer, 6, marches southbound on Wahnish Way with three of her best friends at the Women’s March on T allahassee on Saturday afternoon. “Hey, hey! Ho, ho! Donald Trump has got to go, ” the group of 6-year-olds chanted.
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-27-17-10-1
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law school, bus to SFC. Pool, living rm furn. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sf. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1550/mo or small 1BR $375/mo or Lg 400 sf rm $400/mo Call/text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-27-17-5-2
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
2003 NISSAN MAXIMA
V6, 164k miles. sunroof, new stereo, new tires. Well maintained. $3200. 352-359-3499    1-23-5-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosMONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14GRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
Needed a stable & reliable person long termto sell & set up a wine tasting part time for $10/hr. Hours: Tues 3-4pm, Sat 11-5pm, Sun 12-4pm, Please call Mary for an interview this weekend & next week at 478-550-4140.    1-25-17-5-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-
16-73-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
ACROSS
1 Contractor’s
detail, briefly
5 NYSE listings
8 Shade-loving
plant
13 Pull’s opposite14 Sitting on16 “That’s __!”:
“Piece of cake!”
17 Hebrew or Latin,
e.g.
20 Cpl., for one
21 Sundial number
opposite I
22 Kitty coat23 Meetings of self-
improvement
seekers
29 Child of a boomer30 With 31-Across,
flying exhibition
31 See 30-Across32 More than fair,
less than great
34 Petting __
36 Composer Bartók39 Form 1040 and
schedules
44 Right triangle ratio45 “Impractical
Jokers” network
__TV
46 Most fit to be
drafted
47 Captures
50 Plus52 “CSI” evidence53 Doctor with a
pager
58 Itinerary word59 Dubai’s fed.60 Glamorous
Gardner
61 Most of the
Atlantic, to
Columbus
68 Allow to board
69 “Frozen” queen70 Game with
rooms and
weapons
71 Natives for whom
a Great Lake isnamed
72 Like a clever
devil
73 Outdoor faucet
attachment
DOWN
1 Massage facility2 Joke with a
homophone, say3 Top-left PC key
4 Trouser material5 Elevate to
sainthood
6 Giants great Mel
7 Work a
crossword puzzle
8 “Macbeth”
cauldron stirrer
9 Buckeye State
sch.
10 Acronym for a big
mess
11 Prepare to
advance after a
fly ball
12 Mimics
15 Bridge
partnerships
18 S.A. country at
zero degrees
latitude
19 About to happen23 Army vet24 Vegas signs25 Early spring
blooms
26 Easy run27 Hanger near the
shower
28 Be a debtor of
33 Summer of disco
35 Cereal grain37 Monday, in Metz38 “Ben-Hur” setting
40 Dinner, e.g.
41 Like Superman’s
special vision
42 Flees43 Indian flatbread48 “It all happened
so fast” memory
49 Sudden burst51 Operatic icon
53 Developing egg
54 Forty-__
55 Desert plants56 Shoes that make
you look taller
57 Hidden downside
62 Soil-moving tool63 Ques. response
64 Broadband
letters
65 Rock gp. with
winds and
strings
66 Moscow’s land:
Abbr.
67 Lay eyes on
By Joel Mackerry
©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/23/1701/23/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, January 23, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
FOUND: LAPTOP
In the downtown area. Contact 352-575-
5974 with detailed description.  1-25-3-25Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
How To Fund Your Projects With Bitcoin & Crowdfunding. For More Details Go To ===> www.bitcoinexplosion.info (267) 549-9815     1-23-17-5-20
Post Card Marketing System "Secure a second income, not a second job" www.abminfo.com Referred by # 5784 P. Wilson     1-25-17-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1. Name the last pitchers before the 
Los Angeles Dodgers’ Clayton Ker -
shaw in 2015 to record at least 300 
strikeouts in a season.
2. Who was the last St. Louis Car -
dinal to lead the National League in 
RBIs for a season?
3. How many consecutive seasons 
have the Clemson Tigers football 
team won at least 10 games?
4. Dwane Casey is the Toronto Rap-
tors’ all-time leader in regular-season coaching victories (210 entering the 2016-17 season). Who is No. 2 on the team’s list?
5. In 2016, Connor McDavid tallied 
five points in an NHL game, becom-ing the third rookie player in Edmon-ton Oilers history to do such. Name 
either of the other two.
6. Who was the last NASCAR Cup 
driver before Carl Edwards (2015) 
and Martin Truex Jr. (2016) to win the Charlotte 600 race and Darlington 500 race in the same year?
7. In 2016, Serena Williams set the 
record for most Grand Slam singles victories in the Open Era. Who had held the mark?
Answers
1. Randy Johnson (334 strikeouts) 
and Curt Schilling (316), teammates 
in Arizona in 2002.
2. Albert Pujols, with 118 RBIs in 
2010.
3. Six seasons.
4. Sam Mitchell had 156 regu-
lar-season coaching victories (2004-08).
5. Dave Lumley (1980) and Ryan 
Nugent-Hopkins (2011).
6. Jimmie Johnson, in 2004.7. Martina Navratilova, with 306 
Grand Slam singles wins. 
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 23, 2017 King Features Weekly Service15 Services 16 Health Services 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Led by freshman Grant Holloway, Florida's track and ﬁ  eld team performed well over the weekend. Read the full breakdown of the team's success, pg. 15 Trio of former Gators headed to Super Bowl 
Rookie defensive backs Keanu Neal and Brian Poole, both former Florida 
players, will play for the Atlanta Falcons in this season's Super Bowl. In addi-
tion, Atlanta head coach Dan Quinn was Florida's defensive coordinator in 2011 and 2012.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
When Gators coach Mike 
White sat down to take questions 
following Saturday’s game between Florida and Vanderbilt, he remained in an uncomfortable, sullen silence.
He shook his head in disbelief as 
the words slowly poured out of his mouth: “I don’t know what to do.”
Just moments prior, KeVaughn 
Allen attempted a potential game-winning three-pointer for the Gators in the ﬁ  nal seconds.
With the Commodores’ Matthew 
Fisher-Davis in his face, Allen 
launched a shot from the corner as 
he toppled out of bounds.
Over 10,000 fans held their 
collective breath as the ball slowly rotated toward the basket.
It clanked off the side of the rim.No good.Despite a dominant performance by Allen, No. 19 Florida (14-5, 5-2 SEC) couldn’t hold on in its 68-66 loss to Vanderbilt (9-10, 3-4 SEC).
It was UF’s second loss in a row 
and its ﬁ  rst at home this season.
“I thought I could get down 
there in the corner and see if we had an open look and if not, I could holler timeout,” White said of Allen’s shot. “Before you know it, the ball was in the air. … We put him in a difﬁ  cult situation. 
“It’s my fault," White said.Other than UF forward Devin 
Robinson, who broke out of a slump to register 12 points and six rebounds, Allen was the primary source of scoring during a game where no other Gators mustered more than six points.
The sophomore guard scored 
a season-high 29 points on 10-for-19 shooting and drilled ﬁ  ve three-pointers.
“KeVaughn was terriﬁ  c,” White said. “He was really good. … If he doesn’t throw in four or ﬁ  ve high-degree-of-difﬁ  culty shots, the game 
wouldn’t have been close.”
White said Florida was plagued 
by a lack of communication on 
the defensive end that allowed the Commodores to take control late in the contest.
“I’m at a complete loss with 
what to do with our communication level,” he said. “The entire focus 
for this game, the entire scouting 
report, hours and hours and hours went into it. Hours went into drilling with the guys.”
It didn’t show.Fisher-Davis torched the Gators 
for 19 points and hit a pair of crucial three-pointers during a 12-0 run in the second half, and 7-foot-1 
forward Luke Kornet banged in two 
wide-open triples to keep the score close later on. 
 Gators at 'a fork in the road'
SEE M-HOOPS,  PAGE 14
MONDAY MATTERS
It’s no wonder why Tim Tebow is a favorite son of the evangelical crowd. After all, he em-
bodies the funda-mental traits of a red-blooded American.
He’s a southern 
football icon. 
He’s a good ole 
God-fearing Christian.
He’s an outspoken anti-abortion 
proponent. 
He was even invited to speak at 
the Republican National Convention in 2016.
Tebow’s reputation in 
Republican America reached a climax on Friday, when the United States inaugurated its ﬁ  rst president to spend $12,000 on a signed Tebow helmet. 
Fans of President Donald Trump 
often overlap with Tebow’s follow-ers, but does the Heisman winner passionately support Trump like his voters say?
“@TimTebow We know you 
love #Trump as much as us! #SupportTheWall ...” one tweeted.
Politics makes strange 
bedfellows. And somehow, football fans have tucked Tebow and Trump together under the covers.
How did the rumor that Tebow 
loves Trump even start?
Maybe it began in 2010, when 
Tebow appeared in a Super Bowl ad sponsored by a pro-life group where his mom basically asked viewers to 
imagine if she had aborted him.
In addition, while Tebow was 
leading the Broncos to success in 
2011, he was approached by several Republican candidates for endorse-ments, the Associated Press report-ed. Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry even called himself the “Tim Tebow of the Iowa Caucus.” 
That was around 
the same time Trump bid $12,000 on a signed Tebow helmet 
and jersey at a charity 
auction — a purchase that was scrutinized after the Washing-ton Post reported that Trump used his char-ity’s money to buy the 
personal gift. 
But for all of the Tebow talk 
from Trump supporters, the Heis-man winner has distanced himself from the new commander in chief. 
Tebow publicly refuted a Trump 
adviser who said that the Gators legend took a speaking slot at the 2016 RNC.
And when Tebow was asked 
about the election in October, he 
did his best not to take any sides. 
After being pressed, Tebow 
laughed. 
“You so want to get something 
on this race!” he told the reporter 
from nj.com, going to great lengths to decline declaring support for either candidate despite being a registered Republican.
Trump supporters who salivate 
over Tebow’s celebrity are probably wrong that a child-health activist born in the Philippines voted for a candidate who bashed immigrants and mocked a disabled reporter.
So to that crossover group that 
praises No. 15 but protests No. 45, don’t worry: UF’s patron saint 
hasn’t endorsed your personal 
devil. At least publicly. 
Matt Brannon is the assistant 
sports editor at the Alligator. His column appears on Mondays. Con-tact him at mbrannon@alligator.org, and follow him on Twitter @
MattB_727.   Tebow didn't endorse 
Trump, so why do his 
voters think he did?
Matt Brannon
twitter: @mattb_727
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 As the ﬁ  nal buzzer sounded and 
the Florida women’s basketball team began to jog off the court, Haley Lorenzen and Dyandria Anderson couldn’t contain their excitement any longer.
The two juniors, grinning from ear to ear, looked up into the stands and 
Gator chomped towards the Bulldog faithful before bouncing into the visi-
tors locker room.
The drought was ﬁ  nally over.
Facing Georgia at Stegeman Coli-
seum in Athens on Sunday afternoon, UF ended its longest losing streak 
to begin conference play in over 10 
years, defeating the Bulldogs 76-68 behind an all-around team effort.Six Gators scored at least seven 
points for the ﬁ  rst time since Dec. 28. 
Senior forward Ronni Williams led 
UF with 16 points and seven rebounds after shooting 4-of-8 from the ﬂ  oor and 8-of-9 from the charity stripe.
Anderson and Lorenzen ﬁ  nished 
in double-ﬁ  gures as well, notching 13 
and 11 points, respectively. Ander-
son’s four assists and Lorenzen’s 10 rebounds were also good for game-highs among all Florida players.
“It was a tremendous team effort,” 
coach Amanda Butler said in a video 
posted to ESPN.com. “It looked like 
a team that worked their tails off … and knew that they deserved this win 
today.”
The Gators (10-9, 1-5 SEC) took 
advantage of Georgia (10-9, 2-4 SEC) 
with their play in the interior. UF scored 38 points in the paint and was able to turn 17 offensive boards into 
22 second-chance points.
Florida nabbed 12 steals and 
forced the Bulldogs into committing 
18 turnovers, generating those mis-cues into 19 points.
Following the contest, Butler 
praised her team for its poise and de-termination, crediting resilience as the 
 Florida women's basketball team breaks out of SEC funk
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike White gestures during Florida's loss to Vanderbilt on Saturday at the O'Connell Center. 
"I don't know what to do, " White said after his team's second-consecutive loss. Florida plays LSU on 
W ednesday in Baton Rouge14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
TURNING THE PAGE
The Alligator Stands Tall
Join former Editors-in-Chief Jason Brown and 
Trey Csar alongside then-Chief News Editor 
Matthew Boedy, Ph.D., for this webinar looking 
back at The Alligator’s fight against the Family Protection Act and how the student newspaper became the sole news organization to challenge the case to the highest court in the land under legal counsel of Thomas Julin, First Amendment attorney and former editor of The Alligator.
- Learn more about events that inspired the 
newsroom to challenge the law and argue its constitutionality.
- Hear firsthand accounts of how staff faced 
threats, vandalism and lost revenue as it continued the battle even after other prominent news organizations dropped out.
- Revisit the newsroom atmosphere and discover 
how these experiences shaped students’ lives before and after graduation.
Wednesday, January 25 at 4  p.m.
freeconferencecall.com/wall/alligatoralumni
Dial-in: (515) 604-9588 Access Code: 815796
Ed Barber
Former General ManagerThomas Julin
First Amendment AttorneyMatthew Boedy
Former Chief News EditorTrey Csar
Former Editor-in-Chief
After a layup by graduate 
transfer Canyon Barry gave Florida 
a one-point lead with just under three minutes to play, Fisher-Davis hit a fadeaway, mid-range jumper 
to retake the lead — and it was 
never relinquished.
Now, the Gators head to 
Baton Rouge for a Wednesday night showdown with LSU before traveling to Oklahoma as part of the SEC-Big 12 Challenge on Saturday. And according to White, the Gators can't let their recent downturn affect them moving forward. 
“There’s a fork in the road 
here,” White said. “Do we panic? Do we point ﬁ  ngers? Do we blame each other? Or do we simply man up?”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org M-HOOPS,  from pg13biggest key to Florida clinching its 
ﬁ  rst conference victory since Febru-
ary 2016.
“We talked about the reason we 
were going to win today was be-cause of toughness,” she said. “We 
had great composure, especially 
from our upperclassmen, and they 
showed who they are.”
After taking a 35-33 lead into half-
time, the Gators exploded at the start of the third quarter, beginning the frame on an 18-3 run.Multiple layups and mid-range 
shots from Anderson, Lorenzen and freshman guard Delicia Washington in the opening four minutes of the 
period gave UF a 10-point advantage.
Florida then continued its run 
with a rare display of shooting from 
the perimeter. The Gators made back-to-back three-point jumpers 
from freshman forward Sydney Mo-
rang at the 5:39 mark of the quarter and junior forward Brooke Copeland 
at the 5:06 mark. A free throw from 
Williams several minutes later then 
increased UF’s lead to 17.
However, the Bulldogs wouldn’t go down easily.
Georgia's defense quieted the 
Gators’ scoring attack in the fourth 
quarter, and redshirt senior guard 
Pachis Roberts scored 16 points in 
the ﬁ  nal frame to bring UGA to with-in one point in the game's ﬁ  nal 1:31.
But from there, Williams sealed 
the contest. The Daytona Beach na-tive converted a layup and knocked 
down four free throws in the ﬁ  nal 
minute of the game to keep Georgia just out of reach.
“There’s a little bit of relief,” But-
ler said on ﬁ  nally winning a confer-
ence game. “I’m so happy for our 
kids because they worked so hard."
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgW-HOOPS,  from pg13Georgia got within oneMONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Daniel Smithson
Sports Writer
An emerging Florida freshman found 
himself at the top twice over the weekend. 
Grant Holloway, a freshman hurdler and 
jumper, won an event on both Day 1 and 
Day 2 of Virginia Tech’s Hokie Invitational. 
Holloway ran a time of 7.77 in the men’s 
60-meter hurdle ﬁ  nal on Day 1, which gave him the win. 
He currently holds the Division I-leading 
time for the event — 7.63 — which he post-ed in a meet at Clemson on Jan. 7. 
On Day 2, Holloway was on top again in 
the men’s long jump ﬁ  nal by jumping 8.05 meters — a new Division I-leading mark. 
Other Florida jumpers found their marks 
among the best nationally as well. 
Junior KeAndre Bates and freshman 
Clayton Brown, for example, jumped into the 1-2 spots in the men’s triple jump ﬁ  nal.
Bates’ mark — 16.37 meters — nar-
rowly edged his teammate’s mark of 16.34 meters, but both marks were good enough for the No. 3- and No. 4-ranked marks in 
Division I. 
As for the women, Yanis David, a 
sophomore, placed ﬁ  rst in the women’s 
triple jump ﬁ  nal on Day 1. With a mark of 13.49 meters, she jumped far enough to place in the No. 2 spot in Division I and now holds the No. 4-ranked mark on UF’s all-time indoor top 10. 
Her teammates followed her lead. 
Jumpers Asa Garcia, Ebony Luster and 
Darrielle McQueen secured the No. 2, 3 and 4 spots to sweep the top four in the 
women’s triple jump ﬁ  nal. 
David thinks she can jump farther than 
her mark on Day 1 but was still impressed with the distance she jumped, which she said she wasn’t hitting at this time last year. 
“If I am already hitting 
13.49 now, then I think I can do better,” David said. 
As for other UF suc-
cesses at the meet, soph-omore sprinter Kunle Fasasi placed ﬁ  rst in the 
men’s 400-meter ﬁ  nal with a time of 46.53 — a 
time that ranks third in Division I. 
Sophomore Sharrika Barnett also placed 
ﬁ  rst in her event — the women’s 400-me-ter ﬁ  nal — with a time of 53.25, which is 
ranked No. 8 in Division I. 
Her teammate, junior Taylor Sharpe, 
came in second with a time of 54.41. 
Coach Mike Holloway said his team’s 
enthusiasm was key to its success on Day 
2. 
“I challenged everybody to come out 
and trust their ﬁ  tness — put their best foot forward,” Holloway said in a release. “And 
I think everybody did that.”
Up next for the Gators is a trip to Fay-
etteville, Arkansas, to compete in the Ra-
zorback Invitational on Jan. 27-28.
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.org  Holloway leads Florida track 
team at Hokie Invitational  
Fasasi
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
The UF men’s tennis team opened up its 
season on Saturday by battling not only its op-
ponents, but the will of nature. 
The No. 11 Gators faced off in a doublehead-
er against Georgia Southern in the morning and 
Kennesaw State in the afternoon, playing in 
harsh, windy conditions.
“It’s never easy playing in the wind,” senior 
captain Elliott Orkin said. “I feel like when we are playing teams that on paper aren’t as good (as us), they see that as an equalizer.”
Despite the conditions, the Gators domi-
nated their opponents in both the doubles and singles phases of the matches.
Led Orkin, Florida didn’t lose an individual 
match, sweeping each contest 7-0. 
Orkin, like many of his teammates, partici-
pated in two doubles and two singles matches on the day. The senior captain didn’t drop a set in all four of his matches.
“He’s a guy that’s going to do the right 
things at the right time,”coach Bryan Shelton said of his captain. Orkin said UF also gets leadership from se-
nior Maxx Lipman, who captained the Gators last season, and junior Chase Perez-Blanco, 
who Shelton named his “MVP” for Saturday.
“I thought the guy he played from Georgia 
Southern brought a lot of good stuff,” Shelton 
said. “Chase was able to match it shot for shot.”
Perez-Blanco only played in the morning 
against Georgia Southern, and despite facing “good stuff” from his opponent and the Eagles’ No. 2 player, Dani Casablancas, the junior shut him down in two sets, 6-1, 6-1.
But Shelton saw plenty of things his team 
needs to work on before it hosts the ITA Kick-Off next weekend.
“We’ve got to continue to work on our ball 
striking,” he said. “We are going to have to work on hitting better targets in practice and being able to have set plays that we’re working to execute.”
Florida will start next week’s tournament on 
Saturday against UNC-Wilmington and, with a victory, will play the winner of South Florida vs. LSU on Sunday.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org  UF men’s tennis dominates 
in ﬁ  rst weekend of season
SATURDAY MATCHES FOR ORKIN AND PEREZ-BLANCO
Doubles Matchups Result
Perez-Blanco/Lipman (UF) def. Casablancas/Landin (GS) 6-1
Orkin/Kessler (UF) vs. Acala/McCullough (GS) DNP
Orkin/Kessler (UF) def. Bouchillion/Slade (KSU) 6-1
Singles Matchups Result
Perez-Blanco (UF) def. Casablancas (GS) 6-1, 6-1
Orkin (UF) def. Landin (GS) 6-4, 6-3
Orkin (UF) def. Slade (KSU) 6-3, 6-116   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2017
