We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF professor wins Pulitzer Prize
He wrote a book about the Gulf of Mexico, pg. 5
New York Times reporter Jodi Kantor to visit UF
She broke the story about Harvey Weinstein, pg. 3GATORS FALL TO DOLPHINS
Florida’s baseball team saw its nine-game 
winning streak at home come to an end on Tuesday after losing to Jacksonville, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 82
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested Monday 
for sharing nude photos and a video of 
his ex-girlfriend in an online forum with his fraternity brothers, Gainesville Police said.
Bradshaw Michael Steele, 22, secretly 
took a video of himself having sex with a woman he had been dating in March 2017, according to an arrest report. In October, two months after the couple had broken up, he uploaded the video, as well as nude photos showing the woman’s face, to an online forum with members of his fraternity, GPD said. 
Police said the video was taken with-
out the woman’s permission or knowl-edge, and she sent him the nude photos 
in conﬁ  dence.
Police said Steele shared the video 
knowing it would degrade the woman, 
and members of his fraternity recog-nized her.
Steele was arrested in his apartment at 2 p.m. on charges of sexual cyber ha-rassment, video voyeurism and video voyeurism dissemination. He was re-leased from Alachua County Jail  at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday on a $50,000 bond. Steele could not be reached for comment.
Steele is a UF wildlife ecology and 
conservation senior, UF spokesperson John Hines wrote in an email.
University spokesperson Margo Win-
ick said she wasn’t sure if the fraternity will be disciplined. 
An Alligator reporter visited Phi Kap-pa Tau fraternity house where a brother, who identiﬁ  ed himself as a former ex-ecutive board member but declined to give his name, said Steele was a frater-nity member but disafﬁ  liated in Spring 2017. The former board member said the photos and video were shared over 
a forum not ofﬁ  cially recognized by the 
fraternity.
University Police issued a trespass 
warning against Steele on Monday, ac-cording to its website.
GPD: U F student shared nude photos, video of ex-girlfriendTHE PROJECT WILL COST 
ABOUT $40,000.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
About 150,000 pages of The Al-
ligator will be accessible from any 
device with internet access by Sep-
tember 2019.
The George A. Smathers Librar-
ies will make newspaper issues from 1917 to 2004 available online with a text searchable feature, where 
viewers can search keywords and 
ﬁ  nd articles with that word, project manager Melissa Jerome said.
About 8,500 pages from 1912 
through August 1957 will be made available in the next few weeks on 
the UF Digital Collections website. About 2,900 issues from 2005 to 
2017 are already available online.
The goal of the project is to 
digitize the newspapers available through microﬁ  lm and preserved 
print copies, Jerome said. 
“I think that the fact that it’s a 
student newspaper helps shed a different light on journalism,” she 
said. “We’re getting a different ac-count from students in the univer-
sity seeing the changes themselves 
and being the cause of the change.”
Patrick Reakes, the UF associ-
ate dean of scholarly resources and services, said the project is being funded by an endowment and will 
cost about $40,000. Reakes and his 
team have worked on the project for about a year. 
The idea to digitize these pages About 150,000 pages 
of The Alligator to be 
digitized by 2019
SEE ALLIGATOR,  PAGE 5
Steele
T aylour Makrs/Alligator Staff
PLAYING PING PONG 
Andrew Schuffer, an 18-year-old neurobiological sciences freshman, plays ping pong outside Newell Hall 
on Tuesday afternoon with Ariana Johnson, a 19-year-old microbiology and cell science freshman, as part of the Newell Hall Block Party, which marked the anniversary of the building’s reopening.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Levin College of Law students had the 
lowest passing rate among Florida law school 
students who took the most recent bar exam, according to results released by the Florida Su-preme Court on Monday.
All law students need to pass the bar exam 
to practice as an attorney in Florida. Of the 22 UF law students who took the exam over two days in February, only seven passed — a rate 
of 31.8 percent.“The results are utterly unacceptable given 
the caliber of our students and the quality of 
their education,” Laura Rosenbury, dean of the law school, wrote in a statement Monday. 
Efforts by the school to prepare students 
for the February test were insufﬁ  cient, and the college is considering a different approach for future exams, Rosenbury said.
Whitney Smith, a spokesperson for the law 
school, said the college and its faculty will con-sider intervening more in the courses students are taking. 
In an email to law students, Rosenbury said 
the school will implement a bar preparation program for students during the three years they are at UF and consider controlling which classes students take.
“Given these shocking and disheartening 
results, we are rethinking this approach and doubling down on our intervention strategy,” Rosenbury said in an email.
All third-year law students will be required 
to submit a study plan and complete a free di-agnostic exam before they graduate, according to the email. Administration will also provide support for third-years  who are identiﬁ  ed as at risk of failing.
Law students from Florida schools had an average passing rate of 53.4 percent. Florida International University students had the high-est passing rate at 85 percent. The passing rate for students from Florida State University’s law 
school was 76.7 percent.
Patrick Brathwaite, a second-year UF law 
student, hasn’t taken the bar exam yet but said 
the exam was a wake-up call for both the stu-dents and school.
“Unfortunately, it takes a bad thing to ﬁ  nd 
reason to improve a lot,” the 28-year-old said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
UF law students score lowest in the state on bar exam
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
HIGH  86° LOW  55°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club will hold a Spring Formal at 8 p.m. today with lessons at the Thelma A. Boltin Center. 
There will be a beginner les-
son, food and dance games. Those interested do not need to bring a partner. Dancing will commence at 9 and last until 11 p.m.
Save the Swamp GatorNights
The Reitz Union will host an 
Earth-Day themed Save the 
Swamp GatorNights. Activities include a do-it-yourself eco-friendly water bottle and starry night painting classes. Gators Going Green will have plant tie-dye. Catch the award-winning movie “Lady Bird,” showing in the auditorium at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. Create a birdhouse 
in the Arts & Crafts Center from 9 to 11 p.m. Treat yourself at the end of the night with na-chos at Midnight Munchies. You will not want to miss this great celebration.  GatorNights is always Friday, always free for UF students with a Gator 1 
Card.
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month
April commemorates the first Japanese immigration to the U.S. on May 7, 1853. It also honors the Chinese immigrants who worked to complete the 
transcontinental railroad May 
10, 1869. Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs will celebrate Asian Pacific Islander Desi American Heritage Month with events until April 23. The 2018 theme is the Japanese concept of "ikigai," meaning “a reason to live.”Midnight Fun Run 
UF RecSports is calling all su-perheroes for a Midnight Fun Run on April 25. The event is open to faculty, staff, students and guests. Each participant will receive an event T-shirt and breakfast following the race. Register today on RS Connect.
‘What Were You Wearing?’ art 
exhibitThe “What Were You Wearing?” art exhibit is being displayed until April 30 on the third floor of the Ustler Hall Library. STRIVE at GatorWell and the American Student Medical Association have col-
laborated with anonymous UF 
student survivors to show the outfits they wore during their attacks. For more info, call 352-273-4450.
Gallery Talk: The Life and Image 
of Toussaint L’OuvertureDavid Geggus, UF professor 
of history, will speak Sunday 
at 3 p.m. at the Harn Museum of Art for a discussion of the dramatic career of Toussaint L’Ouverture, the slave who became a leader of Haiti’s in-dependence movement. This talk will address some of the controversies surrounding his 
life and public image in rela-
tion to the series “The Life of Toussaint L’Ouverture,” 15 silkscreen prints on view in the exhibition “History, Labor, Life: The Prints of Jacob Lawrence.” Admission is free.
Runoff election early voting 
Early voting sites for the 2018 City of Gainesville runoff elec-tion will be open from April 21 to April 28. Hours of opera-tion are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., ex-cept Tuesday and Thursday, when locations will open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Early vot-
ing locations include: Cone 
Park Branch Library, at 2801 E. University Ave., Millhopper Branch Library, at 3145 NW 43rd St. and the Supervisor of Elections Office at the Josiah T. Walls Building, 515 N. Main St.
Florida Museum to host photog-
raphy workshop 
The Florida Museum of Natural History will host a photogra-phy workshop from 9 a.m. to noon April 22 in the “Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit, which fea-tures 60 to 80 species at any given time. Attendees will be able to use tripods and other 
photographic equipment not 
usually permitted. The fee is $40 or $35 for museum mem-bers. Pre-registration is re-quired, and participants must be 18 years or older. For more information or to register, call 352-273-2057.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 82
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, April 20, from 
9:00 a.m to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Writers, Photographers, 
Videographers, Copy Editors, 
and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
LIVE at noon on the Independent Florida 
Alligator’s OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the summer editors and staff 
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground floor, take hallway with single door all the way down to G207 on the left.
The Alligator will not be publishing from 
Friday, April 27th
to Monday, May 14thATTENTION
Alligator  
Advertisers
Display 352-376-4482  • Classified 352-373-3463The deadline for Tuesday, May 15th is Thursday, 
May 10th by 4:00 p.m. for Display & Classified Ads
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
SHE IS BEING PAID 
$20,000.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
A New York Times investiga-
tive reporter who was part of the 
team that revealed Harvey Wein-stein was paying off his sexual ha-rassment accusers will be under a 
spotlight at the Florida Gym next 
Wednesday.
Accent, a Student Govern-
ment agency that brings speakers to campus, announced Monday it will host a 30-minute Q&A session with Jodi Kantor, who will talk about her career in journalism and her work on the Weinstein story. 
Tickets will be available on a ﬁ  rst-
come, ﬁ  rst-served basis at the event, Accent Chairwoman Shelby Buchanan wrote in an email. This is the last Accent show of the se-mester. Doors will open at 7:30 p.m., 
and the event will begin at 8 p.m. Kantor is being paid $20,000 to speak, Buchanan said.
The event was announced the 
same day Kantor and a team of reporters won a Pulitzer Prize for their reporting on Weinstein, rein-
troducing the #MeToo movement, 
which was founded by Tarana Burke.
“I hope students will be im-
pressed by Jodi’s courage and that journalism students will be em-boldened to push the envelopes in their careers, as she has,” she said. 
Accent chose Kantor not only 
for her involvement in the #MeToo movement but also for her cover-age of women’s issues throughout her career, Buchanan said. 
Matthew Rosenthal, a UF in-
dustrial and systems engineering junior, said he was surprised to see a journalist chosen. He said it’s nice to see a speaker that’s rel-evant to the news today. 
“I’m just excited she’s coming 
and to hear somebody that’s been involved in the #MeToo move-ment because she was one of the ones to bring this out of the dark-ness into the public sphere,” the 21-year-old said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
New York Times reporter Jodi 
Kantor is next Accent speaker
2017-18 Accent Speakers
Oct. 11- Kal Penn (paid $65,000)
Oct. 24 - R.L. Stine (paid $27,500)
Nov. 1- Carly Fiorina (paid $70,000)
Feb. 6 - T erry Crews (paid $40,000)
March 20 - Dan Mullen (not paid)
April 19 - John Mulaney (was going 
to be paid $85,000)
April 12- Jim Jefferies (paid $125,000)
April 25 - Jodi Kantor (paid $20,000)STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
GAVE OUT $1,600 WORTH 
OF COFFEE. 
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Jessica Giessman threw her arms 
around Viper, a yellow Labrador re-
triever, and looked up at a UF police ofﬁ  cer with puppy-dog eyes.
“Can I have him?” she asked. 
The UF criminology sophomore 
was missing her two German shep-
herds, so when she heard UFPD would bring the K-9 unit outside Newell Hall for the one-year anniversary event, she cleared her schedule.
Giessman and about 3,000 other 
students gathered at Newell Hall on Tuesday to celebrate the one year 
anniversary since its redesign, said 
Michael Murphy, chair of the Newell Hall Advisory Board. The project cost $16.6 million, according to Alligator archives. Student Government gave out more than 600 T-shirts and about $1,600 worth of coffee from Au Bon Pain. 
“I think it’s been a great vicinity 
for people to really do a new type of studying,” Murphy said. “It sparks 
creativity.”
The event was meant to celebrate 
the anniversary of the renovated 
building without being intrusive to those studying inside, he said. 
“We wanted to make sure that 
we’re kind of fueling the students to study but also at the same time cel-ebrating something that’s been really 
great,” he said. 
Giessman didn’t want to miss an 
opportunity to celebrate her favorite 
study space. 
The 19-year-old said her favorite 
spot is on the third ﬂ  oor, where she sits on the couches and watches the light stream in from the windows. 
“I fell in love with it,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgRenovated Newell Hall 
celebrates ﬁ  rst year 4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Fighting Gator Marching Band 
could have a field to call home starting 
this October.
Construction of the Gator Marching 
Band Field began with a groundbreaking 
ceremony at 2 p.m. Friday just south of 
the Commuter Lot, located at 1273 Gale Lemerand Drive, said Brandon McKin-ley, the public relations and partnerships specialist at UF’s College of the Arts. The field, formerly known as Pony Field, will have artificial turf, lights, proper drainage and a 5,000-square-foot pavilion, he said.
The new practice field will cost $2.4 
million and will be funded equally by the Office of the Provost and the University Athletic Association.McKinley, a 2017 Gator Marching Band 
alumnus, said the marching band has ro-tated practices on different fields because 
it didn’t have a designated area.
“For them to have a facility that really 
matches the level of excellence they’re 
already achieving is just really exciting,” McKinley said.
Plans for a second phase include rest-
rooms, an ice machine, workrooms and a space for instrument storage but depend entirely on future private financial sup-
port, he said.
Michael Toth, a UF mechanical engi-
neering sophomore and trumpet player in 
the band, looks forward to practicing in a more even field with less fire ants. 
“If the fields are flat, that’s going to 
be really nice marching,” the 19-year-old said. “I’m excited.”Gator Marching Band to have 
new practice facilities
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
On sticky notes — blue, red, pink, yel-
low, green and orange — UF students wrote 
why they are diverse.
About 150 notes stuck to a blue banner 
on Turlington Plaza on Monday are part of UF’s first Diversity Week, which kicked off Saturday with an International Affairs Tail-gate and will conclude Saturday with a drag show. Diversity Week is meant to facilitate conversations about diversity and bring to-
gether students with different backgrounds, 
said Nidhi Kalva, a UF business manage-
ment senior and chair of Student Govern-
ment’s diversity division.
On Tuesday night, about 25 students 
worked in teams to match cultural facts with appropriate countries to win surprise 
prizes, Kalva said.
On Wednesday, multicultural organiza-
tions will set up outside the Reitz Union for the Festival of Nations from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. with different countries’ foods, includ-ing kung pao chicken, Israeli cucumber and tomato salad and jollof rice, Kalva said.
SG’s LGBTQ Cabinet and Pride Aware-
ness Month will host the drag show at 8 p.m., featuring contestants from “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” including Shangela and Miz Cracker, as well as local performers.
Teresa Sellos, a UF computer science 
fifth-year, added her note to the banner on Turlington Plaza.
“I think that it can always be talked 
about more because we are a very diverse 
Student Body,” the 22-year-old said.UF Student Government hosts 
first ever Diversity WeekWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
free   
 free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
premium burger
1402 W.UNIVERSITY AVE
(In the former Burrito Brothers location)(352) 727-4222FREE PREMIUM SINGLE BURGER
FoR EvERyoNE IN LINE!GRAND OPENING CELEBRATION!
Thursda y , april 19Th  7pm-10 pmBy Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
As Jack E. Davis met with a 
graduate student in his Keene-Flint 
Hall ofﬁ  ce Monday afternoon, his 
phone began to ring. And ring. And 
ring. 
When he ﬁ  nal-
ly checked it, he 
saw the message, 
“Congratulations you won the Pu-litzer.” A stream of calls, texts and emails followed 
suit. 
Davis, a UF professor and en-
vironmental historian, won the 
2018 Pulitzer Prize for history for his book “The Gulf,” about untold 
stories from America’s cultural and 
environmental relationship with the Gulf of Mexico. The award, considered one of the most presti-
gious in the literary world, was an-
nounced in New York at Columbia University. 
“It feels pretty remarkable; I’m 
stunned,” Davis said. “I was liter-
ally speechless, and I had to push 
the phone across the desk to the student for him to read.”
Davis said the acclaim his book 
has received is a testament to how people around the country care about the Gulf of Mexico as some-thing more than a source of oil. 
He wrote the book to restore the 
identity of the Gulf of Mexico as an integral character in American cul-ture after it was tarnished by the BP oil spill of 2010, he said.
Other ﬁ  nalists for the award 
were “Fear City” by Kim Phillips-Fein and “Hitler in Los Angeles” by Steven J. Ross.
Steve Orlando, a UF spokesper-
son, said UF is lucky to have Davis. 
“I grew up on the Gulf of Mexi-
co, and I can tell you he got it ex-actly right,” Orlando said.  
Marcela Mulholland, a UF sus-
tainability studies and political sci-ence junior, was in Davis’ History of Sustainability class during Fall and said she hadn’t read his book.
“Now I really want to read the 
book because it’s obviously good,” the 20-year-old said. “And I can get him to sign a copy.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgUF professor wins Pulitzer 
for Gulf of Mexico book
Davis
was driven by a demand because it cov-
ers UF and community news, he said.
In past issues, the independent, 
student-run newspaper focused on some of the most historic moments at 
the university, such as the ﬁ  rst class of 
admitted women and coverage of Virgil Hawkins, an African American appli-
cant to the UF College of Law who was denied because of his race, Jerome said.
Melissa Gomez, the editor-in-chief of 
The Alligator, said she was speechless when she met up with the UF Libraries 
team working to digitize the newspa-pers April 4.
“Newspapers are often called the 
ﬁ  rst draft of history, and The Alligator is no different,” the 21-year-old journal-ism senior said. “To digitize a student 
newspaper like The Alligator acknowl-
edges an important role that student publications play as an important re-
source for the community.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgALLIGATOR,  from pg. 1Editor-in-chief said she wa s speechlessTHE ORGANIZATIONAL 
AND ACADEMIC BUDGETS 
WERE PASSED.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Student senators unanimously 
passed a bill that would change the 
members of the Student Govern-ment Diversity and Programming Committee on Tuesday night. 
The bill would have the Student Body vice president serve as the chairman of the committee, have the Student Body treasurer as a committee member and remove the Multicultural Affairs Cabinet Direc-tor. The cabinet director works un-
der the diversity chair, who works 
under the Student Body vice presi-dent, making it redundant.
This was one of Impact Party’s 
Spring platform points. The bill has to be passed again at the next meeting before it changes the ofﬁ  -cial code. Student Body President-elect 
Ian Green said the change will help create a more inclusive environ-ment. 
“It was important for myself, 
David and Stefan because we don’t 
want to use ‘diversity’ and ‘inclu-
sion’ as a buzzword,” he said. “We want to make sure we’re men of our word and men of our action.” 
The Senate unanimously passed 
two resolutions, which don’t make any change to policy, including one that encourages students to use fewer single-use plastic straws, said Zachary Amrose, the resolu-tion’s author.
“It shows the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustain-
ability and other relevant ofﬁ  cials that the Student Senate and the stu-
dents it represents want the admin-
istration to reduce the availability of straws on campus,” the 20-year-old political science senior said.
Four election codes revisions 
that would change some of the rules in the elections process were also unanimously passed during the second reading.
The SG organizational and aca-
demic budgets and Student Body Accessibility Act, which would require a transcript and captions for SG pre-recorded videos, were 
unanimously passed through a sec-
ond reading. These codes and bud-get will now be enacted because they were passed twice. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
UF student Senate change diversity committee composition
Right: Former Alpha Omega Pi 
Sorority President Margaret Anderson was the “Co-ed of the Week. ” The photo was highlighted by the UF Libraries as part of its efforts to digitize Alligator archives. 
Alligator File PhotoThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
I love the movie theater. I love buying my 
ticket and popcorn and ﬁ  nding a suitable 
seat, usually in the back-center rows. I love 
the movie previews. I love packed theaters. I love walking out of a good movie and see-
ing everyone chatting about it with their friends and family because we all have just shared an 
experience that has, in some sense, brought us 
together.
That being said, I also love Netﬂ  ix. It gives 
me what the movie theater cannot offer: free-
dom. I can’t go to the theater in my underwear; Netﬂ  ix has 
no requirements. I have freedom to choose what movie I want to see when I’m at the movie theater, but it’s a limited freedom. The movie list is reasonable, but Netﬂ  ix lets me choose from hundreds of options. One goes to the 
movies to see a movie; Netﬂ  ix, though, draws no such 
boundaries around me. I can watch “Planet Earth,” Jim Gafﬁ  gan or “Goodfellas,” and if I don’t like those, then I can exit at any point and watch “Stranger Things.”
The movie theater and Netﬂ  ix, or any streaming ser-
vice, are two different and mutually exclusive experi-ences. The former can offer things, like community, the latter cannot, and vice versa. But if you have been to a movie lately, you have probably noticed some changes. 
For instance, you probably had to choose your seat while 
purchasing your ticket. Your seat probably reclined, and you probably had a miniature table, similar to a TV tray, to place your food on. And the theater probably held less people in it because of the size of each reclining seat.
I am not a fan of these changes. It is obvious to me 
what movie theaters are trying to do: They are trying to compete with Netﬂ  ix. They are trying to accommodate to a changing customer, one who now does not have to leave her house for the latest movie, or for anything, really. The 
reclining chair is an obvious accommodation. It is an at-
tempt at translating the movie theater into the living room, at shrinking the gap between the two and making them more alike than different.
Most TVs are in living rooms where families gather to-gether to watch not in stiff-backed chairs, but on recliners and couches. Hence the change in the 
movie theater seat. The movie theater industry 
has recognized we, the transcendent consumer, will not pick ourselves up off our couches and endure the hard journey out of our houses un-less where we are going is just as comfortable 
and familiar. The movie theater recognized it 
needed to coax us off the couch, but also we would not get up unless our destination was soft and cushiony.
I understand the movie theater, in order to survive, had 
to do this; Netﬂ  ix and Hulu are quickly supplanting it as the de facto providers of all things visual and cinematic. But I can’t help thinking the movie theater is compromis-ing and giving up on what it is and can do. Netﬂ  ix can 
only provide for an intensely private community — if you 
have a few friends over, or some family. The movie the-ater allows you to share an experience with strangers. It makes movies a communal activity. That is what makes movie theaters important.
To make chairs reclinable is not to necessarily forsake 
this communal aspect of the cinema, but it is to start down that path. I fear movie theaters, in their rush to shape themselves into quaint, comfortable living rooms, will for-
get it is not the ﬁ  rst word of “movie theater” that is im-
portant, but the second, “theater.” If movie theaters were only useful in regards to their provision of movies, then Netﬂ  ix and Hulu would be simply better. They offer more options and a wider selection.
But that is not why they are useful. Movie theaters 
must come to understand what they are, and what they can offer to us. They offer the transcendent consumer, that Netﬂ  ix cannot. It’s not just a visual experience alone, but a visual experience with fellow moviegoers.
If this goes, then a lot else will be lost as well.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His column fo-
cuses on popular culture.Movie theaters aren’t Netﬂ  ix. That’s a good thing.The Alligator’s 
archives are now 
online
At The Alligator’s ofﬁ  ce, our articles prior to the 
2000s are bound in black-spined books. Articles of more recent years are saved in blue binders with 
the semester and year etched on its side.
For student journalists who pass through here, 
it’s a testament to the work and devotion that came before 
us. For our readers, it’s the ﬁ  rst draft of history. But it’s been restricted to the print product. People read through them with Chinese takeout by their side and the paper’s age at the forefront of their minds. 
But this history is no longer bound to the yellowed news-
print. Like the content for the last 10 years, it’s now found a 
home online thanks to UF Libraries. On Tuesday, librarians 
announced the digitization of Alligator archives from 1912 
to August 1957. About 150,000 pages of Alligator archives 
are expected to be online by September 2019. All of the 
pages will be text-searchable. 
Making our articles accessible to anyone online is huge. There are obvious beneﬁ  ts, especially for our reporters. 
Being able to ﬁ  nd previous articles by typing into a search box will allow future staffers to ﬁ  nd historical information to give context to their articles, especially when on dead-
line. Earlier this semester, our writers covered Student Gov-
ernment elections, during which three black candidates ran for Student Body president. They tried to ﬁ  nd when the last time UF had a black Student Body president. It took them hours to do it, scouring the blue binders and black books. Those hours could’ve probably been better spent if they would’ve been reporting on other important issues.
But this is not only helpful for us as a newsroom — it’s 
bigger than us. The digitizing is also helpful for every com-
munity member who wants to hold those in power — at 
all levels — accountable. For instance, in order to ﬁ  nd out what a student senator promised he or she would stand for during his or her term, any student will be able to go through our archives and ﬁ  nd what we reported about the campaign’s promises. If a UF ofﬁ  cial pledged to create a Black Cultural Living Learning Community or add funding 
to the Disability Resource Center, the community can use 
the ofﬁ  cials’ own written words on our pages to ask them 
about it in the future.
As a society, we have a tendency to repeat our actions 
and mistakes. The idea of being able to look back and read about how UF’s campus was slow to integrate could be a way to teach future generations that it takes effort from an 
entire community to stand for their community. 
The Alligator staff, both past and current, have spent 
years holding administrations and politicians accountable. 
The digitization is also a testament to the role this paper 
plays in the community. 
Student journalism matters. All across the country, stu-
dent journalists are working hard to inform their commu-nity. This project by UF Libraries highlights the need to save 
student newsrooms.  
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
When it comes to mak-
ing a classic album, 
there are plenty of more important fac-
tors to consider than 
its cover artwork. Still, there’s a good reason why album art is 
the audience’s ﬁ  rst impression of 
a project. Not only does it make 
the scale of the creation more tangible for our visual minds, but 
when handled well, the perfect imaging 
can enhance our experience with the mu-
sic as well as our overall appreciation of it.
One of the best things about the artwork 
is that there’s no singular way to design a 
solid cover, even for two albums with sim-ilar sonics. Songs from A$AP Mob’s “Cozy 
Tapes, Vol. 1” and Migos’ “Culture II” ﬂ  ow together seamlessly with their boom-
ing trap beats and infectious energy, yet their respective artworks couldn’t be more 
different: a beaming, infantile A$AP Yams 
swaddled in a ﬂ  uffy blanket opposed to 
three grown men sporting gold chains and 
jet-black suits. Still, both covers encapsu-late the overarching themes of the actual 
albums, as A$AP pays tribute to their fall-en founding member, and Migos express 
their inﬂ  uence over the current hip-hop landscape in all their glory.
Personally, many of my favorite covers 
have been just as varied — although with 
each of them, I’m able to tie the image to 
a speciﬁ  c moment within the album that’s 
ingrained into my memory. With Child-
ish Gambino’s awe-inspiring “Awaken, My Love!,” that moment occurred before 
I’d even seen the cover art, instead tak-
ing place when he premiered the album at 
the Pharos concert in Joshua Tree a few 
months before the ofﬁ  cial release.
When it comes to Jhené Aiko’s ethereal 
“Souled Out” album cover, that pivotal 
moment came long after I’d heard the mu-
sic for the ﬁ  rst time, but instead when I brought one of the songs to life for myself 
in high school. The sunshine that beams 
from the heavens onto Jhené’s elevated 
ﬁ  gure is the perfect visual equivalent to 
the song “Eternal Sunshine” from the al-bum, which a close friend and 
I decided to perform at a coffee 
house hosted by our school’s arts program. It doesn’t take a 
dedicated audiophile to ﬁ  gure 
out that the original version 
was better — more so my fault 
on the piano than my friend’s 
singing ability, as I stumbled 
on a few chords near the end — but still, thinking about our 
live rendition always puts a smile on my face, the memory transposed with the feel-
ing given off by “Souled Out’s” beautiful artwork.
It’s often a bad sign when the album’s 
cover is more impressive than the music, 
but when they’re complimentary, it only 
makes the end product that much more captivating. So this week, kudos to Jessie 
Reyez and Daniel Caesar for not only form-ing a divine combination on their ﬁ  rst col-
laboration, but for packaging it behind a 
snapshot that perfectly sums up the song’s 
light, airy essence.
Why I’m Smiling: Jessie Reyez ft. 
Daniel Caesar: “Figures, a Reprise”
How much did I know about Jessie 
Reyez before this song? I didn’t realize 
“Figures, a Reprise” was actually a re-prise of her biggest hit until my ﬁ  fth listen. Probably a little late to the party, but I’ll 
be paying much more attention to the Ca-nadian singer going forward after hearing 
her piercing vocals for the ﬁ  rst time next 
to Caesar’s honeylike crooning.
Why I’m Shaking My Head: Fabu-
lous turns himself into police after al-legedly punching Emily B seven times. 
Knocking out two of her teeth shouldn’t 
need much explanation.
Why I’m Hopeful For the Future: 
Kali Uchis – “Isolation” (April 6)
In terms of songs that only grow more 
infectious with each listen, Kali Uchis’ 
“After the Storm” is easily the strongest choice since GoldLink gifted the culture 
with “Crew” in 2016.
This column originally ran in Daily 
Trojan. Music matters most, but a classic 
cover completes the projectU-Wire
My cursor hovered over 
the send button after 
I typed my pitch for a column about femi-
nism. I’d read over the 
email half a dozen times, but I 
just couldn’t get myself to click. 
“Was I qualiﬁ  ed?” I asked 
myself, wondering if my lack of 
gender studies or women’s his-tory classes should keep me from 
writing about feminism every week. I’d had good intentions — I owned Betty Friedan’s 
“The Feminine Mystique” and Roxane 
Gay’s “Bad Feminist,” but I hadn’t yet got-ten around to reading them. Maybe I should 
write about something else, I thought, still 
hovering. 
Then there was the question, would 
people like it? After spending my senior Fall 
writing about hookup culture and, more importantly, Midtown culture, this jump to 
what I considered a serious — and at times 
sad — subject was not a small one. I didn’t 
want to be a downer. Maybe I should just 
wait until after college to start being so “po-litical,” I wondered. 
But for some reason, on that day in early 
January, I clicked “send” anyway. Since 
that day, I’ve learned more about femi-
nism by writing about feminism than I ever 
thought I could. 
Jessica Valenti wrote “Despite the well-
worn myth that feminists are obsessed with victimhood, feminism today feels like an unstoppable force of female agency and in-
dependence,” in her memoir “Sex Object.” 
It was one of the ﬁ  rst books by a feminist 
writer I picked up after learning my column was a go. In this line, it felt like she was 
talking to me. 
As I worried my columns would sound 
more like complaints, Valenti assured me 
naming the problem — sexism — doesn’t 
make us victims. In fact, it gives us the 
strength to ﬁ  ght that problem. If ignorance is bliss, activism is power, and I felt pre-
pared to choose the second option. 
With a deadline each week, I learned 
how important it is to look beyond the big 
stories. With a few big women’s issues (ﬁ  -
nally) in the zeitgeist, it’s easy to think we 
can pump the breaks in our ﬁ  ght for equal-ity. Harvey Weinstein and the likes were taken down by strong 
reporters and stronger women who broke their silences. The 
Time’s Up Legal Defense Fund raised more than $20 million for 
women in several industries to 
ﬁ  ght and win workplace sexual 
harassment cases. 
Incredible things have hap-
pened in the past year, but there 
is so much work left to be done. We can celebrate the women at the forefronts of 
these movements, while we continue to 
bring awareness to the issues that haven’t gotten the Hollywood treatment. To name a 
few, rape culture, employment discrimina-
tion and wage gaps, all of which are more 
prominent for women of color than white 
women, still deserve our attention, our ef-
forts and our voices. 
In writing this column, I learned femi-
nism is about so much more than wanting equal opportunities for yourself. I learned 
feminism is nothing without intersectional-
ity — that is, understanding how race, class, ethnicity, religion, sexuality, gender identity 
and disabilities affect the way women and 
nonbinary people experience discrimina-
tion. If only some of us are inching toward 
equality, none of us are really progressing. 
As I wrote this column, my 21st and ﬁ  nal 
column for The Alligator, I remembered the 
ﬁ  rst question I asked myself after typing my 
pitch: “Am I qualiﬁ  ed?” One semester later, I know the answer: “No.” 
I know there are countless women who 
know more about feminism than I ever will, 
and I know they may have written better pieces than I have. But if I waited until I felt 
“qualiﬁ  ed” to write about feminism, I would 
probably never write about it at all. 
We can’t let our fears of not being good 
enough keep us from trying. We can’t wait 
until we feel ready to change the world to 
take the ﬁ  rst step in changing it.
If you’re postponing activism until you 
feel qualiﬁ  ed, now is the time to click send. You won’t look back; you’ll learn as you 
go and you’ll quickly ﬁ  nd you’ll never stop 
learning. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column focuses on feminism. Goodbye column: What writing about 
feminism taught me about feminismColumn
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.org
Kenan
Draughorne
UWireWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Florida Got Soul:
Book signing and concert recap (Pg. 10)The Struts: 
The UK rock band will headline at High Dive (Pg. 9)By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Local T-shirt company Always True Collec-
tive returns this weekend with a one-day art 
show and party with live local music and live T-shirt printing.
The No Signal show will be held from 8 
p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday at the Always True head-quarters. Always True Collective is based out of a house located at 124 SW 23rd St. Tickets for the event are available through alwaystrue.co for $10 in advance and for $12 at the door, and they include all you can drink for those 21 and over.
As part of #UNLITTER, a movement dedi-
cated to picking up trash and being more aware 
of the environment, Always True will enter 
those who bring their own cup into a rafﬂ  e to win free merchandise.
The gallery itself will be opened on the ﬁ  rst 
ﬂ  oor. Tacos will be available for purchase on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor as well as live screen printing of No Signal and Always True shirts. Always True clothing and merchandise will be available out of the basement. Guests can bring in a garment 
to be printed with the event logo for $3.
“Come enjoy it. Check out our work. Check 
out the clothes. Bring a T-shirt; get it screen-
printed on. Bring a couple dollars; get some ta-cos. Bring your ears; hear some music,” Kevin Masaro of Always True said.
The event will also feature performances 
from several local artists: Nick Chase from 9:30 to 10 p.m., King Complex from 10 to 11 p.m., The Hails from 11 p.m. to 12 a.m., NO1 from 12 to 12:30 a.m., Victoria Vicary from 12:20 to 12:30 a.m., Jay Cango from 12:45 to 1 a.m. and Ruckus Royal from 1:10 to 1:30 a.m. Each act will perform a brief outdoor set in the backyard.
After a trip to New York City in Septem-
ber, Masaro said he and Drew Howard were inspired by different pop-up art galleries in the city.
“That’s when we really started talking about 
pop-ups and art shows and stuff like that. That idea simmered and boiled, and then we were like, ‘let’s do it,’” Masaro said.
The idea of No Signal represents a depar-
ture from Always True’s heavy-handed social 
media presence. As Howard and Masaro of Al-
ways True began to focus inward, they said the art seemed to come naturally.
“No Signal, I think, is kind of just putting 
more of a focus on the individual people and the actual interaction with the people instead of just clothes and stuff on social media. It’s just more of the one-on-one conversation, because that’s what really matters,” Masaro said.
The collection includes hand-painted items 
including jackets, jeans, canvas, shoes and chairs. All of the items on display are also for sale.
“Some of these jackets have been being 
worked on for over a year,” Masaro said.
“They have layers and layers and layers and 
layers and layers and layers of paint,” Howard added.  “It’s fabric paint, acrylic paint, spray 
paint. Every type of paint you can think of is in 
some sort of way put on these jackets.”WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer   
Although UF College of Medicine 
Assistant Professor Terrie Vasilo-
poulos has a doctorate in psychiatry and behavioral neuroscience, some would say she also has a master’s 
in mixology.
Sip on Vasilopoulos’ very own 
hand-brewed Hefeweizen, along 
with your choice of about 360 other craft brews at the seventh annual Hogtown Craft Beer Festival from 1 to 5 p.m. April 21 at the Alachua County Fairgrounds.
That is, if you were one of the 
1,700 people to buy a festival ticket online before it sold out around 8 p.m. Monday.
Hogtown Brewers homebrew 
club, established in 1985, is a volun-teer-run, nonproﬁ  t social club with a dual mission: to organize events celebrating home-brewed craft beer for its members and the Gainesville 
community, but also to raise money 
for local charities year-round during these events.  Vasilopoulos joined Hogtown 
Brewers four years ago after mov-
ing from Illinois with her husband, 
Jonathon Freedman, who has been homebrewing for about 10 years, she said.
But when they left Illinois, they 
also left their homebrew club in Chicago. 
“One of the ﬁ  rst things we did 
when we moved to Gainesville was 
Google if there was a homebrew 
club so we could join it,” she said.  
Soon ﬁ  nding Hogtown Brew-
ers, the couple quickly joined. Now Vasilopoulos is serving as the lead organizer for the 2018 festival.
Mufﬂ  ing a giggle, she said, 
“What we like to call it is that I’m the ‘head disorganizer’ for the beer 
festival.”
However, there are a lot of mov-
ing parts outside of communicating 
with the more than 100 breweries and six other homebrew clubs at-tending, she said. There’s pitching tents, grabbing water, securing a site, ensuring food and booking live music.“We organize everything from 
top to bottom, even though we’re 
an all-volunteer organization,” she 
said.
In fact, Hogtown Brewers is set-
ting up at the event, and six of its own members are serving its hand-crafted beer, including Vasilopou-los’ Hefeweizen and Hard Cider and Freedman’s India Red Ale and India Red Saison on Saturday.
She said between the two of 
them, they have already brewed more than 35 gallons in the last month for the festival. 
Vasilopoulos said to look out 
for all nine of the Hogtown brews Saturday: El Jefe, a wheat hefewei-zen; Hunt for Red India Pale Ale, a hoppy India Red Ale; Hunt for Red 
India Pale Saison, a Belgian India 
Red Saison; Manha Manha, a sour guanábana gose; Old Kentucky, a sessionable Kentucky Common; Pa-tience is a Virtue, a cider; Professor Kauph E. Dunkel, a specialty Coffee Dunkel and two others, according to the event’s mobile phone appli-cation.For a live feed on festival favor-
ites and a complete list of the 360 
offered brews, guests are encour-
aged to download the ‘Hogtown Craft Beer Festival’ application, available on both the Apple Store and the Google Play Store.
Although other members have 
organized the festival in the past, Vasilopoulos said throughout the years she has witnessed how the 
original beer and food-pairing event 
has grown into a festival of its own.  
Tickets sales, at around 1,300 to 
1,500 in years past, have grown to a record high of 1,700 this year, Vasi-lopoulos said. 
Although the event has always 
had live music, this year she said, “We have a little bit bigger names, 
especially for Gainesville.”
Scuttered the Bruce and Whale 
Feral will be rotating on the main 
beer pavilion, while The Dozenaires will roam and play throughout the venue at the event.
Celebrating craft beer brings 
Gainesville residents from all walks of life to share a drink and cheers to life.
And Christine Denny, UF alumna 
and full-time president of First Mag-nitude Brewing Company, couldn’t agree more.
She said the brewery has been 
honored to contribute to the event for the past three years, but the lo-cal brewery has recently worked closely with Vasilopoulos outside of the event as well.
In fact, Vasilopoulos’ award-
winning English Mild homebrew, “She’s A Mild One,” was brewed on the First Magnitude brewing system and is still on tap today.
This Saturday, she’s excited to 
bring seven of First Magnitude’s in-novative selection, from a seasonal Papaya Saltwater Intrusion Gose to 
a hoppy pineapple IPA.
“It’s a great day trying fantastic 
beers from across Florida,” Denny 
said.
Those still looking for tickets 
may be able to ﬁ  nd a seller on the 
2018 Hogtown Craft Beer Festival 
Facebook page. 
Seventh annual Hogtown Craft Beer Festival sells out  
LOCAL
Photo by Vanessa Vlandis
Always True Collective CEO Drew Howard spray paints clothes in preparation for Friday’s show. 
Always True Collective to host No Signal art gallery & showWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
BOOK SALE
APRIL 21 –– 25, 2018
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, DVDS, VINYL RECORDS COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!
CASH OR CHECKS ONLY
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
U.K. rock group The Struts are taking 
a pit stop during their international tour 
with Foo Fighters to perform in Gainesville 
on Tuesday night. Although this isn’t their 
only Florida tour date, it’s their only head-line show in the state. 
The Struts will perform 9 p.m. Tuesday 
at High Dive. Early entry into the High Dive beer garden begins at 7 p.m., with doors to the venue opening at 8 p.m. The Struts will be joined by special guest MONA, a band out of Nashville, Tennessee.
Tickets for the show are available at 
ticketﬂ  y.com for $20 in advance and $23 on the day of the show. High Dive is open to guests 18 or older, and those under 21 
will pay an extra $3 convenience fee at the 
door.
The four-piece rock group draws in-
ﬂ  uence from rockers of every era. Adam Slack, The Struts’ guitarist, said the band 
has been inﬂ  uenced by several groups.  
These include everyone from The Rolling Stones to Oasis to Arctic Monkeys and, somewhat randomly, ABBA.
Early in their career, The Struts had the 
opportunity to perform with their idols. Be-fore the release of their debut album, they opened for The Rolling Stones in Paris. The band was also chosen to play as the sup-
porting act for Mötley Crüe in their ﬁ  nal 
four performances.
The Struts is composed of lead vocalist 
Luke Spiller, bassist and vocalist Jed El-liott, drummer Gethin Davies and guitarist Slack.
At 17 or 18 years old in an effort to 
avoid going to college, Slack said he and Spiller formed a band.
“We call ourselves The Struts because 
he strutted around a lot when we used to rehearse, just the two of us,” Slack said.
How did Slack know he and Spiller 
would have the chops to pull off a rock band? He had Spiller sing “Far Far Away” by Slade. That was all the assurance he 
needed.“I said, ‘f---, that guy can sing!,’” he 
said.
It was in 2015 that the U.K. rockers ﬁ  rst 
toured in the United States, a trip Slack now says marked the moment he knew 
The Struts were here to stay.
“Coming to America was a pretty big 
milestone for us,” Slack said. “At the time, 
things weren’t going so well in the U.K., 
and it was quite a last shot. We came over here and did a sold-out tour straight off the bat.”
This marks The Struts’ second perfor-
mance at High Dive. The band performed at the venue in September 2016 with a sold-out show.
“I think we’re a lot more professional 
now,” Slack said. “We’re just really ex-
cited. We were rehearsing yesterday and 
today, and we’re playing better than ever, so it’s going to be good.”
In the time since that performance, The Struts have continuously teased the release of their sophomore album and re-leased their most recent single, “One Night Only,” in 2017.
Slack revealed the album is set for re-
lease this summer, though he could not disclose a speciﬁ  c date.
“You only get one shot to make an al-
bum,” Slack said. “We only get one shot to make the best second album we’ll ever do … The delay has been worth it.”UK rock band The Struts to perform in Gainesville  
MUSIC
Photo by Danny Clinch
Known for songs like “Kiss This” and “One Night Only, ” The Struts will bring their talents to High Dive on Tuesday.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
By Natu Tweh
Avenue Contributor
Seven years ago, John Capouya 
discovered a great deal of his fa-
vorite soul artists came from Flor-
ida.
Capouya, a journalism and 
writing associate professor at the 
University of Tampa and a teacher 
of creative nonﬁ  ction in its MFA 
Program, held a presentation and 
book signing at the Matheson His-
tory Museum on East University Avenue Friday evening. The book is titled “Florida Soul: From Ray 
Charles to KC and the Sunshine 
Band.”
To a packed room of about 40, 
he gave details on his journey and discoveries in Florida. By playing 
memorable songs from various 
soul artists, he managed to capti-vate the audience and create inter-action among everyone.
“This is a soul music capital 
that deserves to be recognized,” Capouya said. “I try to make that case in this book.”
From Ray Charles to KC and 
the Sunshine Band, he dug up as much information as he possibly could about Florida’s soul his-tory. He uncovered that the origin of “The Twist” resides in Tampa, and found Bobby Purify of James 
& Bobby Purify was not actually 
named that. There were two Bob-bys, both with different names who took on the mantle of Bobby 
Purify.
Capouya also discovered 
Florida was a hotspot for talent 
between the 1940s and 1980s be-cause of three things: Florida Ag-
ricultural and Mechanical Univer-
sity’s Marching 100, the Chitlin’ Circuit and Latin inﬂ  uences.
 He noticed a majority of the 
artists in his book were alumni of FAMU’s Marching 100, one of 
the most prestigious and rigorous 
band programs in the nation. Art-ists such as Willie Clarke devel-oped their sound and techniques 
at FAMU.
Florida was the most urban 
state after World War II, and this 
led to the establishment of numer-ous nightclubs and venues for 
both white and black audiences. 
The amount of venues gave black musicians the chance to tour across the state for months and 
make steady money.
This strip of venues was known 
as the Chitlin’ Circuit, and Florida 
boasted the largest strip of ven-ues aside from Texas. One venue 
at the time was the Two Spot in 
Jacksonville, which could hold up to 2,000 people.
Latin inﬂ  uences also played 
an important role in Florida soul by adding interesting counts and rhythms to an already diverse 
genre. Willie Hale, also known as 
Little Beaver,  played his guitar with the inspired Latin rhythms he learned in Miami.
On the 1971 Betty Wright song 
“Clean Up Woman,” Hale played a chorded guitar riff that was reminiscent of the ﬁ  ve-beat clave pattern that can be found in salsa, 
conga and other Latin genres.
These factors that helped es-
tablish the level of talent in Flor-
ida also helped to keep Florida soul out of the limelight. Unlike 
cities and record labels that had a 
distinct sound such as Motown in Detroit or Stax Records in Mem-phis, Florida soul did not have a 
distinct sound.
Floridian artists also found their success outside the state. Ray Charles and Sam & Dave both 
had greatest successes outside of Florida, but they never forgot their training and Florida heritage.
“It’s to our advantage as listen-
ers but to our disadvantage that no one could pinpoint one city sound,” Capouya said.
After the presentation and sign-
ing Friday, a show was held at the Boxcar in Depot Park on Saturday night to commemorate Capouya’s book and Florida soul. Little Jake & the Soul Searchers performed.
Little Jake Mitchell, a lasting 
pillar in the soul community, has been performing since the 1950s; his ﬁ  rst record came out in 1957. 
Mitchell’s band The Blenders was 
the ﬁ  rst African-American group to perform at the University of Florida’s football homecoming 
Gator Growl event in 1960 to an 
integrated crowd.
“The only way we would be 
able to play is if our people could 
come,” Mitchell said. “For two 
straight years after, we sold out every show at every sorority and fraternity house.”
The performance at the Boxcar 
was electrifying, as the friendly environment led everyone to sing and dance to the sounds coming from the Soul Searchers.
Everyone was moving and ig-
noring the hot air that kept getting warmer. Mitchell puts everything in his performances, and nothing demonstrated that better than the 
thick beads of sweat dripping from 
his forehead.
For Capouya, Mitchell repre-
sents the enduring legacy of soul 
music into the 21st century. There 
are some who still perform soul music today, and there are others who are heavily inﬂ  uenced by the soul artists of the past.
Toronto-rapper Drake sampled 
Timmy Thomas’ 1972 “Why Can’t We Live Together” in his song “Hotline Bling” from his 2016 stu-
dio album “Views.” Chance The 
Rapper’s “Favorite Song,” from his 2013 mixtape “Acid Rap,” samples Betty Wright’s “Clean Up Woman.”
Soul is alive in countless ways, 
and in the state of Florida it does not seem to be slowing down any-time soon.
“Soul is the beginning of lots of 
music, and I think it is an honor that someone decided to publish a book on its history in Florida,” Mitchell said.
“Florida Soul: From Ray 
Charles to KC and the Sunshine Band” can be purchased at online 
retailers such as amazon.com and 
barnesandnoble.com.
John Capouya hosts ‘Florida Soul’ book signing, concert
MUSIC
Photo by Natu Tweh
Little Jake & the Soul Searches performed at the Boxcar in Depot Park after the presentation 
and signing. 
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
The semester may be wind-
ing down, but that doesn’t mean 
there’s a shortage of things to do 
in Gainesville. Whether you like 
movies, music or the outdoors, there’s something for everyone. In addition to our other coverage this 
week, here are the best places to 
spend your weekend.
THURSDAY
Wanee Music Festival 2018 
at Spirit of The Suwannee Music Park
For those willing to make the trek to Spirit of The Suwannee Music Park (about an hour north of Gainesville) and spend an ex-
tra buck, Wanee Festival is a great 
place to get away for the weekend. This four day jam festival will fea-ture bands like Widespread Panic, Phil Lesh, The Terrapin Fam-
ily Band, As The Crow Flies and 
Dark Star Orchestra. The festival will take place from April 19 to 21. Tickets are available at waneefes-
tival.shop.ticketstoday.com.
FRIDAY
“Please Stand By” at The 
Hippodrome Cinema
This Friday at 7:30 p.m., The Hippodrome Cinema will begin 
screening “Please Stand By,” a “dramady” starring Dakota Fan-
ning as Wendy, a young woman 
with autism who attempts to win a “Star Trek” writing competition. The movie will screen for one 
week with various showtimes. 
Find tickets at tickets.thehipp.org.
SATURDAY
Alpine Tower Gator Open 
Climb at Lake Wauburg
For those who want to get their 
blood pumping this weekend, UF RecSports will host an open climb event at Lake Wauburg’s South Shore from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.  on Saturday. Attendees can come out to climb the 40-foot tall Al-pine Tower, and no registration or 
group is necessary. Just bring your 
Gator 1 Card and you’re good to climb.
SLAY! A Party Fit For A 
Queen at University Club
Student-run record label 
Swamp Records will host their celebration of Pride Awareness Month at University Club this Sat-urday from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. The event will feature both live drag 
performances and DJ Phucket on 
the decks throughout the night. Wristbands are available for $10 at the door.
SUNDAY
Abe Partridge at Loosey’s
If you’re still wanting to keep 
the weekend going come Sunday, 
punk folk and Americana musi-
cian Abe Partridge will bring his talents to Loosey’s at 7 p.m. With both light acoustic pieces and grit-
tier, more punk-inﬂ  uenced tracks, 
attendees can expect Partridge to play various tracks from his lat-est album, “Cotton Fields and Blood For Days.” Local musician 
Kyle Keller will provide opening 
support for Partridge. RSVP at bandsintown.com.Event Roundup: The best places to spend your weekendBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
2 male Grad students seek amale roommate who is clean &studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,own bed/bath, on bus stopclose to UF. Pool, hot tub,tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83705-15-18-21-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED
- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. INVENTIONS: Who invented the 
first successful electric razor?
2. U.S. STATES: What is Ohio’s offi-
cial gemstone?
3. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Grif-
fith Observatory located?
4. ORGANIZATIONS: What volun-
teer organization celebrated its 50th 
anniversary in 2011?
5. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
gills are in a pint?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which presi-
dent was the heaviest?
7. LITERATURE: Who popularized 
the term “The Jazz Age” in a book 
title?
8. MUSIC: Who had a 1961 hit with 
the song “Hit the Road Jack”?
9. GEOLOGY: The terms “carrara” 
and “calacatta” refer to what type of 
stone?
10. PROVERBS: What is the end of 
the proverb that begins, “What’s good 
for the goose ... “?
Answers
1. Jacob Schick2. Flint3. Los Angeles4. The Peace Corps5. Four6. William Taft weighed 332 pounds
7. F. Scott Fitzgerald
8. Ray Charles9. Marble10. “... is good for the gander.”
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 16, 2018King Features Weekly Service
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
Designated drivers are the greatestGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 __ Romeo: Italian
car
5 Machu Picchu
people
10 __ Plaines
13 Copier room
quantity
14 Spanish peak
15 With 27-Down,
Captain Picard
16 What constant
stress does,
healthwise
18 Disney woman
loosely based on
Andersen’s SnowQueen
19 Draw out20 Flustered state22 Bathroom fixture24 Old West folklore
cowboy
26 FedEx alternative28 Arsenal inventory29 “What was __
was saying?”
30 Japanese rolls33 Dip __ in: test37 Things gathered
by aficionados ...or what the endsof 16-, 24-, 49-and 59-Acrosscan be?
41 Patella’s place42 Decorate
43 Video game
letters
44 N.Y. Cosmos org.
47 Wee bit49 Very expensive54 Indian __55 Enthusiastic reply
to “Who knows
the answer?”
56 More lax
58 Muscat money59 Taunts on the
field
63 Barracks beds
64 Forest fixtures
65 Citrus hybrid66 Brooklyn __, N.Y.67 Medicinal plant68 Techie, often
DOWN
1 Co-star of Jackie
on “The
Honeymooners”
2 __ & Perrins
steak sauce3 Happy face that’s
put on
4 Bedelia of kiddie
lit
5 Apple choice
6 “Reward” for poor
service
7 20 fins8 Braves, on sports
news crawls
9 Once in a long
while
10 Indian city on the
Yamuna River
11 Studio support
12 Doghouse “Don’t
come anycloser!”
15 Water-propelled
craft
17 “Truman” actor21 Belief ending
22 General Motors
brand
23 __ Martin: British
car
25 Tahrir Square city
27 See 15-Across31 Follow furtively
32 Mason’s tray
34 Youngster’s time
of life
35 Luxury timepiece36 City on the Ruhr
38 Soup legumes39 Most Soc. Sec.
recipients
40 Secret to the max45 Give a leg up
46 Lawn care giant
48 Post-winter river
thaw
49 Canoe wood50 Nincompoop
51 Kids on a farm?52 First name in
daytime TV
53 Arcade coin
57 Mount of Greek
myth
60 “__ You
Lonesome
Tonight?”
61 Camera type, for
short
62 Put in a secret
place
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/18/1804/18/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 18, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Not at all good
5 Piece-of-cake
shape
10 Tick off14 Use a surgical
beam
15 Toward the back16 “What I Am”
singer Brickell
17 Welcome wind
on a hot day
19 First-rate20 Grab greedily21 Brought back to
mind
23 Migratory flying
formations
25 Dance move26 Carrots’ partners29 Dangerous tide31 Airing in the wee
hours
35 Dr.’s orders36 Successful
cryptographer
38 Diner40 Cup handle41 Not reactive, as
gases
42 “Best thing since”
inventionmetaphor
45 Untruth46 Walked with
purpose
47 Typical John
Grisham subject
48 Back talk49 Nervous twitches51 Retail center53 Cigarette
stimulant
57 Staggered61 Neutral shade62 Pet without
papers ... or whatis literally foundin the circledletters
64 Drop of sorrow65 Oscar-winning
“Skyfall” singer
66 Family babysitter67 Attaches a patch,
say
68 Massenet opera
about a Spanishlegend
69 Absolut rival
DOWN
1 O’Neill’s “Desire
Under the __”
2 Fruitless3 Cuba, por
ejemplo
4 Some HD sets
5 Medal recipient
6 Poetic
prepositionbefore “now” or
“long”
7 Animal on XING
signs
8 Long looks9 __ set: building
toy
10 College student’s
dining choice
11 Singing
competition thatreturned in 2018,familiarly
12 “Okay by me”13 Nourish18 Letters in old
dates
22 Virgil epic24 Flip of a 45 record26 Defensive
basketball tactic
27 Praise highly28 Up and about
30 Oyster jewel
32 Cub Scout leader
33 Hatcher and Garr
34 Some Deco
prints36 College transcript
unit
37 Silvery
freshwater fish
39 Nature
excursions
43 Dot between
dollars and cents
44 Given, as a
medal
48 Rudder locales
50 Snarky
52 Yank’s war foe53 Earns after 
taxes
54 Slushy drink
brand
55 Avian crop
56 Boardroom VIP58 Security breach
59 Counting rhyme
word
60 June 6, 1944
63 Collegian who
roots for theBulldogs
By Roland Huget©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/17/1804/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 17, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Cured
1.  Kind, compassionate 5.  Certain disease 
2.  Fleet commander6.  Pig ____
3.  Trap7.  Shirt ____
4.  Twist, squirmDELAHE
NEUMHAMPMSU
STOAR
DALRAMI
SNENREAVELESE
HERWTIANSWERS: 1A-Healed  5A-Mumps  6A-Roast  7A-Sleeve
1D-Humane  2D-Admiral  3D-Ensnare  4D-Writhe  B-New Hampshire4-18-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to about 1.4 million people. 
BONUS
15 Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFlorida quarterback Jake Allen 
announced on Tuesday that he intends to transfer. Allen, a freshman this past season, did not appear in a game for UF in 2017.GATORS KICK OFF SEC TOURNAMENT TODAY
Florida's women's golf team is competing in the SEC T ournament in Birming-
ham, Alabama, this week. The event begins today and runs through Sunday. UF is the defending the conference champion, winning last year's tournament by 13 strokes. The Gators have won nine total SEC titles in program history.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
No. 1 Florida (32-7, 12-3 
SEC) fell to Jacksonville 8-4 
on Tuesday night, ending 
UF’s nine-game home winning 
streak and snapping a four-game winning streak overall.
“We’ve gotta clean up 
some mistakes,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said.
The Dolphins’ 3-4-5 hitters 
were the Achilles' heel of the 
Gators’ pitching staff.
Shortstop Scott Dubrule, 
third baseman Angel Camacho and ﬁ  rst baseman John Cassa-
la — who were all hitting over 
.300 before Tuesday night’s game — torched UF in the bat-ter’s box.
The trio went a combined 
5-for-14 with ﬁ  ve RBIs, mostly off the bat of Cassala. Cassala also iced the game with a two-run shot to left ﬁ  eld off reliev-
er Nick Horvath in the seventh 
inning.
In addition to solid at-bats 
from JU, Florida struggled to ﬁ  nd a rhythm on the hill, going through ﬁ  ve different pitchers against Jacksonville (25-13, 6-3 A-Sun).
Freshman Jack Leftwich 
got the starting nod for the Gators, giving up three runs 
on two hits, three walks and 
three strikeouts in 3.1 innings of work.
O’Sullivan said Leftwich 
was on a pitch count to pre-
serve him for UF’s weekend 
series against Kentucky.
Austin Langworthy, Hor-
vath, Hunter McMullen and 
Connor Churchill also took the 
mound in relief on Tuesday night.
Florida’s relievers gave up a 
combined ﬁ  ve runs on 11 hits 
and managed to strike out only 
three JU batters.
The decision to go with 
Langworthy in the fourth in-
ning, who has seen very lim-
ited action on the hill this season, was because of the contrast between him and Left-wich.
“(Leftwich) is throwing 
92, 94, and you’ve got a lefty (in Langworthy) throwing 80 to 82 and low 70s offspeed,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We thought Gators' winning streak snapped after bullpen sputters  
It was nearly dusk when I 
arrived, stepped out of my dad’s Nissan Sentra and in-haled the scent of high ex-pectations. 
Grill smoke and the aroma of 
seared meat ﬁ  lled the air as fans, fresh off an opening-day victory, tailgated in the parking lot. A few hundred feet away, the then-Florida Marlins were preparing to play the then-Montreal Expos in what was then Pro Player Stadium. It was Game 2 of a three-game series to open the season, and not just any season. It was the 2004 season, and the Marlins had just won the World Series.
Of course, besides the World Series part, 
I knew none of that. Only years later have I learned to recognize that fanbase optimism can be measured in pounds of food cooked at tailgates — I learned that quickly once the Marlins started sucking — and I had no idea what a three-game series was or who the Montreal Expos were. It was, after all, my ﬁ  rst baseball game. The next thing I remember is 
walking up the spiral ramp to the second level of the stadium and emerging through a tunnel on the ﬁ  rst-base side. At ﬁ  rst I saw orange — nothing but orange — as the old stadium’s infamous neon seats revealed themselves for the ﬁ  rst of many times. Next I saw the “teal monster,” the giant scoreboard that showed 
scores from across Major League Baseball in left ﬁ  eld. Of course back then, abbreviations like NYM, NYY, TOR, STL and CIN were as foreign to me as acronyms written in Korean.
I remember Brad Penny pitched that day, 
and I remember the Marlins lost in a close game. That’s pretty much all I remember, which admittedly isn’t much. Yet I still view that day and that game as one of the forma-tive moments of my young life. That, it turned out, was the beginning of my love of sports. 
I soon started following football in addi-
I mean seriously, why do sports matter?Sweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueri
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
After sweeping South Carolina at home 
this past weekend, Florida’s softball team will 
hit the diamond again tonight at 6 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium to take on Florida A&M.
The No. 5 Gators (37-7, 12-3 SEC) are in 
ﬁ  rst place in the SEC standings after their trio 
of victories over the Gamecocks, while the 
Rattlers (19-23, 11-1 MEAC) are coming off a recent sweep of their own against Savannah State.
As Florida enters the latter part of its sched-
ule, with just 11 games left in the regular sea-son, each contest is a step toward the ultimate goal: the Women’s College World Series.
So far this season, the Gators have heav-
ily relied on the offensive efforts of left ﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz and third baseman Nicole DeWitt.Both players are in the top three on Flor-
ida’s roster in batting average, at-bats, runs, hits, RBIs and slugging percentage.
DeWitt helped the Gators capture the se-
ries sweep over the Gamecocks in Saturday’s doubleheader, sending a walk-off home run over the wall in center ﬁ  eld in the second 
game of the day.
“She’s special,” Lorenz said about DeWitt. 
“She’s a huge impact and a game changer.”
Coach Tim Walton agrees with Lorenz.
“The career that (DeWitt) has had, she 
probably ﬂ  ies under the radar more than any-body we’ve ever had,” he said in a release af-ter Saturday’s doubleheader. “She’s a gamer.”
DeWitt, a senior, has logged 41 hits and 41 
runs and has started every game this season. She has also recorded 38 RBIs and 10 home runs.
Lorenz is looking for a hot streak of her 
own as the team has three more SEC series UF  takes on Florida A&M tonight 
as regular season winds down
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
Florida's baseball team lost to Jacksonville 8-4 on Tuesday night. "We've gotta clean up some mistakes, " 
coach Kevin O'Sullivan said.
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
With the Gators’ 18-6 victory 
over Marquette on Saturday, UF 
lacrosse coach Amanda O’Leary 
said that her players are still fo-cused heading into its longest road stretch of the season.
“Any time you can get a win 
in this league, it’s important,” she said.
Florida (11-3, 6-0 Big East) 
has won 28 straight conference 
matchups and will take on Cin-
cinnati, who has lost its last six games, at noon today. The Gators have won all four of their match-
ups against the Bearcats, includ-
ing a 19-2 victory last April.
Cincinnati (6-7, 0-6 Big East) 
hasn’t won a game since its 17-11 victory against Campbell on 
March 8.
It has been a season to forget 
for the Bearcats. After beginning 
the year 6-1, they have collapsed 
since conference play began.
UF will be the first — and only 
— ranked opponent that Cincin-
nati will play this season.
Though the Bearcats appear to 
be overmatched against the No. 9 Gators, they still have some “of-fensive firepower,” as O’Leary put it.
Cincinnati’s scoring attack is 
led by a pair of sophomores: at-tacker Monica Borzillo and mid-fielder McKenna Rushford.
The duo has combined for 66 
of the team’s 159 goals this sea-son.
“We have our work cut out for us on the defensive end,” O’Leary said.
In goal for the Bearcats will be 
junior Giuliana Durso. She has made 132 saves this year for a save percentage of .439.Florida’s high-powered offense 
will challenge Durso. The Gators’ 
attack is tied for 10th in the coun-
try, averaging 16 goals per game. 
Senior attacker Shayna Pirreca 
has made the most of her final campaign, scoring 42 goals and 
14 assists through 14 games.
Her sister, junior midfielder 
Sydney Pirreca, has 37 goals while junior attacker Lindsey Ronbeck has 36.
In the win against Marquette, 
Big East Defensive Player of the 
Week Sabrina Cristodero shut 
down then-conference goals lead-er Grace Gabriel, holding her to two shots.
The freshman has been a de-
fensive force for the Gators all year, and she leads the team in draw controls with 72.
She will likely play a large role 
in Florida’s defensive game plan against Cincinnati, as she and the rest of the Gators’ defense will at-tempt to keep Borzillo and Rush-
ford in check.
Heading out on a 3,700-mile 
road trip, O’Leary knows that all 
of the traveling will be difficult for the team. 
However, she believes that it 
will prove valuable in the long run, especially for the team’s younger contributors.
“It’ll be a challenge for us,” she 
said. “I think it’s a great learning experience for our players.”
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
LACROSSE
Florida’s two-game road trip begins today in Cincinnati
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Sydney Pirreca has 37 goals this season. Pirreca and UF are facing Cincinnati on the 
road today at noon.
Wednesday, April 18
Women’s Golf @ SEC 
T ournament, All Day
Lacrosse @ Cincinnati, Noon, 
Bearcats TV
Softball vs. Florida A&M, 6 
p.m., SEC Network +
 
Thursday, April 19
Women’s Golf @ SEC T ournament, All Day
Baseball @ Kentucky, 7 p.m., 
SEC Network
 
Friday, April 20
Women’s Golf @ SEC 
T ournament, All Day
Women’s T ennis @ SEC 
T ournament, 9 a.m.
Gymnastics @ NCAA 
Championships, 7 p.m., ESPNU
Softball @ Mississippi State, 
7 p.m., SEC Network +
Baseball @ Kentucky, 7:30 
p.m., SEC NetworkSaturday, April 21
Women’s Golf @ SEC T ournament, All Day
*Women’s T ennis @ SEC 
T ournament, 10 a.m.
Baseball @ Kentucky, 1 p.m., 
SEC Network +
Lacrosse @ Denver, 2 p.m., 
Altitude
Softball @ Mississippi State, 
2 p.m., SEC Network +
*Gymnastics @ NCAA 
Championships, TBD, ESPNU
 
Sunday, April 22
Women’s Golf @ SEC T ournament, All Day
Softball @ Mississippi State, 
1 p.m., SEC Network +
*Women’s T ennis @ SEC 
T ournament, 2:30 p.m., SEC Network
 
* = If NecessaryTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Senior Anna Danilina and the Florida women’s tennis team are competing in the SEC T ournament in 
Knoxville, T ennessee, this weekend, facing either Mississippi State or LSU on Friday in the quarterfinals.16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 2018
tion to baseball, and while I grew 
up watching Florida football with my dad, himself a UF alum, I never knew the players or followed the team. Suddenly that changed. 
I never really asked why until 
college when I started working at The Alligator, where I’ve written several columns about how sports 
are trivial compared to real problems 
like cancer or war or racial injustice. 
I still stand by those thoughts, but with my time at The Alligator ending next week, I wanted to try and ex-
plain why — even though there are times to put sports aside and even 
though I ﬁ  nd much of sports report-ing to be contrived and meaningless — I chose to write about them in the ﬁ  rst place. 
The answer starts with a fancy 
philosophical term called metaphys-ics. My apologies to any philosophy professors/majors who read this because surely my explanation will fall short, but metaphysics basically tries to make sense of reality. It asks questions about principles and ex-istence, and it has implications in sports. 
That’s because there’s a funda-
mental metaphysical question relat-ed to sports: Are human beings, for some reason, drawn to competition as part of our nature? And I believe the answer to that question is a clear yes. 
Whether the ancient Greek 
olympics, the Roman gladiators or today’s NFL, humans seem to gen-erally be drawn to competition as a distraction. There are other forms of distraction to be sure — one of my best friends, for example, prefers be-ing entertained by esports and Dun-geons and Dragons — but sports are a classic way to escape from our ev-eryday lives and momentarily bask in pure emotion. Which, like sleep-ing or communicating, is something most humans need to do. Something else humans gener-
ally need are relationships. Sports help build them. My dad and I still bond to this day over Florida foot-ball and Marlins baseball, even if we can’t watch games together. And are there other ways to forge relation-ships? Of course. But sports are an easy, passive way to do so. 
I’ve deﬁ  nitely lessened my lei-
surely sports consumption since I started writing about them — ironic, I know — but it’s not too hard to think back to four or ﬁ  ve years ago when my idea of a fun Friday night was schlepping over to Marlins Park to watch a game with my fellow baseball-loving friend. We’d watch the game. Talk about 
the game. When our team played poorly, it left us with our heads hung feeling defeated, even though we’d done nothing ourselves. When our team did well, we’d leave feel-ing a rush of ecstasy. And when the team experienced sustained success, it made our lives feel a little better. Notice a common word in all three of those instances?
Yes, feeling — that’s what sports 
offer. And few other parts of our daily lives can. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. 
Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14and two non-conference games on the remainder 
of its regular-season schedule.
The junior from Moorpark, California, has 
reached base in every game this season, bringing her career mark to 163 of 170 games.
Meanwhile, Florida has been led In the circle 
by junior pitcher Kelly Barnhill.
The Marietta, Georgia, native was selected as 
this week’s SEC Pitcher of the Week for the ninth time in her career and the fourth time this season.  
Barnhill (19-1) limited the Gamecocks’ of-
fense to a pair of hits and one run over a 14-in-ning stretch this past weekend. She also logged her 
ninth shutout of the season and the 28th of her 
career with 21 strikeouts in the two contests.  
The Rattlers will most likely depend on Kyaira 
Brown. The sophomore is one of three pitchers on the team but has the most experience overall in the circle.
Brown (11-9) holds an ERA of 2.80 with 92 
strikeouts and 79 runs allowed.
“We’ve got to be on top of our A-game,” Wal-
ton said. “Everybody that we’ve played midweek has come at us with everything they’ve got and I expect nothing less from them (Wednesday).”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Lorenz has reached base in every game
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida pitcher Kelly Barnhill is 19-1 this season and was 
recently selected as SEC Pitcher of the Week.
maybe he could get away 
with an inning or two which obviously didn’t work out.”
On offense, not much hap-
pened for Florida other than a solo home run from right ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton in the bot-
tom of the second.
After that, Dalton’s bat 
went cold, stranding more 
than half of the 13 Gators runners left on base.
Second baseman Blake 
Reese and third baseman Jonathan India drove in runs through separate ﬁ  elder’s 
choices.
India extended his hitting 
streak to 24 games with an 
RBI double to left, plating the last run of the game for 
Florida. He went 2-for-4 and ﬁ  nished the night with a .438 
average.
“I’m really not trying 
to think about (the hitting streak),” he said. “I’d rather win as a team and succeed as a player.”
Florida will now pack its 
bags and head to Lexington as the Kentucky Wildcats will host the Gators for a three-game series starting Thurs-
day.
“I do think this week-
end is gonna be difﬁ  cult,” 
O’Sullivan said. “They’re al-
ways very good offensively 
in their own ballpark and the weather is not gonna be kind to us again. We’re gonna have some things we’re gon-
na have to battle through.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 14Dalton left seven 
runners on base