We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Bright Futures bill approved by Florida Senate
It could bring block tuition to state universities, pg. 5
The Avenue:
Looking for something fun to do? Check out upcoming events,
pg. 9GATORS SET TO FACE RAZORBACKS TONIGHT
The Florida men’s basketball team is hosting Ar-kansas at 7 p.m. at the O’Connell Center, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 46
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
TWO OF THE VICTIMS ARE 
CHILDREN, POLICE SAID.
By Robert Lewis 
and David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writers
At least ﬁ  ve people, including 
two children, were shot Monday at 
about 6:30 p.m. in Alachua, said Ser-
geant Jesse Sandusky, an Alachua Police Department spokesperson.
The shootings happened near 
Northwest 156th Place and North 
Main Street, Sandusky said, roughly a 30-minute drive from UF’s cam-pus. Alachua County Fire Rescue tweeted that it treated patients from 
a drive-by shooting and took them to 
UF Health Shands Hospital’s emer-gency room, which was put on lock-down Monday, said Nickie Doria, a UF Health spokesperson.
Doria said Shands’ emergency 
room was locked down for the safety of the patients, which is standard procedure when a patient is brought in with a gunshot wound and the person responsible has not been ap-
prehended.
The emergency room is no longer 
on lockdown, Doria said.
One adult remains in critical con-dition, Sandusky said. Both children 
injured during the shooting and two 
adult victims are in stable condition, 
and their injuries are not life-threat-ening, he said.
The shootings took place just a 
block-and-a-half from Maude Lewis 
Park, where a 27-year-old man was 
shot to death Sunday, marking the ﬁ  rst homicide in Alachua County in 10 years, Sandusky said.“We believe (Monday’s shooting) 
was retaliation against the incident 
that happened on Sunday,” San-
dusky said.
He said both shootings are likely 
gang related. Alachua Police have not made an arrest, but are pursuing 
several leads, Sandusky said.
As police searched for the shooter UF student’s relative one of ﬁ  ve people shot in Alachua
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College President Jackson Sasser 
turned to his state senator, Keith Perry, before an 
audience of more than 200 Friday afternoon and gave a ﬁ  rm message. 
“It will take the legislature, it will take the 
chamber,” Sasser said of how to tackle Alachua County’s looming racial disparities. “It will take all of us.” 
Local leaders and activists gathered in East 
Gainesville’s Mt. Moriah Missionary Baptist Church, located at 718 SE 11th St., for conversa-tion about a much anticipated report presented by UF’s Bureau of Economic and Business Research, “Understanding Racial Inequity in Alachua Coun-ty.” The talk brought forth some glaring examples of inequity in the county, while some participants said the solutions aren’t there yet.
UF assistant professor Hector Hugo Sandoval 
Gutierrez combed through data from the 98-page document to an audience that included Mayor Lau-ren Poe, UF President Kent Fuchs, city and county commissioners, Alachua County Public Schools board members, the Alachua County Labor Coali-tion and Gainesville For All organizers and others.
Inspired by a similar study by leaders in Madi-
son, Wisconsin, UF’s BEBR — sponsored by Santa Fe College, ACPS, Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce, UF Health, and the city and county — compiled data on issues ranging from child pov-erty to unemployment among the county’s white, black, Hispanic and Asian populations. 
For about an hour, Gutierrez reviewed the facts. At 35.7 percent, black poverty in Alachua Coun-
ty is greater than that of Florida and the U.S. The county’s black childhood poverty is 44.6 percent. 
Gutierrez also said Alachua County’s black resi-
dents are over 2.5 times more likely to be unem-ployed than its white residents. 
Alachua County has Florida’s highest achieve-
ment gap between white and black students on end-of-year exams like the Florida Standards As-sessment, the Alligator found. 
After the presentation, organizers thought 
about how to move forward and ﬁ  x the issue.
Gutierrez suggested attracting businesses to in-
vest and develop in East Gainesville, as  well as im-proving public K-12 education for black students. He said these changes would go a long way toward improving racial inequity overall. 
“I believe that to provide a high-quality educa-
tion experience is signiﬁ  cant and will change the life for minorities,” Gutierrez said. “College is not necessary to get a good job, but what is essential is to get a good-paying skill set.”
Diedre Houchen, the education chair for racial 
inequity task force Gainesville For All, said al-though the data was disheartening, it simply con-ﬁ  rmed what many activists already knew. UF publishes, presents report on 
Alachua County’s racial inequitySEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In a letter to the Alligator on Tuesday, 
UF Student Body Treasurer Revel Lubin an-
nounced his intention to switch from Im-pact Party to Inspire Party.
Lubin ran for the executive ticket last 
year with Impact, and in the letter, he said he thought it would be a move that could “initiate positive change” in Student Gov-
ernment. He said since 
then he has witnessed 
tokenism in the party – as expressed in the res-ignation speech of Janae Moodie a week ago.
He said minority indi-
viduals, including him-
self, are marginalized. He said Impact gives positions to ﬁ  ll quotas and uses “diversity” as a buzzword.
“I put the students over the politics and 
over Impact,” he said. “But as time went on, I can’t compromise my character to be a part of something that was contradicting everything I stood for.”
The criminology and law and African-
American studies sophomore said he saw things that were unjust from the beginning of his time in Impact. Lubin said although he agrees with some of the points Moodie 
made in her speech, it wasn’t her resigna-
tion that prompted him to make this an-nouncement.
“This is something I was prompted, just 
me personally for a long time,” he said. “It has nothing to do with what Janae said. I’m taking this uncomfortable position to UF Student Body Treasurer Revel Lubin switches party
SEE LETTER,  PAGE 4 Lubin
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff 
Angad Gill, a 20-year-old UF biology sophomore biology, demonstrates 
choreography at the Gator Bhangra Dance Spring Auditions outside of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Tuesday night. 
SEE EQUITY,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
HIGH  50° LOW  23°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Discover Florida Museum volun-
teer opportunities today
The Florida Museum of Natural History is holding an orientation for adults interested in learning 
more about volunteering. The 
presentation is today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Pre-registration is required, and volunteers must 
be 18 years or older. For more 
information or to register, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/volun-
teers/adult-orientation or call 352-273-2055.
Florida Museum's 39th Collectors 
Day on SaturdayCelebrate the Florida Museum’s 39th Collectors Day on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For more 
information, visit www.florida-museum.ufl.edu/collectorsday 
or call 352-273-2061.
Spring SG Elections 
Informational Meeting, Qualifying and SlatingTo learn more about qualify-
ing or running for office, attend 
the informational meeting on Tuesday, Jan. 23, at 6:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union chamber. For more information, visit www.sg.ufl.edu/elections.
 Study Abroad Fair  
The UF International Center 
will host the Spring 2018 Study 
Abroad Fair from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 24 on the Reitz Union North Lawn. For more information, stop by 1765 Stadium Rd., Suite 170 Hub, or visit online at abroad.ufic.ufl.edu. Got something going on?Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.  VOLUME 112 ISSUE 46
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez de Sotomayor,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall, Grace   
  Kenny
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
January 20, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
AdvancementT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
ART AND ANCESTRY
Several portraits from Turbado Marabou are presented in the Hippodrome State Theatre’s gallery. The Gainesville artist credits his inspiration for his pieces from the “rich culture and social values” of his ancestors.  The exhibit is available for public viewing through Feb. 18.  
THE INFECTION HAS A HIGH 
MORTALITY RATE.
By Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health researchers plan to use 
computer algorithms to ﬁ  nd a new, 
more individualized treatment against a common, invasive fungal infection. 
The National Institutes of Health 
granted them $2.7 million for the proj-ect. The infection, aspergillosis, is caused by the aspergillus fungus, which 
is a fungus in the form of mold spores 
that can live indoors or outdoors and is inhaled frequently, said Dr. Borna Meh-rad, one of the head researchers. 
“The most severe illness is in people 
with a very weakened immune system,” Mehrad said. 
Currently, the infection is treated 
with antifungal antibiotics, but prob-
lems occur because the infection has developed a resistance, Mehrad said. It’s one of the most common fungal infec-
tions and has a high mortality rate. 
The symptoms of aspergillosis are 
similar to pneumonia, Mehrad said.
The new computer algorithm will 
try to model the infection in combina-tion with testing done on mice, Mehrad said. Mice will be given the infection, and then collaborators at University of 
Connecticut will put the data from them 
into the algorithm. 
The system will develop a hypothesis 
that will help determine a treatment and then test that on the mice, Mehrad said. 
At the University of Connecticut, pro-
fessor Reinhard Laubenbacher, director of the Center for Quantitative Medicine, said he hopes this will allow doctors to 
give customized treatments.
“This is an incredibly exciting time 
in collecting data, both at the molecu-
lar level and the patient level,” Lauben-bacher said.UF researchers get grant 
to ﬁ  nd new treatment for fungal infection4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018HE CUT OFF THE TIP 
OF A BOUNCER’S THUMB 
BEFORE A MANAGER 
DISARMED HIM, 
POLICE SAID.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida Gulf Coast University 
student is accused of getting in a fight in front of a midtown bar and 
cutting off a bouncer’s thumb with 
a knife early Monday, Gainesville 
Police said.
Jose Javier Navas Heredia, 23, 
was part of a fight in front of a 
midtown bar at 1702 W. University 
Ave. after midnight, according to 
an arrest report. When a bouncer 
from the bar came and grabbed Navas Heredia by the shoulders to stop the fight, he turned around and pulled a pocket knife from his 
back pocket, ac-
cording to the 
report.
Navas Here-
dia opened the 
knife and held 
the blade to the 
bouncer’s chest, police said.
Two off-duty bouncers from the 
bar saw Navas Heredia had a knife and tried to disarm him, according 
to the report. He resisted and cut 
the tip of one of the two men’s right 
thumb in the struggle, police said.
The manager of the bar came 
outside and was finally able to dis-
arm Navas Heredia, according to 
the report.
Police said he tried to leave the 
scene, but a witness pointed him 
out to officers, and he was de-tained.After his arrest, Navas Heredia 
told police he did not own the knife 
but may have touched it during the 
fight.
He was taken to Alachua County 
Jail where he was released Monday 
on his own recognizance to U.S. 
Immigrations and Customs En-
forcement. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgGPD: FGCU student pulls out knife in a fight at midtown
Navas Heredia
and the victims were rushed to the 
hospital, Wallace Mazon saw the notification — two back-to-back 
missed calls from his father. 
When Mazon, 23, called back, 
he learned his nephew, Ron Fair-
ley, 20, had just been rushed into 
the intensive care unit at Shands.
Fairley was shot seven times — 
in the arms, chest and once in the 
chin, Mazon said. 
“You hear about these things 
happening in inner cities like Chi-cago or Detroit,” the UF political science and African-American studies senior said. “You’d never 
think it would happen in a small 
town like (here).” 
Mazon said when he visited Shands on Tuesday afternoon, he felt distraught. Fairley was un-able to remain fully conscious, only blinking his eyes open a few times. 
Mazon, Fairley and another 
victim all went to Santa Fe High School together, Mazon said. 
He said he was unsure if either 
Clifford or Fairley are the adult the 
police said was in critical condi-
tion.
“I’m just hoping for the best at 
this point,” he said. “I’m having the feeling like he’ll have a second 
chance — anything can happen in 
these situations.” 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org SHOOTING,  from pg. 1Four victims are stableHouchen said whatever solu-
tions people begin crafting need to 
include the residents themselves. 
“I think that whatever is done 
should certainly include the partici-
pation of African-Americans within 
the county — that’s going to be es-sential,” she said. “Their agency at the table is needed.” 
Perry said he felt the presentation 
was an important step in canvassing the disparity, and now legislators, especially in Tallahassee, need to help push change forward. 
The senator cited his proposed 
Early Childhood Music Education Incentive Pilot Program, which would financially incentivize school districts to offer 30 minutes of certi-fied music education twice a week for students between kindergarten and second grade. 
“We see the gaps start out for stu-
dents early and continue to grow,” Perry said. “What can we do at the youngest of age for them?”
For Rosana Resende, the format 
of the presentation event amounted to a waste of time. 
Resende, a lecturer with UF’s 
Center for Latin American Studies invited to the event by the Latina Women’s League, was in awe at the diversity of the audience in the room, filled with nearly every per-son one could imagine who’s work-
ing on improving the county, from 
social workers to politicians. 
Despite the talent in the room, 
there was no time dedicated to workshopping or pausing to let the 
organizers hash out possible solu-tions. 
Instead, people were instructed 
during the Q&A session to write 
down questions anonymously and pass them down rows of people to the front where President Sasser read and answered them. “A lot of us are professionals 
who deal with this kind of stuff,” 
Resende said. “We’re ready to go, 
you know?” 
Resende said she was entirely 
disappointed with how the meeting 
was focused on describing the prob-lem rather than answering it.
“This is amazing human capi-
tal,” she said, looking around the room. “Maybe we can’t implement 
solutions right away, but why in the world can’t we powwow about this kind of stuff and brainstorm some ideas together?” 
President Fuchs also announced 
during the presentation that, inde-pendent of the study, he asked UF’s Human Resource Services to look into the university’s OPS, or other personnel services, employee clas-sification.
Fuchs said he’s concerned some 
OPS workers — who are paid hour-ly, are not offered the same benefits as permanent staff and often come from minority and low-income backgrounds — should receive bet-ter classification given how long they’ve worked for the university. 
He asked human resources to 
look into the OPS classification after Hurricane Irma, when hourly paid workers were not repaid for time lost after UF canceled four days of class, according to Alligator archives. 
“It may indeed be that we are 
misusing that job classification,” he said. “It may be, frankly, we should have fewer OPS workers and have more of them be regular workers.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org 
EQUITY,  from pg. 1Alachua County’s black poverty is greater Florida’s, study found
stand up.”
In the last paragraph of the let-
ter, Lubin said he will switch to 
Inspire. He said his future plans with SG are still unclear.
“I think I’m taking time to pray 
about my next step and figure out what I want to do to serve within the party,” he said. “I’m unsure as to which direction I will take next.”
Lubin said he identifies with 
Inspire vision.
“I noticed a group of individu-
als who have like-minded ideas,” he said. “It’s a fresh group with fresh visions.”
Senator Benjamin Lima (In-
spire, D) said this is an exciting development for the party. He led Inspire’s creation in Fall 2017 as its president. 
“Revel is someone who has a 
great sense of vision for the Stu-dent Body,” he said. “A lot of our senators have been collaborating with him on numerous initiatives. Our caucus is very excited to see the potential to have someone of 
his stature to be able to be affili-
ated with Inspire Party.”
Senate President Pro-Tempore 
Trevor Schaettle said he didn’t un-derstand the necessity for Lubin to disaffiliate. 
“I feel like the problem defi-
nitely could’ve been addressed further on, and I feel like this is 
kind of a scapegoat kind of blam-
ing,” he said. “A lot of us were shocked at that.” 
Senate President Ian Green 
(Impact, Business Administration) said Lubin’s statement has more to do with the political climate and upcoming elections than the true reality of Impact. 
“Specifically for me, I’m the 
third black male Senate President here at the University of Florida,” Green said. “I have gotten to where I am because of the work I have put into this university. 
There’s a reason why I have gray 
hairs and a receding hairline.”
Student Body President Smith 
Meyers, who ran with Lubin on his executive ticket, said he hadn’t heard of Lubin’s concerns. 
“Revel’s letter to the editor is 
the first time in the nine months we have been in office that I have 
heard about his concerns with 
Student Government,” he wrote in an email.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
LETTER,  from pg. 1He said minorities are marginalizedDavid Hoffman / Alligator Staff
UF assistant professor Hector Hugo Sandoval Gutierrez presents data on racial inequity within 
the county to an audience of more than 200 Friday afternoon at the Mt. Moriah Missionary Baptist Church, located at 718 SE 11th St.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
A proposal that would provide 
free tampons and pads on campus 
was not approved by the Student Government Budget and Appropria-tions Committee on Monday eve-
ning.
Inspire Party Senator Branden 
Pearson asked the nine-person com-
mittee to use students’ activity and service fees to pay for feminine hy-giene products. However, after 20 minutes of deliberations, the com-
mittee unanimously voted against 
the code revision, stating various complaints, including that the fund-ing would benefit only the female half of the UF Student Body. 
Pearson cited a change.org pe-
tition, launched by student group Gators Matter, Period. in the Fall. The petition has amassed more than 4,000 signatures in support of UF-supplied menstrual care items. He said it was evidence the issue was 
being directly voiced by students. 
“That’s what student govern-
ment is for,” Pearson said. “We 
are here on campus to take student ideas and make them realities.”
The committee said the petition 
was unclear about how many signa-tures came from students and if the issue was also being voiced by male students. 
Florida State University’s student 
government approved a similar legis-
lation early last year, which Pearson 
said was reason for UF to consider a policy change of its own. Harvard University, University of California, Los Angeles, Emory University and Brown University have also imple-mented similar campus programs.
The change was struck down 
before it was open to Senate review and plans for the distribution of fem-inine hygiene products were drawn out. Pearson said he was disappoint-
ed with the committee’s decision 
but said there are plans to seek other funding. 
“We want to proceed with as 
many doors open as possible,” he said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
SG committee rejects proposal for free tampons, pads 
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF researchers will be working with Stan-
ford University to improve healthcare access to Type 1 diabetes patients who don’t have ac-cess to hospitals.
The UF Diabetes Institute received a $1.6 
million donation Jan. 9 for the collaborative project. Type 1 diabetics can find it difficult to go to recommended endocrinologist appoint-ments every three to four months because of the cost and distance to travel for healthcare, said Dr. Michael Haller, UF professor and chief in the department of pediatrics.
“It’s an opportunity to provide better care 
for patients living with a chronic disease that requires 24/7 management,” Haller said. “Type 1 diabetes is tough even for the patients that have great access to great care.”
The money was given to the UF Diabetes 
Institute by the Leona M. & Harry B. Helms-ley Charitable Trust to fund a state-wide, 18-month pilot project with Stanford Univer-
sity. Haller said more funds could be donated 
again if the project is successful. The project is aimed at training primary care physicians across the state to treat patients who live far 
away in innovative ways. 
The research does not emphasize the direct 
treatment of patients, but instead focuses on 
increasing their access to care through tools such as telemedicine, or video conferencing, which would not require a physical hospital visit. Haller said telemedicine is more econom-ic and efficient for both patients and healthcare providers. 
The telemedicine project is based on a 
model of care called Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes, which is being piloted in Florida and California due to high rates of 
diabetes within the states’ populations of un-
derserved patients. Haller said UF is where re-search will stem. 
“The idea of an ECHO is places with exper-
tise, like us, serve as a hub,” Haller said. “If we can prove that this works, theoretically, this would be something that would be used nationwide.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
UF Diabetes Institute gets $1.6 million gift for projectTHE BILL WOULD ALSO 
REQUIRE ALL STATE 
UNIVERSITIES TO ADOPT 
BLOCK TUITION.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students receiving a Bright Fu-
tures Scholarship may see more money in their bank accounts if a Florida senate bill passes in the House. 
The Florida Senate unanimously 
passed the “Florida Excellence in High-er Education Act of 2018,” on Thurs-day. The bill, which now awaits con-sideration in the Florida House, would permanently expand the Bright Futures Scholarships Program for the top two tiers of scholars and require all state universities to adopt a block tuition sys-tem. UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said 
the bill addresses several of UF’s highest 
priorities, but they are still in the early stages of working with the legislators to create the best proposal. 
“There’s some very, very positive 
pieces of that legislation that would very much benefit our students,” she said.  
The bill provides a permanent ex-
pansion of the Bright Futures Programs 
from the change that was made in the  
2017-2018 school year. The change was set for a year, but this bill would per-manently expand the program for the “Academic” and “Medallion” scholars — the top two tiers of Bright Futures. 
Under this bill, students who receive 
the top Bright Futures scholarship, re-ferred to as “Academic” scholars, will 
have 100 percent of their tuition and 
fees covered and receive $300 for text-books.  
Students who receive the second-tier 
award, known as “Medallion” scholars, will have 75 percent of their tuition and fees covered by their Bright Futures scholarship. 
Both “Academic” and “Medallion” 
scholars would be able to use Bright Futures scholarships for Summer term enrollment if the bill passes. 
Anthony Leonardi, a UF political sci-
ence sophomore, currently receives the “Academic” scholar award. Although, he would’ve liked to see the permanent expansion sooner, he is glad state gov-ernment is willing to reward students who perform well.
“Right now we’re in a situation 
where smart kids are not rewarded like they should be,” the 20-year-old said.  
The bill would also require that all 
state universities switch to a block tu-ition method by Fall 2018. Under block tuition, students would pay a flat rate each semester rather than per-credit-hour. The block tuition method is meant to improve on-time graduation rates by incentivizing students to take on a larg-er course load without bearing the extra 
financial cost. 
Students at UF protested the imple-
mentation of block tuition in the 2010-
2011 school year, which the administra-tion later postponed indefinitely, citing rising graduation rates, according to Al-ligator archives.  
Leonardi doesn’t believe students 
should be pushed to take on more credit 
hours through the block tuition because 
it could hinder their involvement out-side the classroom. 
“I think that there are a lot of extra-
curricular programs that we also need to incentivize people to take part in,” he said. “This is one of the things that the University of Florida has pushed. They want us to be involved in the Gator 
community.” 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgFlorida Senate approves 
bill for Bright Futures
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
After the former Senate Pro-
Tempore resigned, citing a lack 
of respect for minorities, UF’s Senate elected a new officer Tuesday night.
In a 54-20 vote, Trevor Schaet-
tle (Impact, District B) will begin his four-week term as Senate President Pro-Tempore, effective immediately. Schaettle formerly held the position in Spring 2017.
“I’m really excited for the op-portunity to bring as many quali-fied, passionate senators into the chamber,” he said. 
The special election between 
Zachariah Chou (Inspire, Mur-phree) and Schaettle, Impact ma-jority party leader, comes a week after the resignation of previous Senate President Pro-Tempore Janae Moodie. Moodie said her party and Student Government tokenize minorities. 
Schaettle said he knew about 
Moodie’s plans to resign but dis-agreed with her and said SG is diverse.
“I try to stay as unbiased and 
look more at qualifications and 
passion when we chose sena-
tors,” he said. “That’s not to say we don’t pick diverse senators. As a committee, we shouldn’t have diversity be the only thing that we look for.” 
Senator Mackintosh Joachim 
(Inspire, Graham) said diversity is an issue that needs to be ad-
dressed in the Senate and asked 
Schaettle’s and Chou’s approach.
Schaettle said it won’t be fixed 
overnight. He hopes to meet with multicultural groups on campus to learn about their needs. 
Before his loss, Chou pro-
posed the idea of exit interviews for all departing senators.
“Student Government is 
pretty numb about when people leave Senate,” Chou said. “It’s important to make Senate more inclusive and thoughtful.”
The Senate also voted down 
an amendment proposed by Austin Young, a UF political sci-ence and religion senior, in com-
mittee. The amendment would 
change how future constitutional amendments are ratified by not including abstention votes in the three-fifths required to pass. The opportunity for the bill to be debated was voted down 50-24 when amending the agenda. 
“The bottom line is that it’s 
simply not right that the judiciary committee would withhold [the bill] from the rest of the Senate,” the 22-year-old said. “I think it’s wrong for a small committee to decide arbitrarily for the Senate not to vote on it.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgUF Student Senate elects 
new President Pro-Tempore 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
Trevor Schaettle, a 21-year-old UF history senior, was 
elected Senate President Pro-T empore at Tuesday evening’s senate meeting. The Impact Party senator won 54-20 against Senator Zachariah Chou.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinionsCongress needs to 
act on DACA
Hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immi-
grants continue to live in fear of impending deporta-tion as Congress attempts to finalize their fate with a legislative solution.
Many of these young people, known as “Dream-
ers,” have known no home other than the United States. They were brought here as children, through no fault or choice of their own, and have little to no ties to their native country. They reside in the U.S. under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which grants pro-tection from deportation to children who were brought to the U.S. before age 16 and who have lived in the U.S. before June 15, 2007. 
As a result of the Obama-era program, children who were 
brought to the country illegally have been able to do basic things like obtain a valid driver’s license, attend schools, enroll in college and legally secure jobs. Also, much to the surprise of many conservatives, these “Dreamers” also pay income taxes  — despite the fact they are unable to receive 
advantages like reduced healthcare or financial aid from the state or government for education. They also cannot benefit from unemployment.
DACA allowed for its recipients to apply to defer deporta-
tion and live legally in the U.S. for two years and afterward, they could apply again to renew the deferral. Last September, the Trump administration announced the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) would no longer accept applications for new deferred action requests under DACA, nor would it accept renewal applications for those who had been approved for deferred action under the program in the past. As of Jan. 13, individuals who were previously granted deferred action under DACA are allowed to request renewal. 
New hopefuls, however, are still unable to apply.
New headlines from this past week have hinted that Presi-
dent Donald Trump and leaders in Congress are attempting 
to reach a bipartisan agreement when deciding the fate of DACA recipients. 
On Jan. 9, a federal judge in Phoenix temporarily blocked 
the Trump administration from ending DACA. This is a move from the judicial branch in checking executive power, but Trump did not see it that way. 
“It just shows everyone how broken and unfair our Court 
System is when the opposing side in a case (such as DACA) always runs to the 9th Circuit and almost always wins before being reversed by higher courts,” Trump tweeted the day after the judge’s ruling. 
The future of DACA, as this past week has shown, is still 
in limbo. But the recipients — who are among the student population at UF and Santa Fe College — deserve better. They have worked hard to get the jobs and education they 
have. 
But talks at the federal level seem to be going nowhere. 
DACA is not perfect. We recognize this. It lacks a clear path-
way for immigrants to gain legal citizenship. But doing away with it entirely is not the solution. Trump himself has en-dorsed a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immi-grants. 
What America needs is for Congress to edit and improve 
the already existing program and not threaten the way of life 
that “Dreamers” have been living for years. The benefit of 
having “Dreamers” is something that is well-acknowledged and accepted. 
What we need is Congress to put aside their political dif-
ferences and stop making it a partisan issue.  
Column
Anti-abortion folks never cease to 
amaze in the tactics they use to pre-vent access to this entirely lawful procedure. From protesters harass-ing women and workers at abortion 
clinics to state-sponsored fake medical cen-ters that attempt to trick and shame women out of abortions, our access is also obstructed by laws leading to too few abortion clinics in our state — resulting in women traveling long distances and taking off multiple days of work — and abortions themselves costing hundreds of dollars. To make access to abortion a reality for all women, we need free abortion on demand. To make that a reality, women must fight back.  
This Saturday, National Women’s Liberation (NWL) 
will celebrate the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the United States Supreme Court decision that legalized a woman’s right to an abortion, as well as the organizing that led to that decision and all the organizing efforts since then to protect it. 
Gainesville is the birthplace of second-wave feminism 
organizing in the south, and here, feminist organizers have been fighting for decades. 
Most recently, on Jan. 9,  a local abortion provider 
won against the state in Gainesville Woman Care, LLC v. State of Florida, when a Florida court struck down a 24-hour waiting period for abortions. This recent win was legally possible because the Florida Constitution grants a right to privacy that is similar to the federal-level protection, but stronger. This right to privacy is the primary reason Floridians aren’t subjected to even more extreme regulations other states face, such as 72-hour waiting periods in North Carolina, verbal counseling that life begins at conception in Indiana, or infor-mational pamphlets in Texas which tell lies about abortions causing breast cancer.  
Our Florida constitutional right to privacy 
gives a woman’s right to an abortion more protection, but that protection is still under attack.  This year, the Constitutional Revi-sion Commission is meeting and is consid-ering changes to Florida’s right to privacy that would weaken our right to abortion. Its 
proposed changes will be placed on the November 2018 election ballot. The commission only meets once every 20 years, and its public hearings are held during the work day. NWL organizers will go to the commission hearing in Jacksonville on Feb. 20 from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m., to put on record our support for a strong right to privacy provi-sion and protection for our right to abortion. If you want to join us, email us at nwl@womensliberation.org.   
In the meantime, celebrate feminists organizing wins 
for reproductive rights. On Saturday at 7 p.m., join NWL at The Wooly, 20 N. Main St., for the 45th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Enjoy amazing feminist bands, meet tire-less social justice groups from around Gainesville, see our guerilla theater and raise money for NWL to continue our organizing. The show event is open to all ages. More information is available at www.womensliberation.org.  
The only way to protect and expand our reproductive 
rights is to fight for them and support movement groups. NWL hopes you’ll join us — or another social justice group — and find your own place in the movement. 
Jennifer C. Boylan is a UF postdoctoral scholar and 
a Steering Committee Member of National Women’s Liberation (NWL).
Let’s continue to fight for our reproductive 
rights on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINTJennifer C. Boylan
opinions@alligator.orgEditorialWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor Letter to the Editor
As a ﬁ  rst-generation col-
lege student I was eager to learn about all of the different opportunities that UF presented both 
academically and professionally — not only for myself, but for every student. I viewed each position in leadership and campus involve-ment as an opportunity to make a positive difference in my peers’ lives, make their experiences bet-ter, and to encourage them to be-come the best versions of them-
selves. This is ultimately what led 
me on my path to Student Govern-ment — knowing leadership was my best chance at a meaningful way to create lasting change for my peers and the students who would come after us.
I joined Impact with the intent 
of facilitating positive change, and 
as I grew to work with the people 
involved I learned that our goals may have been the same, but our paths were not. I came to the real-ization that for them — for Impact — everything in SG was going to happen through business: Their concern quickly became prioritiz-ing politics over people and pride 
over progress.
I have witnessed countless 
students become marginalized by 
Impact’s administration, includ-ing myself. Impact leadership gave positions in order to ﬁ  ll quotas. Its seemingly diverse membership gave Impact leadership the ability to employ diversity as a buzzword 
in their marketing because there 
was a body of people that could be pointed at should the party’s commitment to equality come into question. This is to say that our voices and perspectives were not entirely valued. Impact treated many among its ranks as though they were there to ﬁ  ll seats rath-
er than to make a difference. My 
authority was consistently under-mined by exclusive meetings and by political positioning meant to discredit me. I was not welcomed as an equal, but I was treated like a distant observer behind the shad-ows of Impact’s operations.
Impact claims that it works to 
serve the students, but my expe-rience suggests otherwise. I have consistently witnessed its admin-istration delay actions and hinder progress in order to cripple bipar-tisanship because of the party’s in-ability to receive all of the glory for key initiatives. I sincerely believe that student leadership should 
not be about blind allegiance to a 
party or desperate pursuits of po-sitions, but I believe that student leadership should be about using platforms to positively inﬂ  uence students’ lives. I became uncom-fortable in Impact’s ranks; it be-came draining to put on an Impact shirt because I did not believe in 
Impact. I had to keep reminding 
myself that it was not about me, but it was about the students that I had the opportunity to serve.
Members of Impact leadership 
are not all nefarious; however, I believe the culture within the party has lost sight of its purpose. Impact’s members understand that 
if they follow the party’s rules, it 
will help them reach their per-sonal goals. They become willing to compromise what they believe in so they can reach these goals. They become awestruck by the promises the party makes them, so they turn blind eyes to the injus-tices happening around them. The 
work becomes about the empty 
promises the party makes.
I refuse to turn a blind eye to 
the injustices that I have witnessed Impact commit — it is for this rea-son that I have chosen to disafﬁ  li-ate from Impact. I will, however, continue my term as Student Body Treasurer. To me, leaving my posi-
tion would only serve as a buyout 
to the contract that I have with the Student Body. I will remain unwavering in my service to all students.
I want to create a sustainable 
means of ensuring that all voices are heard and that all students have equal opportunity. It is for 
this outcome that I have chosen 
to cast my lot with Inspire Party. Inspire Party is composed of stu-dents with genuine intentions to bring accountability, inclusivity and transparency to SG. I have witnessed their effort as a minority party to give a voice to the voice-less — to the everyday Gator. I be-
lieve in their purpose, and I recog-
nize that building a party around these values has a greater promise of longevity in serving students than an independent afﬁ  liation ever could. I am looking forward to what we can accomplish togeth-er for the beneﬁ  t of the Student Body. 
Revel Lubin is the UF Student 
Body Treasurer. 
UF Student Body Treasurer disaffiliates 
from Impact Party, announces affiliation 
with Inspire PartyMy period started an hour ago
It came two days later than it 
was “supposed” to. Like many 
women, my period’s schedule 
has never been particularly pre-dictable. Without birth control, 
mine would arrive weeks late or early, last many days longer than it 
should and come with excruciating 
pain.
I’m lucky. I have access to birth 
control, and it works for me. Some 
women cannot afford the kind they 
need. Others are still looking for the 
kind that may actually help them. 
Sometimes, even when we have birth control and it does help, our period still hits us two days late with a wave of cramping pain that makes 
you want to sit at a computer and 
rant about it.
An hour ago, when I felt that 
wave, I went to the bathroom, sulked for a minute, then did what 
I had to do. I reached for a pad that 
I received from the Field and Fork Pantry on campus, where menstrual 
products are often offered for free, if 
available.
I was a freshman when the pan-
try didn’t exist. I remember sitting in the bathroom at the Hub and  calm-ing myself down from a panic attack because my period came early again. 
The P.O.D. Market was right around 
the corner, but ﬁ  rst, I had to care-
fully wind up the thin toilet paper, 
hoping my makeshift diaper would prevent any bleed-throughs as I 
made the quick trip to purchase the 
cheapest product there. The package I bought came with only ﬁ  ve pads. 
That would last me two days if I was 
lucky.
When these problems caused 
a late homework submission or a missed quiz, I fought with myself over whether I should drop the p-
word to my male teacher who I 
barely knew in order to provide a legitimate excuse, or try to convince him that I somehow got sick again with no doctor’s note.
What’s a doctor’s note for a pe-
riod emergency? My P.O.D. receipt?
The initiative started by Gators 
Matter, Period. provided me with immense hope for a university com-
munity that ﬁ  nally showed compas-
sion and understanding for students 
who found themselves in similar 
situations. I knew the Field and Fork 
Pantry offered some products, but 
their supply is never guaranteed, 
and their allotted quota for students 
of three hygiene products per week-ly visit is not enough for the average menstrual cycle. A guaranteed avail-ability of products across campus 
would undeniably improve the edu-
cational experiences of all genders.
The SG budget committee’s 
unanimous vote against providing free menstrual products to students 
is outrageous, and its comments 
from its 20-minute deliberations are disgusting.
I should not have to justify how 
this helps men, too. The students 
who don’t use gyms are not consult-
ed before planning new gyms. When it came to deciding which library or study center would be kept open for 24/7 access, no one sought to ﬁ  nd 
the opinions of students who pre-
ferred studying at home.
Among the growing #MeToo 
and #TimesUp movements trying to bring women’s voices to the fore-
front of social action, UF is still hold-
ing back on decisions meant to help women over concerns for what men 
prefer. The budget committee mem-
bers owe the Student Body an apol-ogy and a reconsideration of this ne-
cessity in order to adequately serve 
the majority of their constituents.
Megan Newsome is a 21-year-old 
UF astrophysics graduate student. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. The Avenue reviews ‘The Post’
A writer’s take on how the movie depicts a 
monumental moment, pg. 10Check out upcoming January events: 
From music to  yoga, see upcoming events, pg. 9WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time ever, First Mag-
nitude Brewing Company’s popu-
lar 7.2K Springs Run, which raises money for springs protection, will be followed by Springs Fest, a fun 
day full of activities. After break-
ing a sweat for water preservation, Gainesville residents will be able to enjoy some art, have a beer and lis-ten to live music Saturday.
According to a Facebook post, 
artists and craft vendors Curtis Whitwam, Jenna Horner Art and Crooked Path Forge will be in atten-
dance in addition to family friendly 
workshops. The Florida Springs In-stitute will also show a documenta-ry teaching attendees about springs conservation.
The annual Springs Run ben-
eﬁ  ts the Howard T. Odum Florida Springs Institute, an educational non-proﬁ  t in High Springs dedicated 
to ensuring the restoration of the 
Florida springs.
Amelia Cecilia, a 24-year-old 
Gainesville resident, praised the im-portance of the Florida Springs Insti-tute and how having events like this 
can help strengthen our community.
“It’s important to get together as 
a community for this event because 
we all share this planet, and we all share the water,” Cecilia said. “It is all of our responsibilities to main-tain our local ecology and do our best to leave the planet better than it was when we got here.”
Cecilia owns a small business 
called The Comfort Zone, which focuses on providing event service 
geared toward creating a safe and 
comfortable environment for chil-dren and families. She will be at Springs Fest painting faces and fa-cilitating arts and crafts to ensure a kid-friendly vibe at First Magnitude.
Cecilia said she will provide the 
kids with crayons and markers for coloring and that she plans on mak-ing sun-catchers and spirit ﬂ  ags as well.
“Other amenities I plan on pro-
viding include a reading corner and kid friendly beverages and, of course, face painting,” said Cecilia. “It should be fun.”
The party will continue after the 
sun goes down. There will be live music from popular bands Aquano-va, Locochino, Observatory, Noah 
Mac Music, The Funky Miracle and 
new Gainesville band Headstash.
“I think I am most excited to see 
Headstash,” Cecilia said. “They’re a fairly new band that is full of talent and heart. I’m also excited for the Funky Miracle because I just saw The Meters in St. Pete last weekend, and I’m still ready to boogie down.”
Similarly to the Springs Run, 
a $10 donation at the Springs Fest will account for discounts on beer and art while supporting the Florida Springs Institute.
“They are doing a great job of 
educating people on the importance of protecting our water sources, and they are doing the best they can 
to combat overpopulation and cli-
mate change through education and awareness,” Cecilia said.
Springs Fest 2018 will be at 
First Magnitude from 2 p.m. to 11 p.m. directly after the annual 7.2K Springs Run. 
First Magnitude Springs Run to expand into Springs Fest
Courtesy to the Alligator
First Magnitude Brewing Company’s annual Springs Run will get a whole lot bigger this 
weekend, with the event expanding into an all-day event called Springs Fest. 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Indie rock bands Prawn, Dikembe, Car-
avela and Alumine are set to take the stage 
at downtown venue Loosey’s on Friday night.
Loosey’s is a downtown staple located 
at 120 SW 1st Ave. The bar and venue is known for good drinks and good company. Friday’s show kicks off at 9 p.m. with an $8 admission fee to those ages 18 and up.
Both Dikembe and Alumine are lo-
cal Gainesville performers. Alumine is the stage name for friends and bandmates Alu-mine Soto and Pedro Sanchez.
Soto was born in Argentina and grew up 
in Miami, adding a Latin ﬂ  are to the band’s indie sound. Soto, who ﬁ  rst started learning guitar at 13, said he was never the standout 
musician among his friends. Still, there was 
something that connected with him about making music that was more than just a hobby.
“I just got really in sync with the creative 
outlet aspect of it really young. I just felt like I could express myself,” Soto said. “All the kids that I was learning guitar with were playing a certain type of music, and I was 
always kind of shying away from that and 
focusing on learning chords and singing.”
Soto said that for the boys of Alumine, 
music is inevitable. Regardless of commer-cial success, both Soto and Sanchez are devoted to giving music their everything: time, money and focus.
“Music shapes my entire experience,” Soto said.
Following the release of their debut self-
titled extended play in March 2017, Alumine toured the West Coast for the ﬁ  rst time last year. Now, the boys of Alumine have their sights set on an international tour, includ-ing stops in Canada and Mexico.
Although the band is hesitant to release 
too many details, Soto said fans should ex-pect some major announcements in the next 
month or so via the band’s social media.
Caravela is made up of brothers Frank 
and Stephen Graniero. Born in suburban 
New York near the Hudson River Valley, the two have been playing music as long as they can remember. Frank says they were practically born with guitars in their hands.
Though the brothers played in separate 
bands in their high school years, they al-
ways found themselves playing together 
one way or another. Now, Frank said he couldn’t imagine playing with anyone but Stephen.
“It’s amazing,” Frank said of working 
with his brother. “He’s the best partner I could ask for in this crazy music game that we’re doing.”
In March, Caravela released their single 
“Champagne,” the ﬁ  rst piece of a larger project that Frank said has been in the works for nearly two years. Now it is nearly complete. Caravela is preparing to release their next full-length album within the next few months.
“It’s the closest to our most authentic 
sound,” Frank said. “We just can’t wait to play these songs live.”Frank said that Caravela’s set at Loosey’s 
will be jam-packed with the new and unre-leased tracks.
The members of Prawn and the Graniero 
brothers have been friends for years, even sharing a house in Brooklyn some time ago. Now, Caravela is joining Prawn on their national tour that includes this stop in Gainesville.
The drive to create and share music is like an addiction for Frank. The connection 
that music creates with others and the feel-
ing that it produces keeps him coming back for more.
“It’s like there’s no better feeling than 
when you write that part that you didn’t see coming that takes you to a place that you’ve kind of always dreamed about and never knew,” Frank said. “It’s a feeling that I’m constantly chasing.”Indie rockers Prawn, Dikembe and more to perform
Courtesy to the Alligator
New Jersey-born band Prawn will hit Gainesville this week, with local groups 
Dikembe, Alumine and more set to offer opening support. 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer 
This weekend at the Depot Event 
Space, you can ﬁ  nd beers and bris-
kets that will give hope to the home-
less.
Local restaurant The Top is host-
ing a winter barbecue at 201 SE De-pot Ave. on Saturday, from 2 p.m. to 
5 p.m. to beneﬁ  t Grace Marketplace, 
a local homeless shelter.
Admission to the event grants 
you full access to an all-you-can-eat barbecue, including Texas-style 
brisket and St. Louis-cut ribs, along 
with bottomless beer provided by a 
handful of local breweries, like First 
Magnitude Brewing Company and 
Cigar City, according to the event’s 
website.  
Bailey Bruce, the events director 
for The Top, said there are a limited number of tickets.
“We’re not trying to do, you 
know, this massive festival for the entire northeast of Florida,” Bruce 
said. “This is something we’d like 
for it to be intimate.”
People interested in attending are 
encouraged to buy pre-sale tickets, 
available online at depotwinterbbq.
brownpapertickets.com for $35 be-
fore fees until Thursday at 2 p.m.
Bruce said that the vision for the 
winter barbecue was not to make a 
proﬁ  t, but to provide the community 
with a quality experience while giv-
ing back to a local nonproﬁ  t orga-nization.
“We wanted the money coming 
from this event to go into someone 
else’s pockets,” Bruce said.
Grace Marketplace is a nonproﬁ  t 
homeless assistance shelter in north-east Gainesville that is completely 
funded by local sources, state and federal grants and private donations.
“We deﬁ  nitely see a homeless 
population in Gainesville that is not getting enough support,” Bruce said. “We visually see it every day.”
He said they’re excited to support 
Grace Marketplace because they have a great mission.
“It just felt right,” Bruce said. 
“They do something really impor-tant for our community. These are 
human beings that deserve help.” 
Jon DeCarmine, the director of 
Grace Marketplace, said everything 
they do is a community effort.
“Anytime folks from the com-
munity recognize the value of what we do and are willing to use their 
resources to help us and homeless-
ness — it makes everything we do easier to achieve,” DeCarmine said.
DeCarmine has been with Grace 
Marketplace since it opened in 
2014,but was involved with plan-
ning stages as far back as 2005.
“I think about when my kids ask 
me why people are homeless when 
there are so many empty houses in 
our community,” DeCarmine said. 
“There’s really no good answer for that.”
DeCarmine said Grace Market-
place is a one-stop homeless assis-
tance shelter and emergency center 
on a 25-acre campus. The organiza-tion and its partnering agencies pro-
vide Gainesville’s homeless popula-
tion with a variety of services every day, from laundry and showers to legal service and health care, ac-
cording to its website.
DeCarmine said that every night, 
Grace Marketplace offers 113 beds in what is known as a low-barrier 
setting.
“That means we provide services 
to anybody wherever they are — we don’t have requirements for people doing chores or having income, or 
any of the other restrictions that 
some other shelters have in place that prevent people from getting the help they need,” he said. “Instead, 
we focus entirely on how we can 
move someone from the streets into permanent housing as quickly as 
possible.”
Since opening four years ago, 
Grace Marketplace has moved 400 
people into permanent housing, 80 
percent of whom remain housed a 
year later, he said.
“And so that tells us that not 
only are we having an immediate impact,but also a long-term, sustain-
able impact,” he said. DeCarmine 
said The Top has been a huge sup-porter of Grace Marketplace in the 
past and he’s excited to continue the 
relationship.
“They’re a model of what down-
town business relationships with 
organizations working to end home-
lessness could be,” DeCarmine said.
DeCarmine is attending the bar-
becue himself, and he expects most people attending to walk away with a better understanding of what our 
local homeless population looks 
like.
“Right now there are about 800 
men and women on the street in Alachua County,” DeCarmine said. 
“And unfortunately, the folks who 
are out panhandling tend to be 100 percent of who people see and rec-ognize as homeless.”
DeCarmine said events like this 
provide the Gainesville community with an opportunity to contribute in 
a way they can feel great about. 
“If any community can end 
homelessness, Gainesville is the one that can do it,” he said.The Top to host Winter barbecue beneﬁ  tting local shelter 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
This weekend, local favorite The T op will host its winter 
barbecue, which seeks to give back to the homeless by donating proceeds to Grace Marketplace. 
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Between musicians, storytellers, yoga 
instructors and more, Gainesville is burst-
ing at the seams with events of all kinds 
for January. Although some of these events 
get covered extensively each week within Avenue, there are many more that deserve some attention. 
Here’s a handful of must-see shows, 
talks and other events set for the second half of this month.  
Thursday, Jan. 18: Story Summit at 
Heartwood Soundstage
In an event that’s slightly different from 
the norm, Heartwood Soundstage will host its Story Summit on Thursday. Some of 
Gainesville’s best storytellers will come out 
to share personal narratives. Gail Johnson, a local woman running for Gainesville City Commission At-Large Seat 1, will also be 
there to tell a story of her own. Tickets are 
available at eventbrite.com for $15 and $20 on the day of the show.
Wednesday, Jan. 24: BUKU and 
YOGA at Plaza of the AmericasFor the music and yoga lovers (and those 
on a budget), UF student Krista Kingsbury is hosting a free Vinyasa-style yoga class on campus next Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. The event also serves as a precur-sor to Buku Music + Art Project, a vibrant New Orleans-based music festival that will 
take place on March 9 and 10, which con-
veniently falls during UF’s Spring Break. Attendees can practice their skills and hear music from Buku performers throughout the class.Friday, Jan. 26: Flipturn, Arrows in 
Action and more at The Atlantic
Local indie rockers and Swamp Records 
band Flipturn will bring their talents to The Atlantic on Friday along with Arrows in Action and more. Florida music festival 
Okeechobee announced last week that Flip-
turn earned a spot to perform at March’s four-day event, and the band will no doubt be riding high from that news at the show. 
Tickets are available for $8 at showclix.com 
and $12 at the door the night of the show.
Friday, Jan. 26: Blunts & Blondes at 
Simon’s
Rising Tampa-based producer Blunts & 
Blondes will hit Simon’s Nightclub next Friday as a part of Lucid Nightlife’s “Home-town Heroes” Concert Series. In addition 
to opening for artists known around the 
world, Blunts & Blondes has performed at festivals across the southeast such as Okeechobee Music Festival and Imagine Music Festival. With a heavily bass-inﬂ  u-
enced sound, the artist is sure to bring the 
energy for local electronic lovers and more. Tickets are available at eventbrite.com for $12 to $23. January Event Calendar: Who to see and where to see them  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Blunts & Blondes will hit Gaiensville next week in Lucid Nightlife’s 
“Hometown Heroes” series, which gives attention to talented producers and DJs from the Florida area.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBy Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Writer
Steven Spielberg’s “The Post” 
serves as a timely reminder that 
the press must hold its government accountable no matter how much those in power wish to silence it. 
The ﬁ  lm chronicles The Washington 
Post’s pivotal decision to publish the infamous Pentagon Papers, a study of classiﬁ  ed documents that revealed the U.S. escalated involvement in the Vietnam War despite knowing it was unwinnable.
In 1967, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara (Bruce Green-wood) commissioned the study, which was set to remain classiﬁ  ed 
until the war’s end. 
But in 1969, Daniel Ellsberg (Mat-
thew Rhys), a study contributor, be-
came opposed to the war and felt the public deserved to know the study’s results. He leaked the documents to several newspapers in 1971. 
This preface is summarized with-
in the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve minutes of the movie, 
which speaks on the earnestness of 
“The Post.” 
Once the movie settles down, the 
narrative focuses on the paper’s ex-ecutive editor Ben Bradlee’s (Tom Hanks) and publisher Katharine “Kay” Graham’s (Meryl Streep) de-
cision on whether to expose the du-
plicity of the government.
When Nixon’s White House ob-
tains an injunction, forcing The  New York Times to stop printing, Ellsberg gives The Post’s national editor Ben Bagdikian (Bob Odenkirk) a copy of the papers to ensure they are pub-lished. 
Bradlee’s struggle with the ques-
tion of whether to publish or wait for the Supreme Court’s ruling on the constitutionality of the injunction is complicated by a number of factors — one being potential jail time.
“The Post” is not only a story 
about the importance of protecting the Fourth Estate but also a story of a woman ﬁ  nding her voice. At ﬁ  rst, Streep portrays Graham as a wom-an still coming to terms with the amount of power she holds. While sitting in a room discussing publica-tion details, Streep nervously ﬁ  dgets and searches for an opportunity to 
get a word in with her all-male board 
of directors. 
When Graham is forced to decide 
if the paper will publish the papers, Streep asserts Graham’s voice when it’s needed most. She sticks by her choice to publish the papers even 
when all the men around her, al-
beit Bradlee, insist it will destroy the company.
Hanks truly captures Bradlee’s 
endearing nature as the commander of a freewheeling newsroom. Never-theless, his performance is no match to that of Streep’s layered, vulner-able and subtle portrayal of Graham.   
“The Post” encourages today’s 
journalists to continue their work and to deliver the objective truth no matter the cost. 
Review: Streep and Hanks in ‘The Post’ support the press BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Charming Historic Cottage 2 BR 1 BA.Near Law school. CH/A, screened porch, granddaddy oaks. Available Now2703 NW 2nd Ave. 900 mo w/approved cred-it. No pets 352-332-5836     1-19-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Psychology Office looking for Spring 
Semester Volunteer Office Interns. Two 
full-day a week commitment. Credit may 
be available through UF psychology and 
English Departments. Excellent writing and 
communication skills important.
Send vita/resume with letter of interest to
info@cpancf.com
1-17-18-6-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. SubjectS: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-16-15-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Seeking PT help with admin and misc tasks. No exp nec, but professional communication, attention to detail, and willingness to learn are a must. Tasks include processing orders, data entry, folding apparel, and others. Exp with USPS, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office, and inventory are preferred. Flexible sched-ule is okay, but we need around 15 hrs/week split over 2-3 days. To apply, please send a resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com  1-19-18-5-14
Seeking part-time copy editor for scuba-related articles and educational texts and materials. Must have prior editorial/copy editing experience and must have advanced grammar knowledge. Please send resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com   1-19-18-5-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autis-tic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transportation and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1. LITERATURE: Which 18th-cen-
tury statesman and inventor some-
times used the pen name “Silence 
Dogood” in his writings?
2. GEOGRAPHY: How many emir -
ates make up the United Arab Emir -
ates?
3. AUTOS: What does the name 
V olkswagen mean in German?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first Roman Catholic to become vice 
president of the United States?
5. ARCHITECTURE: What is the 
location of the Pitti Palace, built main-ly during the Renaissance?
6. MOVIES: What was the name 
of the monkey in the Disney movie “Aladdin”?
7. GOVERNMENT: Which amend-
ment to the U.S. Constitution guaran-
tees a speedy public trial for criminal 
offenses?
8. MUSIC: In the song “The Twelve 
Days of Christmas,” what was the gift on the seventh day?
9. U.S. STATES: What is the small-
est state in land area?
10. HISTORY: What Greek states-
man was considered the greatest of all 
orators?
Answers
1. Benjamin Franklin2. Seven
3. The people’s car4. Joe Biden5. Florence, Italy6. Abu7. Sixth Amendment8. Swans9. Rhode Island10. Demosthenes
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 15, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 
ACROSS
1 Like most cookies
6 Director of the
final episode of
“M*A*S*H”
10 Food inspector’s
concern
15 Jazz singer O’Day
16 Osso buco meat17 Swerved at sea18 Math teacher’s
favorite sport?
21 Diplomatic bldg.
22 Flying off the
shelves
23 Praise to the
heavens
24 Rock’s Grateful __
26 Fiat fuel
28 Perspire
nervously, say
31 Math teacher’s
favorite brew?
36 Arrowhead
Stadium NFLteam
38 Mark for deletion
39 Sellout sign
letters
40 Very confident
41 Chanel
competitor
42 Museum worker44 1869-’77 pres.
monogram
45 Place for private
dining?
46 New York hockey
team
47 Math teacher’s
favorite hat?
51 Bathtub outlet
52 Product prefix
suggesting winter
53 Activist Parks56 Minds someone
else’s business
59 Slice of history61 Old conductance
unit
62 Math teacher’s
favorite cut ofbeef?
67 As scripted68 World Golf Hall of
Famer Isao
69 Cosmic
comeuppance
70 Gives a hand, in
a way
71 Editorial override
72 Hog caller’s call
DOWN
1 With __ breath
2 Japanese art
genre3 “L.A.
Confidential”
Best Supporting
Actress Oscarwinner
4 Bastille Day time
5 Short run
6 Gamer’s game
face
7 Syr. neighbor
8 Half a chipmunk
team
9 “Roots” author
Haley
10 Shoelace hole
11 Cambridge
student, informally
12 Have title to13 Luau loop14 TSA requests19 Roman robes
20 Major Arcana
deck
25 Kicked out of the
game, informally
27 Gender-specific,
to some
29 The Joker
portrayer on TV
30 __ Haute
32 Many a tabloid
pic
33 Fowl poles?
34 Possessive word
35 Fishing gear
36 Lingerie size37 Member of a
strict Jewish sect
41 Article written by
Marx and
Engels?
42 Break
43 App offering fare
estimates
45 Wildly excited46 Future fern
48 Downy amount
49 New faces
around the water
cooler50 In the slightest54 Disgrace
55 Fine
57 Flight sked data
58 Many a 
bagpiper
60 Wants to know62 Sci-fi escape
vehicle
63 St. Louis-to-
Indianapolis dir.
64 Label for Elvis
65 Hula strings
66 Lao Tzu ideal
By David Poole©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/17/1801/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January  17, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Video file format
5 Offenbach opera
“Daphnis et __”
10 Jerk’s concern14 Former Sony
brand
15 Aggressive
corporate tactics
16 Fast-food legend17 Presently18 Mail-order outlet
for outdoorsytypes
19 Harpsichordist
Kipnis
20 ’60s
counterculture
slogan
23 Math ratios
24 Poetic night
25 Cry of
dominance
30 “The Yankee
Doodle Boy”
composer
32 Big letters in toys
33 CBS Sports NFL
analyst Tony
34 Map abbr.
35 Loosed39 Neat ending?40 After-lunch
sandwich
42 Word with big or
house
43 Together45 20-mile annual
Boston-areafundraisersponsored byProject Bread
49 “Macbeth”
character
50 Gay leader?51 Excuse for rowdy
behavior
57 Defeat soundly58 Serve59 Per60 “No prob!”61 Merci, across the
border
62 Nigerian pop 
star
63 Cry of glee
64 Orson Scott Card
protagonist __
Wiggin
65 Side for a dogDOWN
1 Hat-tipper’s word
2 Fruit in un cóctel
3 Fuzzy Endor
resident
4 Hindu god with
the head of anelephant
5 Sings smoothly
6 “Family Feud”
host since 2010
7 Exists simply
8 Valhalla VIP
9 ExxonMobil trade
name
10 Garb for
schussing
11 Transplant figure
12 Way out
13 Spanning: Abbr.
21 Only NFC team
that hasn’t played
in a Super Bowl
22 Talks acronym
25 Area of expertise26 Nasser’s org.27 Caviar28 Key of
Beethoven’sNinth: Abbr.
29 Tie on the farm30 Talk big31 Not esta or esa36 “Foucault’s
Pendulum” author
37 Crew member
38 Apollo 11 lander
41 “See ya later”44 Fish market
offering
46 NFL threes47 Facebook reversal48 Word in Hamlet’s
“To be or not to
be” soliloquy51 “My man!”
52 Cross a stream,
perhaps
53 English : John ::
Slavic : __
54 Girasol, e.g.
55 Sci-fi character
voiced by Frank
Oz
56 Expel strongly
57 Green 
moisture
By Alan DerKazarian©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/13/1801/13/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, January 13, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Brawn, strength 
1.  Ridiculed 5.  ____ sheet
2.  Variety, type 6.  Hockey no-no
3.  Lavatory 7.  Backward 
4.  BorderSEMLCU
KDMECOHCAET
NIGCI
PCISESE
NLTERIATRAENS
AMNIRGANSWERS: 1A-Muscle  5A-Cheat  6A-Icing  7A-Astern
1D-Mocked  2D-Species  3D-Latrine  4D-Margin  B-Calcium1-17-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the third-most abundant 
metal in the Earth’s crust.
BONUS
20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The list of injuries was already 
long for the Florida men’s basketball 
team.
Senior center John Egbunu (6-foot-
11, 265 pounds): 17 games missed.
Freshman forward Isaiah Stokes 
(6-foot-8, 270 pounds): 17 games missed.
Freshman forward Chase John-
son (6-foot-9, 205 pounds): 13 games missed.
Then, at the start of SEC play, 
sophomore center Gorjok Gak (6-foot-11, 245 pounds) and freshman guard Deaundrae Ballard (6-foot-5, 195 pounds) were added to that list, miss-ing time for various health reasons.
But when Florida (12-5, 4-1 SEC) 
hosts Arkansas (12-5, 2-3 SEC) to-night at 7, none of that will matter.
Not the fact that in addition to 
missing Egbunu, Gak — the only other true center on the roster — will likely be sidelined with a concussion.
Not the fact that the size already 
lost in the frontcourt could be wors-ened by the absence of Ballard, one of the team’s taller guards, who is listed as questionable with flu-like symp-toms.
Not the fact that those five players 
have missed a combined 50 games this year, forcing their teammates still standing to pull their weight and then some.
Coach Mike White will look for his 
short-handed team to play consistent defense against a Razorbacks squad that ranks second in the SEC with 85.1 points per game.
“They’re very much up-tempo, but 
they’ll also try to pound you in the paint a little bit,” White said. “(Dan-iel) Gafford has been terrific,” he add-ed, calling the 6-foot-11 Arkansas for-ward one of the top young frontcourt talents in college basketball.
The Gators’ offense isn’t far be-
hind, sitting at third in the SEC with 81.6 points per game. The infusion of transfer guards Jalen Hudson and Egor Koulechov has been a big part of Florida’s offensive success. Hud-son leads the team with 16.2 points 
per game, while Koulechov is second 
with 15.2 points per game.
White expects a fast-paced game, 
and with both teams ranking in the 
bottom half nationally in scoring de-fense, the Gators and the Razorbacks 
Florida's football team, led by new strength and conditioning coach Nick Savage, began its 
offseason conditioning program on Tuesday morning, going on a 2.2-mile run around campus. Gators rank No. 1 in preseason poll
Florida's baseball team was ranked No. 1 in D1Baseball.com's preseason 
poll released on Tuesday. UF is coming off its first national championship in program history, sweeping LSU, 2-0, in the 2017 College World Series Final.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida men's basketball coach Mike White and the rest of the Gators are entering today's contest against Arkansas short-handed, with as many as five players expected to sit out.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
Short-handed Gators face Arkansas tonight at O'Dome
SEE M-BBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MEN'S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
After a day of rain and four rounds 
of competitive qualifying play over the 
weekend, two Florida men’s tennis 
players will battle in the City of Sun-rise Pro Tennis Classic’s main draw this morning.
Freshmen Duarte Vale and Oliver 
Crawford will represent the Gators as the youngest of 32 players in the tour-nament.
Eight of the 10 players on UF’s ros-
ter participated in the event’s qualifying rounds, with junior Alfredo Perez rest-ing for Monday’s home opener against UCF and redshirt senior Joshua Wardell 
out due to a season-ending injury.
Two rounds into last weekend’s ac-
tion, six Gators remained unbeaten. But 
third-round losses from senior Chase Perez-Blanco, junior McClain Kessler and sophomore Johannes Ingildsen left only the two freshmen and senior Jor-
dan Belga undefeated.
Belga fell in the final round of his 
bracket to Crawford (6-1, 6-1).
Crawford is scheduled to play the 
512th world-ranked singles player, Fred 
Gil of Portugal. The match will mark Crawford’s greatest challenge so far in his first season with Florida.
Vale’s first round opponent is Strong 
Kirchheimer, who played the No. 1 sin-gles court at Northwestern before grad-uating last year. In November, Kirch-heimer held a top-900 singles ranking 
in the world.
The two will play no sooner than 11 
a.m. and will be immediately followed 
by Crawford's match against Gil.
 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgGators competing in main 
draw of Sunrise tourneyIn games that I have no emo-
tional stake in, I root for chaos. 
And punts — both blocked and 
returned — provide a good 
chance of something ridiculous happening.
Having learned this stupid fact, 
there’s one moment that stands out to me during the crazy NFC divisional playoff game between Minnesota and New Orleans.
No, not the Diggs catch and run. Not even 
the goosebump-inducing chants of, “SKOL! SKOL!” ringing throughout U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis before the kneel down on the extra point.
I’m thinking about a pivotal moment that 
happened earlier in the fourth quarter.
With 5:28 remaining and the Vikings up 20-
14, the Saints forced a fourth-and-14 punt. On the snap, Saints defensive end George Johnson 
got penetration up the middle, jabbed his left 
hand toward Vikings punter Ryan Quigley’s right foot and blocked the punt. The ball was recovered at the Minnesota 40-yard line, and 
the Saints took the lead shortly after.The 30-year-old Johnson is on 
his fourth team, having not start-
ed a single game in eight of his 
nine NFL seasons. It was a great 
play that merited attention and praise.
In the moment, however, he 
received relatively little of either.
The Fox broadcasting team of 
Joe Buck and Troy Aikman was too busy fawning over a Saints 
player coming off the edge, Taysom Hill.
Hill is a third-string quarterback who coach 
Sean Payton likes to use in special teams pack-ages. He was also credited initially by Buck and Aikman for blocking the punt.
After the replay showed that was not the 
case, Buck hastily corrected himself. Hill didn’t block it, he said, but his motor and his heart certainly contributed. Buck and Aikman proceeded to practically bend over backwards 
to give Hill credit for that block.
Hill is a white man. Johnson is black. Do 
you see what I’m getting at here?
This wasn’t the first instance of this sort of Let’s talk about race in NFL broadcastingMorgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan 
McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMuffinWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
GATORS IN THE NFL
Fowler Jr. fired up as Jags advance to AFC Championship
The Associated Press
Former Florida defensive end Dante Fowler Jr. didn’t mince words after the Jaguars’ 45-42 playoff 
win over Pittsburgh on Sunday. “For everybody that was down on us, they can eat that, ” he said.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Of the four Florida women’s tennis players 
who competed in the Freeman Memorial in Las 
Vegas over the weekend, three of them were 
freshmen looking to make an immediate impact 
on the team. Overall, UF’s first-year players 
mostly fell flat.
Victoria Emma was the lone bright spot for 
Florida, making it all the way to the semifinals 
before falling to UCLA’s Jada Hart (6-1, 6-4). She only played two matches to get there, however, 
as a walkover in the first round gave her a bye.
The other two freshmen competing —  Mc-
Cartney Kessler and Katie Kubicz —  were 
eliminated in the first round of the tournament. Kessler dropped her match to North Carolina’s 
Alexa Graham (6-1, 4-6, 6-4), while Kubicz fell 
to UNLV’s Izumi Asano (6-4, 6-3).
Kessler made it to the semifinals in the con-
solation bracket but was disqualified from the 
match. Kubicz won her first match in consola-tion play against Stanford’s Naomie Rosenberg 
(6-4, 6-3), but was quickly defeated in the ensu-
ing round by Petra Granic of Texas (6-3, 6-2).
Peggy Porter, the lone senior of the group, 
had arguably the worst performance of the week-end. Porter was eliminated in the first round of the regular bracket by Oklahoma State’s Vladica 
Babic (6-3, 6-2) before losing again in the first 
round of the consolation bracket to Pepperdine’s 
Evgeniya Levashova (6-0, 6-1).
The doubles draw didn’t look much better. 
The team of Porter and Kubicz was eliminated 
in the first round by North Carolina’s Makenna 
Jones and Chloe Ouellet-Pizer (7-5) and the team 
of Emma and Kessler was also eliminated in the 
first round by Caroline Lampl and Kimberly Yee 
of Stanford (6-4). Porter and Kubicz made it to 
the semifinals in the consolation bracket but 
were defeated by UNLV’s Anna Bogoslavets and Samantha Li (6-3).
“We learned a lot from this weekend and 
I think everyone’s determined to work really 
hard to get ready for the season,” coach Roland 
Thornqvist said in a release. “Although our per-
formances were too up and down, there’s no 
question we have the ability to improve a lot in 
the next few weeks.”
Florida will come back home to Gainesville 
for ITA Kick-Off Weekend starting Jan. 27 when it goes up against Cal State Fullerton.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators struggle in season-
opening Freeman MemorialWEDNESDA Y, JAN. 17  
MEN’S BASKETBALL VS. ARKANSAS, 7 P .M., ESPN2
MEN’S TENNIS @ ITF FUTURES, ALL DA Y
THURSDA Y, JAN. 18 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL @ ARKANSAS, 7 P .M., SEC NETWORK
*MEN’S TENNIS @ ITF FUTURES, ALL DA Y
SUNDA Y, JAN. 21 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL VS. OLE MISS, 1 P .M., SEC NETWORK
*MEN’S TENNIS @ ITF FUTURES, ALL DA YFRIDA Y, JAN. 19 
GYMNASTICS @ KENTUCKY, 7 P .M., SEC NETWORK
*MEN’S TENNIS @ ITF FUTURES, ALL DA Y
MEN’S/WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD @ CLEMSON INVITATIONAL, ALL DA Y
SATURDA Y, JAN. 20 
MEN’S/WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING VS. AUBURN, NOON
MEN’S BASKETBALL @ KENTUCKY, 8:15 P .M., ESPN
*MEN’S TENNIS @ ITF FUTURES, ALL DA Y
MEN’S/WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD @ CLEMSON INVITATIONAL,  ALL DA YTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTSBy Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
When it came to addressing the 
NFL community that had over-
looked his team all season, former Florida and current Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end Dante Fowl-
er Jr. did not mince words.
“We’re a Super Bowl-contend-
ing team,” Fowler Jr. said after 
the game, according to the Florida Times-Union’s Phillip Heilman. “For everybody that was down on us, they can eat that. They can take all that s--- and shove it up their a--.”
In addition to his fiery rhetoric, 
Fowler Jr. also recorded one tackle in the Jaguars’ thrilling 45-42 upset win on the road over the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday in the division-al round of the playoffs.
On the other side of the ball, for-
mer Florida offensive linemen Mar-cus Gilbert and Maurkice Pouncey 
helped Pittsburgh keep Jackson-
ville’s defense — which ranked second in the NFL in sacks this season — in check, only giving up two sacks in the loss. That protec-tion allowed Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger to torch the Jag-uars secondary for 469 yards and five touchdowns. Gilbert exited 
the game in the first half and was 
placed under the NFL’s concussion protocol. He did not return.
For Pittsburgh, former Gators 
cornerback Joe Haden also had four tackles and a pass deflection.
Fowler Jr., alongside his former 
college teammate outside lineback-er Lerentee McCray, will take on the defending Super Bowl cham-pion New England Patriots in the AFC Championship this weekend. The duo is a component of Jack-sonville’s physical front seven that has led the team to its first AFC Championship appearance since the 1999 season, as well as a shot at its first Super Bowl appearance in franchise history.
In Philadelphia, safety Keanu 
Neal gave the Atlanta Falcons mo-mentum early on, recovering a fumble in the first minute of the game after Ricardo Allen laid a hard hit on Eagles running back Jay Ajayi.
Neal recorded six tackles in the 
game, including one tackle for loss. 
His teammate, Falcons cornerback 
and former Florida player Brian Poole, recorded three tackles.
However, Neal was also respon-
sible for one of Atlanta’s costliest gaffs when he failed to intercept an errant pass from Nick Foles, in-stead allowing the ball to bounce off his knee and into the open arms 
of Philadelphia receiver Torrey 
Smith for a 20-yard gain.
The Eagles eventually won the 
game 15-10, due in large part to their lone touchdown of the con-test: a 1-yard rush on fourth and goal from LeGarrette Blount. For-mer Gator Trey Burton lined up in front of Blount in the I-formation 
and provided a key block that led 
to the touchdown.
Burton and the Eagles will take 
on the Minnesota Vikings at home on Sunday in the NFC Champion-ship. Philadelphia will attempt to return to the Super Bowl for the first time since the 2004 season, when it lost to New England in Su-
per Bowl XXXIX.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
*If Necessary16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2018
could end up in a shootout.
UF will follow the lead of point guard Chris 
Chiozza, who has ﬂ  ourished in his ﬁ  rst sea-
son running the Gators’ offense full time. The senior is averaging career highs in points, as-sists, rebounds and steals.
Forward Keith Stone and center/forward 
Kevarrius Hayes have held their own anchor-ing the team’s thin frontcourt. Both Stone and 
Hayes have seen signiﬁ  cant increases in play-
ing time as their fellow bigs recover from in-
jury.
Stone has shaken off a slow start to the sea-
son, scoring in double ﬁ  gures each of the last 
four games, including a career-high 23 in Sat-
urday’s loss to Ole Miss. In UF's previous 13 
games, Stone only scored more than 10 points once.
“(Stone is) playing with a high level of in-tensity,” White said. “He’s ﬂ  ying to the offen-
sive glass. He’s improving weekly defensively 
as well.”
Hayes has not provided the same scoring 
boost as Stone, but his 2.3 blocks per game 
lead the team and rank tied for third in the 
SEC. Hayes is also second on the team in 
steals, trailing only Chiozza.
The two SEC foes will meet tonight riding 
opposite waves of momentum. The Gators 
suffered their ﬁ  rst conference loss of the sea-son last weekend against Ole Miss, 78-72, 
snapping a six-game winning streak, while the Razorbacks are coming off a 65-63 win over 
Missouri to end a three-game losing streak that 
included a 21-point home loss against LSU.
White is 4-0 against Arkansas during his 
tenure in Gainesville but downplayed the 
streak, saying his team is trying to stay in the 
moment.
“It’ll have nothing to do with (this) game,” 
he said.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgWhite is undefeated against the Razorbacks
NFL broadcasters need to 
watch their word choice
The Associated Press
New Orleans Saints third-string quarterback T aysom Hill nearly blocked a punt in Sunday's divisional 
round playoff game, prompting praise from Fox broadcasters Joe Buck and Troy Aikman.
M-BBALL,  from pg 14
language used to describe players 
of different races, and it certainly won’t be the last.
For example, I’ve heard some 
of these words attached to players like Tom Brady or Julian Edelman: Scrappy. Film buff. Competitor.
Let’s compare that with adjec-
tives used to describe players like Richard Sherman or Dez Bryant: Hot-headed. Freakish. Outspoken.
Hill is a great athlete, sure. 
Check out some of his highlight reels from his days at BYU if you don’t believe me. But the extent to which Buck and Aikman went out 
of their way to compliment Hill on 
that particular play — a play where Hill did not affect the outcome in a meaningful way — is a potential 
example for the racial bias that ex-ists in sports broadcasting.
The camera operators for Fox 
followed Hill to the sideline after 
it was known Johnson was cred-
ited for the block. Heck, even the Saints’ and BYU’s Twitter feeds gave him the credit without men-tioning Johnson.
It’s not their fault per se, but 
they are a symptom of a larger problem in sports. Players like Sherman and Bryant are given so much more grief when they shout at a referee or an opponent than 
Brady does. Look at how Twit-
ter talked about Sherman’s post-game interview after Seattle’s 2014 playoff win against San Francisco. 
Words like crazy and unhinged im-
mediately pop up.
It’s 2018, people. I propose we 
put these tired clichés to bed. In-
stead of labeling Marshawn Lynch, 
one of the nicest, most interesting 
players in the league, a thug or head case, we ought to lift him up.
Let’s make sure we’re accurate 
with our words. Athletes are peo-ple, and they hear and read what we call them.
Morgan McMullen is the Alligator’s 
online sports editor. Contact him at mmcmullen@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14