We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Grace Marketplace providers to stay
The same organization will keep running it, pg 3
UF student, GPD oﬃ   cer reunite
A student thanks the ofﬁ  cer who saved his life, pg 5Gators lose again in nail-biter
Florida’s women’s basketball team was defeated for the sixth 
consecutive game on Thursday against T exas A&M, pg. 1 4VOLUME 112 ISSUE 59
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
UF sorority Alpha Epsilon Phi placed a banner stating “Pray for Parkland” on the outside of the sorority house on Thursday following the deadly school shooting in Broward County.
By Paige Fry 
and Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writers
Richard Doan didn’t think much of 
the blare of the ﬁ  re alarm when it went off Wednesday afternoon.
It had gone off once earlier that day 
already, and only 30 minutes stood be-tween the 17-year-old senior and school dismissal.
Even as he stepped out of his Marjo-
ry Stoneman Douglas High School class and heard people yell about a shooting, he still wasn’t concerned.
Rumors were going around about an 
active shooter drill, after all. When he made it outside, he heard the screams: Run. Go back.
He turned back around and ran to 
the classroom he had left. His teacher shoved him into the corner of the clos-et with 18 others, where they stood for about an hour, waiting. On their phones, they scrolled through social media feeds to see what was happening outside. Then, they read the local news reports. A shooting. A lockdown.
Around them, a scene was unfold-
ing. Across the spread-out campus at 5901 Pine Island Road in Parkland, Flor-ida, shots from a riﬂ  e rang out through the hallways.
Doan would later ﬁ  nd out the sus-
pected shooter was his former class-mate, Nikolas Cruz, later conﬁ  rmed by Broward County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Just a week ago, Doan’s future had 
been looking up. He had just been ac-cepted to UF, his brother’s alma ma-ter. But it didn’t matter much knowing some of his classmates may never even graduate high school. The reality of a UF community struggles 
to cope after shooting atINVESTIGATION:
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
THE RESOURCES
A single mother of ﬁ  ve and Circle 
K cashier, Cara Chatmon had just 
moved her family in 2014 from East to West Gainesville when she got the call.
She wanted to move her kids into a better neighborhood. She didn’t think her ﬁ  fth-grade daugh-ter Tamia’s adjustment from her old eastside school, Marjorie Kinnan 
Rawlings Elementary School, would 
be difﬁ  cult.
But about two months after her 
daughter started the new school, Chatmon received a call. Ms. Smith wanted to discuss Tamia’s progress. 
Smith showed Chatmon the class gradebook, pointing to Tamia’s name: low Cs, borderline Ds. The class average was a B+.
“What’s the situation like at 
home?” Smith prodded.
Chatmon felt broken. She thought 
she’d made a big deal out of her chil-dren’s education. She didn’t want them to follow in her own footsteps of working low-wage jobs and need-ing government assistance.“At ﬁ  rst I was hurt, like did I do 
something wrong?” Chatmon said. 
What about the trips to the li-
brary every Saturday morning for 
homework and reading, she thought. 
What about the books her daughter checked out? 
When Chatmon said home was 
ﬁ  ne, Smith asked where Tamia had transferred from.
“Rawlings,” Chatmon said.The Stephen Foster teacher 
paused. Then she gave a thoughtful nod.
“That could be the reason,” she 
said. “Rawlings doesn’t have the re-sources.”  
“NIGHT AND DAY”
Alachua County’s elementary ‘Night and Day’: Schools still struggle with achievement gap
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Michelle Thackeray was scrolling through 
Facebook on Wednesday afternoon when she ﬁ  rst heard about the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. At 3 p.m., she called her mom and brother to make sure 
they were safe.
Thackeray’s mom is a counselor who 
travels to schools around Broward County, 
and her brother is a volunteer mentor for the school’s entrepreneurship club. He was sup-posed to volunteer Thursday. 
“I felt relief, but I still feel the same ten-
sion and the same pressure,” the 20-year-old said. “I haven’t been able to shake that feel-ing. I still feel the anxiety of fear for their lives.” 
The UF materials science and engineer-
ing junior and Challenge Party engineering candidate said she wanted to hold an event to remember the victims. On Friday at about 12:30 p.m., Century Tower will ring 17 times to honor each victim, and grief counselors will be available on Turlington Plaza.
“We want students to know that we care 
about them, and we care about each other,” 
Thackeray said. 
There will also be a vigil on Turlington 
Plaza from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday and an-
other Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Gainesville Town Hall, located at 200 E. University Ave. Both events are hosted by individuals, ac-cording to their Facebook events.
Michelle Stein, 21, said she was affected 
by the Pulse Nightclub shooting in her home-town and would pay her respects on Turling-ton Plaza during the event.
“It’s just another tragic shooting that hap-
pens too often,” the UF political science ju-nior said. “It’s always a concern of mine be-cause it does happen literally everywhere.”
Major Brad Barber, the University Police 
spokesperson, said students should become 
familiar with evacuation routes, stairwell lo-
cations and the functions of the doors if UF is in an active shooter situation and pay at-tention to UF Alerts, should an active shooter situation arise. 
Barber said if there was a situation on campus, police would isolate the location instead of shutting down the entire campus.
“The University of Florida is a city within 
a city,” he said. “A lockdown is not some-thing that will be easy to achieve, if achiev-able at all.”
The goal of the police department is to 
prevent an incident like this from happen-ing, he said. 
“The foundation of our approach to safety 
is a shared responsibility,” he said. “It does 
start with everyone working together to help 
resolve this manner before an incident be-gins.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
Multiple vigils to be held today after Parkland shooting  SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 9Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
HIGH  78° LOW  57°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: In an article published Feb. 14 
titled "Tommy  Hilfiger store to open in Gainesville," The Alligator incorrectly reported Chris Conti is a marketing coor-dinator at RaCo Real Estate. He works for Celebration Pointe. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 59
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Jamal Sowell met Florida’s 
legislative leaders in an or-
ange suit embroidered with UF logos.
The UF alumnus and other 
Gators visited Tallahassee for an annual Gator Day on Thursday to meet with state leaders on legislative and po-
litical advocacy. 
Almost every UF college 
or entity was represented 
in some way, Sowell said. 
Florida Blue Key, UF Student 
Government, UF Alumni As-
sociation and Gators for High-er Education sponsored the event.
“It is a phenomenal net-
work that I’m thankful to have and thankful to give back to,” said Sowell, who is now the director of special 
projects for Port Tampa Bay.
According to Melissa Orth, 
the director of government 
relations at UF, UF President Kent Fuchs addressed about 
200 people, including former football coach Steve Spurrier, 
Chief Justice of the Florida Supreme Court Jorge Labarga, 
Chancellor for the State Uni-
versity System Marshall Cri-
ser and UF Board of Trustees 
members.
Christian Tirado, a UF po-
litical science senior, repre-sented the Hispanic Student 
Association with 12 other 
members during the day.
He said his group had pro-
ductive conversations with 
policymakers, including Sens. 
Jose Rodriguez and Keith Per-ry, on topics such as preserv-ing Bright Futures scholar-
ships, supporting low-income 
college students and Florida 
Senate Bill 308, which they said is unconstitutional and would ban sanctuary cities.
“Tallahassee may be far 
away,” the 22-year-old said. “But by coming up and meet-ing legislators in person, we feel we can start to achieve 
real change.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgStudents, alumni 
speak with legislatorsBy Mari Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer
Benjamin King struggled to commu-
nicate with his brother and mother as 
both sons took care of her while she had a brain tumor.  
Even with today’s technology, com-
munication between patients and care-givers is still overwhelming, he said. It’s why King began thinking in 2016 about creating a new smartphone-
based application called HealthSteps 
that helps users through caregiving.“After my mom passed away is 
when I really started thinking that there really is no solution out there that utilizes these smartphones,” said King, the CEO and founder of HealthSteps.
The app notiﬁ  es users when to take 
medication.
Dr. William Slayton, the chief of 
Pediatric Hematology/Oncology at UF Health, said he thinks the app would work well for people with multiple caregivers because it can sync health care plans. 
“It would be a great way to moni-
tor and clearly communicate a plan to a family and for them to monitor the plan,” Slayton said. 
While the app is free to users, King 
hopes to sell the platform online to health care providers and clinical re-searchers, so they can collect the data and see how their patients are doing.
Slayton said the health care app is 
available to everyone with a smart-phone. As of now, 10 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia are en-rolled in the eight-week trial.
“It’s using a technology that every-
one has, at least in the United States,” he said.UF Health trials app to monitor patients
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Against the recommendation of 
city staff, city commissioners unani-mously voted for the Alachua County Coalition of the Homeless and Hun-gry to continue running Grace Mar-
ketplace.
On Thursday evening, the City 
Commission reviewed two proposals 
for possible managers of homeless shelter Grace Marketplace, one by the current provider, the ACCHH and the other by the Grace Marketplace Charitable Support Foundation. In a room packed with concerned citizens and homeless people, the Commis-sion voted to renew the contract with the current provider. The city will ask 
the county to pass an identical mo-
tion in a joint meeting Monday. 
Although city staff ranked the 
Grace Marketplace Charitable Sup-port Foundation’s proposal ﬁ  rst, commissioners feared the planned staff of 15 would be too small, the ﬁ  nances were unrealistic and the or-ganization was inexperienced.
“I don’t know that I’m convinced 
that the ﬁ  rst position that’s been ranked by staff is really going to de-liver the vision that I see for homeless services here in Alachua County,” Commissioner David Arreola said. 
Abigail Perret-Gentil, who manag-
es the Grace Marketplace community 
garden, attended the meeting to sup-
port the ACCHH and the work they are already doing to help the home-less, she said.
“The people out there are pre-
cious, and they are in one of the most vulnerable situations that a person can be in,” she said. “We know that the coalition has done a really good 
job.” 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Grace Marketplace provider to stay4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
By Remi Storch
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is the ﬁ  rst U.S. institution to create a 
center for communications devoted to social 
change.
The College of Journalism and Commu-
nications launched the Center for Public 
Interest Communications in January, said 
Ellen Nodine, the program director of the center. It will focus on promoting social good through communications.
There was no money 
associated with the cre-ation of the center, as it is not a physical building, 
Nodine said. The cen-
ter is a designation that 
will allow the college to fundraise speciﬁ  cally for research. Before, fund-ing had to go through the 
college, but now it can be directed to the center.
Nodine said this public interest com-
munication differs from public relations be-
cause it does not represent one company or 
industry.
“We are using the information from a lot 
of different ﬁ  elds in order to create the mes-sages that are most effective to move popu-lations to action,” Nodine said.
However, she said she hopes to soon cre-
ate a public interest communications spe-cialization within the public relations major.
The center will develop the public inter-
est communications curriculum, increase 
research in the ﬁ  eld and continue to bring 
together the community through the frank gathering, an annual conference for social change in Gainesville, Nodine said.
The center had been in the works for 
three years, Nodine said. The college has previously offered a few public interest courses.
Diane McFarlin, the college’s dean, wrote 
in an email Ann Christiano became the ﬁ  rst chair for UF’s public interest communica-tions eight years ago. 
Christiano’s position was created when 
Frank Karel, a 1961 UF alumnus, and his wife gave the college an endowment to fund the ﬁ  eld before Karel died in 2009.
“We are very proud to be the academic 
epicenter of (public interest communica-
tions) and excited to watch the ﬁ  eld grow 
in both popularity and distinction,” McFarlin said.
Shannon Claﬂ  in, a 21-year-old UF public 
relations junior, said she is proud of UF for creating the center.
Claﬂ  in said she’s interested in possibly 
taking a course in public interest commu-nications because she wants to work for a 
nonproﬁ  t after she graduates.
“I think it would be beneﬁ  cial for me to 
take some of these courses and look into 
what the program entails,” she said.By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s online dual enrollment program dou-
bled its reach this past academic year, expand-ing access to ﬁ  ve additional Florida school dis-tricts but limiting who is accepted.
School districts in Levy, Orange, Dixie and 
Flagler counties now offer UF’s online dual enrollment option, comprised of more than 40 courses designed and taught by UF faculty to high school students. The program also made eligibility requirements, such as GPA and SAT scores, more selective. The application for Fall 2018 opened Feb. 2.
Brian Marchman, the director of UF’s De-
partment of Distance & Continuing Education, 
said the stricter conditions are natural in ex-
panding the opportunity to more students. 
“We simply don’t have the bandwidth to 
teach courses to an unlimited number of stu-dents,” he said. “We also don’t want to make drastic changes that would exclude some quali-ﬁ  ed students who may be on a trajectory to an institution such as UF.”
Marchman said the program wants to reach 
more high school students, but it takes time to expand access.
It also depends on the willingness of other 
districts to participate because they must pay the costs of tuition and books, he said.
About 1,100 students were enrolled in UF 
dual enrollment last Fall from eight school dis-tricts, including the Levy County School Dis-trict.John Lott, an assistant superintendent for 
Levy County, said when UF made dual enroll-ment an option, his district was glad to partici-
pate.
“Although the venture costs more, we see it 
as worth it for our top students,” Lott said. “We 
are a smaller district, so anytime we can offer another opportunity, we try to do that.”
Lott said some Levy students have taken UF 
classes on campus in the past, but the online option ultimately proved safer and more practi-cal because it doesn’t require students to ﬁ  nd 
their own transportation to campus. 
McArthur High School senior Michaelangelo 
Hamilton, 18, takes the UF class, “Introduction 
to Earth Sciences,” from his home in Holly-wood, Florida.
“I think it has a tremendous value,” he said. 
“It shows to other colleges that you are a stu-dent who works hard and wants to do things in life.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgUF starts communications 
center for social change UF’s dual enrollment program 
expands as requirements go up   
Nodine
REQUIREMENTS OF UF DUAL ENROLLMENT
Unweighted GPA
SAT
PSAT
ACT3.5
1000
1030
213.6
1100
1130
22FALL 2017 SPRING 2018FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Oscar Mayer’s Wienermobile parked outside Gator Corner Dining Hall on Wednesday afternoon.
By Rachel Porter
 Alligator Contributing Writer
The Wienermobile, Oscar Mayer’s 
hot-dog shaped car, is visiting UF this 
week. The Alligator spoke to its current drivers, Alexandra Klar and Sammi Man-ning.
Here are five things about the big hot 
dog on campus:
1. The Wienermobile is 27 feet long, 
11 feet high and 8 feet wide. It is approx-
imately 60 hot dogs long.
2. It has six customized ketchup- and 
mustard-colored seats, condiment-splat-
tered floors and sky-painted ceilings.
3. Wienermobile drivers are called 
“hotdoggers.” A typical work week in-
cludes at least four days of events and 
interviews with local media, along with two days to tour the cities they visit.
4. Oscar Mayer has hired a driver 
from UF for the past decade. UF is one of 
six universities it goes to every year for 
recruitment.Things to know about the Wienermobile on campus 
By Megan Ricker
Alligator Contributing Writer
A burger, taco and wings joint moved into 
the spot Burrito Brothers Taco Co. once oc-
cupied — and it will possibly name one of 
its tacos after the former restaurant’s owner.
Gator BTW is a franchise of the South 
Florida restaurant Hurricane BTW but was given the Gator name to better connect with 
UF students and the local Gainesville com-
munity, said Nicholas Montanaro, a manag-ing partner of the restaurant. It opened Mon-day at 1402 W. University Ave.
“We’re here to stay, and we’re here to 
support the community and the university,” Montanaro said.
Montanaro said he’s been speaking to 
Randy Akerson, the former Burrito Brothers 
owner, about naming a food item after Ak-
erson.
“We’re working on having a Burrito 
Brothers taco,” Montanaro said. “We have a 
lot of people that were loyal to Burrito Bros. 
that came in.”
Akerson said he was unsure of the idea but was honored Gator BTW thought of naming a menu item after him.
“They have been very gracious to me,” 
Akerson said. “But the experience is mixed for me having lost my restaurant and the chaos that came up from that.”
Jack Gandolfo, the owner of Gator BTW, 
said his restaurant was designed for the fast-paced lives of UF students by adapting Hur-ricane BTW’s sit-down dining concept to a 
fast-casual dining experience.
The prices for most of their menu items 
range from about $4 to $15. Gator BTW’s most expensive item is the 50 count bone-in 
wings for $55.
To combat issues of parking around the 
restaurant, which caused Burrito Brothers to close, Gandolfo said he’s reached out to The Standard, a nearby apartment complex, 
about renting spots in its garage.
He said he has not heard back from the 
complex, but he anticipates most of his cus-
tomers coming from UF will come by foot.
“Our concept is price it right, get it as 
quickly as possible and still have some great food,” Gandolfo, 59, said.Burrito Brothers replaced by burger, taco, wings jointHE BROUGHT HIS WIFE AND 
CHILDREN TO MEET THE OFFICER.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Joshua Roe wiped away tears when he 
told Gainesville Police officer Jack Salafrio he helped him “get home to a 4-month-old 
and 2-year-old and a beautiful, loving wife.” 
It was only a month before that Roe, 
barely able to speak, laid on the pave-
ment in darkness, desperate for help. The 
36-year-old UF doctoral student in the De-
partment of Tourism, Recreation and Sport Management, had just been hit by his own car, and Salafrio was the first at the scene. More than a month after the Jan. 6 incident, 
Roe and Salafrio met at GPD headquarters 
Thursday afternoon, and Roe introduced the officer to his family.
“You’ll get the occasional ‘thanks’ on so-
cial media, but nothing like this,” Salafrio said.
Roe was delivering household items to 
someone in need when he left his car run-ning. As he called police to report his miss-ing car, he was hit by the car, driven by 16-year-old Kyyan Jackson, according to an arrest report.
As Salafrio approached Roe, he saw track 
marks across his chest. The officer, who has been with GPD for two years, couldn’t help treat Roe’s injuries because they were mainly internal, but he helped comfort him. Friends and strangers have donated more 
than $10,000 toward his medical recovery 
on a fundraising website.
Salafrio found and brought Roe’s phone 
to him after it flew out of his hand during the crash. Roe called his wife. 
While other officers searched for the 
driver, Salafrio stayed with Roe until an am-bulance took him to the hospital.
“He’s hurt, he’s broken,” Salafrio said. 
“He needs help.”
Roe said he felt grateful to be able to 
personally thank and shake hands with the man who helped save his life. 
Roe also thanked Salafrio for choosing to 
be a police officer.
“Thank first responders,” Roe said. “A 
lot of times, it could be a thankless job.”
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgUF student meets with GPD officer who saved his life 
Robert Lewis / Alligator Staff
Joshua Roe, a 36-year-old UF doctoral student, and Gainesville Police officer Jack 
Salafrio meet on Thursday for the first time after Salafrio responded to a crash on Jan. 6 and rescued Roe. Roe was run over by his own car, which was stolen, police said.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
In elementary school, Valentine’s Day was something we 
all looked forward to. It was a day where we’d come to school 
decked out in festive shades of red and pink and receive candy and semi-heartfelt cards from our classmates. 
About 15 years later, the holiday has turned into an unpleas-
ant reminder of your perpetually single status. In an effort to keep spirits high, you and your friends decide to throw a retro V-Day party.
After several — and let’s be honest, way too many — heart-
shaped Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups, you start to actually read the phrases on the cards you’ve received. 
As you open the ﬁ  rst one, you expect to ﬁ  nd a witty one-liner 
about friendship or courtship. Strangely enough, what you ﬁ  nd inside is no such thing. You open the ﬁ  rst card to reveal ...
Column
My friend Bob is a pessimist. Bob was a 
senior leader at another university for many years.  No matter what oppor-
tunities or challenges that university 
faced, Bob was pessimistic about the 
outcome. During the years Bob reported to me, I frequently chided him on his persistent pessi-
mism, which had a negative impact on those with 
whom he worked. His response was always that he was a short-term pessimist, but a long-term op-timist.
I can certainly understand short-term pessimism. The 
day-to-day problems, difﬁ  culties and challenges in our per-sonal and professional lives often seem to outweigh our joys, hope and optimism. Today, for instance, we are grieving the horriﬁ  c mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School in Broward County. Many in our community 
are impacted by this shooting, including 283 current UF stu-dents who graduated from Douglas High. As of Thursday afternoon, we also know one of those killed had just been admitted to UF last Friday and was planning on attending 
in the Fall.
It is difﬁ  cult to be optimistic about the present in our 
society and community when we see inequalities and evil 
or when we personally face setbacks, pain and seemingly 
insurmountable problems. Justiﬁ  cation for even long-term 
optimism for our society, community or personal lives may not always be obvious.
One of the issues I face every day is how to communicate 
the very real optimism, excitement, joy and progress of our 
university when not everything is joyful and perfect. There 
are challenges facing UF and each of us personally. Indeed, there are times to grieve, be sad, discouraged and even to be outraged.
I have one advantage over most at UF, and that is age. 
Time does provide evidence for optimism over pessimism. This year is the 50th anniversary of the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and former Senator Rob-ert Kennedy, the Tet Offensive and widespread protests and violence across our nation, includ-
ing on universities. Our nation soon after had an 
economic inﬂ  ation crisis, national energy shortage and the looming threat of nuclear war with the Soviet Union. In the late 1960s and ‘70s, UF was 
not yet a member of the Association of American 
Universities, nor was it considered one of the na-tion’s top public research universities.
And still, although much work has yet to be 
done; our nation, state and UF have made signiﬁ  cant prog-
ress over the past ﬁ  ve decades and are considerably stronger 
and greater than when I was a high school student in Miami. We have much to celebrate and many reasons to be incred-ibly optimistic about both the short-term and long-term fu-
ture.
In his book, “The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Vio-
lence Has Declined,” Steven Pinker provides evidence that 
the present time is the most peaceful in the history of man-kind. Johan Norberg’s book, “Progress: Ten Reasons to Look 
Forward to the Future,” provides compelling evidence global 
society is making dramatic progress in addressing fundamen-tal problems such as shelter, food, energy and violence.  
I couldn’t attend my friend Bob’s retirement celebration 
last year, so I wrote a letter that was read at his reception. I shared my admiration and affection, and once again chided him for his short-term pessimism and congratulated him on his contributions to that university.
As you face midterms and the personal hardships of uni-
versity life, I wish for you optimism, both for the present and the future. 
In all kinds of weather, it is great to be a Florida Gator.
Kent Fuchs is the president of the UF. His column is 
featured monthly. In the aftermath of tragedy, remain optimistic 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINTDarts & Laurels
Seventeen people woke up Wednesday for the last time. They 
made their way to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School as 
they likely did every day without any hesitation, assuming it would be like any other. Unfortunately, this was far from the reality they would face. 
A teen gunman opened ﬁ  re with a semi-automatic riﬂ  e at his 
old high school. The suspect, identiﬁ  ed as 19-year-old Nikolas Cruz, robbed 17 people of their lives and left 14 others wounded, including ﬁ  ve who have been hospitalized with life-threatening injuries. 
The actions of Cruz, as Gov. Rick Scott put it, can be described 
as nothing short of pure evil. To Cruz, we award our ﬁ  rst dart. 
This disturbing tragedy, however, was an opportunity for 
heroes to be made. They deserve credit for their selﬂ  ess acts. 
Football coach Aaron Feis, according to the Sun, threw himself 
in front of students to protect them from the bullets during the shooting. Feis passed away early Thursday morning.
Cruz had set off a ﬁ  re alarm in the school so students would 
come out into the hallway. Melissa Falkowski, an English and journalism teacher at the school, was quick on her feet during the chaos. When the code red was declared, she immediately hurried her students back to the classroom and shoved them all in a closet to keep them out of harm’s way.
To Feis and Falkowski, we award our ﬁ  rst laurel of the 
week. It’s courageous people like them who lessened the impact of the shooting and single-handedly saved the lives of students without giving it a second thought.
House Bill 41 has reportedly been passed by both the Florida 
House and the Florida Senate and is on its way to Scott’s desk. This bill would legitimize, protect and fund Crisis Pregnancy Cen-ters in the state. These centers are often religiously backed and have been known to use manipulative practices to shame women 
out of getting the reproductive health care they seek. The centers 
have often been dubbed “fake women’s health centers.”
We award a dart to the Florida House and Senate for al-
lowing this bill to see the light of day. We can only hope Scott understands the dangers and lack of morality behind the bill and sends it to the grave.
On UF’s campus this week, we saw a positive development 
we believe signiﬁ  es good things for the future. UF is reportedly the ﬁ  rst U.S. institution to create a center for communications 
devoted to social change — something our nation could really 
use right now. 
Ellen Nodine, the program director of the center, told The Al-
ligator the center’s goals are to further develop the public interest communications curriculum, increase research in the ﬁ  eld and continue to grow the community through the frank gathering, an annual conference for social change in Gainesville.
The center, which was launched by the College of Journalism 
and Communications, is a big step toward social justice and ac-
ceptance of diversity. We hope our school can serve as a model 
for others across the country. To Nodine, UF CJC Dean Diane McFarlin and all the others who helped make this center a real-ity, we award our last laurel.
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgRunning for Student Government 
has always been a goal of mine. This semester, I chose to slate 
with Challenge Party because 
they did not care about my af-
ﬁ  liations. I was never once asked what organizations I was the president of or 
how much money could I donate to 
the campaign. I did not know the party president, campaign manager or the would-be executive ticket. In all ways, I was just some random engineering 
student with many ideas and that was 
more than enough for them.
You deserve an SG that sees you as a 
person, not as an “I voted” sticker.
Challenge is unique. It is made up 
of former Impact Party and party mem-bers. We all saw that SG was not ad-dressing the most important issue: the students. The senators and executive ticket should be a reﬂ  ection of the Stu-dent Body, not counter to it.
Is Challenge perfect? No, of course 
not. A party is the culmination of people’s ideas, and because nobody is infallible, no party is either. But none 
of us are running to be perfect; we are 
running to be dynamic, adaptive and progressive.
I hope you will allow us to challenge 
the status quo and to really ensure UF 
lives up to its title as a top-10 institu-
tion. Vote to bring the change UF de-serves. Vote for an SG that will actually advocate on behalf of the students. Vote 
Challenge on Feb. 20 and 21.
Michelle Thackeray is a senator 
candidate for Challenge Party.Often, Student Government election bal-
lots not only include candidates but also questions. Students can submit 
constitutional amendments, referen-
dums and initiatives through petitions 
with signatures from other students. Initiatives, which require signatures from 2 percent of all 
students, can amend Student Body law, which 
governs SG and student organizations. 
Recently, I and other students collected 1,212 
signatures to add an initiative to the ballot. After the UF chief justice of the supreme court accept-
ed at least 1,000 of these signatures last Thurs-
day, she appeared poised to allow it. However, Justice Chris Boyett, founder of Impact Party, objected. He questioned the constitutionality of 
the election laws which allow students to place 
initiatives on the ballot. 
I read a section that describes the process as 
a student’s “basic right” from the constitution to the court. I also read the law’s deﬁ  nition of initiative. Despite this, Boyett insisted the word “initiative” means “constitutional amendment.”
The court unanimously agreed with Boyett 
and reinterpreted the word “initiative” to mean “constitutional amendment.” Rejecting prece-dent and clear evidence, it killed the process by 
which students could change Student Body law.
However, it appears the court did not post a 
public notice of when the hearing would take 
place, as Florida Sunshine laws require. Because of this, the hearing was unlawful. 
I have ﬁ  led to argue before the court that a 
new hearing, this time compliant with state law, must occur. I ask the court to take this oppor-tunity to revisit evidence and consider the full 
ramiﬁ  cations of its decision.
Zachary Amrose is a UF political science 
sophomore.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
As a student of journalism, my best 
day may very well be your worst.
In the span of two days since 
the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, people are 
ramping up social media with political dis-course; offers of thoughts, prayers and con-
dolences and counseling to those who may 
be in need of it. Why is it, though, these same thoughts never pervade our news-feeds and media sources for more than a month before they fade into obscurity?
One of my class lectures Wednesday 
was ﬁ  lled with people offering their opin-ion as to whether the shooting represents a gun problem, a mental health problem 
or even a decline in the values instilled 
in children growing up. Regardless of the theories and facades of selﬂ  ess intent, the most commonly spoken word was “I.”
Every person is entitled to self-interest. 
The very reason the Constitution exists is to protect one of our inalienable rights: the pursuit of happiness — colonial-era jargon for do-
ing what we want and when we 
want to. What one is not entitled to is a false representation of in-tentions.
Perhaps part of this problem 
lies within the media itself. Re-porters searching for a break-ing story ﬂ  ock to scenes such as that of Wednesday like buzzards. But 
what happens when the immediate action 
is over and only a few scraps of a story remain? They vanish.
In a market, a company generally seeks 
to serve their public’s interest, where sup-ply and demand then meet on graphs that many have seen in the economics courses at UF. This insinuates stories supplied by the media dissipate — at least in part — 
because the public ceases to demand it.Is interest lost because audi-
ences by now are desensitized 
to constant bombardments tell-
ing them of shootings, or is it 
because they feel their voices crying for change are not being heard? Why are so many offers 
and words of intentions uttered, 
and why are so many of those empty?
In a world which swallows 
whole the thoughts and whims we post 
online, it is easy to forget all actions have 
consequences. Seventeen people, and pos-sibly more, serve as a physical reminder that all actions do, in fact, have conse-
quences.
In lieu of sending thoughts and prayers 
and instead of posting a paragraph online 
blaming a politician or organization, make a tangible difference. Words may serve as 
a reminder to those deceased, but it is ac-tion that enshrines them.
Provide a stranger with help despite 
them not having asked for any. Let some-one know they have meaning to you. Make 
a habit of trying to improve just one per-son’s day. With this focus on others, we can make our actions have a lasting, rip-
pling effect.
What happened Wednesday is a trag-
edy, but it is not an isolated event. Too 
many initiatives have been started and have stumbled. It seems if change is truly 
desired, it should start on an individual ba-
sis, not as an organization that takes up one line on a job application. 
Do something to have a lasting effect on 
the world, because these maniacs certainly are.
Jacob Kovach is a UF public relations 
senior. 
Column
Instead of sending thoughts and prayers, do something with a lasting eﬀ  ect 
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  
Jacob Kovach
opinions@alligator.org
Letters to the Editor8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
schools are divided between east 
and west, and black and white. 
While in eastside elementary 
schools, most students are black and fail Florida’s statewide end-of-year 
exams, westside elementary school 
students are typically white and pass the exams. Although nobody can point to a single reason the achieve-ment gap exists, people mention cyclical poverty, racial segregation within the city, lack of parental re-sources and the current zoning map.
Even inside westside schools 
where the majority of students pass the Florida Standards Assessments, or FSAs, black student performance lags signiﬁ  cantly behind that of their white counterparts.  
Out of all 67 Florida counties, Ala-
chua County has the largest achieve-ment gap between white and black students on ﬁ  nal exams, according 
to Alligator archives. 
Four schools west of Interstate 
75 — Meadowbrook, Hidden Oaks, 
Lawton Chiles and Kimball Wiles Elementary Schools — are all ma-jority white and were graded as ‘A’ schools in 2017. 
About 70.7 percent of these four 
schools’ students between 2013 and 
2017 passed their language arts FSA 
exam.
In East Gainesville, in three of 
four elementary schools, about eight in every 10 students are black. 
Only about 22.9 percent of stu-
dents in these schools — Rawlings, Metcalfe and Lake Forest Elementary Schools — from 2013 to 2017 passed their FSA language arts exam. 
Chanae Baker sees the divide 
ﬁ  rst-hand.
Twice a week, Baker volunteers 
at Meadowbrook, where her 8-year-old goddaughter, Jyla, attends sec-
ond grade. 
Between the smart boards and 
the building’s mix of brick and bright 
white-painted walls, she said she’s in awe of the resources. 
Then, once a month, she volun-
teers at Rawlings, where the 50-year-old building’s classrooms are gloomy and the textbooks are old and worn.
The difference extends to non-
physical resources, she said. While Meadowbrook has a strong PTA, many Rawlings parents struggle to get involved because they work mul-tiple low-wage jobs.“It’s like night and day,” she said. ***   Above the whiteboard in Lil-
liemarie Gore’s fourth-grade math and science class, in an Idylwild El-ementary School portable, a message 
hangs in orange and blue letters.
Nothing is greater than learning, 
the plastic letters read. 
Since graduating from UF in 2005 
with a master’s degree in educa-
tion, Gore has committed her time to teaching in the eastern part of the city. It’s where help is needed. 
After working for ﬁ  ve years at 
Williams Elementary School, an eastside school, she moved to Idyl-wild, a majority black school in the west.
In both schools, she’s witnessed 
the underperformance of her black students. 
“Personally, I believe it’s getting 
worse,” she said.
The achievement gap between 
white and black students is severe at Williams, Gore said.
Williams has a magnet program 
that is majority white, while the non-magnet program is mostly black.
While nearly 94 percent of Wil-
liams’ white students passed their language arts FSA in 2016-17 aca-
demic year, only about 25 percent of 
its black students passed. 
The same trend exists for black 
students in West Gainesville schools, even those without magnet pro-grams. 
Even though Tamia passed her 
ﬁ  fth-grade language arts FSA at westside Stephen Foster, nearly 86 
percent of black classmates failed. 
Only 8.7 percent of her white 
classmates failed. 
DIVISION
Eileen Roy, the school board’s 
longest-serving member from Dis-
trict 2, thinks the current zoning map is a major cause of the divide.
In December 2003, the board 
redrew the map to a neighborhood style, which prioritized walking dis-tance from homes rather than factors 
like having a mix of races within the 
same schools. As a result, she said the schools became much more seg-regated by race and economics.
Roy wasn’t on the board at the 
time, but was a member of the Zon-ing Task Force in 2002, which ad-vised against the model, she said.“A number of us said if we re-
zoned schools, we’ve got to have diversity as the No.1 criteria,” she said. 
District 4 School Board member 
Leanetta McNealy said rezoning — or what she calls “the R word” because she sees it as a taboo term that people don’t talk about enough — would help close the achievement gap.
Chris Busey, a UF professor of 
education, said he’s not sure redraw-
ing the map would end segregation. 
White parents would move their children to private schools or charter schools.
“What’s happened in the past 
when we’ve rezoned schools is that there’s been white ﬂ  ight,” he said.
When Elizabeth “Buffy” Bondy, 
a UF professor of education, thinks 
about how to ﬁ  x the achievement 
gap, she turns to literature Nobel Prize Winner William Faulkner.
“‘The past is never dead, it’s not 
even passed,’” Bondy quoted.
Bondy said the conditions stu-
dents are born into and the privileges they may or may not have come to-gether to inﬂ  uence their education.
“The reason for the gap is broad-
er than what’s happening in an indi-vidual classroom,” she said.
BREAKING POINT 
As East Gainesville schools 
struggle with underperformance and racial inequity, West Gainesville 
schools face overcapacity. 
West Gainesville grew 13 times 
more than East Gainesville between 
2000 and 2010, according to census data. At least nine schools in the West are at more than 100 percent capacity.
School board members hope to 
mitigate overcrowding with a new school in the west. 
Although the project does not 
have a timeline for construction, the state approved it and the district is discussing a location, McNealy said. 
“It’s needed,” McNealy said. 
“We’re considered a portable city. When you go to certain school sites, we have so many portables on the west side.” 
At Wiles Elementary School, a 
school built for 700 that now has 940 students, the ﬁ  rst lunch bell rings at 9:45 a.m.
The early-start lunch is the only way to cycle students to the caf-
eteria, said Wiles Principal Barbara 
Buys.
In her 18 years as the school’s 
principal, Buys has never had this many students. 
While more portables can always 
be added, she said the rest of the school’s resources are more strained. 
“We might be getting toward a 
breaking point soon,” she said.
Graham Maxey shook his head as 
he walked up to Littlewood Elemen-tary’s front entrance to pick up his two granddaughters, 7-year-old Jade and 5-year-old Jordan. 
Every day the car line stretches 
far down the streets. Last year, Lit-tlewood was about 122 percent over capacity. 
“I know they’re doing the best 
they can, but it’s a problem,” he said. 
“This school’s too overcrowded.” 
NEXT STEPS
For ﬁ  ve years in a row, Lake For-
est Elementary School, on the east-
side, was an F school.
Last year, it jumped to a C. For Karla Hutchinson, who start-
ed as principal last year, the spike in performance all came down to establishing a culture of high expec-tations.
Between January and April 2017, 
Hutchinson and a group of admin-istrators had a one-on-one meeting with each of Lake Forest’s 347 stu-dents. It was important to make each 
student aware of their performance 
— good or bad — and set concrete goals, she said. 
Get better grades on homework. 
Make a study plan. Stick to it. 
“It was really eye-opening for a 
number of our students,” Hutchin-son said. “We didn’t focus on the past, we were focused on the present 
and on the future.” 
Alachua County Public Schools 
spokesperson Jackie Johnson said 
the district is aware of the achieve-ment gap and has long made it a top priority. In 2016-2017, while westside 
schools received more overall fund-ing, the district allocated more fund-
ing per student to eastside schools, 
Johnson said. The money went to-ward more staff and teachers’ sala-ries for eastside schools. 
The Alachua County Council of 
PTAs also surveyed both east and westside schools, and will devise a 10 to 20-year plan on renovation and remodeling plans for each school, 
Johnson said.
Johnson said they face problems 
with state funding cuts. In the last 10 
years, the district has lost $168 mil-lion in facilities funding alone.
“We’ve been getting hit from all 
angles to be honest,” she said. 
On the November ballot, voters 
will decide on a half-cent sales tax 
the district expects will amount to 
$20 million a year to fund school facilities. It would cost the average county household about $58 annu-ally.
***Gore sees herself in her students. Growing up in Naranja, Florida, 
about 40 minutes southwest of Mi-
ami, Gore, 35, said she lived in pov-
erty, much like her students.
But in third grade, Gore’s teacher, 
Ms. Jackson, showed her something she hadn’t yet known: she could get through life with education. 
“She treated me as a whole, well-
rounded child,” she said. “She made me believe in myself.” 
Gore sees her task as simple: in-
spiring students to push past their challenges. She wants to be their Ms. Jackson.
“I just want to be that light to 
these students, to love them and care enough about them to change,” she said. 
Gore sees her task as simple: in-
spiring students to push past their challenges. She wants to be their Ms. Jackson.
“I just want to be that light to 
these students, to love them and care enough about them to change,” she said. Alachua schools split between east and west, black and white
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
Lilliemarie Gore, 35, leads students of Idylwild Elementary School 
through a series of math exercises. Mrs. Gore was awarded the ti-tle of “2017-2018 Alachua County T eacher of the Year” earlier this month.
FEATURE,  from pg 1FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
school shooting was sinking in.
“You don’t really understand it 
until it happens,” he said. “I can’t 
really believe this happened to my school.”
***
By the end of the day, 17 people 
were dead.
A report from BCSO said authori-
ties arrested expelled Stoneman 
Douglas student 19-year-old Cruz as 
the suspect. 
The victims included 14 stu-
dents, a football coach, an athletic 
director and a teacher, the sheriff’s 
office said.
Cruz admitted to authorities he 
was the gunman and had an AR-15, 
the report said. 
He was booked at the Broward 
County Jail, the sheriff’s office said. 
During first appearance, a judge or-
dered him to be held without bond. 
Doan said he remembers how 
Cruz walked around the school 
with a “sly look on his face.” 
Cruz had thick, red hair, his face 
splattered with freckles and posture 
bent, Doan said.
Doan watched him once kick 
over trash cans and pull fire alarms, 
Doan said. 
“Oh, that’s just Nik,” they would 
all say. Everyone knew him, but 
they kept their distance, Doan said.
When Doan found out Cruz was 
the named suspect, he wasn’t sur-prised.
“It’s just unfortunate because we 
knew this kid. There was something off about him,” Doan said. “I wish we could’ve done something.”
***Kevin Doan’s phone buzzed 
while working at his parent’s day spa a couple miles down from the high school.
His younger brother texted him 
his school was on lockdown, but he was safe.
The 22-year-old UF alumnus and 
his mother scrolled through Twitter for information. Old classmates be-gan texting him in a group chat.
They shared news articles, vid-
eos of screams and pictures of blood in the classrooms they once learned in. It didn’t seem real.
“It’s like this dark cloud overtook 
the entire atmosphere,” he said. “I don’t even know how to process it.”The brothers had lived in Park-
land with their parents since 2002, he said. Their town was almost never in the news, but when it was, it was for being one of the safest cit-ies in Florida. The high school had about 3,300 students and about 13 buildings.
At the beginning of the school 
year, Broward County Public Schools seemed to have been imple-menting more safety policies. They started doing active shooter drills.
Still, they never felt unsafe — 
they had no reason to feel other-wise.
Kevin Doan, a former UF Stu-
dent Body vice president and dou-ble Gator, said he waited until the suspect was caught and SWAT es-corted his brother out of the closet he had hid in before he drove over to the school.As Richard Doan waited for his 
brother, he walked passed his for-mer Advanced Placement psychol-ogy teacher, who lay on a stretcher, but was conscious. Her face was sunken behind her iconic black-framed glasses as she was lifted on an ambulance.
Outside, students frantically 
called their parents. Authorities walked around strapped with guns and bulletproof vests. Helicopters buzzed above them. No one knew how many had been shot or killed yet.
“Just one life lost — that’s al-
ready a disaster in itself,” Richard Doan said.
Melissa Falkowski, Doan’s 
35-year-old journalism adviser, was the one who directed him and the other students into the closet. 
Even 24 hours after the incident, she hadn’t slept. 
She knew the teacher who died. 
The coach. She taught the brother of one of the 14 students killed. 
She didn’t know Cruz, but she 
said she’s having a hard time un-derstanding how he sat down at a McDonald’s after killing 17 people, which the sheriff’s office reported. 
“It’s insane,” she said. “The 
whole thing is insane.”
***David Rojas nearly dropped his 
phone when one of his best friends called to tell him there was a shoot-ing at his old high school.
Shocked, he texted another 
friend about the news.
“No no no this CAN’T BE HAP-
PENING,” the 21-year-old wrote.
Rojas, a UF biomedical engineer-
ing senior, was studying before class at the Reitz Union when he learned of an active shooting at his alma mater.
Rojas said he lived in Coral 
Springs and went to Stoneman Douglas before coming to UF.
Campus security used to monitor 
the high school’s lunches around every corner, and Rojas said it al-ways felt secure. Even when he went back to visit the campus a few years ago, he said he almost wasn’t let in because he didn’t get prior clearance.
He began making phone calls. 
Each one brought a sense of relief. One person safe. Then two. Then three. “Thank God,” he wrote to his friend.
“But I can’t watch this anymore.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgSHOOTING,  from pg. 1A football coach, teacher and students were among those killed
Associated Press
A crowd gathers in Parkland, Florida, on Thursday night for a candlelight vigil for the victims of the Wednesday shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Authorities reported 17 people were killed at the school that had about 3,300 students. 
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Parent Rose Farley is looking for peace 
of mind in the wake of a South Florida high school shooting Wednesday afternoon.
Farley, a human resource assistant at the 
UF Center for Latin American Studies, has a son in daycare and a 17-year-old daughter at Newberry High School. She heard about the shooting Thursday morning on the radio and worries about a similar emergency happen-ing in Gainesville. 
“I don’t think anybody is safe if some-thing like that can happen,” she said. 
Alachua County Public Schools spokes-
person Jackie Johnson said the school sys-tem sent an email to parents outlining school 
procedures and resources to keep students 
safe in case of a school shooting Thursday, 
a day after 17 people were killed at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, 
Florida.
“We can certainly relate to the concerns 
that parents have,” Johnson said. “But safety and security are an ongoing effort in Alachua 
County Public Schools, and all we can do is 
reassure parents that the safety and wellbe-ing of their children is our absolute highest priority.”
Over summer, all schools underwent 
safety training with local law enforcement, 
Johnson said. ACPS also keeps constant 
communications with local law enforcement 
agencies.
Despite school safety measures, Farley 
and other parents are concerned students 
can’t protect themselves in an emergency.
Phalanx Defense Systems hopes to help 
ease parents’ fears with bullet-resistant pan-els normally used by law enforcement that 
can fit easily into backpacks.James Coats, the CEO of Phalanx, said 
the company has received hundreds of 
phone calls, emails and fax messages from 
Gainesville parents interested in buying pan-
els since the news of the shooting first broke. 
“I never thought as a body armor design-
er and manufacturer that I would ever have 
to make body armor for kids’ backpacks,” 
Coats said. “I think that until our governance 
is able to create a permanent solution, we 
have to be able to help in any way possible.”
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgAlachua schools, parents take precautions after shooting10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be not publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pmBy Lauren Staff
Alligator Contributing Writer
The city is spending $19.6 
million to rebuild part of East 
Gainesville.
The renovations are part of 
the city’s Trans4ming East GNV project, which aims to restore in-
frastructure and landscaping in 
the area, wrote Chip Skinner, the assistant public information ofﬁ  cer 
for the city, in an email. Three lo-
cations are under construction for the project and another starts in the 
spring. 
“The public has been very sup-
portive of the projects as the road-ways were in poor condition,” 
Skinner wrote.
Here is the scheduled renovation 
timeline:
From April 2017 to Spring 2018: 
Depot Avenue, from Southeast Sev-enth Street to Williston Road, will be reconstructed with brick side-
walks and have LED lighting.
From Nov. 6 to Fall 2018: A 
roundabout will be added to Depot Avenue, between Southwest Sixth 
Street and Southwest Fourth Ave-nue. Improved drainage, sidewalks and trails will also be added.
From December 2017 to De-
cember 2018: South Main Street, 
between Depot Avenue and South 16th Avenue, will gain four pe-destrian crosswalks and increased 
street parking, from about 80 to 
100 spots.
From Spring 2018 to Spring 
2019: Southeast Fourth Street from Depot Avenue to Williston Road will be reconstructed and gain side-
walks on both sides of the road.
County Commissioner Harvey 
Budd said East Gainesville is a good investment, and there will be 
more projects in the area.
“We’re now talking about tak-
ing the old fairgrounds next to the 
airport and converting that into 
some sort of industrial area,” Budd said.East Gainesville landscape to undergo 
construction over next two yearsBy T obie Perkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mary Campbell decided she was 
no longer going to fake orgasms be-
cause she does it too often. 
“I’m going to focus on myself,” 
she said. 
The 23-year-old UF public health 
master’s student was one of about 20 people who attended “Becom-ing Cliterate with Dr. Laurie Mintz” on Tuesday night in Reitz Union, Room 2315. Accessorized in clito-ris-shaped earrings, Laurie Mintz, a UF psychology of human sexual-
ity professor, discussed the orgasm 
gap, consent and how it all relates to sexism.  
“What the F is going on?” she 
asked. “The F itself.” 
Mintz’s speech was part of the 
UF Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Vi-olence Education’s Cupid’s Consent Week. The event was co-sponsored 
by the UF Women’s Student As-
sociation and Planned Parenthood 
Generation Action UF.
Mintz also spoke about her most 
recent book, “Becoming Cliterate: 
Why Orgasm Matters — And How 
to Get It.” The book focuses on the 
disparity between male and female orgasms.
While she has done many book 
talks before, Mintz said recent events inspired her to go a differ-ent route. In the aftermath of the #MeToo movement, a viral cam-paign women use to report sexual assault and harassment, and the Babe magazine article in which a young woman, given the name “Grace,” accused comedian Aziz Ansari of sexually assaulting her, Mintz wanted to talk about consent. 
After the story about Ansari 
came out, Mintz published the ﬁ  -
nal chapter of her book, “You Don’t 
Have To Have A Clitoris To be Clit-
erate,” on her website. The chapter 
is meant to be passed on to readers’ male partners, offering tips on wom-
en’s needs. 
Mintz said she believes more 
education could prevent situations 
like this. 
“I don’t blame Grace. I don’t 
blame Aziz,” she said. “I blame cul-
ture.” 
Mintz said her book was inspired 
by comments from her UF psychol-
ogy of human sexuality class. 
Her students participated in polls 
that provided data for the book, she said.
During her talk, Mintz explained 
the orgasm gap and its ties to cas-
es like Ansari’s, which she called 
“gray-zone sexual situations.” 
These are situations when someone did not necessarily say “no” but was giving off cues he or she was not in-
terested.
Studies have shown 39 percent 
of people with vaginas versus 91 
percent of people with penises say they usually experience orgasm 
in partnered sex, Mintz said. The 
orgasm gap and gray-zone sexual 
situations come from the same root: Women are seen as objects, not as people deserving of pleasure.
Once she established the reality 
of the orgasm gap, Mintz discussed ways to close it. She wants women to start insisting on pleasure, she said.
“It’s about body love, not body 
shame,” she said.UF professor discusses 
orgasm inequality
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
About 400 people congregated on Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday at noon to attend the “Mass 
on the Grass” Ash Wednesday event in celebration of the ﬁ  rst day of Lent, hosted by Catholic Gators. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Marina Property- Priced to sell!!!Private waterfront community.With Concierge Boat Service & boathouse slip.Only $139,880Video: www.WaterfrontLifeFL.net877.628.3349 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker     2-16-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     2-16-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
2003 Honda Element
silver, 157,000 miles, excellent condition, runs great, one owner, $4,500.amorvillar77@gmail.com    2-26-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, W/D, bike to UFNo pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier$1500/mo. 352-256-8370,352-246-86452-19-18-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
Part-time bilingual (English / Spanish)assistant for law office.
Send resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com    2-16-18-2-14
Now Hiring PT & FTLloyd Clarke Sports, 1 m N of UF on 13 St. Gainesville's local leader in running and hiking gear for over 42 years. Applications available in store. Serious applicants with consistent availability only. Must work 1 day on weekends.     2-26-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as 
$3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-12-21-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.    2-16-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
My name is Jason. I am 39 years old and 
looking for a female companion between 28-38 yrs old for a weekend getaway to Disney. I would like a person that is sweet, kind, & has great goals for her life & that is outgoing. I am not looking for any "exchanges" or "hookups".Please call or text me@ 352 225-6429    2-21-18-19
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/19- 2/22 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-19-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Scratch __:
woodworking
tools
5 Split wide open9 Green “Sesame
Street” character
14 Scallion relative15 Sea predator16 Asian city
translating to“place of the
gods”
17 *Protection for a
press feeding
frenzy?
19 Tight headgear
20 Masseur’s
workplace
21 Word with fly or
about
22 Shining example
24 What a burglar
hopes not to be
26 *Result of
nodding off at anauction?
27 *Sandwich-centric
extremists?
30 Fort Collins sch.31 Merits32 Italian capital34 Dilute38 Letters for John
Smith?
39 Besmirch42 Dudley the
Dinosaur’s org.
43 Books with test
answers
45 Twitter’s bird, e.g.46 One with a title48 Cry of discovery50 *Where to read
all the latestcomputer portnews?
52 *Female
employee of atech giant?
56 Poems of praise57 Lincoln output58 “No seats” sign59 Egg producer ...
and product
62 Tuesday dish?63 Rating reduction
responsible forthe answers tostarred clues
66 Expect67 Northern
terminus of I-79
68 Lute family
members69 ATM features
70 Kind of lily
71 Tendency
DOWN
1 Help for the poor2 Sob
3 Acting on bad
advice
4 __ jump
5 Explode6 Parched7 Chem. pollutant
banned in 1979
8 Canvas support
9 Elvis hits, e.g.
10 Decathlon event
11 Chocolate
substitute
12 “Me too”
13 Lost it
18 Elder hostile?
23 River through
New Mexico
25 Seaside eagle
26 Immobilizing law-
enforcement tool
27 Nose, slangily28 Camp sight,
perhaps
29 Forrest Gump,
for one
33 Some are
tributarios
35 Cordial greeting36 Notion37 Not
40 Budget competitor
41 Cylindrical
sandwich
44 Took care of
things
47 Sorrow
49 Construction site
apparatuses
51 World’s third-
largest island
52 Tiny bits53 Serious fight
54 Former
Portuguese
territory in China
55 Aconcagua’s
range
58 Way more than a
sip
60 Paradise61 Animal home64 Willamette Valley
state: Abbr.
65 Obstacle
By David Alfred Bywaters©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/16/1802/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 16, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Día de San
Valentín flowers
6 California’s __
Gabriel
Mountains
9 Construction rod
14 Remove from the
bulletin board
15 Blood type letters
16 Like 36 piano
keys, traditionally
17 Lewis with 12
Emmys
18 “That ’70s Show”
exchange
student whosenationality isn’t
revealed
19 Lessen20 *Beer hall snacks
23 Surf and turf, say24 NASA vehicle25 Tempe sch.28 Time for action29 *Deli snacks33 Actress Neuwirth
with Tonys and
Emmys
34 Slim craft
35 *Bakery snacks41 “Tempt not a
desperate man”speaker
42 Pretty good
43 *Diner snacks
46 California wine
valley
50 Favorite
51 One of three
rhyming mos.
52 Pavement
cloppers
54 Component of
balanced health
... and what eachanswer to astarred clue lookslike it should bepart of?
57 Lose one’s cool
in a big way
60 Murmur61 Lift with force62 Car or tree
feature
63 Tote64 Film with lots of
shooting stars?
65 Ships66 Stat for Clayton
Kershaw67 Flexible Flyers,
e.g.
DOWN
1 Blitzed, in football
2 In stock
3 Peloponnesian
War victor
4 Put on the line?5 Wading bird6 No-risk7 Help with an
inside job, say
8 Gas pump part9 Genuine article
10 Flows out11 Feathery wrap
12 House pest
13 Bread with
caraway seeds
21 Insurgent22 Charged fish?25 Indigenous
Japanese
26 Notice27 Multi-tools have
many
30 Old hoops org.31 Board32 Solo with a
Wookiee co-pilot
33 Nowheresville,
with “the”
35 Cut closely36 Sharpen
37 Skip over38 Board bigwig
39 Heart test letters
40 Broth that’s the
base of misosoup
44 Cath. or Prot.
45 Christmas eave
decor
46 “The agreement
is off”
47 Take wing48 Rather put out
49 Starlike flowers53 Figure-eight
steps, in anArgentine tango
54 Posterior55 Acidic56 Draped garment
57 FG’s three
58 Exist59 Many a “Call the
Midwife”character
By Elliot M. Abrams©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/15/1802/15/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 15, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Computer ____
1.  “Night at the ____”5.  Late ____
2.  Calculate, judge6.  Guide
3.  ____ set7.  In a tidy manner
4.  F. ____ AbrahamERMMYO
SMUMEURATTS
SHRUE
UAESMER
ACERHTTLYEANT
RUMYARANSWERS: 1A-Memory  5A-Start  6A-Usher  7A-Neatly
1D-Museum  2D-Measure  3D-Ratchet  4D-Murray  B-Harry Truman2-16-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person is the most recent U.S. president 
who did not earn a college degree.BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesAmelia Hundley and the 
Florida gymnastics team are in Athens to take on Georgia today at 7 p.m., pg. 15UF swimming & diving teams complete Day 2 of SECs
Florida's men's team is in ﬁ  rst place of the conference championships with 
432 points, while the Gators' women's team is in eighth place with 219.5 points.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
When Yante Maten drilled his second 
three-pointer in 12 seconds, another Florida lead died. The 11-point advantage the Gators built crumbled during a furious Georgia come-back, a loss Florida coach Mike White called as tough as any he’d experienced. 
It certainly isn’t the ﬁ  rst time a Mike 
White-led team has given up a late lead. Against Vanderbilt in the 2017 SEC Tourna-ment, Commodores forward Jeff Roberson knotted up the game with nine seconds re-maining. UF missed two chances to retake the lead and eventually lost in overtime. 
While Florida (17-9, 8-5 SEC) beat Vander-
bilt 81-74 in its ﬁ  rst conference game this sea-son on Dec. 30, it had lost all ﬁ  ve matchups against the Commodores (10-16, 4-9 SEC) in White’s ﬁ  rst two seasons. On Saturday at 4 p.m., the Gators will be in Nashville hoping to correct its mistakes with just ﬁ  ve games left in the regular season.
As daunting as its ﬁ  nal stretch may appear, 
it can’t be ignored that most of Florida’s con-ference losses this season have been against teams currently ranked in the bottom ﬁ  ve of the SEC standings.
Ole Miss and South Carolina, both tied for 
12th with a 4-9 SEC record and Georgia, tied for 10th with a 5-9 SEC record, have handed Florida its other four defeats in league play.
“There’s some great teams in college bas-
ketball,” White said, “and a handful of good teams that are great certain nights and very average other nights. And that’s what we are.”
The Commodores are coming off a win 
over Mississippi State in which senior guard Riley LaChance hit a three-pointer to win with 0.5 seconds remaining.
LaChance is Vanderbilt’s second-leading UF looking to end late-game 
woes on Saturday against Vandy
SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 16At the beginning of the 
regular season, Florida men’s 
basketball coach Mike White relayed to the media what team doctors were telling him about injured center John Egbunu.
Late January was the target-
ed time period for the redshirt senior’s return.
I know a lot of people like to 
forget it’s the middle of Febru-ary because of the lack of love they’re re-ceiving (me included).
But we’re here folks. And Egbunu has 
walked into every game in sweatpants and a hoodie.  
Gator fans are still holding their breath 
with anticipation, awaiting the big man’s return. Hell, I was excited to see how the dynamic of the team would change with a wide center like Egbunu in White’s arsenal.
But with only ﬁ  ve SEC games remain-ing after Florida’s most recent choke against the Georgia Bull-dogs, adding a new player into the rotation might cause more trouble than it’s worth.
‘What? You’re an idiot, bro. 
Egbunu would ﬁ  nally give Flor-ida the big man they’ve des-perately needed all year long. Anyone that thinks him coming back isn’t a positive sucks at 
existing.’
First of all, imaginary angry Florida fan, 
I’m only slightly idiotic. Secondly, I said it might be more trouble than it’s worth.
The Gators have become acclimated to 
playing small when they need to through some recent SEC contests.  
LSU managed just 22 paint points in its 
Feb. 7 loss, while committing 16 turnovers as Florida’s guards actively attacked the John Egbunu might not be back, 
but could that be better for Florida? $ky Dolla $ign$ / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebronAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Despite guard Funda Nakkasoglu's 24-point performance against T exas A&M on Thursday, the Florida women's basketball team fell to the Aggies 85-80.
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
With just over a minute left in 
the fourth quarter and the Florida women’s basketball team down by one possession, Texas A&M had the ball. From the right wing, freshman Chennedy Carter pulled up from three and watched as her shot fell through the basket.
Carter’s three-pointer gave the 
No. 17 Aggies a six-point lead late 
in their 85-80 victory Thursday 
night over the Gators (10-16, 2-11 SEC) in College Station.
The accumulation of fouls and 
untimely turnovers in the fourth 
quarter cost Florida the ballgame 
as it dropped its sixth consecutive game against ranked SEC oppo-nents. UF committed turnovers 
on ﬁ  ve consecutive possessions 
midway through the ﬁ  nal quar-
ter, squandering any chance of increasing its lead.
Those mishaps proved to be 
costly for Florida. What could 
have been a swing in points 
turned into a momentum shift later in the quarter, as the Aggies seized the lead with 3:51 left and never gave it up.
In addition to those mistakes, Florida couldn’t withstand the wrath of the Aggies’ breakout freshman. Carter scored a game-high 28 points on 12-of-22 shoot-ing. She also grabbed six re-bounds in 40 minutes of play.
It was the 15th time Carter 
scored more than 20 points in a game this season.
Forward Anriel Howard added 
21 points, shooting 50 percent from the ﬁ  eld and making 6-of-8 shots from the charity stripe.
The Aggies (20-7, 9-4 SEC) 
took advantage of their opportu-nities at the line as well. Florida committed 16 fouls during Thurs-day’s matchup, allowing Texas A&M to make 20-of-24 attempts from the free throw line, includ-ing 3 of 4 in the ﬁ  nal 10 seconds of play.
But Florida wasn’t an easy out 
for the Aggies. The Gators played their opponent tough once again, holding a seven-point lead at one point in the fourth quarter.
UF forward Haley Lorenzen 
had 22 points on 10-of-16 shoot-ing and collected seven rebounds for Florida.
However, the Gators veteran 
struggled down the stretch, miss-Gators suﬀ  er sixth straight loss against ranked opponent
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE WOMEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
At the beginning of its practice on Tues-
day, the Florida gymnastics team wasn’t 
rehearsing its sprints on vault or tweak-
ing its routine on balance beam. It wasn’t 
even preparing to warm up. Instead, each member of the team had a smile on her face and a lacrosse stick in her hand as the team 
competed in a small lacrosse scrimmage. 
“The lacrosse (team) did a video for us 
before our Oklahoma meet wishing (us) 
good luck,” sophomore Amelia Hundley said with a laugh during the scrimmage. 
“We were trying to play with the lacrosse 
balls (since) they tried to do gymnastics. It’s 
not going so well.” 
The team will meet No. 14 Georgia (3-3, 
3-2 SEC) in Athens at 7 p.m. in its fourth 
away meet of the season.
“We don’t have the 10,000 fans cheering 
for us,” Hundley said. “So we have to make 
sure that we bring that energy.” 
The mood in the practice gym mirrored 
Hundley’s light attitude as the team pre-
pared to return to regular-season action 
following its 197.850-197.075 win over Ala-bama on Feb. 9.
Florida had plenty to celebrate. Senior 
Alex McMurtry dominated the Alabama 
meet with wins on bars and vault, and se-
nior Kennedy Baker closed out the night with a 10.0 on floor.
The No. 5 Gators (5-1, 3-1 SEC) secured 
two SEC honors this week with Baker tak-
ing SEC Specialist Gymnast of the Week and 
freshman Alyssa Baumann claiming SEC Freshman of the Week. 
For Marietta, Georgia, native Megan 
Skaggs, tonight’s meet means returning home. Compared to the O’Connell Center crowd she performs in front of every other week, the backing of her home state, family 
and friends will provide Skaggs with a dif-
ferent type of energy.
“I grew up going to the meets in that 
arena,” Skaggs said. “It’s just surreal to be going down on the floor and actually com-peting.”
The meet at Georgia is also special to Mc-
Murtry, who will make a return on floor, an event she hasn’t competed in since the NCAA Super Six on April 15 of last year. McMurtry took a break from the routine due to a lingering back injury this season but will make her debut tonight in the Stegeman Coliseum. 
“I know that it’s an event that you would 
not imagine she’s a little nervous about,” coach Jenny Rowland said. “But she’s done the work.” 
Last season, UF swept the Bulldogs with 
two wins, once in the regular season and once in the SEC Championships. In Florida’s matchup against the No. 14-ranked team, the Gators will look to take their fourth SEC win of 2018. 
“Any SEC meet is exciting,” Hundley 
said. “I think SEC appreciates good gymnas-tics, even if it’s from the opposite team. We always have fun no matter what.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgUF hoping to win fourth straight SEC meet tonight against UGA
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Amelia Hundley is prepared for tonight’s road meet against UGA. “We don’t have the 10,000 fans cheering for us, ” she said, “so we have to make sure to bring that energy. ”
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
It has been easy for the Florida softball 
team in the early going.
The Gators have scored 51 runs on 48 
hits and allowed just three runs through 
the first six games, including a 9-0 trounc-
ing of North Florida in UF’s home-opener 
on Wednesday night behind pitcher Kelly Barnhill’s no-hitter. 
The No. 2 Gators (6-0) will try to con-
tinue their hot-hitting spell when they travel to Lafayette to take on No. 16 Loui-
siana in a three-game series, starting with 
a double-header on Saturday at 4 p.m.
“When hitters hit it’s amazing. It 
hypes me up so much,” Barnhill said. “So we have to keep them going, you know?”
Florida enters the weekend ranked 
15th in the nation in scoring (8.5 runs per game), and 11 Gators have at least one RBI this season, with freshman Jordan 
Matthews leading the way with 10. 
“It’s been somebody new every time 
stepping up and getting a nice hit,” coach Tim Walton said. “I think that’s been a 
nice treat/luxury as a coach to have play-ers one through nine be able to hit and 
then get Jordan Matthews off the bench.”
However, UF has arguably only played 
one team with above-average pitch-ing, No. 20 Michigan and its star pitcher 
Meghan Beaubien. Despite nabbing two earned runs 
against the Wolverines on Saturday in Tampa, the Gators struggled to hone in on Beaubien’s pitches, tallying only four hits 
and two walks in 24 plate appearances. 
Shortstop Sophia Reynoso powered most of Florida’s offense, going 2-for-2 and reg-
istering the game’s only RBIs. 
Like Michigan, the University of Loui-
siana at Lafayette has an ace pitcher of its own. 
Senior Kylee Jo Trahan has allowed 
only one run in 17.1 innings pitched and leads her team in opponent batting aver-
age (.102). 
Her best performance came in a 9-0 
mercy-rule rout of Iowa on Sunday. Tra-han allowed only one hit and two walks in five innings. 
She’s also appeared in five of Louisi-
ana’s six games this season, so the Gators will expect to see her often this weekend. 
And it won’t be easy to escape with 
victories at the Louisiana’s Lamson Park, where the Ragin’ Cajuns have played and 
won four of their games this season.
“The one thing that stands out to me 
is that they’re a tradition-rich program,” Walton said. “I know it’s going to be a 
tough, hostile environment.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators travel to Louisiana 
for matchup with Cajuns LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
Since its inception, Florida lacrosse has played 
Maryland three times. It has lost every one.
UF coach Amanda O’Leary knows that her 
team will have its hands full going up against the 
top-ranked Terrapins at noon on Saturday at Don-ald R. Dizney Stadium.
“Maryland is outstanding,” she said. “They 
have really great offensive players and solid de-
fenders.”
The matchup is a meaningful one for a litany 
of reasons. For the No. 3 Gators (1-0), it’s a game that hits close to home, as over 60 percent of their 
roster hails from the state of Maryland. Florida’s 
players will go head-to-head against old friends 
and teammates. 
The No. 1 Terrapins (1-0) have been a power-
house in women’s lacrosse over the last decade, 
winning four national titles since 2010. They have 
also made eight consecutive NCAA Final Four ap-
pearances.
In its season opener, Maryland smothered Wil-
liam and Mary in an 18-7 victory. The Terps led 15-2 at the half, and 10 players got on the score-
board. Attackers Megan Whittle and Caroline 
Steele led the way with four goals each.
However, Florida has a secret weapon of sorts.
Gators assistant coach Nadine Hadnagy was 
the IWLCA National Defender of the Year and a Tewaaraton Award Finalist with Maryland in 2017, 
but on Saturday, she will be coaching against her alma mater and many of her former teammates.“She knows the ins-and-outs of their offense,” 
sophomore defender Cara Trombetta said. “She’s giving us insight on what to expect.”
In its 16-9 victory against Colorado on Sun-
day, Florida played six freshmen. That experience 
against a ranked team should prove valuable, as 
UF will rely heavily on their contributions to get 
past a Maryland team that has only lost 4 regular-season games in its previous five seasons.
One of those freshmen, defender Sabrina Cris-
todero, stood out in the season opener for her de-fensive efforts guarding Colorado’s Miranda Stin-
son, holding the dynamic scorer to only one goal 
in the win.
Her performance was impressive enough to 
earn exteded playing time Saturday against the 
Terps.
“We’re going to ask a little bit more of (Cris-
todero) on the offensive end because of her quick-
ness,” O’Leary said. “She’ll play on both sides of the field quite a bit.”
While many of Florida’s leaders, such as at-
tackers Lindsey Ronbeck and Shayna Pirreca, mid-
fielder Sydney Pirreca and defender Aniya Flana-
gan, have experience going up against elite teams, 
this will be a first for the freshmen. But O’Leary 
believes they are ready for the test that Maryland 
will present.
“This is going to be a challenge for them,” she 
said. “but one that I feel they can certainly step up and play the part.”
 @TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFlorida preparing for matchup 
with top-ranked Maryland16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
$10 eGift CardGAINESVILLE,
YOU MAKE A DIFFERENCE
YOU MAKE A DIFFERENCE
DONATE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE $10 eGift 
Card and T-Shirt 
for all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!passing lanes.
Three nights later, South Carolina shot 
27.8 percent and scored 18 points in the lane 
on its way to a 61-42 loss at the hands of the Gators.
Florida also played a solid half of defense 
against Georgia, holding the Bulldogs to 34.8 percent shooting in the ﬁ  rst frame.
Let’s just forget about the collapse in the 
second half because that hurts my argument, and you already know that conﬁ  rmation bias is a viable method of argument.
After struggling to get his roster engaged 
on the defensive end, UF looks like its devot-ed as much, if not more energy on that end of the court through its latest stretch of games.
The last thing I’ll say is this – White has 
already done his fair share of shifting. We’ve seen a variety of starting lineups based on the opponent matchup. Sometimes it’s worked, and other times, it really hasn’t.
Adding Egbunu to the mix might stunt the 
growth of Florida’s big men who are already playing, such as freshman Dontay Bassett and sophomore Gorjok Gak. It’s also asking a guy who can’t even get through multiple practices without his knee swelling up to kick it into high gear immediately as the home stretch of games and SEC Tournament get going over the next couple weeks.
Egbunu’s best bet might be seeking a 
medical redshirt to get a sixth year of eligibil-ity if that’s possible. With the way this year is going, adding him this late could create yet another issue, and this year might not even be worth bringing him back when he’s truly not ready.
Skyler Lebron is a sports writer. 
Contact him at slebron@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14Lebron: Egbunu should redshirtscorer, averaging 12.9 points per game. He also leads the Commodores in shooting from beyond the arc, with 57 made threes at a 40.4 percent clip.
Roberson leads Vanderbilt in both scoring (16.2 
points per game) and rebounding (7.2 per game). Roberson dropped 18 points and seven boards against the Gators earlier this year.
Florida will look for guards Chris Chiozza and 
Jalen Hudson to get going after each suffered 
through off nights against Georgia. Chiozza strug-
gled from the ﬁ  eld, ﬁ  nishing with ﬁ  ve points on 2-of-15 shooting. Hudson, the team’s leading scorer 
at 15.1 points per game, was held scoreless against 
the Bulldogs. It was the ﬁ  rst game of the season in 
which Hudson hadn’t scored.
Potential help in the Gators’ backcourt may 
be found in freshman Mike Okauru, who had 14 
points in 14 minutes off the bench in Wednesday’s 
loss.
White said it wasn’t  just Okauru’s effort offen-
sively that kept him on the court, though.
“(Okauru) guarded as well as our veterans,” he 
said.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgMEN'S B-BALL,  from pg. 14Chiozza shot 2 of 15 on W ednesday against UGA
Nate Bustamante / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Chris Chiozza will play a big role in Saturday's matchup 
against Vanderbilt.
ing her last ﬁ  ve shots after starting out 10 of 11 
from the ﬁ  eld.
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu continued to be 
a key factor for the Gators as well. The junior 
led the team with 24 points on 9-of-14 shoot-ing and nailed over half of her three-point at-tempts. She also took command of the offense in this game, dishing out ﬁ  ve assists to her Gators teammates.
UF also took advantage of its success from 
behind the arc.
The Gators shot 13 of 29 from downtown, 
with every starter except Lorenzen making two or more of their threes.
UF will ﬁ  nally take a break from ranked op-
ponents when the team comes home for Senior Day on Sunday. Florida will host Vanderbilt in what will be the second-to-last home game for Lorenzen, Dyandria Anderson and Paulina Hersler.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgWOMEN'S B-BALL,  from pg. 14Nakkasoglu 
scored 24 points
THIS WEEKEND IN UF SPORTS
Friday, Feb. 16
Men's/Women's Swimming & Diving  
    @ SEC Championships, All Day, SEC     
    Network +Men's Tennis @ ITA National Team       Indoor Championships, 3 p.m.Baseball vs. Siena , 6:30 p.m., SEC   
    Network +Gymnastics  @ Georgia, 7 p.m., SEC   
    NetworkMen's/Women's Track & Field @          UCS Invitational, 8 p.m.Saturday, Feb. 17
Men's Golf  @ SunTrust Gator Invita-  
    tional, All DayMen's/Women's Swimming & Diving   
    @ SEC Championships, All Day, SEC       Network +Lacrosse vs. Maryland , Noon,   
    YouTube
Baseball vs. Siena , 4 p.m., SEC   
    Network +Softball @ Louisiana, 4 p.m., Cox       Sports TVMen's Basketball @ Vanderbilt, 4 p.m.,      ESPN2
Softball @ Louisiana, 7 p.m., Cox       Sports TVMen's Tennis @ ITA National Team       Indoor Championships, TBDSunday, Feb. 18
Men's Golf  @ SunTrust Gator Invita-  
    tional, All DayWomen's Golf  @ Allstate Sugar Bowl,   
    All DayMen's/Women's Swimming & Diving   
    @ SEC Championships, All Day, SEC        NetworkBaseball vs. Siena , 1 p.m., SEC   
    Network +Women's Basketball vs. Vanderbilt ,  
    1 p.m., SEC NetworkSoftball @ Louisiana, 2 p.m., Cox       Sports TVMen's Tennis @ ITA National Team       Indoor Championships, TBDALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2018
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
The Seattle Tennis Club sits on the 
rocky shores of Lake Washington with 
a distant view of Mount Rainier. The 
choppy, blue waters and the snow-
topped mountain will serve as the back-drop to this weekend’s ITA National Team Indoor Championships.  
The Florida men’s tennis team is 
among 15 of the nation’s top-25 pro-grams competing in the event.
“It’s going to be fun,” coach Bryan 
Shelton said. “We’ll have the chance to sightsee a little bit.”
After last weekend’s Big Ten road 
trip to No. 13 Michigan and No. 2 Ohio State, this tournament will be the 
Gators’ ﬁ  nal action before beginning of-ﬁ  cial SEC dual-match play.
In today’s ﬁ  rst-round, No. 11 Florida 
will play No. 6 Texas A&M in a pre-
view of such conference action. The Aggies (5-1) hold the second-highest ranking of all SEC teams, trailing only No. 4 Georgia. Their roster features the No. 35-ranked singles player, sopho-more Valentin Vacherot, and the No. 
6-ranked doubles pair of freshman Juan 
Carlos Aguilar and senior Jordi Arcon-ada.
The No. 11 Gators (4-2) have lost 
their last ﬁ  ve meetings against Texas A&M. Their most recent win over the Aggies came in 2013 during Shelton’s ﬁ  rst season as head coach.
Prior to today’s match, Shelton said 
he wants to see a stronger start from his team offensively.“We’ve been talking about coming 
out and really trying to take the ﬁ  rst punch,” Shelton said. “We need to be the aggressors.”
Florida’s lineup will remain mostly 
unchanged from previous matches, with No. 9-ranked junior Alfredo Perez and No. 7-ranked sophomore Johannes Ingildsen playing the top singles posi-
tions. Freshman Andy Andrade is likely 
to make his ﬁ  rst appearance on the dou-bles court at some point this weekend.
The Gators’ ﬁ  rst-round match 
against the Aggies is scheduled to begin at 3 p.m. today. Florida will face either No. 3 North Carolina or No. 14 Notre Dame in Saturday’s round. 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.org Florida to kick oﬀ   ITA national indoor championships today
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Bryan Shelton wants to see his team be more assertive today during 
the ITA national indoor championships. “We need to be the aggresors. ”
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
After a long winter break, the Florida men’s 
golf team will begin its season this weekend at 
the SunTrust Gator Invitational in Gainesville.
The annual event, in which Florida placed 
fourth last year, features 16 teams from across the Southeast. No. 8 Florida will be joined by the likes of No. 3 Vanderbilt, No. 17 Missouri 
and No. 20 Arkansas.
While Florida will face some tough com-
petition this weekend, coach J.C. Deacon said 
his team is eager for the challenge.
“We got some of the best players in the 
country and best teams in the country com-ing here this weekend,” Deacon said. “Having the best players in the country coming to their home course, they’re very, very excited.”Last spring, the Gators’ season ended in 
disappointment at the NCAA Regionals in Indiana, ﬁ  nishing eighth out of 13 teams. They also failed to win an SEC championship, 
which they last won in 2011.
“We’ve won a lot of tournaments, but we 
haven’t won anything on that level yet,” Dea-
con said. “That’s the next step for this team.”
Deacon also stressed that he is looking for 
consistent, team-based success this weekend instead of relying on one individual player, like defending individual SEC champion Ale-jandro Tosti, to carry the team.
“We got ﬁ  ve guys who can contribute at 
a really high level,” Deacon said. “And that’s exactly what I’m expecting.” 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgBy Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
With the 2018 SEC Indoor Championships 
set to begin next week, Florida’s distance med-ley relay team will compete in a qualifying race today at the UCS Invitational in Winston-Sa-lem, North Carolina, tonight at 8. 
The Gators are coming off a big week at the 
Tiger Paw Invitational and Iowa State Classic on Feb. 9 and 10 where they set two historical 
milestones, including sophomore Grant Hol-
loway’s NCAA record in the 60-meter hurdles and the men’s 4x400 relay team’s fourth fastest ﬁ  nish in collegiate history.
UF’s distance medley relay team will in-
clude junior Sam Ahrenholz leading off (1200 
meters), junior Kyren Hollis running second 
(400 meters), sophomore Justin Paciﬁ  co run-ning the third leg (800 meters) and junior Jack Guyton ﬁ  nishing with the mile.
“I didn’t think coming (into this season) that 
I could compete with all the big-named athletes here in the 800 and nationally,” Paciﬁ  co said. “I’m proving to myself that I can.”
Paciﬁ  co and his teammates are hoping to 
ﬁ  nish today’s race with a time good enough to put them in the top 12 in the national rankings, which would earn them a spot in the NCAA Championships at the beginning of March.
“(It helps) to have that championship atmo-
sphere this week because everybody’s trying to qualify for this national meet,” Paciﬁ  co said. “This is just one step in preparing us for what’s coming up in the next couple of weeks.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgDeacon ready for Gators’ 
season opener on SaturdayUF distance medley relay team competing tonightMEN’S GOLFMEN’S TENNIS
TRACK & FIELDINSIDE
Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar could be the highest-drafted duo in 
Florida baseball history. Both of them nearly didn’t make it to Florida. 
ONLINE
Visit alligator.org/sports for complete coverage of Florida’s opening weekend. OPENINGDAY
Florida’s baseball program, coming oﬀ   its ﬁ  rst national title, has 
featured an abundance of elite arms in recent years. This year’s pocket 
rockets, opposite as they are, could end up being the best of them all. A PAIR OF ACESOPENINGDAY
 LOOK AT THE WALL. 
Standing about ﬁ  ve 
feet away, wearing 
silky blue T-Shirts and 
shorts, a pair of lanky 
right-handers toss 
baseballs back and forth amid a crowd of 
teammates. Nobody’s 
here to watch them now. 
Not yet.
McKethan Stadium is empty. The season 
opener is three weeks away, and the pair of 
righties, zinging throw after throw, looks like ev-
eryone else on the ﬁ  eld: Anonymous. Talented. 
Able to throw a baseball in a straight line. But look closer. 
Something about these two is different. 
On the left, wearing No. 37, is Jackson Kowar, 
a 6-foot-6, 185-pound native of metropolitan 
Charlotte, North Carolina. His white socks barely cover his ankles, and his blue undershirt dangles over his elbows. His stubble is reminiscent of  a 
man who’s been meaning to shave but hasn’t gotten around to it, and his arms hang loose like 
long, twisting noodles. They sway as he waits for his partner to dart the ball back. 
On the right, wearing No. 51, is Brady Singer, 
a 6-foot-5, 210-pound native of rural Eustis, Flor-ida. His dark socks ride up to just below his calf, and his undershirt sleeves are severed above the elbow. He has some light facial hair reminiscent 
of someone who missed a spot while shaving, 
although that’s dwarfed by his pale skin and freckles, and his body is rigid and calculated with each throw. He makes sure the ball has ar-rived, then waits an extra second before snap-
ping out of his throwing pose. 
Neither one of them should be here, if any-
one should be anywhere. Kowar was supposed 
to play college baseball elsewhere. Singer was 
supposed to skip college altogether, and he al-
most gave up baseball long before he had that option. Yet, they’ve been tossing together since they moved into Springs Residential Complex, back when they’d never met. 
“Hey, let me know when you’re here,” Kowar 
texted Singer as he awaited his new roommate’s arrival in the summer of 2015. 
“I’m here,” Singer wrote back immediately. 
Kowar left their room and entered a main-
tenance alley behind the complex near some 
dumpsters and parked scooters. He found Singer waiting in his lifted, blue, gravel-pounding Ford F-150, with ﬁ  shing poles and camouﬂ  age every-
thing stuffed to the windshield in the passenger 
seat. 
“I didn’t know he was such a redneck,” 
Kowar thought. But he kept that to himself and 
became fast friends with Singer, despite never 
indulging in his new roommate’s choice hobbies of ﬁ  shing, hunting and motocross. It worked because yes, they’re different. Sing-
er can be quick-tempered and tightly strung. He listens to country music stars Eric Church and Hank Williams, watches the outdoor channel, 
and his favorite movie is “Talladega Nights: The 
Ballad of Ricky Bobby.”
“We joke with him as if he lives in a barn,” 
former teammate Alex Faedo said, “but he 
doesn’t.”
Kowar, meanwhile, was described by several 
friends as a laid-back hipster. He likes wearing 
tight-ﬁ  tting pants, listens to all kinds of music and wore a mop of shaggy brown hair in the 
College World Series. 
“He’s very Cali swag hippie,” Faedo added. 
But their conﬂ  icting interests, personalities 
and even pitching styles have constructed two 
of the best arms in college baseball — an impres-
sive feat anywhere, but especially at Florida. The Gators have produced three pitchers — Faedo, A.J. Puk and Dane Dunning — taken in the ﬁ  rst round of the MLB Draft in the past two years, 
and Singer and Kowar could join them this June. 
MLB.com ranks Singer as the top prospect in 
all of amateur baseball entering the 2018 Draft, 
with Kowar close behind at No. 10. If they stick 
to those projections, Singer would be the ﬁ  rst 
Florida player to go No. 1 while Kowar’s selec-tion would make them the highest-drafted pair in the 106-year history of UF baseball. 
Again, you’d never know watching them long 
toss. They look like anyone else on the team, at least while warming up with no one around. 
That changes tonight. Fans will ﬁ  ll McK-
ethan with Florida slated to open the 2018 
season against Siena at 6:30. Singer will be on 
the mound as Friday night’s starter for the ﬁ  rst time, while Kowar will follow on Saturday. Each hopes to contribute meaningful innings to UF’s ﬁ  rst-ever national title defense and show Siena’s hitters that, while they long toss and lace their cleats like any other ball players, they pitch like 
no one the Saints have ever seen. 
They’ll tell you they don’t think about the 
hype, titles, their draft stock or any of it. That 
they’re just taking it, as the old athlete cliche 
goes, “one day at a time,” with goals centered on 
attacking each at-bat and ﬁ  xing whatever prob-lems arise. And adding to a lineage of prestigious pitchers for which Florida has become known? They really don’t think about that. 
But as a spectator, it’s impossible not to won-
der. With all the recent success of Florida’s arm arsenal, are these two poised to be the two best of them all?
***
Look at the mound. The same mound where 
Singer stood exactly 249 days ago, rain pelting 
his face, prepared to face Wake Forest right ﬁ  eld-
er Keegan Maronpot. The winner of that game advanced to the College World Series, and Sing-er, as always, wanted the ball. If his team was 
gonna go to Omaha, dammit if he wasn’t the one 
to seal it. But the rain poured hard enough to make his cap drip and turn the clay beneath his feet to orange pudding. 
The umpire called for a rain delay. That was 
familiar to Florida. The Gators had already en-dured two rain delays in the three-game series with the Demon Deacons, which may have con-tributed to what happened next.
Read the rest of the story online at alligator.
org/sports. By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
‘THE ODD COUPLE’
Look at the mound. The same mound where 
Singer stood exactly 249 days ago, rain pelting 
his face, prepared to face Wake Forest right ﬁ  eld-
er Keegan Maronpot. The winner of that game 
advanced to the College World Series, and Sing-
er, as always, wanted the ball. If his team was 
gonna go to Omaha, dammit if he wasn’t the one 
to seal it. But the rain poured hard enough to 
make his cap drip and turn the clay beneath his 
The umpire called for a rain delay. That was 
familiar to Florida. The Gators had already en-
dured two rain delays in the three-game series 
with the Demon Deacons, which may have con-
Read the rest of the story online at alligator.
FLORIDA’S PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
P - BRADY SINGER C - JJ SCHWARZ1B - KEENAN BELL 2B- BLAKE REESE 3B - JONATHAN 
INDIA
DH - NELSON 
MALDONADORF - WIL DALTON
 LF - AUSTIN 
LANGWORTHY
RF - WIL DALTON
 CF - NICK HORVATH SS- BRADY 
MCCONNELL