We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators travel to Knoxville
UF will look for its ﬁ  rst conference win of the season Saturday. 
We have three burning questions this game should answer, pg14Fuchs responds to students
UF President Kent Fuchs’ The Alligator column addresses why 
he changed graduation ceremonies, pg7
UF’s law school sees drops
Fewer ﬁ  rst-time UF bar exam takers are passing, pg4THE DEPARTMENT OF 
JUSTICE LAUNCHED A 
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION 
IN AUGUST.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Rachel Kalﬁ  n was just trying to 
go to her fashion design class. 
The now-27-year-old former in-
mate looked forward to her classes 
at the prison. They served as an outlet for her to 
better herself and stay out of trouble.  
But one morning, there was more 
than a gate that stood in her way. 
As she approached the gate for 
her class, it slammed and locked in 
front of her. 
A guard stepped in front of the 
doorway, his medium build block-
ing her path, which was just wide 
enough to ﬁ  t one person. 
The guard said she could earn 
her way through the gate if she per-formed oral sex on him. 
Kalﬁ  n denied, but when she 
turned to ﬁ  nd someone else to open 
the gate for her, the ofﬁ  cer hand-
cuffed her for being disrespectul.
When she reported the harass-
ment and explained the situation 
to staff members, Kalﬁ  n said they 
agreed that she was being disrespect-
ful. The report landed her in conﬁ  ne-
ment, she said. 
“They told me it was all my 
fault,” she said.It was reports like Kalﬁ  n’s that 
prompted the Department of Justice 
to launch a federal investigation in 
August to look into allegations of 
sexual abuse and harassment at 
Lowell Correctional Institution in 
Ocala. The investigation is ongoing 
and could take months, said Laura 
Cowall, an attorney with the Civil 
Rights Division of the department. If 
proof of the allegations is found, the 
ﬁ  ndings will be made public.
Patrick Manderﬁ  eld, the press secretary of the Florida Department 
of Corrections, wrote in an email 
that the investigation is welcome 
and that the department is commit-
ted to assisting the department with 
the inquiry. 
“The Department does not toler-
ate any form of abuse,” Manderﬁ  eld 
said. “We take all allegations of this 
type of behavior very seriously.”
The women’s prison currently 
houses 2,367 inmates. Since 2015, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 13
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Cy-Anne Small, a 21-year-old UF elementary education senior, voices her displeasure about 
the changes to the commencement ceremony outside Tigert Hall where about 10 students 
held a rally. 
By Jessica Curbelo and 
McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writers
Hailee Cornett’s grandmother will 
not get to see her walk across the stage 
at graduation.
The outdoor commencement cer-
emony in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 
would be impossible to endure for her 
94-year-old grandmother, who is oxy-
gen-dependent and heat-sensitive, the 
UF political science senior said.
“One of the most important people 
in my life won’t be able to attend be-
cause of the new policy,” she said. 
Cornett attended a rally with eight 
other people Thursday morning at Ti-
gert Hall to protest the recent changes 
UF made to its commencement ceremo-
nies. The rally was followed by a meet-
ing between UF President Kent Fuchs 
and student leaders to talk about the 
commencement structure. 
UF received backlash after students 
were rushed offstage during the Spring 
commencement ceremony. Now, UF 
will hold a university-wide outdoor commencement ceremony where stu-
dents won’t be individually recognized. 
Colleges will hold their own ceremo-
nies with student recognition.
The change prompted Anthony Ro-
jas, a 22-year-old ﬁ  rst-year political 
science master’s student, to create a 
petition against the new changes that 
amassed over 11,000 signatures and or-
ganize the rally. 
“No one asked you to change grad-
uation,” he said. “We asked you to 
change the way you perceive us, the 
way you treat us and the way you 
shoved us.”
Rojas said Fuchs made several com-
mitments to him during Thursday’s 
meeting. The Alligator was not allowed 
to attend the meeting because it was 
private, according to UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando.
Fuchs agreed to create a way for 
Fall and Spring graduates to offer their 
feedback on the structure after the cer-
emony and consider changes to the 
model accordingly, Rojas said. 
Some of the college ceremonies will UF President Fuchs meets with students about graduation changesFREE STUDENT TICKETS 
ARE AVAILABLE FOR PICK 
UP SEPT. 28 AND OCT. 1.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Mr. Worldwide is making a pit 
stop in Gainesville at the beginning 
of October. Accent Speakers Bureau has 
partnered with Hispanic Heritage 
Month to bring Armando Christian 
Pérez, better known as Pitbull, to 
the Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts Oct. 2, said Gregory Wolf, 
the chairman of Accent Speakers 
Bureau. 
Pitbull will participate in a one-
hour Q&A session moderated by 
Ted Spiker, the chair of the jour-nalism department, followed by a 
15-minute opportunity for students 
to ask questions.
“He’s used his position, his stat-
ure in society, to do a lot of good 
for a lot of people, and we wanted 
to give him a platform to speak,” 
Wolf said. 
Wolf declined to say how much 
Pitbull is being paid. 
Doors will open at 7:05 p.m., and the show will start at 7:45 
p.m., Wolf said. 
Students can pick up two free 
tickets with their Gator 1 Card 
Sept. 28 and Oct. 1 in the Student 
Government suite in the Reitz 
Union, he said. Students can do 
so between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. ac-
cording to Accent’s Facebook page. 
Sydney Patterson, an 18-year-
old UF international studies fresh-man, was ﬁ  rst introduced to his 
music by her host sister when she 
studied abroad in Spain in Spring 
2016. She has hoped to see him live 
ever since, she said. 
“I just would like to hear a 
glimpse into his life,” she said. 
“What is it like to wake up and live 
the life of Pitbull?” 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgSinger Pitbull coming to UF to speak, hold Q&A
SEE GRADUATION,  PAGE 8
SEE PRISON,  PAGE 8FEATURE FRIDAY
Former inmates report sexual, physical abuse at female Ocala prison T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 13
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Online Sports Editor
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Marlowe Starling, Madison ForbisHIGH  91° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights – Festi-Fall
At 9 p.m., a live musical perfor-
mance by Honey County will be 
shown in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. Other festivities in-
clude a round of “Pumpkin Spice 
Bingo,” where players can win a 
prize. Guests can also create fall 
scents at an aromatherapy station 
and receive a custom wood etch-
ing. Other crafts include making 
a mason jar luminary. Pumpkin 
spice coffee drinks will also be 
served at Global Coffeehouse. 
“Ocean’s Eight” will also be 
shown at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union Auditorium, 
where popcorn and soda will be 
offered. Free bowling and bil-
liards will be in the Game Room 
and a barbecue will be held at 
Midnight Munchies. 
DreamQuilt
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting artists 
and performers for "SoulMakes: 
Immersive Art Show" from noon 
to 4 p.m. Saturday at Cypress and 
Grove Brewing Company. All 
types of artists are welcome, and 
presenting artists are encouraged 
to do demonstrations, talk with 
guests and work on projects in 
the available space. Participants 
and guests interact in an open, 
creative environment, blending 
different forms of art. Visitors 
can participate in collaborative 
canvas and collage workshops. 
Current students may apply to 
show their work for free. To sell 
art or craft items, a booth fee of 
$15 applies. Learn more by email-
ing booking@dreamquilt.org or 
texting 352-872-2620.Entries accepted for ButterflyFest 
Facebook photo challenge un-
til Monday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting the sixth-annu-
al ButterflyFest Facebook Photo 
Challenge. Submit your best pic-
ture incorporating ecosystem ser-
vices by Monday for your chance 
to win prizes. This free challenge 
is open to all ages. The museum 
will post the top 10 images from 
entries received on its Facebook 
page Oct. 1, and the public will 
select the overall winner online 
via the most likes. The winning 
photograph will be recognized 
during ButterflyFest Oct. 13. For 
more information, including en-
try guidelines, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/event/butterflyfest-
photo-deadline.
Student Government Elections
Vote for your Student 
Government senator from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Tuesday and 
Wednesday. Polling locations in-
clude Broward Recreation Room, 
Hough Hall Room 120, Health 
Science Center C2-41C, Jennings 
Hall Library, Levin College of 
Law BGH Student Commons, 
second floor of the Marston 
Computer Lab, Murphree 
Conference Room, Norman 
Education Library, Reitz SG Print 
Lab, Springs Area Office Room 
C202 and Southwest Recreation 
Social Lounge. Questions? Visit 
sg.ufl.edu/elections, or email 
Supervisor of Elections, Henry 
Fair, at elections@sg.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to open new 
‘Permian Monsters’ exhibit 
Sept. 29
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will open its newest fea-tured exhibit, “Permian Monsters: 
Life before the Dinosaurs” with 
free activities from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. on Sept. 29. As an early cel-
ebration of National Fossil Day, 
visitors may speak with mem-
bers of Florida fossil clubs  about 
what fossils can be found around 
the state and meet paleontolo-
gists and geologists who work to 
uncover the secrets of these an-
cient remains. Visitors can learn 
about the world’s greatest extinc-
tion event with life-size models, 
real fossils, interactive dig pits 
and computer games. While the 
exhibit has an entrance fee, mu-
seum members and UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 Card receive 
free admission. For more infor-
mation, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/permian-monsters or 
call 352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
IT WILL BE RESTORED 
AND POTENTIALL Y PUT 
ON DISPLAY.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Marty Jourard moved to 
Los Angeles in 1978 to become a 
musician, he left the Florida Motel 
behind, but he took the name with 
him.
He joined the band The Mo -
tels, a nod to his memories of 
Gainesville when he passed the 
Southwest 13th Street sign every 
morning before school. 
“It was sort of, like, burned 
into my visual memory as some -
thing that was always there,” Jou -
rard said.
Forty-two years after he left, 
the legacy of the retro sign finally 
came to an end.
On Wednesday morning, the 
iconic Florida Motel sign was dis -
mantled and taken to a warehouse 
owned by the city of Gainesville, 
said Danny Powell, the owner of 
Signstar, a company specializing 
in signs. The sign will be restored 
and possibly displayed again. 
The sign was removed in sec -
tions over the course of six hours 
with the help of a five-person 
crew, Powell said. A crane hoist -
ed it out of the way and onto the 
trailers. Workers had to be careful removing the sign due to the rust.
The Florida Motel was demol -
ished about two weeks prior to the 
sign to make way for a Comfort 
Suites Hotel. At that time, ques -tions about the future of the sign 
circulated. Florida Motel commer -
cial broker and realtor Chip Patel 
raised $970 out of the $2,500 he 
needed for the sign to be donated to the city as of Thursday. 
News of the sign reached Tam -
pa, where Signstar is located, and 
Powell reached out to help.
“It’s not just unique to Gainesville, but to the state and 
the country,” Powell said. 
Money raised from the Go -
FundMe page will go toward re -
storing the sign to its original aes -
thetic from the 1950s, said Wendy 
Thomas, the director of the city of 
Gainesville’s Department of Do -
ing.
“I think it will be missed, but 
I think a great part of this story 
is that it was not demolished,” 
Thomas said. 
It will take a lot of care and 
six months of restoration before 
the public can see it again, Powell 
said.
“A lot of these signs, people 
have grown up seeing them every 
day,” Powell said. “I just enjoy be -
ing a part of something to restore 
that.”
Growing up in Gainesville, Jou -
rard said the Florida Motel sign re -
minded him of home.
He last saw it a year ago when 
he came back to Gainesville to 
visit his mother. He was disap -
pointed to hear of the icon’s de -
mise but understood that nothing 
lasts forever.
“What’s really pleased me (is) 
that against all odds, somebody 
thought that it was worth saving 
that sign,” Jourard said. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org Historic Florida Motel sign dismantled from 13th Street
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Construction workers dismantle the iconic Florida Motel sign on Southwest 13th Street Wednesday 
afternoon. It took six hours and a five-person crew. 
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
Christine DiPaolo has gone to 
Leonardo’s By the Slice since she 
was 8 years old.
Growing up, DiPaolo, a UF 
Levin College of Law first-year, 
stopped by Leonardo’s after her 
swim meets to grab pepperoni 
pizza and garlic rolls. 
It looked like her tradition might come to end after UF 
bought the property in 2016 and 
announced its plan to build a 
new School of Music building in 
its place, but DiPaolo can savor 
the rolls a little bit longer. 
UF extended Leonardo’s By 
The Slice’s lease until June 2020, 
while the restaurant searches for 
a new location, co-owner Brian 
Johnson said.
UF decided on the extension because it does not yet have the 
funds to construct the music 
building, said Margot Winick, a 
UF spokesperson.
UF hopes to secure legislative 
funding for the music building 
but asking for funds is a multi-
year process, she said. 
“For now, we are happy for 
Leonardo’s to continue to stay 
in business and serve its great 
pizza,” Winick said.Johnson said he will look into 
a new location in Gainesville for 
Leonardo’s By The Slice within 
the next year. 
“The university has been very 
fair with (its) lease terms and are 
working with us in a very kind 
way,” he said. “We feel they are 
looking out for us.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgLeonardo’s Pizza lease extended to June 2020
THIS JUL Y, 70.9 PERCENT OF UF 
STUDENTS PASSED COMPARED 
TO LAST SUMMER’S 77 PERCENT.
By Emily Thomas
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The latest Florida bar exam results show 
a continuing downward trend for UF’s Levin 
College of Law. 
The Florida Supreme Court released the 
July 2018 bar exam results Monday, and 
UF’s pass rate came in at 70.9 percent, 
which is about 6 percent lower than the pass 
rate in July 2017. Of UF’s 258 first-time bar 
takers this July, 183 passed. Law students 
must pass the bar exam to practice as attor-
neys in Florida.
UF’s pass rate ranked fourth-highest out 
of 11 schools in the state, but the numbers 
still fall short of other top law programs. 
On top was Florida International University 
with an 88.1 percent pass rate, followed by 
Florida State University at 84.8 percent and 
the University of Miami with 83.2 percent, 
according to the Supreme Court of Florida’s 
press release. FIU and FSU both saw im-
provements in their pass rates compared to July 2017.
In a message written to Levin College 
of Law alumni, the college’s dean, Laura 
Rosenbury, expressed her displeasure with 
the results and hope for improvement. 
“As the best law school in Florida, UF 
Law should also have the highest first-time 
bar passage rate in the state,” Rosenbury 
wrote in the letter.
The college plans to reach out to those 
who did not pass and analyze the effective-
ness of the support it provided during the 
summer, Rosenbury said. 
The support included an optional bar 
review course for third-year students in the 
spring; one-on-one bar exam tutoring from 
professionals; a multi-day bar exam work-
shop; licenses for graduating students to ac-
cess AdaptiBar, a database with over 1,700 
licensed questions from past exams; and a 
young alumni support network, Rosenbury 
said.
This is not the first time Rosenbury has 
been dissatisfied with UF’s performance 
on the bar. After UF law students scored 
the lowest in the state on the February bar 
exam, Rosenbury released a statement ex-
pressing her outrage. 
“The results are utterly unacceptable giv-en the caliber of our students and the quality 
of their education,” she wrote. 
The pass rate then prompted the college 
to reevaluate how they prepare students for 
the bar exam. Now, the college is focusing 
on earlier intervention by offering optional 
courses for second- and third-year students, 
Rosenbury said. There will also be a diag-
nostic assessment of all first-year students 
to better understand the individual students’ 
needs.
“We will never teach to the bar,” Rosen-
bury said. “But we will provide better advis-
ing and support to our students.”
Andrea Faverio, a UF Law first-year, said 
UF gives its law students more freedom to 
choose their courses, which can be helpful 
for students taking other states’ bar exams. 
Many schools often tailor their courses spe-
cifically to the Florida bar exam, she said.
Though she’s nervous to take the bar 
exam, Faverio thinks the administration is 
committed to fixing the low pass rates. She 
has a lot of confidence in the faculty and the 
dean, she said.
“I think (Rosenbury) is really dedicated 
to showing the rest of the country that UF 
Law is not a law school that should be un-
derrated,” Faverio said.UF’s bar exam passing rates continue to sink  The University Foundation bought the land in 2016.A COLLEGE FUND FOR 
GRADUATE STUDENTS MAY BE 
CREATED IN STANSL Y’S HONOR.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
The weevil was the 
best thing that happened 
to Philip Stansly.  
“Dad always said that, 
‘If it wasn’t for weevil, 
none of y’all would be 
here today,’” said his son 
Ted Stansly. 
His dad was full of 
snappy sayings and 
quotes, Ted Stansly said with a small sigh. 
Philip Stansly, a UF professor and inter-
national entomologist, died at 74 years old 
on Sept. 12 in Fort Myers after more than a 
year-long battle with colon cancer.
Stansly’s career began in Africa with 
the Peace Corps. He would leave his lodg-
ing each morning on camelback to release 
swarms of ladybugs. His efforts helped 
keep insects from killing off the date palms 
locals depended on for food, shelter and 
fuel, he said.  
The self-proclaimed “bug doctor’s” trav-
els led him from the Sahara Desert to Mex-
ico to Venezuela and Ecuador in pursuit of fighting small plant-eating pests. These ex-
peditions earned Stansly the nickname the 
“psyllid slayer.”
Stansly ventured to a research facility 
in Lazaro Cardenas, Mexico more than 30 
years ago in search of a solution to the boll 
weevil, a pest wreaking havoc on all kinds 
of crops. This trip cemented his legacy, his 
son said. 
Ted Stansly, Stansly’s oldest of two sons 
and a 35-year-old UF doctoral agronomy 
senior, said this trip to southern Mexico is 
where Stansly met his wife, Silvia Stansly. 
She survives him along with his two sons, 
two daughters, one sister, granddaughter 
and niece. 
The extroverted scientist was happy to 
share knowledge with anyone, said Blair 
Siegfried, the UF entomology department 
chair.
“We’ve all become so specialized that 
Phil was one of those rare individuals who 
knew a lot about a lot of different subjects,” 
he said.
Stansly worked with the UF Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences at South-
west Florida Research and Education Cen-
ter in Immokalee, Florida since 1989.
Kelly Morgan, the Southwest Florida 
Research and Education Center director, 
said he worked with Stansly at the center 
for 13 years. Together they studied how to improve tree health and overcome impacts 
of fertilizers.
“He wasn’t into science just for the sci-
ence. It had to improve the production 
practices and benefit the grower,” Morgan 
said. “It really is (his legacy).”
He was always there to provide solu-
tions to these crises, Siegfried said. 
“Phil was one the of the best entomolo-
gists I’ve ever known,” Siegfried said. “I 
think he saved growers in very difficult 
situations when there were certain pest 
outbreaks.” 
Stansly was committed to international 
agriculture and taught students in his lab 
who went on to have successful careers in 
the agriculture industry, Siegfried said.
He plans to work with IFAS to create a 
scholarship fund for international students 
to honor and continue Stansly’s decades of 
work put into his program, Stansly said.
Stansly spoke at his last Citrus Expo less 
than one month before his death while bat-
tling the painful effects of cancer, Siegfried  
said. Though most experts gave one presen-
tation, he gave two. 
“If you listen to his words, near the end 
you can almost hear he was saying his 
goodbyes, and I felt like that was pretty 
noble of him,” Ted Stansly said.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org ‘Bug doctor’ Philip Stansly dies at age 74
Stansly
EACH STUDENT CAN MAKE 25 COPIES.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
In advance of the Fall Career Showcase, 
students are stocking up on resumes. 
Students can print 25 copies of their re-
sume for free at the Student Government 
Graphics and Copy Center in the Reitz Union 
until Wednesday, said Bianca Wilhelm, a stu-
dent assistant at the copy center. 
Resumes can be brought in on a flash 
drive or emailed to the center, Wilhelm said. 
Resumes should be saved as a PDF to ensure 
they are printed properly. 
Students need to present their Gator 1 Card 
when they pick up their resumes, Wilhelm 
said. Copies can be made in black and white 
or color. There are also choices in white and 
off-white parchment paper. 
“It’s a little more professional,” Wilhelm 
said. “It doesn’t just look like you printed it 
out at home.” 
The total cost for SG will be assessed after 
the program ends, Student Body President Ian 
Green wrote in an email.
The program will help students bring am-
ple copies of their resume to the upcoming 
Career Showcase Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Michael Arnold, a 20-year-old UF industri-
al and systems engineering junior, will attend 
UF’s Career Showcase for the first time.
“The 25 copies are really good so that you 
can talk to a lot of different people and make 
sure they’ll have something to remember you 
by,” Arnold said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF hopes to combat the unwelcoming po-
litical climate toward immigrants with a new 
video encouraging more international students 
to find their home on campus. 
UF’s International Center created a  
#YouAreWelcomeHere video to remind cur-
rent and prospective international students 
that everyone is welcome at UF, said Mabel 
Cardec, a UF International Center spokesper-
son. The video shares the success stories of 
current international students. It cost $5,500 
and was produced by media services at the 
College of Journalism and Communications.
“It is just a way of telling everyone that was 
planning on coming to the states to study that 
yes, we are still a safe place,” Cardec said.
UF is still working to recover from a dip in 
international enrollment it experienced in the 
2017-18 school year, said Leonardo Villalón, 
the dean of the International Center. The num-
ber of new international students sank to 1,043 
this year compared to the previous year’s 
1,453. UF saw little improvement this year 
with 1,049 incoming international students.  
Zhonglin Lai, a 21-year-old UF biological 
engineering senior, came to the U.S. six years 
ago to gain a different view of the world, she 
said.
“I also want to welcome other international 
students because I want to pass on this wel-
coming atmosphere we have at UF,” Lai said. Need to print 
your resume? 
UF welcomes 
immigrantsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HE DIDN’T GET 
FAR WITH THE FORK.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
After peeking out his back window early 
Thursday morning, a man saw his great-
grandson trying to break into his house with 
a fork, police said.
Ezra Aazon Strickland Jr., 19, of Gainesville, is accused of 
trying to burglarize his 
great-grandfather’s home 
on Southeast Ninth Place 
by prying the back door 
open with a fork and a 
wrench, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest 
report. 
Strickland’s great-
grandfather watched from the back window 
as Strickland knelt down and tried to pry the door open. He called police as Strickland un-
successfully used the fork and wrench to get 
inside, the report said.
The great-grandfather told police Strick-
land has not been welcome in his home for 
a year and accused him of stealing from his 
house before, police said.
Strickland was able to break into the 
house last Friday and stole $200 in cash, the 
report said. The great-grandfather did not re-
port the burglary to police.
When police arrived, Strickland began to slowly walk away from the door and into the 
yard. Police found Strickland hiding behind 
an oak tree in the front yard, the report said. 
There were scratch marks on the door 
and a wrench and fork in Strickland’s pants, 
police said. Strickland denied trying to get in.
Strickland was charged with attempted 
burglary, the report said. He is held in Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgFork, wrench used to try to break into great-grandfather’s houseBy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police are 
looking for a man accused 
of attempting to murder 
someone by stabbing at 
Circle K early Wednesday 
morning.
Randy James Gillis, 
37, of Gainesville, is ac-
cused of stabbing a man 
during a ﬁ  ght around 5 a.m. at the gas sta-
tion, at 20 NE Waldo Road, according to a 
sworn complaint.
The man told police he was sweep-
ing the gas station parking lot when Gillis 
walked up to him and began arguing with 
him. The man said Gillis might have been 
angry with him because he gave Gillis’ girl-
friend two cigarettes last Friday, the report 
said. The man told Gillis he didn’t “want his 
girlfriend” and walked inside the Circle K 
to avoid ﬁ  ghting, the complaint said. When 
he came back outside to continue sweep-
ing, Gillis told him, “I’m going to kill you.”
Gillis swung at the man, and the two be-
gan ﬁ  ghting. During the ﬁ  ght, Gillis pulled 
out a knife and stabbed the man in the torso 
under his left armpit, police said.
After two Circle K employees broke up 
the ﬁ  ght, the man was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital. He is in stable condition, 
GPD spokesperson Ofc. Ben Tobias wrote 
in an email.
Gillis is usually seen in Dignity Village 
and on Northeast Eighth Avenue near a 
food store, Tobias said. Police are asking 
anyone with information to call Alachua 
County Crime Stoppers at 352-372-STOP.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD looking for man wanted 
for attempted murder
Strickland
Gillis
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
A man accused of 
stashing fake cards in his 
wallet also tried to hide a 
crack pipe in a patrol car, 
Gainesville Police said.
Alain Michel Monte-
negro Perdomo, 35, of 
Orlando, was accused of 
carrying 10 fraudulent 
credit cards in his wallet and a credit card 
skimmer in his van, according to an arrest 
report.
Police pulled over Montenegro Perdo-
mo on Interstate 75 near Williston Road 
for following a car too closely, the report 
said. 
When police asked Montenegro Per-
domo and the passenger where they were 
going, they told two different stories and 
appeared nervous, the report said.
The ofﬁ  cer emptied Montenegro Per-
domo’s pockets and opened up his wal-let to ﬁ  nd 10 fraudulent credit cards with 
pin numbers written on the back in black 
marker.
Police searched the van and found a 
card skimmer in the center console, the 
report said.
After he was read his Miranda rights, 
Montenegro Perdomo said someone gave 
him the phony cards, police said. 
While Montenegro Perdomo was in the 
back of the patrol car, he removed the in-
side of the door panel to hide a set of gas 
pump keys and a crack pipe, the report 
said.
Montenegro Perdomo is charged with 
one count of possessing over ﬁ  ve counter-
feit credit cards, one count of possessing a 
skimming device, one count of tampering 
with evidence and one count of possessing 
drug paraphernalia. 
He is held in Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $157,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgMan counterfeits 10 credit cards
Perdomo
Editorial
Column
The two-ply promise: SG toilet paper review
The toilet ﬂ  ushes, sending miniature 
droplets ﬂ  ying toward my face. Typi-
cally the distance between one’s face 
and the seat of a public toilet would 
suggest some sort of hazing, but hazing 
is against the rules here at UF so that means it 
doesn’t happen (aside from that one dude who 
almost died last Spring).
No, this isn’t some weird kink, either; I was 
just trying to get into the optimal position to 
extract toilet paper for study from the dispenser 
without any potential damage to its structural integrity. 
Oh sweet, sweet two-ply, come to daddy.
When I ﬁ  rst heard about this Student Government two-
ply toilet paper project in the Spring, I was a bit confused. 
Both buildings where I work already had two-ply toilet 
paper. So did the Reitz Union.
But SG isn’t really great at this whole facts thing, so 
they put out a graphic saying “toilet paper upgrade to two-
ply” and listed Reitz as one of the locations receiving “pre-
mium toilet paper.” To their credit, I suppose for Library 
West and Marston, it might have been an upgrade. But 
clearly there was some investigating to do in the Reitz.
I gathered a sample of this new premium two-ply as 
well as a sample of the old two-ply. I took great effort to 
keep the two-ply in the best condition I could, so I could 
further study it in the comfort of my home.
I wasn’t impressed. The only real difference is that the 
new two-ply has a little bit of of dimpling going on (and 
maybe some black ﬂ  ecks). The texture is visible and can 
be felt with one’s ﬁ  nger but it is honestly not that discern-
ible on one’s bottom.
And, yes, I am typing this column on my phone in a 
bathroom stall having recently tested out the two toilet 
papers for myself. This is my lived experience. Oh, the 
things I do in the line of public service…
So what’s the verdict? It sure ain’t Charmin Ultra Soft. 
I rate this new toilet paper as underwhelming as some of the people in SG.
But there indeed is a silver lining:
I talked to the Reitz about this, and they hit 
me up with some of that good knowledge. They 
conﬁ  rmed that they had already been provid-
ing two-ply in the restrooms, so there’s that. 
They also revealed that it was actually slightly 
cheaper to use this new brand of two-ply, sav-
ing $300 a year (which almost makes me feel 
better about the $68,000 it cost to upgrade the 
two-ply at West and Marston). 
Also of note, they found the new two-ply equally as 
soft as the old two-ply (my butt agrees), but ﬁ  nally, and 
most importantly, they noted that this new two-ply is 
Green Seal certiﬁ  ed, meaning that it is comprised of 100 
percent recycled content and at least 50 percent post-con-
sumer material. This I actually appreciate.
I think the graphic misses the mark again, however, 
with its statement that “it’s better for the environment 
when you use less toilet paper” because, in the Reitz, we 
went from two-ply to just-as-soft two-ply; ostensibly, we 
are using the same amount of toilet paper (albeit toilet 
paper made of better materials so perhaps this statement 
can be argued at the carbon footprint level). 
The libraries, on the other hand, appear to really have 
upgraded from one-ply to two-ply, so does that really 
mean we are using less toilet paper? I don’t think so, and 
SG needs to cite some peer-reviewed academic sources in 
order to convince me. Otherwise, I defer to the Toilet Pa-
per Encyclopedia, which says that people generally use 
the same amount of sheets regardless of ply. 
If we wanted to make the truly responsible decision, both 
environmentally and ﬁ  scally, in the context of the libraries, 
we would have just switched to an eco-friendly one-ply. In-
stead, we are ﬂ  ushing $68,000 dollars down the toilet.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
The brick-red buildings on campus are usually alive and 
buzzing, but tonight they are muted and sleepy as you 
jog out of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. The whole campus 
is hibernating. The rattle of a lone scooter can be heard 
in the distance. Spanish moss sways in the late-night 
breeze. It’s not nearly as hot as during the day, which is why 
you like to run the stadium steps in the dark like some sort of 
small Saharan mammal avoiding the midday sun. Your quads 
burn. But after all that exercise, you need nourishment. Across 
the street from you, ﬂ  uorescent lights shine like a beacon 
through the foggy windows of Gator Corner Dining Center. 
Condensation from the humid air frosts the glass, obscuring 
the inside. It seems oddly empty.
You are drawn like a moth to the promise of a sandwich 
and make your way across the intersection. As you cross, your 
mind dreams of what lies inside: endless bowls of Cinnamon 
Toast Crunch, a buffet of ice cream, cookies, salads, and gra-
nola. A mix of guilty pleasures and healthy food. But as you 
approach the front doors, there are no exiting stragglers. You 
pull at the door but the stiff metal doesn’t budge. Your fanta-
sies crash and burn. You are too late. As the mental image of 
a sandwich fades, an old familiar ache replaces it. Only one 
thought crosses your mind:
Darts & Laurels
We wish there was a bigger story in the national headlines 
this week. Desperately. For everyone involved. But the con-
ﬁ  rmation hearings of Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh are hogging 
the spotlight, so we’ll address them ﬁ  rst. Kavanaugh stands 
accused of sexual assault by Christine Blasey Ford, who said 
that Kavanaugh assaulted her during high school in the 1980s. 
This story is too big, and the magnitude of the accusations too 
heavy for us to do it justice by joking about it.
A laurel to every person, woman or man, who has stood 
up to sexual assault. Report it. Tell someone. Even if it is thirty 
years later, and the person who did it is about to take a seat on 
the nation’s highest court. We believe in you. You can do this.
On to more uplifting news: Tom Petty’s daughter, Adria 
Petty, and wife, Dana York, have made a new Tom Petty al-
bum possible. “An American Legend” will be released next 
Friday. It includes a host of unreleased material and alternate 
versions of songs. Many laurels seem to be merited here, 
so we award a laurel each to: Adria Petty, Dana York and 
the bandmates who helped make it possible, including Mike 
Campbell and Benmont Tench along with studio collaborator 
Ryan Ulyate.
On an unrelated but very important note, a laurel to Tom 
Petty for making “Wildﬂ  owers,” which is known as the best 
album to ever grace the ears of man, woman or child. If you 
haven’t listened to it, you need to. Right now. Stop reading 
this editorial and do it. Seriously. A dart to you if you don’t.
The most important story this week didn’t make many 
headlines, however, and it concerns Florida’s most beloved 
grocer. You may be familiar with their slogan: Where purchas-
ing is a hedonic exercise in self-indulgence. (It’s Publix, guys.) 
We’re going to take that literally as we gorge on pub subs, all 
of which are on sale until Wednesday. That’s $5.99 for a bread 
boat overstocked with crispy chicken tender passengers.
A savory, crunchy, salty laurel to Publix chicken tenders. 
A second laurel to whoever came up with this idea; you’ve 
made Publix millions. A third laurel to those watching faith-
fully for the sale, guardians of appetite and value, who alert 
the world and herald deliciousness with the announcement. 
We thank you.
To those who have the audacity, the shamelessness, the 
chutzpah to walk into a Publix and order anything but a chick-
en tender sub, a sad and lonely dart to you.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORZachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Growing up, I was what my parents 
called an adventurous eater. Al-
though that can mean many different 
things depending on how you deﬁ  ne 
adventurous, all you need to know is 
that by the time I was 8, while the majority of 
my classmates and friends swore by the kids 
menu, my wish was to go out for sushi.
I feel fortunate to have grown up with 
parents who cooked and helped me form 
a healthy relationship with food. For all the 
foods I grew up trying and loving, I’ve always had a 
short list of major food dislikes: Fig Newtons (it’s a long 
story), candy corn and red meat.
My reason for not eating red meat isn’t cultural or reli-
gious, and it’s not exactly a mark of activism. Rather, I’ve 
simply never really enjoyed the taste of steaks or burgers. 
Plus, my mom (who is now a fully plant-based vegan) 
eliminated red meat from her diet before I was born for 
the health beneﬁ  ts of eating less meat, so I thought I 
could easily stop eating it too.
Now, I’ve found myself stuck somewhere in the mid-
dle as I navigate social circles where people of all food 
sects are represented. The closest people in my life are 
either proud carnivores or die-hard vegans or vegetar-
ians, while the best label I can come up with for myself 
is a ﬂ  exitarian. I am now used to explaining to friends 
(for the millionth time) that I’m not strictly vegetarian, 
vegan or pescatarian. Even though I eat chicken and tur-
key burgers and seafood, I also enjoy tofu, tempeh and 
other plant-based cuisines. 
My own experiences with food, coupled with the per-
ceptions of my friends and signiﬁ  cant others, have made 
me realize the challenges we encounter when food inter-
twines with our social lives — which is all the time, since 
sharing meals with others is an inherently social activity.
Think about it: In literature and ﬁ  lm, when charac-
ters share meals together, the scenes rarely have any-
thing to do with what’s on their plates; the dinner table 
represents a place for conversation. There seems to be 
an unwritten rule that going on a date typically revolves around food — whether it’s a bowl of movie 
theater popcorn, melty ice cream cone or spe-
cial dinner. For many students, our ﬁ  rst time 
laughing with new friends or acquaintances 
happened over starchy dining hall cuisine.
Thus, food has the power to bring people 
together — but different diets can be a reason 
for conﬂ  ict in friendships and relationships, 
especially since our choices about what we 
eat (and what we don’t eat) can say so much 
more than what we simply like or dislike. 
In this era of wellness and social consciousness, when 
it comes to food, there’s pressure to consider issues like 
sustainability, climate change, animal rights and human 
health, so by committing to a label like veganism, some-
one is positioning themselves with a vegan lifestyle and 
the social values that come with it.
This makes me wonder if citing taste as the main rea-
son to consume or forgo a food group, like red meat, is 
even politically correct at this point. Plus, by not com-
mitting to a clear label like pescetarianism or veganism, I 
almost feel left out of having a concrete food community 
to lean on — which reinforces the interesting social im-
plications of our eating habits.
Although I don’t have the answers to this ever-evolv-
ing food conundrum, the truth is that even with research 
about the impacts of the meat industry on the environ-
ment and health beneﬁ  ts of incorporating more plant-
based cooking into one’s diet, many people are not will-
ing to give up their favorite foods, no matter the cause. 
Some people may even avoid going out to eat with, or 
being in relationships with, people who are “high main-
tenance” or “complicated” in their eating habits.
We may never align with the eating philosophies of 
people in our social circles, but in order to be the best 
friends, partners, roommates, coworkers and classmates 
we can be, we should remember that a love for food, at 
its core, can be something that unites us — if we let it.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
normally appears on Wednesdays.Food brings us together, but it can tear us apartColumnThe World Bank estimates that women 
account for 45.8 percent of the labor 
force in the U.S. Despite our near-equal 
presence, many women still do not feel 
comfortable and conﬁ  dent in the work-
place.
This lack of assurance does not stem from 
our ability to succeed at our jobs, nor does it 
come from inadequate devotion to our work. 
The unfortunate but accurate fact is this: It can 
be hard for women to grow professionally in 
ofﬁ  ces run by men — in ofﬁ  ces with an absence of fe-
male role models for them to look up to.
This summer I had the privilege of interning with the 
National Women’s Health Network, a women’s health 
advocacy group in Washington, D.C. As one might ex-
pect, everyone on staff at the NWHN is a woman — it’s 
not like many men apply to write blog posts about vagi-
nal rejuvenation surgery.
Working in an ofﬁ  ce of all women and an industry 
dominated by women, even for just three months, has 
forever changed the way I will operate in professional 
environments.
I have never felt uncomfortable working in ofﬁ  ces run 
by men, but I have felt timid. Throughout my college 
experience, I’ve held six different internships. In almost 
every workplace, I have found myself in a space where I 
was the only woman. I’m a little embarrassed to admit it, 
but in those situations, I usually felt intimidated, and this 
intimidation barred me from sharing my ideas or opin-
ions. Instead, I usually remained silent and agreeable.
I consider myself a strong woman who has little doubt 
in her professional skills. Still, I’ve been spoken over in 
meetings and had rudimentary topics mansplained to 
me by my even-less-knowledgeable male colleagues. It 
gets tiresome to have to talk a little louder in groups of 
people, and go above and beyond to prove that my intel-
ligence is on par with everyone else's in the room.
It’s not as though these men purposefully try to si-lence me or hurl their condescension at me. 
I’ve always been generally well-respected, but 
there remains an unspoken division between 
males and females in the ofﬁ  ce and an inde-
scribable sense of hierarchical status.
It’s like there is an invisible bubble around 
women, limiting us in what we are willing 
to say and do. I didn’t even realize it existed 
around me until this summer, nor did I realize 
just how much I’d been restricting my growth.
Every woman needs to experience female-
only communities and workplaces — not because we 
can’t survive in a male-dominated world, but because 
we all deserve the chance to ﬂ  ourish without restraint.
This summer, I found myself more willing to share 
risky ideas, more comfortable asking for what I needed 
and more clearly respected and valued. I found myself 
taking initiative on projects and succeeding with fervor.
When I came back to Gainesville and started work-
ing again, I found that the professional character traits I 
developed this summer did not fade away. Despite still 
being one of the few females in my ofﬁ  ce, I came back 
with a newfound conﬁ  dence.
I cannot stress enough the importance of female-only 
communities. Even though society as a whole and the 
professional world has made leaps in terms of tolerance 
and equality among genders, slight divisions will always 
exist. This is why we all deserve a chance to grow conﬁ  -
dent in comfortable and encouraging environments.
The opportunity to grow professionally with the sup-
port of other women is something that must be preserved 
and emboldened. It might mean working in an all-female 
ofﬁ  ce, attending Women’s Student Association meetings 
or volunteering at a women’s shelter or community cen-
ter. Whatever it means to you and wherever you ﬁ  nd it: 
Please, please, embrace it.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism and political science 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.Female-only oﬃ   ces relieve workplace pressureColumn
This Summer and 
Fall I have re-
ceived and re-
sponded to nu-
merous emails, 
letters, messages and 
videos, and had meet-
ings with students and 
others surrounding com-
mencement. 
Most people have 
said they support UF’s commence-
ment ceremonies in the O’Connell 
Center and are concerned about 
future changes in the format and 
venue. An online petition afﬁ  rms 
these sentiments.
After the appalling events sur-
rounding the Saturday afternoon 
commencement in May, I an-
nounced UF would re-conceptual-
ize commencement broadly, and 
that we were seeking input from 
the community, in addition to 
creating a President’s Commence-
ment Task Force. I also decided to 
begin immediate implementation 
of important changes in prepara-
tion for upcoming graduations. We 
have further committed to evalu-
ating graduations over the next 
several years, listening to the com-
munity and to being open to and 
considering changes.
I have had the privilege of pre-
siding over 64 graduation ceremo-
nies since starting as UF president 
in January 2015. The ceremonies 
have been in the O’Connell Center, 
the Phillips Center for the Perform-
ing Arts and Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium, aka The Swamp. For most, 
I have also given the commence-
ment address.
We have several traditions that 
I particularly appreciate. 
First, UF is one of the few uni-
versities in the prestigious Asso-
ciation of American Universities 
which has graduation ceremo-
nies three times a year (August, 
December and late April or early 
May). In addition to UF, of the 34 
AAU public universities, only four 
have graduation ceremonies three 
times a year. Most importantly, UF 
always provides an opportunity for 
every student to be individually 
recognized. 
We are committed to continu-
ing these cherished long-time tra-
ditions.
Although hundreds of faculty 
and staff work hard to make every 
ceremony exceptional, there are 
several areas in which our ceremo-
nies are lacking.
I have been disappointed since 
my ﬁ  rst ceremony in May 2015 
that UF does not provide an op-
portunity for the entire graduating 
class to gather together. 
One of our most valued at-
tributes is that we are one of the 
nation’s most comprehensive uni-
versities with a wide variety of col-
leges. Instead of joyously celebrat-
ing together, we spread degree 
candidates from multiple colleges 
over multiple ceremonies. In May, 
I presided over 10 ceremonies in 
the O’Connell Center — three each 
on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and one on Monday.
I have also been 
disappointed in how 
rushed our ceremonies 
are. This results from 
trying to bring together 
all the expected for-
malities of graduation 
with individual recog-
nition of each gradu-
ate. Ceremonies in the 
O’Connell Center need to be con-
ﬁ  ned to two hours when three 
ceremonies are scheduled per day. 
Thus, we are constantly pressed 
for time and everyone is rushed, 
including speakers, musicians and 
graduates.
By adding a new all-university 
ceremony and keeping the indi-
vidual recognition tradition, we 
will create a new opportunity for 
our entire campus to celebrate to-
gether in The Swamp and enhance 
individual recognition ceremonies. 
Our new model mirrors how 
most AAU universities celebrate 
graduation, including the current 
top ﬁ  ve public universities — the 
University of Michigan; University 
of California, Berkeley; the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill; the University of Virginia and 
UCLA.
Most of the input I have re-
ceived asks for students to be 
individually recognized in the 
O’Connell Center. We will work 
to schedule the O’Connell Center 
for as many student recognition 
ceremonies as possible. In fact, 75 
percent of those graduating in De-
cember will be individually recog-
nized there, with the remainder in 
more intimate settings.
Although some students will 
have their recognition ceremonies 
on Friday or Sunday, we will maxi-
mize the number who can attend 
the all-university ceremony and 
their individual recognition cer-
emony on Saturday. This will re-
duce the need for family members 
and guests to stay overnight.
We are committed to con-
stantly evaluating and improving 
our graduation ceremonies. The 
President’s Commencement Task 
Force will have an important im-
pact on the individual recognition 
ceremonies, which are currently 
being planned as well as our all-
university ceremony.
I look forward to UF celebrat-
ing every graduating student with 
their guests, families, faculty and 
classmates in the college ceremo-
nies. I also look forward to seeing 
all our graduating students process 
into The Swamp led by their col-
lege’s dean, hearing the UF School 
of Music choir and band perform 
for the ﬁ  rst time in many years and 
listening to distinguished speakers 
at graduation. 
I expect a new commencement 
tradition will begin when gradu-
ates sing, for the last time as stu-
dents in The Swamp, Tom Petty’s 
“I Won’t Back Down.”
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. 
His column appears monthly.Reconceptualizing UF’s 
Graduation CeremoniesColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff 
Seyeon Hwang, a 31-year-old UF urban and regional planning doctorate student, 
opens the event “Home Away from Home: Remembering Refugees in Florida” on 
Thursday night in Pugh Hall by introducing the panelists before the discussion 
portion. Hwang, who came to America as a refugee herself, is involved extensively in 
both local and national refugee advocacy programs.
also be moved to nicer venues 
for the Spring, which means no 
longer using the Florida Gym and 
potentially not the Reitz Union, 
Rojas said.
All ceremonies could return to the O’Connell Center depend-
ing on feedback from this year’s 
graduates, Rojas said. 
Additionally, Fuchs told Ro-
jas he is open to participating 
in a student panel by the end of 
this semester to give everyone a 
chance to ask questions and voice 
their concerns.Rojas plans to reach out to An-
tonio Farias, UF’s chief diversity 
officer, about creating a race rela-
tions task force to address prob-
lems facing UF’s communities of 
color, Rojas said.
He also wants to speak with 
David Parrott, the vice president 
for Student Affairs, to explore the possibility of posting updates 
online from the Commencement 
Task Force meetings. 
Fuchs released a statement fol-
lowing the meeting reaffirming 
the new commencement structure 
for Fall and Spring.
“These recognition ceremonies 
will absolutely include the indi-vidual recognition that students 
and their families enjoy,” Fuchs 
said. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.org
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgGRADUATION,  from pg. 1Fuchs said new recognition ceremonies will include individual name callingLowell has taken significant steps to in-
crease inmate security, Manderfield said. 
The Office of Institutions has added ad-
ditional security cameras in housing units 
and audio recording to help identify and 
respond to misconduct, he said. The pris-
on has also increased the storage capacity 
of video cameras to prevent overwriting. 
Lowell is also subject to an indepen-
dent audit by the Department of Justice to 
make sure it’s complying with the Prison 
Rape Elimination Act, which is designed 
to investigate and eradicate prison rape, 
Manderfield said. 
The most recent report occurred in 
2016, according to the Florida Department 
of Corrections website. During the audit 
cycle, there were 158 allegations of sexual 
abuse and harassment at the prison. Of 
these, 86 were allegations of abuse and 29 
were harassment by staff. The report does 
not indicate whether the allegations were 
founded. 
Kalfin spent 30 months at Lowell for 
burglary and grand theft, during which she 
said it was common to see or hear about 
girls performing sexual favors for guards 
for a roll of toilet paper or other products 
in short supply.
“A lot of girls are asked sexual favors, 
and a lot do them because it’s their only 
attempt at survival,” Kalfin said.
Kalfin’s report of sexual harassment 
landed her in a 4-by-8 foot room for 60 
days. While in confinement, she was served “Tuscan Stew,” a cold mixture of 
leftover food including rice, beans or noo-
dles from the week before. Twice a week, 
she got to shower for two minutes, and if 
she was lucky, she got menstrual pads, 
Kalfin said. 
At any moment, she could have a sei-
zure that would knock her to the floor, 
and the guard who was supposed to check 
on her every 30 minutes was often asleep, 
or worse, apathetic, she said. 
Kalfin had six seizures in confinement 
that left her lying on the ground uncon-
scious and waiting for medical help, Kalfin 
said.
By the time it was over, Kalfin was 35 
pounds lighter, she said. 
Kalfin was released in August 2017 and 
is now engaged and expecting a son, but 
the effects of the trauma she experienced 
at Lowell linger, she said. 
“It’s been really hard for me to be close 
with anyone, emotionally and physically,” 
she said. “When my fiancé moves, I jump 
and freak out because I’m scared. It’s not 
of him. It’s because of what they did in 
there.”
A few minutes from Kalfin’s home 
in West Palm Beach, Debra Bennett gets 
ready to go to work.
After being released from Lowell in 
March, Bennett started working two full-
time jobs: one at a call center and another 
at a fast food restaurant.
Sometimes, kids stop and stare at her 
arm, which juts out at an odd angle.
While waxing a floor in Lowell, Ben-
nett slipped and fell, fracturing her right arm. While she received care from nurses 
at the prison, her arm was fixed crookedly, 
Bennett said. She wasn’t given physical 
therapy for her injury and now can’t move 
her fingers.
“I’m tired of having a right arm that 
doesn’t really work,” Bennett, 50, said. 
“I’m tired of dropping stuff all day long 
and of the numbness and the pain.”
Since the investigation is focused on 
sexual abuse and harassment at the pris-
on, Bennett fears that the investigation will 
not uncover the physical abuse that takes 
place too, she said. 
Bennett spent about 16 years in the 
Florida prison system on charges such as 
drug trafficking and violating probation 
and said she has been to every compound 
in Florida. Lowell was the worst of them 
all, Bennett said.
She hopes the federal investigation will 
draw attention to the problems there and 
cover all types of abuses, instead of just 
sexual, but she knows the women are 
scared to talk to investigators out of fear of 
retaliation, she said. 
While Bennett believes there are peo-
ple who deserve to be sent to prison for 
their crimes, she said that people never 
deserve to be treated like the women 
were in Lowell. 
“Your punishment is you’re removed 
from society,” she said. “It doesn’t mean 
that you are supposed to be abused in the 
way that Lowell Correctional abuses you.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgPRISON,  from pg. 1The Department of Justice has launched a federal investigation 
IT COST AROUND $2,600 TO PRO -
DUCE THE INTERVIEWS. 
By Ashley Lazarski
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The UF Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program wanted to put the misunderstand-
ings of refugees to rest. 
The event, “Home Away from Home: 
Remembering Refugees in Florida,” was 
co-hosted by Welcoming Gainesville & Ala-
chua County and the UF history program 
Thursday night in Pugh Hall. The event 
showcased a video of interviews with refu-
gees in Jacksonville. The audience of 30 
people heard from refugee experts. 
It cost around $2,600 to produce the 
film and host the event. It was funded by 
the Florida Humanities Council, UF De-
partment of Urban & Regional Planning, 
Center for Humanities & Public Sphere, 
and Latin American Studies Center, said 
Seyeon Hwang, a 31-year-old UF urban and regional planning doctorate student. 
Hwang, who conducted the interviews 
in Jacksonville, said the stories of refugees 
are misinterpreted and lost by the public.
“I wanted to provide an outlet of speech 
to the refugees so that they can tell and 
share their stories, which is known to 
help mitigate and overcome their trauma,” 
Hwang said.
This project included interviews with 
refugees from the Democratic Republic of 
Congo, Eritrea, South Sudan, Iraq, Bhu-
tan, Myanmar, Ukraine, Gambia and Cuba, 
Hwang said.
Presenters included Basma Alawee, a 
32-year-old refugee from Baghdad, Iraq. 
Alawee said kindness is important when 
community members help refugee neigh-
bors. 
“The U.S. is built on immigrants and 
refugees,” Alawee said. “Everyone has an-
cestors that came from somewhere else. 
The only thing we ask for is to feel wel-
come.”UF Samuel Proctor Oral History Program plays interviews from refugeesCourtesy to The Alligator 
Rachel Kalfin, a former inmate at Lowell Correctional 
Institution, poses in her “I survived Lowell” shirt. On 
Aug. 19, she attended a meeting in Ocala with other 
former inmates to talk to the Department of Justice 
team about abuses they experienced.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
THE BOOKS WILL BE SENT 
TO A NEW LIBRARY IN 
ARECIBO, PUERTO RICO.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
One year ago, Alfredo Ortiz 
crowded into a windowless closet 
with his parents, sister and dog while 
Hurricane Maria pounded against 
their home in Cayey, Puerto Rico. 
Water seeped in through cracks 
in the roof and cascaded down their 
staircase like a waterfall, he said. 
The wind lifted up the 600-gallon 
water tank connected to his home 
and banged it against the roof above 
their closet. 
If the roof gave out, the tank 
would have landed on his family. 
Ortiz and his family waded 
through knee-high water to get food 
from the kitchen. That was when the 
front door blew in. 
A year later, Ortiz, an 18-year-old 
UF philosophy freshman, stood in a 
circle with about 15 other students Thursday afternoon in the middle of 
dozens of Puerto Rican ﬂ  ags planted 
on Plaza of the Americas.The Hare Krishnas stopped play-
ing music while the students stood 
for a minute of silence, Marrero said. The students continued to hold 
hands while they spoke about how 
the hurricane affected them and their 
families. 
Unión de Estudiantes Puertor-
riqueños Activos, the Puerto Rican 
UF student group, held a book drive 
to commemorate the one-year anni-
versary of when the hurricane made 
landfall in Puerto Rico. 
The books will be donated to 
help Christian Gonzalez, a 17-year-
old Puerto Rican high school stu-
dent, open a new library in Arecibo, 
Puerto Rico, said Jesse Cosme, a 
30-year-old UF sustainable develop-
ment practice graduate student. 
“I always wish that we could do 
more, but this is a very positive drop 
in the bucket,” Cosme said.
The group set up a tent to collect 
the books from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., said 
Leyda Marrero, an 18-year-old UF 
biomedical engineering sophomore 
and the group’s vice president.
Spanish-language books are pre-
ferred, but the group is accepting 
books in all languages, Marrero said. 
The goal is to collect about 200 books to send to Arecibo by December.
“Hopefully that’ll be our Christ-
mas gift to Puerto Rico.” Marrero 
said
Collection boxes are available in 
La Salita in the Reitz Union, which 
is in the Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs suite, the UF Law School and 
the UF Center for Latin American 
Studies, Marrero said. Students can 
continue to donate until Tuesday 
according to the group’s Facebook 
page. 
The group has collected over 75 
books since Monday, Marrero said. 
Marrero remembered when she 
ﬁ  nally heard back from her family 
after two weeks of silence. 
While studying in Newell Hall, 
she got a text saying her family was 
safe. She burst into tears of relief. 
Marrero said it does not feel like a 
year has passed.
“There are lives that will never 
come back,” she said. “The feeling 
is still there.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgUF students collect books to commemorate Hurricane Maria anniversary
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator Staff
Puerto Rican ﬂ  ags planted on Plaza of the Americas in the shape of 
“PR” honored the victims of Hurricane Maria on the anniversary of 
the hurricane. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
A TEAM OF MORE THAN 20 
RESEARCHERS DISCOVERED THE 
PLANET IN JUL Y. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
Spock’s ﬁ  ctional home planet from Star 
Trek has been found by UF researchers.
UF astronomy professor Jian Ge and more 
than 20 other researchers on his team discov-
ered an exoplanet, deﬁ  ned as any planet out-
side of the solar system, in July. The discov-
ery was published in the Oxford University 
Press academic journal in the Dharma Planet 
Survey, a section dedicated to their research.
The exoplanet orbits star 40 Eridani A, 
which is the same star the planet Vulcan or-
bits in the 1960s television series Star Trek, 
according to the show’s creator, Gene Rod-
denberry.
“It’s very exciting because people always 
have the imagination, but astronomers dis-
covered it,” Ge said. 
The exoplanet isn’t called Vulcan yet, but 
Ge said he has already contacted the Inter-
national Astronomical Union to attempt to 
change the planet’s name. The exoplanet is 
currently being referred to as HD 26965b. 
The exoplanet is about twice the size of 
Earth and located 16 light years away, Ge 
said. It also is likely to have an atmosphere 
where water could exist. One side of the 
planet is exposed to the sun, and the other is dark because it’s tidally locked, which means 
the time it takes to orbit the sun is the same 
as it would take to rotate on its axis. He said 
the dark portion of the planet would be cool 
enough to possibly support life.
After hearing about the discovery of the 
exoplanet, Ryan Thomson, a UF sociology 
graduate fourth-year, was shocked by how 
the story wasn’t blowing up on social media. 
He thought it was one of the coolest coinci-
dences to occur.
“I know there’s a lot of other social issues 
we have on our own planet here,” Thomson 
said. “But, for that to actually exist and have 
veriﬁ  able evidence, I don’t know, it’s almost 
like foreshadowing.”
It was interesting how Star Trek was able 
to accurately predict a planet existing over 
forty years before it was discovered, Thom-
son said.
Sociology and understanding inequalities 
on this planet are important, Thomson said, 
but understanding that there is a world be-
yond us is important because it elevates the 
level of one’s thinking.
Despite the lack of funding towards space 
and astronomy programs, these programs are 
important to have, Thomson said.
“I think it highlights the intersection of 
how sci-ﬁ   and reality are not as estranged as 
we think,” Thomson said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org ‘Trekkies’ Rejoice: UF researchers 
discover planet like Star Trek 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
Stress made the nickel-sized red circle on 
Lidi Trujillo Rodriguez’s lower right leg grow. 
Trujillo Rodriguez bounced from doctor to 
doctor until at 19 years old she was diagnosed 
with psoriasis, a condition that caused red 
patches on the skin to form. 
Now, six years after her diagnosis, Trujillo 
Rodriguez is organizing a 5K run to beneﬁ  t 
the National Psoriasis Foundation. The UF 
microbiology and cell science doctoral student 
moved from Puerto Rico to pursue her degree. 
The race will begin at 8 a.m. Sunday on 
Flavet Field. Check-ins begin at 7 a.m., Trujillo 
Rodriguez said. 
This is the ﬁ  rst time the American Society 
for Microbiology Gators helped organize a run 
for the foundation, said Sierra Blashock, a 
21-year-old UF microbiology senior and presi-
dent of the club.
“It’s not a disease that’s talked about a lot, 
so we said let’s take it a step further and raise 
some money too,” Blashock said. 
When Trujillo Rodriguez ﬁ  rst got into UF, 
she met associate microbiology and cell sci-
ence professor Joe Larkin, who studies psoria-
sis treatments in his lab. 
Psoriasis can vary in severity and range 
from a rash to painful blisters that can ooze, 
Larkin said. About 30 percent of individuals with pso-
riasis will get psoriatic arthritis at some point. 
This form of arthritis can cause joints to swell, 
making it difﬁ  cult for an individual to bend 
their ﬁ  ngers and walk, Larkin said. 
Treatment options include creams for more 
mild forms of the condition and injectable 
treatments for more severe forms, Larkin said. 
However, the injectable treatments can weak-
en the immune system. 
Larkin said he oversees research develop-
ing a cream that is more powerful than those 
currently on the market. The goal is for the 
cream to treat psoriasis without weakening the 
immune system. 
For Trujillo Rodriguez, the pain from her 
steroid cream, which is the current treatment 
for her psoriasis, and the general discomfort 
from her condition can have her tossing and 
turning when she tries to sleep at night. 
“I can’t sleep at night,” Trujillo Rodriguez 
said. “I’m not a very big fan of that regime.”
Trujillo Rodriguez said her psoriasis has 
become more severe since beginning at UF. 
The condition has spread to her arms because 
of stress, but she knows she could be worse.  
“I’m very blessed that I have a very, very 
mild form of psoriasis,” Trujillo Rodriguez 
said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org5K beneﬁ  tting National Psoriasis 
Foundation is happening Sunday
The run starts at 8 a.m. on Flavet Field.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
BEST BUY ON THE COAST
Yacht Club Homesite with boat slip.
Gated, Luxury, Community.
ONLY $49,880. Way under value!!!
WWW.WATERFRONTLIFEFL.NET
1.855.459.1128
Florida Waterway Sales, LLC. 
Licensed Real Estate Broker      9-21-1-5
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.FOR GREAT Smoky Mountain Living
in North Carolina,
Visit www.4Smokys.com,
enter Waynesville, NC.
See listing 68 Old Country Road,
Waynesville, NC.
G.W. (Bill) Thagard, 1-205-410-6751, 
BillT@4Smokys.com      9-21-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404   
Ext.300N       9-21-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
KYMCO LIKE 200 i SCOOTER
Recemly serviced. 1800 miles, transferable 
warranty, windshield, cover, top box. $1300. 
Don 352-328-0764    9-26-18-3-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $1260/mo.   352-359-1508    
9-24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Student for yard work, cleaning,
errands, etc.
Part time. $10+ per hour. 
See www.Gator2018.com for more info.    
9-24-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Learn how to make extra money at home per 
week completing online and phone surveys. 
Go to collegeopportunity.click.     9-24-18-5-
14
Make extra money at home per week
completing online/phone surveys at
collegeopportunity.click.      9-18-18-3-14
NEED EXTRA CASH?
Get PAID to play with apps online!
Sign up now! 
GETONLINEJOBSFORSTUDENTS.COM    
9-21-18-3-14
Learn how to make an extra $425/wkly doing 
surveys w/major US companies as a student 
at:  www.CollegeCashInc.club     9-26-18-3-
14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-1413 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Holographic Kinetics: Advanced Healing Modality
Identify and clear mental, emotional and 
behavioral health issues. Many areas can 
be helped (Anxiety, fear, depression, PTSD, 
suicidal thoughts, addictions, and more)
www.healingwithspirit.net      MA90891
10-5-18-7-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GET PAID FAST!  $750- 3,000/Wk
To Start Is Possible.
 No Previous Exp Req'd.
http://leads-4-consistent-cash-flow.faith    
9-21-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
55 GALLON TOP FIN FISH AQUARIUM
BRAND NEW. in box never opened.
$130. YOU CAN'T BEAT IT!
Call 352-327-5978                9-21-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Harmonious 
groups
7 Maybelline 
product
14 Role for Miley
15 Sticks
16 Result of too 
many people 
fishing?
18 Customer file 
prompt
19 Lincoln and 
Grant had them 
in common
21 Meet halfway
22 Show of 
support
24 Religious 
music?
27 Buoyant wood
30 On point
31 ’60s protest gp.
32 Well-versed 
about sailing 
ships?
37 Exhilarated 
shout
38 Fencing gear
40 Dispute 
between polite 
fellows?
44 Term.
47 Practical joke
48 Stimulate
49 Problems with 
cellphone 
signals?
54 __ corda: 
played using 
the piano’s soft 
pedal
55 Orly arrival
56 Like little-known 
facts
59 Hungary 
neighbor
62 “Above my pay 
grade” ... and, 
read in four 
parts, a hint to 
16-, 24-, 32-, 40- 
and 49-Across
65 Dodging
66 Pushes back, 
say
67 No
68 Antarctic 
explorer 
ShackletonDOWN
1 Golden State 
traffic org.
2 “Bali __”
3 Nearly zero
4 About
5 Indian noble
6 Cutting
7 George Strait 
label
8 Munic. official
9 Family ride
10 Shipped stuff
11 Dodges
12 Fix some bare 
spots, say
13 Take stock of
17 Sixteenth-
century year
20 Ivory, for one
22 __ Dhabi
23 Jabber
25 Cut or crust 
opener
26 Seventh in an 
instructional 
39-Down, 
perhaps
28 Obstacle
29 Back to back?
33 Pines
34 Very small 
amounts35 Volunteer for 
another tour
36 Final Four game
39 Order
41 Eau in Ecuador
42 Sister
43 It may be iced
44 Showed 
leniency toward
45 Villa d’Este city
46 Hostility
50 Cattle drivers51 Navel 
configuration
52 Shore bird
53 Goal or basket
57 Lenovo 
competitor
58 Bangalore 
bread
60 Lodging spot
61 Sports rep.
63 Sot’s affliction
64 East, in Essen
By Jerry Edelstein
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/21/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/21/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 21, 2018
ACROSS
1 Have a sudden 
inspiration?
5 Embryonic 
membranes
10 “Good going!”
14 Ancient Andean
15 Fully committed
16 Cries at the 
Home Run 
Derby
17 Norwegian 
coastal horse?
19 Agitated state
20 Ring leader?
21 Parenthesis, e.g.
22 Dú n Laoghaire’s 
land
23 Largest division 
of Islam
24 Excellent joke?
26 Alpine transport
28 2010 sci-fi 
sequel subtitled 
“Legacy”
29 Grassy stretches
32 Map line
35 “A Doll’s House” 
playwright
38 “The Martian” 
has none
39 Where a sensei 
teaches how to 
slalom?
41 Stat for Chris 
Sale
42 Pronunciation 
symbol
44 PBS science 
series
45 Small racer
46 Barbershop part
48 McGregor who 
plays two roles 
on TV’s “Fargo”
50 “We sure fell for 
that one, Jack,” 
e.g.?
54 Jungle vine
58 Big star
59 Lincoln Ctr. site
60 PBS science 
series
61 Brit’s floor 
covering
62 Was yanked 
offstage ... or 
what four puzzle 
answers did, in 
a way
64 Fuss
65 Dvorá k’s 
“Rusalka,” for 
one
66 Instead67 Scandinavian 
name meaning 
“cliff”
68 Block
69 Sunflower edible
DOWN
1 They’re kept 
under wraps
2 Pear variety
3 Contempt
4 Raises
5 Guitarist’s gadget
6 “Aladdin” prince
7 __ nerve
8 Petrol unit
9 Vehicle with 
caterpillar treads
10 Often-cosmetic 
procedure
11 View from Corfu
12 Sound from a tree
13 Competitor of 
Helena
18 Small amount
24 Abdomen 
neighbor
25 Chamber music 
group
27 Storied craft
29 “__ Miz”
30 “You get the 
idea” letters
31 Light hair color33 Brouhaha
34 Matthew Arnold’s 
“__ Beach”
36 Be off
37 Bryce Harper, for 
now
39 Ornamental band
40 Talk
43 Belgian language 
related to French
45 Deli snacks
47 Ra, in ancient 
Egypt49 Cosmetic 
additive
50 Rejects suddenly
51 Jerk
52 Mr. Magoo, for 
one
53 Santa’s reindeer, 
e.g.
55 Whac-__
56 Rope loop
57 FAQ part
60 Scorch
63 Amount past due?
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/20/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, September 20, 2018
1.  Open a wine bottle
1.  Sustained 5.  Cowboy’s mount
2.  Cut short6.  Farewell
3.  Unsteady7.  Crow ability 
4.  Rickles bitRCUONK
PULDHESHOER
EIUAD
AURLCTI
RNLGIEEGLFHTI
NSTULIANSWERS: 1A-Uncork  5A-Horse  6A-Adieu  7A-Flight
1D-Upheld  2D-Curtail  3D-Reeling  4D-Insult  B-Hercules9-21-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The origin of ____ dates
back thousands of years.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsNBA star LeBron James , long 
rumored to be working on a 
new Space Jam movie, made it 
official on  Wednesday via his 
Twitter account.
Spurrier's team gets a name
Former UF coach Steve Spurrier  was named as the head coach for the 
Orlando franchise in the new Alliance of American Football league. The 
team revealed its name yesterday as the Orlando Apollos. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
The Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
No one on the Gators’ football 
team would dare utter the words 
“must win” in reference to Satur-
day’s game against Tennessee.
So I’ll do it for them.
Maybe it’s too early to declare 
this the most pivotal game of the 
season. But the Gators will slip 
to 0-2 in the conference if they 
perish at the hands of their SEC 
East rival on Saturday night. That 
sounds pretty pivotal to me, espe-
cially given that the road only gets 
rougher from there: at Mississippi 
State, LSU at home, at Vandy and 
then to Jacksonville to face the 
Georgia Bulldogs. 
It’s a doozy of an upcoming 
schedule.
That trip to Starkville alone 
will be an exhausting hurdle for 
this Gators program. And surely 
first-year Florida coach Dan Mullen wouldn’t want 
to fall to his old team 
AND — potentially — 
remain winless in the 
conference.
It’s obvious UF 
needs to come out on 
top on the road against 
Tennessee.
The Gators need 
to get a formidable 
win on their 2018 resume. Not 
for morale or confidence, but 
insurance. 
Insurance that all of Florida’s 
struggles are not beyond repair. 
Insurance that this season is more 
than just a rebuild for Dan Mullen. 
Insurance that the Gators can ac-
tually compete with another SEC 
team.
Those two blowout victories 
over Charleston Southern and Colorado State were 
nice little spirit 
boosters, but Florida’s 
gotta show that it 
won’t cower when 
faced with some 
adversity.
Mullen and 
his players spoke 
repeatedly this week 
about going out there 
and “just having fun.”
“Tennessee’s a really good 
football team,” quarterback 
Feleipe Franks said. “They’re a 
good football team just like we 
are. It’s going to be a challenge. 
We’re up for the challenge. Just 
go out there and play football and 
have fun.”
I understand that they want to 
stay calm.
But this Tennessee program hasn’t won an SEC game since 
2016. Any team that has gone 
a whole year without a confer-
ence win is going to treat a game 
against its rival like a “must-win.”
So why should the Gators treat 
it any differently?
Now, two teams that com-
bined for three SEC wins last sea-
son surely will not constitute the 
most riveting 60 minutes of col-
lege football this weekend.
But the implications are im-
mense.
This is by no means a hot take, 
just stating the painfully obvious, 
maybe even the cliche. Whether 
they want to admit it or not, the 
Gators can’t take this game lightly.
Alanis Thames is a sports 
writer for The Alligator. Follow her 
on Twitter @alanisthames and The players won't say it. But this game is a must-win. 
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
alligatorSports Picks 
Column: Week 4
Staff Report
Mick Hubert, the voice of Florida 
Gators radio, has been immortalized for 
all time with his call of Florida-Tennes-
see last season. You can probably hear 
his exasperated voice trying not to crack 
as he shrieks, “IT’S A TOUCHDOWN! 
HOOO MY!” 
That’s all well and good, but we here 
at alligatorSports like to live in the pres-
ent. UF football fans may not share the 
same sentiment, but that’s OK. Allow 
us to be the shepherd to guide you back 
into the fold. 
This week, we’ve got Scott Frost 
searching for his first win on the road 
against a pair of khakis, the annual street 
fight that is FIU-UM, and our featured 
game of the week wherein the defend-
ing national champs defend their high-
school stadium against the debauchery 
that is Lane Kiffin. 
The only institution equal in loath-
someness to the Lane Train is our alliga-
torSports picks column. Before we meet 
our competitors, online editor Mark 
Stine and editor Morgan McMullen will 
debate the highly anticipated matchup 
between the Knights and the Owls. 
Central Florida (-13.5) will win 
because… 
Turnovers. The Knights have only 
played two games this season -- victo-
ries over Connecticut and South Carolina 
State -- but they’ve collected six take-
aways on the season and rank 15th na-
tionally in turnover margin (1.50), while 
Florida Atlantic ranks 84th (-0.33). 
Sophomore defensive back Richie 
Grant has an interception in each game, 
half of UCF’s total. FAU quarterback 
Chris Robison will be throwing the ball 
a lot -- he’s 64-for-93 passing with four 
touchdowns and two picks -- and I think 
he’ll have difficulty fitting the ball into 
windows against the country’s fifth-best PICKS
SITE: Neyland Stadium (cap. 102,455)
KICKOFF: 7 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida-Tennessee rivalry is the stuff of 
legends. Well, at least to its fans it is.
Quarterback Feleipe Franks said when he 
took an official visit to Gainesville, he expected 
people to be talking about UF-FSU. Instead, 
they were talking about the Gators against the 
Volunteers. 
Fast forward three years, and Franks will be 
starting in his second game against Tennessee, 
the first occuring in the Swamp last year. A lot 
has changed since then.
Both programs have a new head coach, 
which means new programs, new teams and a 
whole lot of questions. 
Here are some you’ll want to pay attention to 
during Saturday’s game:
Will anything change in Florida’s offense?
Something will surely need to now that 
running back Malik Davis is out for an extended 
period of time with a broken foot.
The offense was not all that impressive 
during the Colorado State game. Franks only 
completed eight passes for 119 yards, boosted by 
a 38-yard touchdown to receiver Van Jefferson 
in the fourth quarter. In the first quarter, Franks 
didn’t even have a completion.
“I think Feleipe settled down,” coach Dan 
Mullen said after the game. “Did some good 
things. Had some missed decisions.”
Franks threw the “Heave to Cleve” last year, 
a long pass to receiver Tyrie Cleveland in last 
season’s rendition of Florida-Tennessee to win the game as time expired. 
It was a pass that utilized both Franks and 
Cleveland’s talents: Franks as a pocket passer 
with a great arm and Cleveland as a fast wideout 
who can create seperation for spectacular grabs.
It’s also a connection the Gators haven’t 
really seen much of this season.Expect Florida to change some things up dur-
ing the game, using more of running backs Jor-
dan Scarlett, Lamical Perine and Dameon Pierce 
in the back field. Franks should look to get the 
ball in the hands of receivers Kadarius Toney, Three questions for UF’s matchup against Tennessee
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Wide receiver Van Jefferson caught a 38-yard touchdown pass in the fourth quarter 
against Colorado State on Saturday. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Florida volleyball enters the second 
phase of its season with conference play 
beginning today against Ole Miss after 
finishing one of the toughest non-con-
ference schedules to date. 
The No. 11 Gators (9-3) take on their 
first SEC opponent at the O’Connell 
Center tonight at 7. Florida spent 
its preparation week practicing skill 
sets that were exposed in the first 12 
matches and needed tweaking, a luxury 
the team has not frequently had. 
“The number of matches… over the 
course of the entire pre-conference gave 
us some insight into things that we’re 
doing well, things that we need to get 
better on,” coach Mary Wise said Tues-
day. 
The Gators’ three losses have come 
against No. 5 Texas, No. 14 Southern 
California and unranked Northern Ari-
zona in one of the biggest upsets of the 
season. 
Florida comes into conference play 
at No. 2 in the SEC, sitting behind Ken-
tucky. Mississippi, on the other hand, is 
No. 11. But rankings don’t matter much 
to this young Florida team. 
“Obviously (Ole Miss is) a strong 
team as any team in the SEC,” sopho-
more outside hitter Paige Hammons 
said. “I’m sure that they’ll give us their 
best fight just like any team does.”
The Rebels lost three consecutive matches last week before racking up a 
sweep against McNeese State. 
Ole Miss (10-4) comes in at No. 8 in 
hitting percentage, boasting a .242 clip 
with 725 kills on 1,861 swings so far 
this season. 
Junior outside hitter Emily Stroup 
carries most of that weight. She leads 
both the team and conference with 247 
kills. Ole Miss will certainly depend on 
Stroup to help the team start off strong 
in conference play. 
On the opposite side of the net, 
freshman Thayer Hall is expected to 
keep up her rookie performance to help 
the Gators secure their first conference 
win. Hall leads the Gators with 168 kills 
and 11 service aces.
Florida will also depend on SEC De-
fensive Player of the Week and senior 
middle blocker Taelor Kellum to put up 
a wall against the Rebels’ offense. 
Kellum logged 22 blocks over the 
course of four matches and put up a 
career-high seven blocks in the match 
against Jacksonville last Friday. She 
recorded eight kills on nine attempts 
without any errors against FIU.
“She’s had an amazing start to her 
senior year,” Hall said. “Knowing that 
she knows what she’s doing, I’m con-
fident standing beside her on the court 
and confident playing behind her.” 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators kick off SEC play with 
matchup against Ole MissSOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Lais Araujo may have been the 
player to snap the Gators’ score-
less streak against Vanderbilt, but 
a heartbreaking loss left her unsat-
isfied with the feat.
She made sure to score three 
goals in the first half of UF’s 
match against Kentucky (4-7, 0-2 
SEC), just in case one wouldn’t be 
enough.
Araujo’s hat trick propelled the 
Gators to a lopsided 6-0 victory 
over the Wildcats. 
The six goals at the Wendell & 
Vickie Bell Soccer Complex nearly 
tied the total amount of goals the 
team have on the season. The 
game also marked the first time 
the Gators (3-6-1, 1-1 SEC) have 
scored six goals in a match since 
Oct. 20, 2016, in another 6-0 win 
against Alabama. 
The spotlight in the first half 
was largely centered on the furious 
attack from Araujo. She first scored 
in the 14th minute, knocking the 
ball in from the box off a cross. Her 
second score came at the 24th min-
ute from a small breakaway, plac-
ing the shot past UK goalie Hannah Leonard. She completed her hat 
trick in the 32nd minute when she 
hit the mark from 18 yards out off 
a blocked attempt. 
The team didn’t stop with Arau-
jo’s offensive outburst. Forward 
Alyssa Howell headed a ball off the 
top bar and into the goal to put the 
Gators up 4-0 at the end of the first 
half.
The Gators continued their dom-
inance in the second half. Madison 
Alexander found the back of the 
net for the third time this sea-
son, putting UF up 5-0 in the 65th 
minute. Midfielder Mayra Pelayo 
ended the scoring — and the game 
— with an 81st-minute strike that 
deflected off Leonard’s hand and 
snuck behind the goal line.
UF led the shot count by a large 
margin, taking 14 shots (six on 
goal) to Kentucky’s four (three on 
goal). UF goalie Kaylan Marckese 
saved three shots in the victory, 
giving Florida its second shutout of 
the season.
The Gators will look to continue 
its momentum when they face LSU 
in Gainesville this Sunday at 1 p.m.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgLais Araujo dominant in Florida victory
Alligator File Photo
Midfielder Lais Araujo (18) picked up a hat trick in the first 32 minutes of Florida’s 6-0 win over 
Kentucky on Thursday night in Lexington.
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
FRIDA Y
Volleyball vs.Ole Miss / 7 p.m. / SEC Network+
Men’s Tennis @ UVA/USC / All Day
Women’s Tennis @ UM / All Day SATURDA Y
Cross Country @ UF / All Day
Men’s Tennis @ UVA/USC / All Day
Women’s Tennis @ UM / All Day
Football @ Tennessee / 7 p.m. / ESPN
SUNDAY
Men’s Tennis @ UVA/USC / All Day
Women’s Tennis @ UM / All Day
Soccer vs. LSU / 1 p.m. / SEC Network+
Volleyball vs. Mississippi State / 1:30 p.m. / SEC Network+
MONDAY - TUESDAY
Women’s Tennis @ Hilton Head, S.C. / All Day
Men’s Golf @ Dallas / All Day
WEDNESDAY
Women’s Tennis @ Hilton Head, S.C. / All Day
Volleyball @ LSU / 8 p.m. / SEC Network16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Jefferson and Cleveland.
How will the pass rush fare against a 
different-styled SEC quarterback?
The biggest issue during Florida’s loss to 
Kentucky on Sept. 8 was the missed tackles. 
All the missed tackles. Mullen stated after the 
loss he counted 20 misses, which allowed the 
Wildcats to run for roughly 168 additional 
yards.
The pass-rushing unit didn’t play much 
better against Colorado State.Mullen had a challenge for his players 
heading into Tennessee. He wanted them to be 
the Hulk this week. Bruce Banner off the ﬁ  eld, 
and his alter ego on it. 
Defensive end Elijah Conliffe said the Gators 
have been living up to this standard during 
practice.
“Through a week’s worth of hard practice, 
hitting the sled harder and just getting a better 
look from the scout team,” Conliffe said. “We 
gonna go hard against them; it all added up so 
we could be better on Saturday.”
Will Brett Heggie make a signiﬁ  cant impact?
Part of the reason Franks struggled against Kentucky and early against Colorado State was 
the missed blocks from the offensive line.
Franks was left scrambling after defenders 
broke through the line. He ran with the ball 
seven times against the Rams, ﬁ  ve of which 
came in the ﬁ  rst quarter. He was also sacked 
once. 
One noticeable omission from the line this 
season has been redshirt sophomore Brett 
Heggie, who has seen limited time this year 
while recovering from a knee injury and turf 
toe.
He is slowly earning more and more playing 
time, and it’s only a matter of time before he cracks the starting lineup.
“He’s a tough, physical player,” center Nick 
Buchanan said. “That’s what we’re looking for 
on this offensive line. He can come in and give 
us good reps, and we love it.”
Whenever Brett Heggie does return full-
time, he will boost an offensive line that could 
use the help.
But for right now, Heggie says he’s ready to 
come back and produce.
“I’m back,” Heggie said. “I’m back to 100 
percent as of probably, like, a week ago.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 14Ofensive lineman Brett Heggie said he's "back to 100 percent"
scoring defense (31st against the 
pass at 173.0 yards per game). 
Central Florida has been general-
ly strong in coverage, allowing only 
one passing touchdown and knock-
ing down 12 passes as a team, triple 
the amount of passes the Owls have 
defended (4). 
The Knights have also fallen on 
each fumble they’ve forced (2) as 
well, while FAU is prone to putting 
the ball on the ground, losing one of 
the three balls it has coughed up. 
This will be a tough outing for 
Lane Kifﬁ  n’s team under the lights 
in Orlando on national television.
Mark Stine
Florida Atlantic (+13.5) will 
win because…
The Lane Train stops for nobody, 
including the so-called “national 
champions.” Plenty of folks believe 
this will be an offensive shootout, 
and that’s precisely the way it looks 
to shake out. UCF quarterback McK-
enzie Milton is 45-of-71 on the sea-
son for 589 yards, and that’s in a pair 
of blowout wins against UConn and South Carolina State. Not exactly the 
pinnacle of competition. 
FAU’s Chris Robison, on the 
other hand, looks to be the best 
quarterback in the state. He has a 
68.8 completion percentage (ﬁ  rst in 
Florida) and 8.6 yards per completion 
(second in Florida behind USF’s 
Blake Barnett’s 8.7). Both of those 
ﬁ  gures put Robison in the top-35 
passers in the country. 
The Owls’ leading rusher, Kerrith 
Whyte, has a respectable 5.5 yards 
per carry on the season. While it’s 
a far cry from UCF’s Adrian Killins 
(7.5), consider the competition gap 
between the schools both teams 
have played. FAU has wins over Air 
Force and Bethune-Cookman and 
had a decent showing against Okla-
homa on the road. 
Chalk it up as an easy win for 
Lane Kifﬁ  n and the Owls. The na-
tion’s longest win streak comes to an 
end Saturday night in Orlando. 
Morgan McMullen
Now onto the picks!
In ﬁ  rst place at 16-8 is Alanis 
“Rational thoughts” Thames, who 
wants Gator Nation to pump the 
brakes on the Feleipe hate. Alanis, you raise great points in Franks’ 
development and learning a new 
offense. But do you have to be the 
only calming presence in all of UF 
sports media? Be like the rest of us, 
and start calling for everybody’s 
jobs. Assimilate! 
Tied for second with three others 
at 14-10 is Mark “Crooked Long from 
the Failing AP News” Long, who 
was labeled as “Fake News” by the 
President of the United States him-
self. OK, it was actually Nick de la 
Torre, but does it really matter? The 
fact that you had to look over to us 
for conﬁ  rmation that Nick was full 
of s*** was already bad enough, but 
getting ﬂ  abbergasted that we didn’t 
take your side doesn’t make your re-
porting any more factual. 
Also tied for second is Graham 
“I don’t have to show up to media” 
Hall. When he’s not taking an Uber 
to weekly press opportunities, 
Graham is sitting in the comfort of 
his home watching the live tweets 
roll in. Graham, it’s tough to listen 
to Feleipe up at the podium, but is 
he so hard to listen to that you can’t 
even bare it?
At 14-10 as well is Mark “Alarm 
Clock” Stine, who has served as the ofﬁ  cial timekeeper for alligatorSports 
writers showing up late to post-
practice media availability. Mark has 
twice reminded Jake and Morgan 
that their tardiness was imminent af-
ter the team ﬁ  nished practice early. 
Hey gang, if you wanna get a good 
spot in the gnat-infested IPF, show 
up early like Mark. 
Rounding out second place is 
Nick “Sleepy” de la Torre who, 
during the second quarter of UF’s 
win over Colorado State, was 
nodding off while gazing at his 
computer screen. Nick, we know the 
Rams’ offense wasn’t exactly a thrill 
to watch. However, it was much more entertaining to see if you’d 
drool on your keyboard or not. 
In a three-way tie for sixth at 13-
11 Jake “Low Energy” Dreilinger. 
Jake, bud, we’ve gotta talk about 
your recent appearance on the 
Gator Bites podcast. We know the 
Gainesville Plague is alive and well, 
but did you have to try your best 
to transmit the disease to all of our 
listeners? We hope the wedding you 
attend this weekend will do more to 
cure your sickness than hacking up a 
lung in the recording booth.
You can read the rest online at 
alligator.org/sports.PICKS,  from pg 14
  Morgan  Jake  Mark S  Alanis
UF vs. UT (+4.5)  UF  UF  UF  UF
WSU @ USC (-3.5)  USC  USC  USC  WSU
MSST @ UK (+10)  MSST  MSST  UK  MSST
WIS @ IOWA (+3)  IOWA  IOWA  WIS  WIS
ASU @ WA (-17.5)  ASU  ASU  ASU  ASU
NIU @ FSU (-9.5)  NIU  NIU  FSU  NIU
TAMU @ BAMA (-27)  TAMU  TAMU  TAMU  BAMA
FAU @ UCF (-13.5)  FAU  UCF  UCF  UCF
  Mark L  Graham  Edgar  Nick
UF vs. UT (+4.5)  UT  UF  UT  UF
WSU @ USC (-3.5)  WSU  USC  USC  USC
MSST @ UK (+10)  MSST  MSST  UK  MSST
WIS @ IOWA (+3)  WIS  WIS  WIS  WIS
ASU @ WA (-17.5)  WA  WA  WA   WA
NIU @ FSU (-9.5)  NIU  NIU  FSU  FSU
TAMU @ BAMA (-27)  BAMA  TAMU  BAMA  BAMA
FAU @ UCF (-13.5)  UCF  UCF  UCF  UCF