We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Petco Foundation gives $20,000 to local shelter
The money will go toward preparing animals for adoption, pg. 13
Student Senate approves 10 pieces of legislation
Senators supported increasing funding for the Disability Re-
source Center, pg. 5GATORS BASEBALL TEAM SWEEPS SEMINOLES IN TALLAHASSEE
Florida’s offense overcame an early deﬁ  cit while a few key players notched personal mile-stones in UF’s win Tuesday night, pg. 18VOLUME 112 ISSUE 78
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
SUTURES FOR THE FUTURE
Jeremy Minaya, a 23-year-old UF physician’s assistant student, shows Darby T ownsend, a 20-year-old UF biology sophomore, how to suture using a banana at UF’s Pre-Physician Assistant Association’s event Tuesday night.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville shoppers will be 
able to create their own acai bowls after Whole Foods Market opens next month.
The 40,000-square foot super-
market will open May 9 in Butler Town Center at 3490 SW Archer Road, said Mario Torres, the fu-ture store’s manager. The health-food store, which will be the ﬁ  rst in North Central Florida, will have a self-serve hot and iced coffee station with tea, pressed juice and natural sodas. It will also have lockers to pick up and return Ama-zon packages inside the store. 
The store will be open daily from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and employ about 140 full-time and part-time employees, Torres said.
Torres, who is a UF alumnus, 
said the ﬁ  rst 500 people in line at the store’s opening will receive store gift cards ranging in value from $5 to $500. At least 100 cus-tomers will also get a reusable bag.The Gainesville location will 
be the ﬁ  rst store to have a ramen station and sell Lionﬁ  sh, a ﬁ  sh in-vasive to Florida, in the seafood department, Torres said. 
Morgan Goldwich, a UF wom-
en’s studies and health education and behavior freshman, said she looks forward to ordering juices at Whole Foods and having more vegan food options than those available in UF dining halls.
“The cost is the only thing that 
would prevent me from going there, but if I won the lottery, I would exclusively shop there,” the 19-year-old said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
Whole Foods Market to open in Gainesville in May
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Three candidates for UF’s ﬁ  rst chief 
diversity ofﬁ  cer will visit campus to 
meet with faculty, staff and students 
before the end of the semester.
UF President Kent Fuchs an-
nounced the position in August 2017, following several incidents that incited 
conversations about race on campus 
earlier that year. Chief among them 
was a noose found in a Weimer Hall 
classroom and racial slurs that were left on an Anderson Hall whiteboard, according to Alligator archives.
Candidate Matthew Boaz, the cur-
rent chief diversity ofﬁ  cer at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, spoke to faculty Monday and to stu-
dents Tuesday.
 John Fitzgerald Gates, an associate 
dean for diversity and inclusion at the 
University of Virginia, will be on cam-pus Thursday and Friday. 
Antonio Farias, the current vice 
president for equity and inclusion at Wesleyan University will come April 19 and 20, said Cammy Abernathy, the 
dean of the Herbert Wertheim College 
of Engineering and chair of the search 
committee.
“There was a desire to have some-
one as a focal point for diversity and 
inclusion on campus,” Abernathy said.
Abernathy said it’s important ev-
eryone is involved with the selection 
process because the new position 
will have an effect campuswide as it 
is a cabinet-level position, serving as 
senior adviser to the president. UF’s Human Resource Services will post 
live video feeds of each candidate’s 
presentation and feedback forms on 
its website. After all three visit campus 
for two days each, Fuchs will review the input given by faculty and students and make a choice.
“Student input will be taken very 
seriously,” Abernathy said.
Cheyenne Cheng, a UF psychology 
junior, said it’s important she meets the candidates to hold UF accountable through the selection process.
“He gets a seat at the table where a UF down to three for ﬁ  rst 
chief diversity oﬃ   cer
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
The City of Gainesville and Alachua County 
need to decide soon how ﬁ  re departments will 
respond to calls in the future.
The current Fire Service Assistance Agree-
ment, which will expire June 1, allows the 
closest ﬁ  re station, whether it be city- or coun-
ty-operated, to respond to 911 calls. If the call falls outside of  the station’s jurisdiction, the other party reimburses it.
City Commissioner David Arreola said if 
ﬁ  re units stop responding to calls outside their jurisdiction, response times could be slower in some areas. City and county ofﬁ  cials met Thursday to discuss possible solutions to prob-lems that could occur if the agreement ends. 
“Everything that I see is less than perfect 
and results in either risking response times be-ing lowered or not compensating our ﬁ  reﬁ  ght-ers and EMTs, both of which are unaccept-able,” he said. 
Under the agreement, Gainesville has cov-
ered about 30 percent of Alachua County’s 911 calls, while the county responded to about 4 percent of the city’s calls, Arreola said. 
With the expiration looming, the city is con-
sidering creating a separate dispatch system to prevent ﬁ  re stations from receiving calls that fall outside of their jurisdiction. Currently, the county and city ﬁ  re services use a joint dis-patch system through the Combined Commu-
nications Center. 
County Commissioner Ken Cornell said 
separating the systems would be awful.
He said the county moved to cancel the 
agreement because the distribution of ﬁ  re ser-
vices isn’t equal. By canceling it, the county hoped to redraw the service boundaries to make the agreement mutually beneﬁ  cial. 
“We’re very motivated to meet with the city 
and work through this issue to make sure that it’s fair for both the city and the county ﬁ  re departments,” he said.  
The county also sent letters to the city pro-
posing discussions about combining the two ﬁ  re service departments, Cornell said. 
Arreola said he thinks merging the two isn’t 
practical because it will be expensive to create one ﬁ  re service department that can respond effectively to both rural and urban areas.
“I don’t support it,” he said. “That idea is 
not going to work.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCity, county to decide how ﬁ  re stations will divide callsSEE CANDIDATES,  PAGE 5
GATORS BASEBALL TEAM SWEEPS 
Florida’s offense overcame an early deﬁ  cit 
while a few key players notched personal mile-
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
HIGH  76° LOW  52°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
From Colored to Black: The 
Stories of North Central 
FloridaNine dramatic vignettes cre-ated by students and performed 
by members of the local the-
ater community in the exhibi-tion “History, Labor, Life: The Prints of Jacob Lawrence” will 
be presented from 6 to 7 p.m. 
Thursday and from 3 to 4 p.m. 
Sunday at the Harn Museum of 
Art. Composed from the oral his-tories of North Central Florida and residents from the 1920s to present day, the vignettes focus on the black history of the region and connect themes in the work of artist Jacob Lawrence.
Earth Day 
In celebration of Earth Day on April 22, Alachua County Library District is holding spe-cial programs. The month will kick off with “Earth Day: Plant a Seed Project,” where kids ages 5 and up will be able to design a planter, fill it and plant a seed with materials provided from 3 to 4 p.m. Friday at the Newberry Branch, located at 110 
S. Seaboard Drive.
Hipp Karaoke
The Hippodrome State Theatre is partnering with 352Creates 
to host Hipp Karaoke in the Hippodrome’s lower level at 7:30 p.m. Friday. The Beatles tribute band “The Threetles” will be playing in the lower level Saturday. Doors open at 8 p.m., 
and music starts at 9 p.m.
Mystery GatorNights
GatorNights will be mystery-
themed Friday at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a “Nancy Drew” escape room, a “Sherlock Holmes” scaven-ger hunt, a Theatre Strike Force 
performance, a viewing of “Star 
Wars: The Last Jedi” and a puz-zle competition. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card.
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month
April commemorates the first 
Japanese immigration to the U.S. on May 7, 1853. It also honors the Chinese immigrants who worked to complete the trans-continental railroad on May 10, 1869. Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs will celebrate Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month with 
events until April 23. The 2018 theme is the Japanese concept of Ikigai, meaning “a reason to live.”‘What Were You Wearing? Art 
Exhibit'The “What Were You Wearing? Art Exhibit” is being displayed until April 30 on the third floor of the Ustler Hall Library. STRIVE 
at GatorWell and the American 
Student Medical Association have collaborated with anony-mous UF student survivors to show the outfits they wore dur-ing the attacks. For more info, call 352-273-4450.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 78
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, April 11, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSThe Sea T urtle Hospital at the UF Whit -
ney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience in 
St. Augustine offers tours on the second and 
fourth Thursday of the month and second 
Saturday of the month at 10 a.m. Experi-
ence a behind-the-scenes tour where you’ll 
meet patients, learn about research, con-
servation, and rehabilitation efforts, and  
explore the Sea T urtle Discovery Room. Cost  
is $15 per person, and proceeds support the  
Sea T urtle Program.  To make a reservation,  
email turtletours@whitney.ufl.edu or visit 
whitney.ufl.edu for more information.Sea Turtle 
Hospital Toursthe initial drawing when 51 eligible applicants 
were all awarded scholarships.
As Vice President for Human Resources Jodi Gen -
try announced the expansion of this year’s pro -
gram, members of the crowd—who expected to 
sit through a nail-biting drawing to wait to hear 
if their child would receive the benefit—audibly 
gasped and cheered, many with tears in their eyes.
“One of the TEAMS employees who received 
this year’s benefit wrote to me after the event 
and told me how valued she felt as a TEAMS 
employee,” said Gentry. “That is exactly how we 
wanted her to feel. This benefit is designed to 
help show our appreciation for the work of our 
TEAMS employees as members of our university 
community.”
By now, everyone is familiar with the added 
steps we take to protect our information when 
buying gas or logging into our bank accounts. 
As attempted account compromises continue 
to affect University of Florida employees, the 
university is taking additional security mea -
sures to help safeguard employees’ personal 
information as well as their work.
In an effort to further protect its faculty, staff  
and affiliates from phishing and other cyberse-
curity attacks, the University of Florida has in -
troduced a two-factor authentication process 
for web applications that utilize UF web login 
accounts and for using VPN. Faculty and staff  
may now enroll in the new two-factor service, 
commercially known as “Duo Security,” by  
visiting it.ufl.edu/two-factor.
T wo-factor authentication provides an added 
layer of security to supplement the Gatorlink 
username and password authentication pro -
cess you are already accustomed to using to 
log in. After logging in using your Gatorlink 
username and password as you always have, 
you will be asked to provide an additional ver -
ification. Most people will find it convenient 
to download the Duo Mobile app, which can 
be added to your smartphone, although other 
options of authentication will also be avail -
able.
Questions or concerns about two-factor  
authentication? Contact your department’s IT 
professional staff, the UF Computing Help Desk 
at (352) 392-HELP or helpdesk@ufl.edu.A call for applications for the 2018-19 UF Lead -
ership Development programs sponsored by 
UF Human Resources T raining and Organiza -
tional Development is now underway, with an 
application deadline of May 1. Eligible faculty 
and staff may apply for the UF Academy, the 
university’s emerging leader program, or the 
Advanced Leadership for Academics and Pro -
fessionals (ALAP) program. Participants in both 
programs, which will begin in the fall of 2019, 
are selected via a competitive application process. 
To learn more, visit hr.ufl.edu/leadership@uf/
programs.At the recommendation of Provost Joseph Glov -
er, with enthusiastic support from President 
Kent Fuchs and UF Human Resources, all 149 
eligible applicants received the 2018 Higher  
Education Opportunity (HEO) scholarship at 
the annual ceremony held in March.
The university’s HEO scholarship provides chil -
dren of full-time TEAMS employees with the opportunity of tuition assistance for an under -
graduate education at UF — or at any public 
community or state college in Florida if the  
student is not admitted to UF .
Since 2003, 50 scholarship recipients have been 
drawn from a pool of eligible applicants each 
year. The only other time more than 50 HEO 
applicants received the scholarship was during Nearly 150 TEAMS Employees 
Awarded Higher Education 
Opportunity Benefit
The popular Field & Fork Cooking series con -
tinues with “Spring Snacks and Sauces” on 
Apr. 13 and “Totally Tomatoes” on May 18. 
Join UF Field and Fork Program Director and 
Campus Food Systems coordinator Anna Priz -
zia and UF/IFAS College of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences Dietetics students as they demon-Field & Fork Gets Snacky in April
Protect Your 
Information UF Leadership 
Development: 
Apply by May 1 strate how to make delicious and healthy recipes 
using peak produce. If you missed last month’s 
“Rethinking Root Vegetables” session, you can 
watch three cooking demos on the CALS Face -
book page @UFCALS. To learn more, please see 
news.hr.ufl.edu/2018/02/kitchen-field-fork-
cooking-series.The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs convinced seven 
students to register to vote Monday — with sug-
ar cookies.
“I’ve walked around and harassed students 
that hadn’t registered,” Fuchs said. “I had an advantage, though. I had the cookie plate with me.”
Fuchs encouraged students to register to vote 
and get civically involved as part of an event held by the Bob Graham Center for Public Ser-vice and Alachua County Supervisor of Elections that ran from 4 to 6 p.m. on the Reitz Union 
breezeway. Shelby Taylor, the Graham Center 
communications director, said 15 students reg-istered.
Taylor said she hoped to reach about 200 stu-
dents in some way — having them register to vote, update their registration or get more in-volved in the voting process. About 80 percent of UF students are currently registered, Taylor said.
The center will hold more events including 
civic trivia and debate watch parties before Na-tional Voter Registration Day on Sept. 25, which is the last day to register to cast a ballot in No-vember.
At about 4:30 p.m., Fuchs and Kim Barton, 
the Alachua County supervisor of elections, walked into the Reitz Union food court. 
Some students asked Fuchs for selfies.“Can I be in the picture, too?” Barton asked. 
“I’m somebody.” 
Barton said she was excited to tell students 
about online registration and encourage them to volunteer as poll workers.
“It’s important to us that students have an 
important voice with their vote,” Barton said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgFuchs, Supervisor of Elections register students to vote
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs assists Natalie Evelev, an 18-year-old UF biomedical 
engineering freshman, with registering to vote on Monday afternoon.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Soﬁ  a Padron pinned a green rib-
bon to a cork board Monday on Turlington 
Plaza, she was thinking of her close friends 
who have struggled with mental illnesses. 
“A lot of people think you can just get 
over it,” the 19-year-old UF English fresh-
man said. “Mental illness needs a healing 
process just like a physical injury does.”
Padron participated in the opening event 
for the third annual Mental Health Aware-
ness Week, which continues through Fri-day, said Phat Huynh, the 20-year-old cabi-
net director. 
The Health Affairs Cabinet, a division of 
Student Government’s executive branch, 
is hosting the week’s events, which has a total budget of up to $2,000, funded by SG. 
“A lot of students are worried to talk about those issues because they may not be familiar with them,” the UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior said.
Lynh Nguyen, an assistant director in 
the cabinet, said the week focuses on ﬁ  ve different mental illnesses: depression, anxi-ety disorders, addictive disorders, eating disorders and bipolar disorder. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a hush-hush topic,” the 
21-year-old UF health sciences senior said.
Today, a panel  – “Totally Cool or Ta-
boo?” — will take a multicultural view on mental health from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Reitz 
Union Auditorium.
The Health Affairs Cabinet will pass 
out stress kits Friday on Turlington Plaza, 
which will include stress balls, candy and encouraging notes written by other stu-
dents.By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government senators 
unanimously supported increasing 
funding for the Disability Resource Center at a Senate meeting Tuesday night. 
Senators also passed a resolution — a written statement with no legis-lative weight — to raise awareness of the ﬁ  nancial hardships undergrad-uate international students face. 
Sen. Felipe Gatos (Inspire, District 
D), who also serves as the president of the Brazilian Student Association, said he noticed a lack of scholarships and work opportunities available to these international students.“I don’t think any student should 
have to choose between paying for rent, food and education,” he said. 
Senators also unanimously 
passed bills that will change election codes, including a neutrality act used to ensure the future members of the elections commission and the super-visor of elections have no afﬁ  liation with a political party or independent candidate. Another approved bill stated no candidate or representa-tive of a political party can coerce, intimidate or threaten a student or a member of a student organization.
Sen. Ben Lima (Inspire, District 
D) said he wrote these acts to ﬁ  x some problems he saw with the elec-tion codes after serving for two se-mesters as Inspire Party’s president.“The codes aren’t going to be per-
fect, and every once in a while you have to take a look at them,” Lima said. “The codes are necessary. We should be trying to improve our de-mocracy and our laws.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
Mental Health Awareness 
Week to continue today SG Senate wants more funding for Disability Resource Center
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Gainesville man sexually assaults woman 
in wheelchair
A man was arrested after Gainesville Police said 
he pulled a woman from her electric wheelchair, 
forced her to the ground and sexually assaulted her.
Ricky Morrow, 44, attacked a woman riding a 
Hoveround electric wheelchair on a trail near P.K. 
Yonge School at about 7 a.m., ac-cording to an arrest report. She told 
police she was using the trail as a 
shortcut to a store and stopped to 
bend down and ﬁ  x something in the chair.
Morrow appeared out of no-
where, forced the woman from the chair to the ground and raped her, 
according to the report. The woman saw Morrow’s face during the attack and recognized him as some-
one she’d known years ago. 
She said his name, and Morrow took her phone 
and left on a bicycle, according to the report. 
Police used what the woman told them about Mor-
row to ﬁ  nd him about six hours later in his home, which is about half a mile away from where the at-
tack took place, according to the report.
He was arrested on charges of preventing commu-
nication to law enforcement, unarmed robbery and 
sexual battery. 
Morrow was taken to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$300,000 bond.Deputies: Babysitter on LSD refuses to leave 
home, tries to steal toys
A Gainesville woman took LSD, and then stole toys and 
a $300 wedding ring from the house of the child she was 
babysitting, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said. 
Lorena Margarita Montealegre, 27, 
was under the inﬂ  uence of the psyche-delic drug while babysitting a child at 
about 8 p.m. Monday in a Haile Planta-
tion home, according to an arrest report. 
The child’s father asked Montealegre 
to leave when he saw her acting strange-
ly, but she refused, he told deputies.
The father showed a deputy a record-
ing of her refusing to leave, according to the report. Soon af-
ter, Montealegre walked out of the home carrying toys that 
belonged to the child and tried to get away from the deputy, who grabbed her to escort her out, according to the report.
She refused to drop the toys and struggled to free herself 
from the deputy. Another deputy arrived as backup, and together they handcuffed her.
She tried to kick both deputies multiple times, so her 
legs were restrained, according to the report.
She was taken to North Florida Regional Medical Center 
where it was discovered she had the child’s father’s stolen tungsten wedding ring, deputies said.
She was charged with burglary, grand theft, resisting ar-
rest with violence and two counts of attempted battery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer. Montealegre was taken to the Alachua County Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $55,000 bond.Man tries to steal car from Alachua County Jail 
parking lot, deputies say
A Gainesville man was taken to the Alachua County Jail 
after trying to steal a car from the jail’s parking lot, Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Ernest Holmes, 29, was seen leav-
ing a wooded area near the jail at about noon Monday and trying to steal a white Chevy pickup truck, said ACSO spokes-
person Art Forgey.
The truck’s owner, an employee of 
Paws On Parole, which is a program 
where inmates train and live with adopt-able dogs from the Alachua County An-
imal Services, was working with prisoners to train their 
dogs with the ACSO detention deputy, when they saw 
Holmes, Forgey said. 
Holmes broke into the truck and was sitting in the driv-
er’s seat when the deputy ordered him to step outside, For-gey said. Holmes said he wanted to take the car to leave the area but didn’t say where he wanted to go, he said.
The deputy found a glass pipe in his front left pants’ 
pocket and a medicine bottle with yellow pills in his front 
right pocket with a prescription label made out to another 
person, Forgey said. Authorities are testing the pills to de-termine what they are.
Holmes was arrested on charges of possession of a drug 
without a prescription, possession of drug parapherna-lia and attempted grand theft of a motor vehicle. He was driven to the front of the jail where he was booked and he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $12,000 bond.Morrow
Holmes
 Montealegre
All Stories by Robert Lewis  | Alligator Staﬀ   Writer
@Lewis_Robert | rlewis@alligator.org
The candidates will continue to 
meet with students and faculty 
lot of minorities don’t,” Cheng, 21, said. “I don’t 
want this position to be ﬁ  lled just to be ﬁ  lled.”
After Boaz spoke to students Tuesday, he said 
if he is chosen for the position, he will work to offer more representation for students who are 
minorities or who have disabilities.
Boaz also said he’d like to get the university 
and city on the same page for diversity and inclu-sion.
“This work isn’t always comfortable,” he 
said. “But you have to do what you have to do to change the game.” 
Gates said he plans to listen to marginal-
ized groups on campus, better understand UF’s unique qualities and align the efforts of diversity 
and inclusion with the rest of campus. 
“I will meet UF where it is in its diversity jour-
ney while helping it get to where it wants to be,” he said.Farias did not respond to a request for com-
ment as of press time. 
UF spokesperson Margot Winick said pay will 
be determined after Fuchs picks a candidate,
Fuchs said UF’s different colleges and organi-
zations strive for diversity and “best practices” 
for inclusion across campus, so the chosen per-
son needs to be able to tie all those individual efforts together.
“I felt it was important we have one person 
who would be a resource for all of us and hold all of us accountable,” he said. 
This person will also need to be able to thrive 
at a place as large and complex as UF, he said. 
“For me, diversity is more than race, ethnic-
ity, gender,” he said. “It really is about perspec-tives and backgrounds and religions, and we can be a part of that.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgCANDIDATES,  from pg. 1The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
We listen to a lot in a day.
In today’s so-called earbud culture, 
we have playlists for every routine — 
getting ready in the morning, working 
out, driving. We have fresh podcast 
episodes lined up for transitional times and even a queue of songs just waiting to be played in an 
instant.
The saying “Headphones in, world out” has 
taken on a literal meaning in our era of the con-
venient and the connected. Today, the act of walking and talking simply means people are having phone 
conversations into their headphone wire. It’s become a rare 
sight to see people in-transit without headphones covering their ears.
I sometimes feel bad for the music student who plays the 
Century Tower carillon every 15 minutes because almost all of the students bustling on Turlington Plaza — or anywhere on campus — are plugged into their own little worlds, oblivi-ous to the iconic bells and chimes that sing through campus.
Headphones as an accessory aren’t anything new, and 
it’s interesting to note how they’ve evolved through the de-cades. The headphone set has been a staple for citygoers, suburban parents and college students ever since the Sony Walkman — what us millennials would call a plastic-y MP3 
player — made its debut in the early ’80s.
As an upgrade to the Walkman, Apple’s introduction of 
the iPod in 2001 gave rise to earbuds, making it even easier 
to mix music into our daily activities without the clunk of big, distracting headphones. Today, there’s practically a pair 
of headphones for every personality type or lifestyle. Blue-
tooth earbuds were designed with ﬁ  tness gurus in mind, and Beats by Dre headphones have become a sort of status sym-bol for music aﬁ  cionados.
Headphone habits aren’t necessarily all positive or nega-
tive, but they tend to say something about our generation, as well as our desire to control our environment and what we hear.
While we can’t always control what happens 
to us or around us, we can pop in our earbuds 
for a quick escape to another time and place via 
our favorite Spotify playlist. By pressing play on a new episode of a podcast we love while we walk to class, we can feel like we’re a part of a conver-
sation without even having to talk.
Recently, podcasts have exploded as a popular 
medium for news, opinions and entertainment, 
and radio enthusiasts are likely jumping for joy 
knowing portable talk shows are, in this more modern, lis-
ten-anywhere form, still a valued form of storytelling. Ac-
cording to Forbes, as of last year, at least 112 million Amer-icans have listened to podcasts — a number that rose 11 percent from the year before.
I can’t criticize anyone for spending their commute listen-
ing to an uplifting playlist or a podcast that speaks to them, but in this earbud culture, it seems we’re increasingly drawn to the idea of tuning in to something rather than paying at-tention to who or what’s in front of us.
Perhaps the act of pressing play and having the ability to 
choose what sounds come through our headphones repre-sent a sense of control we wish we had over other parts of our lives or even the world around us.
This generation is one to preach the importance of living 
in the moment, but if we can’t even take a few minutes each day to actually listen to who and what’s around us, I don’t think we’re really embracing the here and now.
I can’t help but think that if we’re not willing to listen to 
the little things, like the chimes of the Century Tower caril-lon, the scooters zipping around campus and the Krishna lunch tambourines, it’s no wonder we have a hard time lis-tening to other people — including ourselves.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
focuses on human behavior and sociology.Earbuds stop us from embracing the here and now
Editorial
#SaveStudent
Newsrooms
The Amherst Student. The Daily Campus. The Sunﬂ  ower. 
Over the last few years, in the face of shrinking ﬁ  -
nances, these are just a few of the student-run publi-
cations that have had their independence jeopardized. Others have been forced to fold. Across the U.S., stu-
dent-run newsrooms — just like professional newsrooms — are struggling to survive. They are hemorrhaging.
But no one is talking about it. As professional newsrooms shrink, communities have be-
come more dependent on student newsrooms as a source of lo-cal coverage, holding not only our universities accountable but also city governments and county administrations. And as most traditional newsrooms throw up paywalls, our journalism has remained free in the stands and online. We write these articles, attending meetings and hounding sources, while juggling class-es, exams and, for many of us, part-time jobs. We do it because we’re passionate and care about our communities. Freedom of the press is the freedom of the people.
But we face the same problems legacy publications do. Ris-
ing print costs are no longer offset by print ads, and the new paper tariffs will only make this worse. Because of this, more student publications are having to turn to their universities for funding. But the ﬁ  nancial help often comes with unwanted opinions and less editorial control. In short, university fund-ing can lead to censorship. Publications that rely on a student government for funding, for instance, feel pressured to choose between running an article to expose corruption or greed within their university and paying their staff.  
The Student Press Law Center has advocated for asserting 
legal rights for high school and college journalists state by state with the New Voices campaign. But the conversation on help-ing student-run publications survive needs to continue over the years, and that’s what #SaveStudentNewsrooms, a movement launched by the editors of The Alligator, is trying to achieve. 
After news broke that the Daily Campus, the newspaper 
serving the Southern Methodist University community, would reafﬁ  liate with its university later this year, we realized how critical it is that this conversation happens now. Student jour-nalists cannot wait for another year to strategize — some can barely wait a month — we need to act now.
So here is our solution: In order to survive the tumultuous 
era of journalism, student journalists must start advocating for themselves. It’s a strange concept; we are taught to write and think objectively about sources, issues and topics through the journalism college. Don’t become the story. But it’s important for student journalists to become advocates for themselves and to remind others how critical they are to a community. No one else will. We can’t expect funding to drop from the sky or peo-ple to decry censorship if we do not. We also encourage those of you who are unafﬁ  liated with the journalism world to pay close attention to the state of student journalism. The students who are working long hours for little pay — and sometimes for none — are the ones who want to become the future profes-sional journalists. 
In the coming days, you’ll see social media posts with 
#SaveStudentNewsrooms from college journalists across the country. Pay attention, because we’re just getting started. 
Help us save student newsrooms.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, April 20, from 
9:00 a.m to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Writers, Photographers, 
Videographers, Copy Editors, 
and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
LIVE at noon on the Independent Florida 
Alligator’s OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the summer editors and staff 
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground floor, take hallway with single door all the way down to G207 on the left.
Amid the chaotic portrayal of par-
enting while newly divorced on ABC’s new sitcom, “Splitting Up 
Together,” appears Mae. She’s 
the middle-school-aged daughter 
of well-meaning parents played by Jenna Fischer and Oliver Hudson. When we ﬁ  rst 
meet Mae, we learn she has forgone buy-
ing lunch in favor of buying a mug labeled “Male Tears.” 
Her expression — emotionless, tense 
and brooding — doesn’t change much in 
the two episodes that have aired thus far. 
She reads Jessica Valenti’s “Sex Object: A Memoir” in the corner as she calls out her father for his subtly misogynistic parenting 
style, asking why he only wrestles with her 
brothers.
In the second episode, we see her par-
ents struggling with how to raise a “bud-ding feminist,” while lovingly encouraging 
her to lighten up. Who can blame them? 
They don’t want their daughter to turn into one of those angry, bra-burning feminists they see represented in movies and on tele-
vision shows.Despite important progress, 
especially in recent years, femi-
nism is still a dirty word. 
Rather than bringing to mind 
average people who want equal-ity for all gender identities, the word “feminist” connotes vi-
sions of seething man-haters. 
This representation discourages those who don’t identify as femi-nists from standing with a set of ideals that beneﬁ  ts all of us. And for the 
proud feminists, it tells our collective sub-
conscious we can’t enjoy our lives while simultaneously ﬁ  ghting for the end of the patriarchy.
Accepting this almost makes sense be-
cause rage is incredibly powerful. It was the emotion behind the Women’s March, the “Me Too” and “Time’s Up” move-ments and countless revolutions that came 
before. Anger has fueled women to write 
books, to protest and to run for ofﬁ  ce. It has an important place in the resistance, and it will continue to push us forward.
On the same token, quieting that anger and tuning out politics is a privi-lege not all of us have. When women of color, transgender 
people and disabled women live 
in a system that works against them, blissful ignorance of re-ality shouldn’t be an option for 
white, cisgender, nondisabled 
feminists.
But does this mean we can’t 
experience happiness until 
the patriarchy is toppled and equality is 
achieved? 
Jill Filipovic, author of “The H-Spot: 
The Feminist Pursuit of Happiness,” says 
no. Despite the fact we’re living in a coun-
try that stands on the notion that only “all 
men” are entitled to “the pursuit of happi-ness,” she says that shouldn’t stop us from trying.
“It has to be a collective, social and po-
litical effort to say that female happiness matters — and male happiness matters, too,” she told HuffPost. Until our govern-ment and its policies recognize that, we 
can, and we should, ﬁ  nd moments of joy.Rage can start the ﬁ  re, but happiness 
keeps it burning. If we devote all of our 
energy to ﬁ  ghting, we’ll exhaust ourselves 
before we can reach our goals. We can 
laugh at clever protest signs, drink too much at our feminist book clubs and cele-brate when progressive women are elected 
to local, state and national ofﬁ  ce.
We can close the eternally open Twitter 
tabs on our computers and open makeup 
tutorials. We can enjoy a really good burg-er and have really good sex. We can stop 
to celebrate how far we’ve come and then  
keep going.
Each of us has the choice of being a 
perpetually angry bra-burner like those 
portrayed in the media, or we can just be 
feminists, ﬁ  ghting for a world where we all have the same opportunities. 
But remember, in a society that ex-
cludes us from the pursuit of happiness, 
choosing to be happy anyway is an act of 
rebellion in itself.
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column focuses on feminism.
Whether you choose to be a bra-burning feminist or not, remember to be happyColumn
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgEdie Carey: 
The singer/songwriter hits Heartwood Soundstage this week 
(Pg. 9)Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. Bells and Robes:
The duo talks music ahead of opening slot at 
ZOOGMA show (Pg. 10)
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer 
Hannah Terzi sported a nude, 
loose-ﬁ  tting tee with a forest green 
sketch of a six-inch, freshly picked 
carrot down its center.
But her green thumbs didn’t 
show as she wiggled them behind her neck and pointed to the words printed across the back of her tee: 
“Organic Sustainable Agriculture 
Club.”
“We actually work in the gar-
dens three times a week,” she said.
The psychology sophomore said 
she has been a member of OSAC at 
UF since her freshman year in Fall 
2016.Terzi, 19, said the group works 
regularly with the UF Field and 
Fork Pantry, a program on campus 
designed toward helping any stu-dent or faculty member experienc-
ing food insecurity.
She said club members work 
weekly at the Field and Fork Farm and Gardens next to the UF Bat 
House practicing organic farming and donating a majority of the pro-
duce to the Field and Fork Pantry.
Now OSAC and Field and Fork, 
along with the help of Student Gov-ernment and the Culinary Arts Stu-
dent Union, will celebrate its third annual Fresh off the Farm Festival 
from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. Friday at the 
Field and Fork Farm and Gardens.“It’s really meaningful to me to 
see different parts of campus link-
ing together to share experiences 
with food and with agriculture be-cause it’s such an integral part of 
the way that we live,” Terzi said.
The festival is free, open to the 
public and advertised as a celebra-tion of local food systems, farmers 
and agriculture, according to the event page.
Having attended the festival last 
year, Terzi said she is looking for-ward to the student garden tours, 
great food and the live music again.  
“They made the most amazing 
food, and I’m vegan,” she said.
The Culinary Arts Student 
Union will also return to the event. Terzi said she can’t wait. 
“Last year there was some jack-
fruit tacos, which was amazing,” 
she said.
But more than enjoying the food 
and music experience, Terzi said she loves encouraging others in the learning experience about organic 
agriculture.
“It’s really awesome for me to 
see people getting involved and invested in their own health,” she 
said. “That’s part of why I garden because I really think it’s impor-
tant to take part in the food that 
you eat.”
Maris Silvestri, the president of 
OSAC, said she expects the turnout Friday to be larger than last year’s about 300 people.
“I can deﬁ  nitely see the event 
growing as more people are in-terested in participating as word spreads,” she said.
The continuation of the club and 
the work they do is exactly why Sil-vestri joined OSAC, she said.
The environmental science ju-
nior is passionate about people, ag-riculture and our community.
“It’s great to know that there 
are so many people passionate about sustainability, and together, 
we make this event what it is: an 
outreach to the community and a celebration of sustainably grown 
food,” she said. Fresh oﬀ   the Farm to host third annual event Friday 
MUSIC
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
After a career spanning four decades, punk-
rockers the Descendents will perform at 8 Sec-onds at 9 p.m. Saturday. We caught up with 
the Descendents drummer Bill Stevenson.
Q: Bill Stevenson, you have solidiﬁ  ed 
yourself as the legendary drummer for the Descendents, a musical powerhouse. But 
before you were that, who was Bill when he was just a kid?
Bill: Well, for the ﬁ  rst several weeks of my 
life, I was in an incubator because I was born prematurely. Then let’s skip ahead 14 years. 
I was kind of a nerdy kid in high school … 
It wasn’t until I met Frank and Tony and the 
Nolte brothers, Joe and Dave from the band 
The Last that I started to feel some friendships.
Q: In your interview with Rolling Stone, 
you guys talked about how punk can mean 
different things to different people. What is 
punk to you?
B: You can describe it and you can throw 
adjectives at it, but thankfully, it can’t quite be pigeon-holed into a little box … Fortunately 
punk rock’s got a lot of elasticity to it. 
Q: I’ve read that you dream songs. Do 
you really wake up with a song in your head? What is the process for writing your music?
B: Everybody in the band writes roughly a 
quarter of the stuff ... For my lack of having a good imagination, and for my lack of being a good song craftsman nor being a great poet or 
lyricist, I do sort of rely on these, well, they’re 
not dreams. It sounds so stupid because it 
sounds like I’m making it up. The song just 
comes into my head.Q: When did you start writing music?B: I mean my ﬁ  rst songs, of course, I think 
were very derivative of other bands I was lis-
tening to ... The ﬁ  rst song on “Milo Goes to 
College,” which is called “Myage,” that’s my ﬁ  rst song I wrote ... What is it really? It’s cool 
chord progressions and cool rhythms and 
drums parts with like, trite high school poetry lyrics. For being 15, that’s not bad!
Q: Over the years you guys have talked 
about pursuing this idea of “all.” But what does “all” actually mean to you?
B: All is the total extent. All is the utmost 
possible when nothing else remains. All is a 
quest; it’s a mentality. It’s not something you 
check off your checklist for the day or the year or the life ... As a musician, you could see all being the idea that we as musicians have a responsibility to aspire to more than what we 
inherited ... Fortunately, it’s fun. The pure ela-tion of musical discovery, it’s one of the best 
feelings I’ve ever known.
Q: How has music been an outlet for 
you throughout your life, and how has that changed over time?
B: In most ways, it actually has not changed 
one iota, but instead of my writing a song about, you know, I like food and that kind of thing, I may be writing about something quite 
serious, like say inﬁ  delity within a relationship 
… I think we really know what we are now. 
Who we are and what we are. When we start-
ed we were people, like most teenagers, who were trying to ﬁ  nd  our personalities. The ﬁ  rst EP and the ﬁ  rst few albums, those are chron-
icles of frustrated people trying to ﬁ  gure out 
who they are and how they ﬁ  t into the world.
Q: The Descendents have performed on 
and off for decades. Despite career barri-ers, medical issues and simply distance, 
why do you think you guys always ﬁ  nd 
your way back to the band?
B: I think that none of us are the kind of peo-
ple that spread ourselves real thin in terms of 
friendships, and so these friendships and these 
bonds that we have, I think we take them more 
and more seriously as we get older, not less 
and less … You know, case and point, when 
I was really sick, Milo wrote that song “Come-
back Kid.” He wrote that when he talked to me the day after I got out of my brain surgery. You 
know, these are my lifelong friends. These are 
the people who will be at my death bed with my family. It goes way beyond punk rock.
Q: What has been the most memorable 
moment of your time with the Descen-dents?
B: I think the memories I’ll take to my grave 
are the ﬁ  rst few years, the various practice 
rooms we had. I still remember us in there ar-
guing and bickering at each other and playing. 
We really learned to play music in the band. 
None of us really knew how to play music 
well. We learned together in the band. Those were the magic times ... We had carpet up on 
the walls and we would put a mattress in front 
of the door after we shut the door so that no sound could get out. Those were like our tree-
houses, treehouses for young adults. Those are 
the things I’ll remember.
Q: “Hypercafﬁ  um Spazzinate” was your 
ﬁ  rst album in over a decade. What’s next for you guys?
B: I could see us have a new record coming 
out in a year and a half from now maybe.Q&A: Bill Stevenson of the Descendents talks punk rock
Photo by Kevin Scanlon
Forming in 1977, the Descendents have had various periods of activity for 
more than 40 years. 
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
Colorado-based singer-song-
writer Edie Carey will play at 
Heartwood Soundstage on Friday 
alongside Amanda Garrigues, 
who will be opening for Carey.
While it’s been a few years 
since Carey has played in 
Gainesville, her relatable, con-
versational lyrics will make de-
voted fans feel as though no time 
has passed. Carey has the ability to paint accurate portrayals of re-
lationships and love in a sincere, dreamlike quality. She makes you laugh, cry, scream and per-
haps even feel things you didn’t 
want to feel, but you love her anyway, and that’s what makes 
her work so inimitable. 
Here is a fun Q&A I was lucky 
to have with Edie Carey.
Q: You have this enticing voice 
that really pulled me in when I 
was listening. It’s so warm and conversational. Have you taken 
singing lessons before?
Edie: That makes me really 
happy. I love vocals that draw 
me in, and it’s precisely what I hope to create when I’m record-
ing a song. I did take voice les-
sons starting as a kid… I also sang in a cappella groups and 
a variety of bands and musicals 
starting in fifth grade and all the way through high school and col-
lege. I took voice lessons all the 
way through. I was a terribly un-disciplined student; I never prac-
tice, I’m afraid to admit, but I did 
love it, and it helped me enor-mously to gain confidence and to 
learn how to breathe properly as 
a singer.
Q: When did you know you 
wanted to do music?
E: I think I felt it deep down 
pretty young, but I felt really em-
barrassed to even say that out 
loud… I taught myself guitar at the end of my freshman year in college. I was a nanny of a new-born baby girl who slept a whole lot, so I had lots of extra time 
to learn the instrument. Once I 
started to create my own songs in the year or two after that, I really started to believe that it 
might be possible to make music 
my job. 
Q: Any moment or concert in 
your musical journey that has given you the most pride?
E: I got to open for Gram-
my-winning singer-songwriter Shawn Colvin this past May. She was the folk-pop artist who I first 
heard when I was 15 who totally changed my taste in music. I’d 
only ever listened to whatever pop songs that had come on the radio. Her music was intelligent, 
heartfelt, moving, melodic and just totally changed my musical 
life. Once I heard her, I knew that that was the kind of music I wanted to create. To open for her last year, even though it was 
many years later, really just was 
so meaningful for me.
Q: You’ve been performing 
and touring since 1999. What’s 
the most difficult part about tour-ing now versus then?
E: Well, now I’m a mom of a 
1-year-old and a 5-year-old, so 
just the logistics of being a mom 
make it so much harder to get 
to all the places I’d like to go. I 
so love being home with them, 
though, and then once a month I get the chance to go away for 4 to 5 days to go play music. So 
while it’s hard in some ways that 
I don’t get to tour as much as be-fore, playing far less often means 
I also only play shows I really 
want to. That really heightens the experience emotionally, fi-
nancially, career-wise. It feels 
like a really great balance. I’m 
grateful to have a really support-
ive husband and mother who help make my touring possible. 
Q: Have you been to Gainesville 
before? Is there anything you’re hoping to see or do in town while you’re here?
E: I have been to Gainesville 
before. I played the university once or twice, I think, when I was doing tons of college gigs in the early 2000s. I think my 
special guest Amanda Garri-
gues and I did a show together in Gainesville around 2000, but 
I can’t recall the venue. I am so 
looking forward to reconnecting with her. We toured together many years ago, and I’m so ex-cited to share the stage and a lot of the stupid jokes we both love 
with her again.
Q: Are there any songs you’re 
most excited to play for fans on 
Friday? What are you hoping fans take away from your concert?
E: I have recently started play-
ing piano, and while it terrifies me to play it live, I also love to inject that vulnerability in a live show. I am excited to share a few of my piano songs and my hope 
is to inspire some ugly crying in 
my audience members. Think a cathartic cry — not a sad cry!
Q: You have some highly de-
voted fans. In your opinion, what 
do you think it is about your mu-
sic that resonates with fans so much? How has the reaction from your fans been like so far on this 
tour?
E: I certainly don’t have a big 
name in music, but I am so grate-
ful to have the very dedicated and generous fans that I do... I love connecting and talking and 
laughing with folks onstage and 
off equally. It’s my favorite part of performing. I love the human-
ity and realness that’s intrinsic 
in this genre of music. It’s what drew me to it, but then that jux-
taposed with the magic of a tran-
scendently beautiful and mov-
ing song, it’s a combination that 
I was so moved by, and that’s what I aspire to always. I can 
only hope that it’s part of what 
has kept my supporters with me over these last 20 years.Q: Is there a song you’ve writ-
ten that’s your favorite? Why does it mean so much to you? 
E: I think my song “These 
Things” is probably my cur-
rent favorite. I wrote it for my 
lullabies album with Sarah 
Sample (“‘Til the Morning: Lul-
labies and Songs of Comfort”). I 
went through six years of fertil-
ity treatments to have both my kids, not an enjoyable experi-ence by any means, but worth every second. I know that one 
in seven couples who want kids go through what we did, and I wanted to have a song on that 
record that made those parents feel just as welcome in the par-enting “club.”
The Edie Carey concert at 
Heartwood, which will run from 7 to 10 p.m., will be catered by 
Radha’s Kitchen at 6 p.m. in-
cluding a bar that will serve beer, wine and water. 
Tickets are available at heart-
woodsoundstage.com.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
Courtesy to The Alligator
With a relaxing sound and an ethereal voice to match, Edie 
Carey will bring her talents to Heartwood Soundstage this week. 
Q&A: Singer-songwriter Edie Carey discusses her music
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
Bells and Robes are one of the most unique 
groups to come out of the Gainesville music 
scene. The group, made up of former UF stu-
dents and friends Luke Sipka and Dean Spani-
ol, began making music in 2012. It was born 
with similar music tastes and the drive to let 
their creativity run wild.
Since then, the two have been steadily ris-
ing, making diverse releases and bringing their sound to stages around the Southeast. No two songs sound alike, with tracks like “White Glow” that combines light piano chords with slow-rolling synthesizers and others like 
“Latchkey” that features Animal Prince’s sultry 
vocals with plucky percussion.
Bells and Robes will hold a show at High 
Dive on Thursday. Along with local group Retrolux, the duo will open for ZOOGMA, 
another group that combines production and 
instrumentals to create a deep sound similar to Pretty Lights, an American electronic music producer.
The show will kick off at 10 p.m., and doors 
open at 9 p.m. Tickets are available at highdi-
vegainesville.com, Hear Again Records or High 
Dive’s box ofﬁ  ce for $12 in advance and $14 at the door. 
Here’s a talk with Bells and Robesmembers.
Q: Tell me a little bit about how you two 
came together.
Luke: We split a record player, I want to say 
in like 2011 or 2012 when we were at UF. We 
started buying some records, had pretty similar 
tastes in music, and I had taken piano lessons 
in the past and been in a few bands, and Dean had played drums. We decided — it was actu-ally on the summer solstice of 2012 — that we wanted to make an EP collectively. And then 
we ﬁ  nished an EP and got a show offer and 
then kept getting show offers, and they haven’t seemed to stop, and we’ve continued to put out music, and now we’re here.
Q: Where did the name Bells and Robes 
come from?
Luke: It’s a Zen Koan. It was from this book 
that was written in the 13th century called “The Gateless Gate.” Koans are things that Zen 
masters would give their students to contem-
plate.
Dean: They don’t necessarily have a correct 
answer.
Luke: Yeah it’s almost like a poem, story, 
short thing, and there’s a line in there that said “one should see sound” ... We really connect-
ed with that line, and it was the name of our 
ﬁ  rst two EPs, and that’s where it came from. 
We found that randomly as we were getting 
going, and that became the name.  
Q: Some people argue that being a duo 
makes things easier, but I disagree. I think 
the ability to stay in tune with one anoth-
er, especially during live performances, 
adds a degree of difﬁ  culty that people may not realize at ﬁ  rst. How do you keep that balance and work together so well?
Dean: It deﬁ  nitely is challenging. We’ve 
been playing together for about four to ﬁ  ve years now, so over time you kind of develop a sense of each other’s style and where you’re taking things in a live setting, especially when you’re doing a lot of improvisational stuff. You 
kind of just know each other’s tendencies and 
match each other’s energy level. It was also 
pretty natural because I’m doing most rhyth-mic stuff on drums and he was doing most of the melodic, so it’s also natural rhythm and 
melody working together.
Q: Is one of you the instrumentation 
guy and the other the production guy, or 
do you guys kind of tag team it?
Dean: We tag team it most of the time. 
We’ll write together a lot but oftentimes we’ll 
write separately and we’ll bring ideas to the 
table when we come up. Like “Oh, look at this, I just made this yesterday, what do you think of this?” And then we add to each other’s 
ideas and kind of build on them and talk them 
through. And again, it’s a lot of rhythm and melody. So most of the synth work is Luke.
Q: Although I’m sure you both have 
many inﬂ  uences, your sound also lies in a realm that’s really all its own. Where do you draw that originality and creativity from?Luke: That’s a tricky question… Some peo-
ple when they get an idea and it doesn’t neces-sarily sound like it’s in a genre don’t proceed forward with it…. It’s almost like the thing that 
starts happening isn’t necessarily the thing 
that you intended to happen, and some people when that happens refuse to go forward. If you refuse to go forward, you don’t necessarily know where that idea was going to take you, 
but if you kind of give in and kind of accept 
that you don’t know where you’re going but just react and move forward with that idea, it kind of takes you into new areas and spaces and styles that may not necessarily be accept-able and categorizable but that are new and 
fresh. If you’re willing to let that happen, then you can get there, but if you’re not and you 
shut down unconventional ideas, then they won’t happen. Kind of accepting where the 
creativity wants to go without limiting it and 
moving forward.
Q: “Pleasures Of Mind” could be your 
most mature, impressive release to date. 
Tell me about how that came together.
Dean: What we originally did was kind of 
pick a date and was like, all right, we want to release a project around this date. One of our 
methodologies when it comes to making music 
is quantity produces quality, so quality comes through quantity. Just writing a ton of stuff and trying to pick out the tracks that are em-
bodying the message or theme that you want 
to go for with the project. It typically just starts by taking a lot of action and getting through as much quantity as possible and then whit-tling that down to the quality…. We’ve been 
able to expand our music comraderie after the 
last couple years touring around and getting to know a lot of amazing musicians. It’s really fun to be able to put some of them on a project or a piece of work that you’ve conceived.
Q: What about Gainesville makes you 
excited to continue coming back here?
Dean: It’s like a totally different crowd ev-
ery time ... Every time we go back, even if it’s just a short period of time, it seems like there’s so much new stuff popping up all over the place. So many memories ﬂ  ood back into your head of where you started. It’s always 
great to reconnect with the people that were 
there when we kind of birthed this project. It’s always pretty awesome to connect with the people who were there from day one. It’s also a great time to reﬂ  ect of how far we’ve come 
and how much further we’d like to go from 
when we ﬁ  rst started there.  Q&A: Bells and Robes talk music before Gainesville show  
Courtesy to The Alligator
After getting starting in Gainesville in 2012, the now Atlanta-based duo 
Bells and Robes will return to town this week. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
By Camille Graham
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recent $20,000 grant to the Ala-
chua County Humane Society will help 
puppies and kittens get one step closer 
to ﬁ  nding a forever home.
The humane society announced 
March 30 it got one of the largest 
grants it’s ever received from the Petco 
Foundation. The money will go toward 
preparing animals for adoption.
The shelter applies for every Petco 
Foundation grant it qualiﬁ  es for — from adoption-speciﬁ  c ones to grants 
dedicated to neutering efforts, said 
Margot DeConna, an Alachua County Humane Society spokesperson.
Last year, the foundation gave the 
Humane Society a $10,000 grant for food, cleanings and medical expenses such as vaccinations, microchipping and sterilization surgery, according to Alligator archives.
This year, the shelter will use the 
money to pay for vet fees, neutering and microchipping, DeConna said. The grant’s impact is hard to quantify, but it costs about $150 to neuter each of the about 240 animals in the humane society’s care.
“Lots of work goes into the animals 
we pull (from shelters) before they’re ready for adoption,” she said. “We care for them seven days a week, ev-ery day of the year.”
Grants like these help the humane 
society remain a no-kill shelter, De-Conna said. This will help offset adop-tion preparation costs for the about 2,000 cats and dogs that pass through 
the humane society every year.
“With the grant money, we hope to 
sustain no-kill in Alachua County, but 
also to assist surrounding counties in no-kill facilitation,” she said.
The Petco Foundation invests 
more than $30 million per year to organizations like the ACHS, founda-tion spokesperson Lisa Lane wrote in 
an email. It has donated more than 
$200 million to more than 8,000 ani-mal welfare partners since 1999. This grant and others from the foundation are funded by donations and corporate 
contributions.Petco donates $20,000 to the local humane society
Alligator File Photo
Callie, a 4-year-old cat, leaps from atop a crate at the Alachua County Humane Society. The shelter 
received a $20,000 grant from the Petco Foundation, the largest it’s received from the foundation.
14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Contributing Writer
Paul Hawken said the Earth has never 
needed as much of our help as it does now.
Hawken, an author and environmentalist, 
spoke in front of roughly 
250 people Monday about 
his work as the executive director of Project Draw-
down, a nonprofit that re-
searches how to reverse 
global warming. 
His talk was the first 
event of Campus Earth 
Week, hosted by Sustainable UF, a program that focuses on making campus more eco-friendly. 
Matthew Williams, director of the UF Of-
fice of Sustainability, said there was a $25,000 
speaker fee, however the money does not go 
directly to Hawken. The money went to Project Drawdown in order for Hawken and his team to continue their work highlighting climate so-
lutions.
The UF Office of Sustainability paid for the 
talk out of its donation foundation account, meaning the money did not come from tuition 
or taxes, Williams said.
The “drawdown” in Project Drawdown re-
fers to the process of decreasing the concen-tration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. He said the organization maps, measures and models the 100 most substantive solutions to stopping global warming.
Most of the plans focus on getting people to 
care about the issue, Hawken said.
“That is where we make a difference, and 
that is where we engage people,” Hawken said. “That is where people get involved.”
Sustainable UF picked Hawken because 
they believed he would bring a positive mes-sage of hope and teamwork, said Allison Vitt, a 
UF Office of Sustainability spokesperson. 
“We want people to understand that it is 
not all doom and gloom,” Vitt said. “People can come together and work together to find 
solutions.” Vitt said the event was an important way 
for the UF and Gainesville community to hear different narratives about climate change. 
“Even just thinking about an issue differ-
ently is a big action,” she said.
Madison Smith, the agency head of Gators 
Going Green, a Student Government agency that acts to bring sustainable initiatives to cam-
pus, said she works with Sustainable UF. 
The UF sustainability studies junior said she 
attended Hawken’s talk because she was eager to learn something new.
“Sustainability as a whole comes down to 
a lot of things that a lot of people don’t know about, and it is interesting hearing a lot of peo-
ple’s perspectives,” the 20-year-old said. Nationally known environmentalist talks global warming
Hawken
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest price
www.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     
4-25-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
5-15-18-21-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1201 
NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800    4-13-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgOak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. SCIENCE: What vitamin did sci-
entist Linus Pauling advocate as hav-
ing health benefits when taken in high 
doses?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Where is Arlington National Ceme-tery located?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: How many 
children did President Franklin Roos-evelt and first lady Eleanor Roosevelt have?
4. TIME & MEASUREMENTS: If 
the military hour is 1600, what is the time to civilians?
5. ASTRONOMY: What was the first 
planet to be discovered using the tele-scope?
6. THEATER: Who wrote the 
20th-century play “Private Lives”?
7. GAMES: What color is the No. 1 
ball in billiards?
8. MOVIES: What kind of creature is 
Thumper in the Disney movie “Bambi”?
9. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the club where husband Ricky worked on the show “I Love Lucy”?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What is the 
world’s largest active volcano?
Answers
1. Vitamin C2. Arlington County, Virginia3. Six, although one died in infancy4. 4 p.m.5. Uranus
6. Noel Coward
7. Yellow8. A rabbit9. Tropicana10. Hawaii’s Mauna Loa
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 9, 2018King Features Weekly Service
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 4/16- 4/19 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.       4-16-18-4-20NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited. 
DATE & TIME: April 23, 2018 at 3:00 p.m. 
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website at
www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
4-11-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Film director’s
honor
6 Rich, dusty soil
11 Greeting at a dog
park
14 100 kopecks
15 Common film
festival film
16 Loving murmur17 Phoenix-based
hotel chain (and
see circles)
19 Mac platform
20 Crankcase
reservoir
21 Small bouquet23 “Help!” at sea
26 Filing tool
27 Threadbare28 Place for prayer30 Collars33 __ the hills34 Web unit36 Here, in 
Spanish
37 Agrees quietly38 Skater Sasha or
comic SachaBaron
39 Short40 Indianapolis
NFLer
41 Veggie burger
veggies
42 Accra is its
capital
43 Struggled to
achieve
45 Yellowstone
attraction
46 Brewski
47 With 31-Down,
“Proud Mary”
singer
49 Nine and five, in
nine-to-five:
Abbr.
50 Cast a ballot
52 Sources of
fragrant wood
54 Make a mistake
55 Old family recipe
(and see circles)
60 Salty body61 “Carmen,” e.g.62 Not yet realized63 Peak64 Ten-time 
French Openwinner
65 Sounds from a
belfryDOWN
1 Mercury or Mars
2 Alphabet Series
novelist Grafton
3 “Young Sheldon”
network
4 Kind of clarinet
5 Does some
electrical work
6 Speech
therapist’sconcerns
7 Ready to pour
8 Genesis garden
9 Ringo Starr’s title
10 Motion detector,
e.g.
11 Produce served
in the fall (andsee circles)
12 Civil rights hero
Parks
13 Sly
18 Airline to Tel Aviv22 Tediously
moralistic
23 One carrying a
torch?
24 “Hey, check it
out!”
25 Feature of some
penny loafers(and see circles)
27 Small, chirpy bird29 Incurring late fees
30 Forever31 See 47-Across32 Indian lutes34 “Always be a __,
even in prose”:Baudelaire
35 Finder’s cry
38 Computer
“brains,” briefly
42 Gets ready (for)
44 Heavily favored45 Pesky flier47 __ cotta48 Exemplary50 Garment for brisk
days
51 Two-toned snack52 Sent a dupe to53 Reasonable56 Org. that monitors
wetlands
57 Actress Thurman58 Cartoon sheet59 Purported UFO
crew
By John Guzzetta
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/11/1804/11/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 11, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Stick a toothpick
in
6 Former auto
financing co.
10 Get smart with
14 “The Chew” 
co-host Hall
15 Dinghy steering
tools
16 Award coveted
on “Mad Men”
17 In the sky
18 “This Kiss”
country singer
20 City near
Scottsdale
21 Cookbook
maven
Rombauer
22 Childish retort
23 Freeway division
25 Go quickly,
quaintly
26 Swindler’s
swindle
33 Pain-relieving
drug
34 Sailor35 “__ Tide!”:
Alabama cheer
37 Derby-wearing
Addams cousin
38 Soaked in hot
water, as a teabag
41 “Argo” spy gp.
42 Blaze44 Braying beast45 Nautical measure47 Important
percentage to aprosecutor
50 Animation still51 First Nations
tribe
52 Hawke of
“Training Day”
55 RR station
posting
57 Save, with
“away”
61 Heir’s financial
security
63 Scrabble 
10-pointer
64 PetSmart
purchase
65 Environs66 Metallic mixture67 Gps. requiring
copays
68 Abound (with)69 Younger siblings,
at timesDOWN
1 Bogus offer
2 Light in color3 Arrow shooter of
myth
4 “Our Gang” kid
with spiky hair
5 Chinese zodiac
animal
6 Be released7 Respectful
address
8 Song often sung
in Italian
9 Ill. clock setting
10 Bagel spread11 Touched down12 Where feed can
be stored
13 Unaided
19 Reagan’s first
secretary of state
21 With all the fine
points
24 River isles
25 British cattle breed26 Salon do
27 __ nerve
28 Explosive liquid,
briefly
29 Modern mil.
treaty violation
30 Keep from going
higher
31 Starbucks flavor32 “Adam Bede”
novelist George
36 Like a weak
excuse
39 Changed-my-
mind key
40 Great __: big dog43 Crates up46 Railroad bridge
framework
48 Opening for air49 Winter river
blockage52 Make a fine
impression?
53 Monorail transport54 Award for Isaac
Asimov
55 “By all means!”56 Replaceable joint
58 Masseur’s supply
59 Coagulate60 Door openers62 Liposuction target63 Heat in a
microwave
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/10/1804/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 10, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Suds, froth
1.  Probable 5.  ____ pants
2.  Type of fishing boat6.  Parasite
3.  Clear7.  Atom component
4.  DrainALTREH
IYLLEKIKAKH
CEHEL
RWRETLA
DETIEVNORNOTP
PHSONIANSWERS: 1A-Lather  5A-Khaki  6A-Leech  7A-Proton
1D-Likely  2D-Trawler  3D-Evident  4D-Siphon  B-Whale shark4-11-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: A ____ ____ can weight up 
to about 47,000 pounds. BONUS
18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 EntertainmentFlorida lacrosse goalie Haley 
Hicklen was named BIG EAST Defensive Player of the Week on Tuesday after making a combined 10 saves in two wins.CHIOZZA RECEIVES ANNUAL BASKETBALL AWARD
Florida point guard Chris Chiozza was the recipient of the Lt. Fred Koss 
Award, which is given every year to a four-year senior. Kasey Hill won the 
award last season. Previous winners include Udonis Haslem and Lee Hum-phrey.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
From Lamborghini's to QBs, it's all the same to Mullen 
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
According to Dan Mullen, 
playing quarterback is a bit like 
driving a sports car. Despite 
the promise of power, it’s of-
ten wise to heed the warnings 
of speed limits and stop signs. 
“If I hand you a Lamborghi-
ni, it doesn’t mean you have to drive 150 miles-an-hour every second of every day,” said the ﬁ  rst-year Florida football head coach. 
Like a Lamborghini, redshirt 
sophomore Feleipe Franks’ arm strength can certainly impress. But Mullen wants Franks to learn how to give his engine a rest at times. More often than not, the Gators’ offense needs 
a simple pass that won’t make 
a highlight compilation. 
In Florida’s closed scrim-
mage last Saturday, Franks re-
corded the best numbers of all participating quarterbacks ac-cording to Mullen. This marks a signiﬁ  cant improvement from the team’s ﬁ  rst scrim-
mage, in which Franks threw 
three interceptions and one touchdown. He was outshined by redshirt sophomore Kyle 
Trask’s three touchdowns and 
one interception on the day.
Even after Franks’ improved 
performance on Saturday, Mul-
len was disappointed by his low completion percentage – a problem not entirely due to missed targets.
“Sometimes it’s decision-
making,” Mullen said. “The 
educated things.” 
But for Franks and the other 
quarterbacks competing for 
the starting position, it’s also the easy things that can cause confusion. Mullen acknowl-edged the entire position group performs well in difﬁ  cult situ-
ations, such as when handling 
unorthodox blitzes. However, 
the basics tell a different story.
“Set in a base defense, and 
everybody freaked out,” Mul-
len said. “Come on, it’s back 
to Day 1. You can’t miss those 
opportunities.” 
Franks has received praise 
from his coaching staff for 
committing himself to studying 
ﬁ  lm and applying what he has 
learned to the ﬁ  eld. He is doing all he can to earn playing time 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 20
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 20Alligator File Photo
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks is locked in another battle for the starting job with Kyle Trask. In UF's ﬁ  rst 
scrimmage of the spring on March 30, Franks threw three interceptions, while Trask threw three touchdowns.
BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The last time Jonathan India was held with-
out a hit in a game, “Black Panther” was enjoy-
ing its fourth straight week in the No. 1 spot at 
the box ofﬁ  ce. Since then, the Gators third base-
man has been collecting hits with a tenacity that would make T’Challa proud. 
When the junior from Coral Springs, Florida, 
looped a single into left ﬁ  eld in the top of the fourth inning Tuesday night against No. 10 FSU, he extended his hitting streak to 20 games, nine shy of the all-time school record. 
Besides furthering his own personal record, 
India also helped spark a three-run inning dur-ing which Florida took a lead it never gave up in its 6-3 win over the Seminoles in Tallahassee. The win gave the Gators (29-6, 9-3 SEC) their 
eighth consecutive victory and a season sweep 
over their in-state rivals. While India helped further his case for a regu-
lar-season batting title, a trio of other Gators also made a difference on Tuesday.
Austin Langworthy, LF: The former lead-
off man for UF has found a groove since being moved down in the lineup. Coming into the con-
test on a six-game hitting streak, Langworthy 
contributed two hits in four at-bats. His ﬁ  rst base knock of the night — a single into left-center ﬁ  eld — allowed right ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton to score Florida’s go-ahead run in the top of the fourth in-
ning. He also lined a double into deep left-center 
in the sixth to score Dalton once again to push UF’s lead to three.
JJ Schwarz, C: Florida’s captain entered the 
season with a good shot at pacing the team in home runs. He belted 12 dingers last season to Gators complete sweep of FSU  
The St. Louis Cardinals 
and Arizona Diamond-backs participated on Sunday in one of base-ball’s most unusual, 
most nonsensical, most use-less traditions, which is saying something for a sport so im-bued in useless traditions. 
I’m talking about the 
bench-clearing “brawls” that seem to happen once a month or so in the Major Leagues over a hit batter or a “dis-respectful” ﬂ  ip of a bat or anything else 
seen as violating the game’s well-known 
yet uncodiﬁ  ed rules of decorum. 
On Sunday, Cardinals catcher Yadier 
Molina was at the center of the lastest bench-clearing incident when he was ap-proached by irate Diamondbacks manager Torey Lovullo. It’s unclear exactly what Lovullo said, but per reports it involved cursing at Molina. The Cardinals catcher 
started yelling, getting closer to Lovullo as home plate umpire Tim Tim-
mons tried to restrain him. 
And then, as they always 
do at the smallest scufﬂ  e, play-ers from both teams poured 
from the benches like an un-
dammed river and collided like a cloudy stream meeting a clear ocean, meeting but not really mixing all that much. 
Then in came the ﬁ  elders 
for the Cardinals, the bullpen for the Dia-mondbacks, and suddenly a two-person verbal altercation had evolved into an in-
tense shoving match. Little happened after 
that. 
This is a common sight for any base-
ball fan. Whenever anything goes wrong, benches, bullpens and ﬁ  elders coalesce, usually near home plate, and shove or trample or shout. Sometimes the scene gets more intense, and maybe a punch is thrown. Baseball ﬁ  ghts are one of the most 
ridiculous spectacles in sportsSweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 20India extends hitting streak to 20WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19
SOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Softball Writer
 
Florida’s softball team has little time 
to rest. The team is taking a trip to Tal-
lahassee to take on Florida State tonight following a series win against the Crim-
son Tide in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
The Gators (34-6, 9-3 SEC) will face 
the Seminoles (33-7, 11-1 ACC) at 7 at 
JoAnne Graf Field.
Florida State is coming off its own se-
ries win against the Pittsburgh Panthers 
at home. With Sunday’s game ending in an 8-0 shutout victory, the Seminoles 
will look to replicate their success as they 
carry that momentum into another home 
game.  
Like Florida, FSU has a deep bullpen 
and is selective with its aces. For the most part, Florida State depends on red-
shirt senior Kylee Hanson and redshirt 
junior Meghan King.
Together, Hanson and King have a 
32-7 record on the season and ERAs of 0.77 and 1.14, respectively.
The duo allowed three hits against 
the Panthers on Sunday in five shutout 
innings.
However, the Gators have a pair of 
tough pitchers on their own staff in junior  Kelly Barnhill and senior Aleshia Ocasio.
Over the weekend, Barnhill and Oca-
sio helped lead UF to a series win over Alabama. On Monday, Barnhill logged 
her 17th win of the season, but not with-
out some minor errors in the circle.
The Marietta, Georgia, native walked five batters, struck out four and threw 
three wild pitches.
From a hitting perspective, FSU heav-
ily depends on Sydney Sherrill. The fresh-
man utility player carries the highest bat-
ting average on the team at .429 and a slugging percentage of 0.810. She also 
leads the team in hits (54), doubles (22) and RBIs (41).
Florida will continue to rely on junior 
left fielder Amanda Lorenz. The Moor-park, California, native comes into the 
midweek matchup with a .398 batting average and .690 slugging percentage.
Lorenz also leads the team in runs 
(47), hits (45), doubles (14), and RBIs (36).
The Gators have also been more de-
pendent on utility player Danielle Ro-
manello lately. The freshman has had 
some crucial hits for the Gators over the past few games, including the weekend 
series at Alabama.
One of her most notable hits of the 
season came in her second at-bat of the 
night against the Crimson Tide in Mon-
day’s matchup. She sent a homer to right field, securing a 3-2 victory and the series 
for the Gators.
Tonight’s matchup against the Semi-
noles will mark the last of five away 
games in a row for the Gators before 
they take on South Carolina at home this 
weekend.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org Florida takes on FSU in midweek matchup in Tallahassee
GATORS IN THE NBA
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The NBA regular season doesn’t end un-
til later tonight, but four former Gators have 
already clinched their spots in the 2018 NBA 
Playoffs.
Boston Celtics power forward Al Horford 
will have considerably more pressure on his 
shoulders entering his 10th trip to the post-
season. The Celtics have locked themselves into the second seed in the Eastern Confer-ence but are missing a pair of All-Stars in Gor-don Hayward and Kyrie Irving for the rest of 
this season due to injuries.
Horford, a five-time All-Star himself, led 
Boston with 7.3 rebounds and ranked fourth 
among NBA power forwards with 4.7 assists 
per game. He is tasked with providing leader-
ship to a young roster with Hayward and Ir-ving sitting out. Horford averaged 15.1 points, 6.6 rebounds and 5.4 assists per game in last year’s playoffs in which the Celtics advanced 
to the Eastern Conference Finals.
Joining Horford are a pair of shooting 
guards in Bradley Beal and Corey Brewer. 
Beal was voted an All-Star for the first time 
in 2018, his sixth year in the league. He is av-
eraging 22.8 points per game and is sporting career highs in rebounds and assists.
The Wizards have already clinched a play-
off berth, but their seed will not be determined 
until the regular season is over. Beal averaged 
24.8 points per game in the 2017 playoffs be-fore the Wizards were eliminated by Horford and the Celtics in the second round.Brewer played his first 54 games of the 
season with the Los Angeles Lakers, where 
he averaged 3.7 points per game and started 
twice. On March 1, Brewer was waived by the Lakers and signed by the Oklahoma City Thunder, where he reunited with his college 
coach, Billy Donovan. Brewer and Donovan 
won the 2006 and 2007 national champion-ships together at Florida.
Since joining the Thunder, Brewer has 
started 15 of 17 games in place of the injured 
Andre Roberson. He improved his scoring av-
erage by six points and has grabbed 2.2 steals per game since the trade.
Oklahoma City secured its third-straight 
postseason berth with a 115-93 win over Mi-ami on Monday. Brewer won an NBA title with the Dallas Mavericks in 2011 and has since reached the playoffs twice with the Denver Nuggets (2012, 2013) and twice with 
the Houston Rockets (2015, 2016). Brewer 
holds a career playoff scoring average of 8.4 points per game.
Miami power forward Udonis Haslem has 
won three NBA titles in his 15 seasons with the Heat, and he now has a chance to win his fourth after Miami clinched a playoff spot on April 3. 
While his playing time has tumbled in re-
cent years – 67 games played in the last three seasons combined, compared to 777 in the previous 12 – Haslem remains a veteran pres-ence in the Miami locker room.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgPlayoffs edition: Horford leads injured Celtics to No. 2 seedAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF left fielder Amanda Lorenz has a .398 batting average heading into Florida’s midweek 
matchup with Florida  State. She leads the Gators in runs, hits, doubles and RBIs.
The Associated Press
Boston Celtics forward Al Horford leads his team with 7.3 rebounds per game this season. In last year’s Eastern Conference finals, Horford averaged 15.1 points per game.
20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 2018
come August, and Mullen has seen improve-
ment. 
At this point in the offseason, however, nei-
ther Franks nor any of the quarterbacks on the roster have stood out as frontrunners for the 
starting spot. This is partially due to Mullen’s 
current perspective. 
“I don’t think I’ve paid attention to separa-
tion,” Mullen said. “I’m watching all the guys 
and really worrying about how we’re getting 
better.”
Saturday’s annual Orange and Blue spring 
game will provide fans an early glimpse of 
Franks’ development and the overall quarter-
back race. If Franks wants to retain his position 
from last season, in which he started eight of 11 games, he will need to show that improvement.
For the time being, Mullen’s mind won’t be 
on selecting a starter.
“We are with a new roster,” Mullen said. “It’s 
a long time before we have to make any deci-sions or play a game.”
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 18UF spring game is 
Saturday at 3 p.m.
As far as I can see, a scene like that last one 
is the only time when bench clearing is justi-
ﬁ  ed. For example, when the then-Florida Mar-lins played the Washington Nationals in 2010 and Marlins pitcher Chris Volstad threw be-
hind Nationals outﬁ  elder Nyjer Morgan. Mor-
gan charged the mound and was greeted with a clothesline courtesy of Marlins ﬁ  rst baseman Gaby Sanchez and fell to the ground, where Volstad tried to get on top of him and slug him in the face. 
Volstad, mind you, was 6-foot-8, 230 
pounds. Morgan was 6-foot-even, 185 pounds. Regardless of why Volstad threw behind him 
or why Morgan charged the mound, Volstad probably could have done some serious dam-
age if left unchecked. Luckily, a teammate or coach got in the way. 
Yet whenever there’s any disturbance much 
simpler than this, like the one on Sunday in-volving Molina and Lovullo, entire teams get in on the action. It’s a phenomenon that’s pretty unique to baseball in a couple of ways. 
First is the unanimity. When ﬁ  ghts hap-
pen in other sports, it’s usually between two people. In hockey, where ﬁ  ghts happen on a regular basis, two players get into it while their teammates skate away and the referees even-tually separate the combatants. Even in basket-ball’s most famous brawl ever — “the Malice at the Palace” — video shows Ben Wallace and Ron Artest getting physical with maybe two or 
three teammates holding them back while the rest of the teams look on. There’s no innate de-
sire to get involved any time something ﬂ  ares up. 
The second is frequency. Sure, the NBA, 
NHL and NFL have seen their share of ﬁ  ghts, of altercations, of up-in-your-face name calling, but can you recall the last time benches cleared — that is, emptied entirely — in an NHL or 
NFL or NBA game? Yet for some reason, it hap-
pens ALL THE TIME in Major League Baseball. 
Maybe it goes back to the unwritten rules 
of the game. Maybe it’s something to do for a relief pitcher who plays every fourth day and otherwise sits bored in the bullpen. But regard-less, it’s only a matter of time until someone needlessly gets injured or trampled or punched for being somewhere he has no business being. 
I don’t know if I’d go as far as to say running in from the bullpen because of some shoving merits a suspension — again, there are times when players helping their teammates is nec-essary — but baseball ought to do something to incentivize staying out of ﬁ  ghts. 
They make the league look spineless, they 
make the players look like children on a middle school playground and they make the fans — 
this fan, anyway — wonder why every single 
player on a baseball team needs to be involved in every shouting match. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Follow him 
on Twitter @ebaueri and contact him at ebau-
er@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 18lead the Gators, with India and designated 
hitter Nelson Maldonado tying for second with six apiece. With the emergence of In-
dia and Dalton’s bats this year, some of the 
pressure looks to have been alleviated after launching his eighth of the year Tuesday night off a 93-mph fastball. As his moon-
shot crashed off the FSU scoreboard in left 
ﬁ  eld in the eighth inning, Schwarz rounded the bases without fanfare or celebration as he retook the team lead in RBIs (32). He also plated a run off a sixth-inning single 
back up the middle. 
Michael Byrne, RHP: Byrne has been 
nearly untouchable this season. His 1.1 innings against FSU on Tuesday included 
three strikeouts and no walks. Florida’s all-time saves leader added one more to that tally to notch his eighth of the season and 27th of his career. He has allowed a run 
to score just twice in his 17 appearances 
this season, compiling a 0.62 ERA along the way.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 18Schwarz hit his eighth home run of the season
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF closer Michael Byrne entered Tuesday's 6-3 win against Florida State in the 
bottom of the eighth inning to ﬁ  nish the game. He struck out three of four batters and  didn't allow a walk.
