We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
STUDENT 
LIVING Guide
Spring 2018 page 9
FAMILY, FAITH AND BASEBALL
Andrew Baker evolved from a little league novice to a two-way 
player on UF’s baseball team, pg. 19Fuchs pledges Dance Marathon donation
He will match up to $10,000 in donations, pg. 5.
Sean Kingston to headline Big Orange Fest
Find out when he will perform and how to see him, pg 4.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 68
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Catherine Sarosi used to 
hear a ﬁ  re alarm at school, she’d grab her things, roll her eyes and trek to her assigned location while her classmates groaned at the in-convenience.
Now, she hesitates. Ever since Feb. 14, when a 
19-year-old opened ﬁ  re at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, killing 17 and wounding 17 more, there’s a sense of paranoia at her East Gainesville school, said Sarosi, a senior. Stu-dents seem jumpy and whisper about worst case scenarios.
The shooting was too close to 
home for some Alachua County Public School students. As poli-ticians debate gun control and school safety, Sarosi and her class-mates live in fear they’ll be next. 
So when the ﬁ  re alarm went 
off unexpectedly at Eastside High School about a week after the Park-land shooting, no one moved. 
In her history class, the 24 stu-
dents sat frozen, exchanging ner-vous glances and looking expec-tantly at their teacher. For a minute, everybody held their breath while the alarm blared. Something that was once routine was no longer  trusted, Sarosi said. 
Sarosi, 18, said she immediately 
thought of Parkland, where the gunman had pulled the ﬁ  re alarm, sending students pouring into the hallway. 
The principal announced the 
alarm was tripped by mistake, she said. They exhaled. 
Ever since the Parkland shoot-
ing, Bailey McIntyre looks for the nearest exit when she enters a classroom. For the ﬁ  rst time in her life, the Eastside High School senior understands the threat of a shooter. 
“It’s always sat in the back of 
my head, but it never clicked with me until now,” the 17-year-old said. 
Lunchtime conversations shift-
ed from weekend trips and home-work assignments to what they’d 
‘How long before I die?’
After Parkland, Gainesville students question what happens next
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 13FEATURE FRIDAY:
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will replace Leonardo’s Pizza By the 
Slice with a new School of Music.
UF spokesperson Margot Winick wrote 
in an email the roughly 120,000-square foot 
building will include a recital hall and park-
ing space. The construction date is to be 
determined, and she does not know when Leonardo’s will close.The restaurant remains open for business. 
Winick said UF already renewed Leonardo’s 
lease for another year and might renegotiate 
to extend it again. 
“We at UF are all big fans of Leonardo’s 
Pizza,” she said. 
The UF Foundation bought the restau-
rant, located at 1245 W. University Ave., in August 2016, according to Alligator archives. UF also owns Kangaroo Express gas station next to the restaurant. The School of Music is estimated to cost 
$55 million, Winick said. UF secured $6 mil-
lion from last year’s state legislative session 
and will seek more funding. The current mu-sic building will likely be repurposed for fac-ulty ofﬁ  ces or UF programs, she said. 
Although he doesn’t want to see his favor-
ite pizza place go, UF School of Music direc-tor Kevin Orr is excited for the new building.
Orr said this location will make the 
school’s free concerts more accessible to the Gainesville community. The current music building, which opened in 1971, has inefﬁ  -
cient air-conditioning and heating systems, 
he said.
“That’s terrible for the millions of dollars 
worth of instruments inside this building,” Orr said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgUF oﬃ   cial: UF’s School of Music to replace Leonardo’sThe Associated Press
Florida guard Egor Koulechov scored a team-high 20 points in Florida’s 77-62 win over St. 
Bonaventure on Thursday in the ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA T ournament.
 SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 13By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
No bizarre buzzer-beaters or cun-
ning second-half comebacks maddened the nightcap action at American Airlines Arena on Thursday in Dallas.
Sixth-seeded Florida (21-12) ousted 
11th-seeded St. Bonaventure (26-8) in the ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA Tourna-ment. Behind forward Egor Koulechov’s 20 points and six rebounds, the Gators ran away with a second-half lead and se-cured a 77-62 victory.
Koulechov and guard Jalen Hudson 
– who combined to shoot 20 percent from the ﬁ  eld in last week’s 80-72 loss to Arkansas in the SEC Tournament – piloted Florida’s scoring effort while St. Bonaventure’s stars broke down. UF con-tained the Bonnies’ dangerous backcourt duo of Jaylen Adams and Matt Mobley to a combined 5-of-19 shooting on the night.The Gators missed their ﬁ  rst three at-
tempts from the three-point line before Koulechov connected from the baseline with 15:45 left in the opening half. On the ensuing possession, Koulechov threw up an off-balance three and missed, con-tributing to Florida’s 3-of-10 start from the ﬁ  eld.
In UF’s good fortune, the Bonnies 
were off the mark on their ﬁ  rst seven three-point attempts. A pair of threes from Florida forward Keith Stone helped UF build a 20-9 advantage with fewer than 11 minutes remaining before half-time.
But as quickly as the Gators found 
their rhythm, they lost it.
St. Bonaventure went on a 13-1 run 
during which Florida missed 13 straight shots. With just over three minutes re-maining in the frame, St. Bonaventure led 22-21. 
Although they worked back to a 27-22 UF  bounces Bonnies in ﬁ  rst 
round of NCAA Tournament•   •   •Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Student Government Spring 
Housing Fair 
Student Government’s Spring 
Housing Fair is 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m. Friday on the North Lawn. As the largest housing event at UF, students can engage with 
a wide variety of Gainesville 
community representatives and gain a better understand-ing of what off-campus hous-ing communities have to offer. 
This is a way to get familiar 
with off-campus living op-tions. UF resources such as Off Campus Life and Student Legal 
Services will also be on hand 
to help answer questions.
Digital Resources Showcase
George A. Smathers Libraries 
will hold a Libraries’ Digital 
Resources Showcase from 1 to 3 p.m. Friday on the col-onnade outside Library West. 
The showcase will bring librar-
ians and students together to highlight steps for finding the best research online and orga-nizing your work quickly. The 
event will also feature the One 
Button Studio, 3-D printing, video streaming access, digi-tal newspapers, mapping tools 
and institutional repository.
GatorNights Classic Movies
The Reitz Union will hold a 
GatorNights Classic Movies on 
Friday. The event will feature 
“James Bond” and “Indiana Jones” escape rooms, a “Jaws” mechanical shark and 
“Jurassic Park” terrariums. 
“The Shape of Water” will play at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. The Club Creole’s Fashion Show and Concert will take place in 
the Rion Ballroom starting at 
8 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with a Gator 1 Card 
at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. 
to 1 a.m. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the 
event.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Can 
You Dig It?’ on March 17Dig into geology and discover 
the earth at your feet at a free, open-for-all-ages geology event 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday at the Florida Museum of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull Road. Attendees will watch demonstrations of 
volcanic eruptions, as well 
as experience an augmented reality sandbox and fossil dig. The event is presented 
in part by the UF Department 
of Geological Sciences in col-laboration with the Gainesville Gem and Mineral Society. For more information, visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/canyoudigit 
or call 352-273-2062.
Gainesville City elections
Early voting for the 2018 City of Gainesville Regular Election ends Saturday. Locations, which will open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., are Cone Park Library, 
located at 2801 East University 
Ave., Millhopper Branch Library, located at 3145 NW 43rd St., and the Supervisor of 
Elections Office, located at 515 
N. Main St.
‘Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops’
The Alachua County Library 
District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law 
in the Library: Restoration of 
Civil Rights Workshops” from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. March 22 at Cone Park Library Branch, located at 2801 E. University 
Ave., and 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
April 5 at Tower Road Library Branch, located at 3020 SW 75th St. Attorneys from Josiah 
T. Walls Bar Association and 
law students from the Levin College of Law will provide one-on-one assistance to peo-ple who have been convicted 
of a felony and are interested 
in applying to have their civil rights restored. These presen-tations are free and open to the 
public. Registration is not re-
quired. For more information, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every 
Tuesday in the UF Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to all. For more information, 
visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org/.
Experience Sikhism
 The UF Sikh Students 
Association will host Turban 
Day event at Turlington Plaza from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. March 21. The event aims to 
make UF students aware about 
Sikhism, a monotheistic re-ligion. As part of the event, the members of Sikh Students Association will help tie tur-
bans around students' heads. 
A turban represents commit-ment to faith and identity for the Sikhs.  
Fulbright Awareness Month
The UF International Center will hold Fulbright Awareness Month until April 12. Multiple 
informational sessions for stu-
dents, scholars, faculty and staff will provide opportunities to learn about the Fulbright ap-
plication process and to hear 
about the experiences of past scholars and students. This year, information sessions will be led by Peter VanDerwater, 
the director of outreach at 
the Council for International Exchange for Scholars in Washington, D.C. To schedule 
an individual consultation with 
VanDerwater, email canum-ba@ufic.ufl.edu. For more information, visit internation-alcenter.ufl.edu and search 
under Faculty Engagement and 
Global Learning.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  75° LOW  45°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 68
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
US Promo C-000635-05-096 Set Date 01/8/18 CAN Promo N/A Set Date N/A College Equity Market: UFGainesville
TARGET | PERISCOPEFINAL 
PRODUCTION 
01/22/2013
LASER OUTPUT @ None PRO    Apple Macintosh, Application/ Version: InDesign 10.2
Layout   N/A Date: N/A
Mech   N/A Date: N/A
Mech Release   Mohit Sharma Date: 11/15/2017
Final Board   N/A Date: N/A
Final Production   Mohit Sharma  Date: 11/21/2017 Cyan,  Magenta,  Yellow,  Black
FINAL 
PRODUCTIONTRIM: 10.25” x 13”
LIVE: 0” x 0”BLEED: 0” x 0”CREATED AT: 100%COLOR: See BelowACD: 
Aaron Melander
CM: Kara Bartlett
AD: David Swanson
AG: Target Creative
AP: N/ABCM: Abby Heidemann/Allison Bonnett
PM: Ann Zarth/Nicole Simones
TCP: N/A
CW: Cecely Meller
CE: Dawn Carlson2PL: N/ACA: 
N/A
PD: Heather Kern
PB: Matt Birkeland
M: N/APS: Periscope
US Printer: The Alligator
CAN Printer: N/AGrab everything you need to keep
it comfy in class—from leggings 
to sweatshirts and more.
UF/uni00A0Campus Target 
Just north of campus
on University & 13th.
Live in
leggings?We got you.
The Alligator Issue 1/8/18T:10.25”T:13”
C-000635-05-096_CollegeEquity-ROPUFAlligator-UFGainesville.indd   1 11/23/17   3:03 PM4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s campus is getting 
brighter.
UF Facility Services is up-
dating 500 campus light ﬁ  x-
tures with light-emitting diode, 
or LED, technology to increase 
campus safety, the Board of 
Trustees discussed in a meet-ing Thursday. These lights are 
more energy efﬁ  cient than tra-ditional bulbs.
Curtis Reynolds, UF’s Vice 
President for Business Affairs, said UF hired safety consult-
ing ﬁ  rm Moses and Associates 
a year ago to identify 12 zones in need of enhanced lighting 
for students walking around 
at night. About 30 percent of 
the light updates have already 
happened, with an expected 
completion date in July. 
“Crime likes the dark, and if 
there’s no dark, then there’s no crime,” Reynolds said.
The total cost of installation 
will be about $1.5 million, he said. 
Once updated, light poles 
across campus will also be compatible with new surveil-lance technology, including audio, video and WiFi, he said.
Bianca Poma, a UF biology 
sophomore, thinks the brighter 
lights will bring relief for many 
students.
When walking home from 
Library West to Beaty Towers 
late at night her freshman year, 
Poma said she would use the ﬂ  ashlight on her phone to light 
the pitch-dark paths.
“It’s really helpful,” the 
19-year-old said. “Especially for me as a girl, and I’m really 
tiny.”
The board also discussed 
current construction proj-
ects on campus, including a groundbreaking ceremony for 
Norman Hall at 2 p.m. March 
23 outside the building.
On March 22 and 23, the 
trustees will discuss next year’s 
budget for parking and trans-portation services, UF’s strate-
gic energy plan and how Bright 
Futures changes will affect the 
university’s budget, among 
other items. 
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgLighting across UF 
to be updatedBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs said on 
Thursday UF was trying to ﬁ  nd the best 
place for Other Personnel Services, or OPS, workers in the employee classiﬁ  -cation system.
UF deﬁ  nes OPS workers as at-will, 
temporary labor, which can include secretaries, adjuncts and custodians. Fuchs said the Ofﬁ  ce of Human Re-
sources is currently “looking across 
campus, college by college” to ﬁ  nd 
how each college utilizes these work-
ers and if some workers could receive beneﬁ  ts. 
However, Fuchs said UF won’t pay 
OPS workers for the time they don’t work, such as when employees didn’t work during Hurricane Irma and the Richard Spencer event.
“We believe if there’s some incident 
where the university closes, or for some reason they can’t work, that their man-ager should ﬁ  nd the best opportunities for them to make up that time,” Fuchs said. “But not pay them if they actually don’t work.” 
Faculty Senate will vote on a resolu-
tion endorsed by the Alachua County Labor Coalition to support giving some OPS workers beneﬁ  ts in an April meet-ing. OPS workers are currently not giv-en beneﬁ  ts and are paid by the hour.
Timothy Tia, the coordinator for the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition, said he’s conﬁ  dent the resolution will pass, but more work is needed. 
“I haven’t seen a concrete statement 
on paper about what UF wants to do,” the 21-year-old said. “I’m really happy to see that they’re making progress. I look forward to seeing what they come up with next.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgFaculty Senate to present OPS resolution
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
There will be a “ﬁ  re burnin’ on the 
dance ﬂ  oor” at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom March 23, but don’t call Gainesville Fire Rescue.
Sean Kingston, a Miami-born, Ja-
maican American singer and rapper, will perform as part of the ﬁ  fth-annu-al Big Orange Festival, according to a Facebook event created by the Reitz Union Programming Board on Thurs-day. The festival is also hosting three Saturday Night Live comedians: Mikey Day, Alex Moffat and Streeter Seidell.
Students with a 
UFID can attend the event. Students must bring their UFID 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tues-day and Thursday 
to the North Lawn 
to receive an early ticket, the Facebook event said. Students 
can get a ticket for either Kingston’s or the comedy performance but not both. 
If enough ticket-holding students 
don’t show, those in a standby line will get tickets, the Facebook event said.The ﬁ  rst 400 students who attend 
will get a free shirt. There will also be free food, acrobats and a showing of “The Greatest Showman,” according to  the Facebook event said.
RPB representatives didn’t respond 
to multiple requests for comment.
Kelly Daly, a UF public relations ju-
nior, had a Sean Kingston-themed 21st birthday party in November. She said she has been a fan of Kingston’s since she was in middle school and his music has a good beat.
“It reminds me of being young and 
summertime,” she said.
Sean Kingston to headline UF event
Kingston
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Ja’Net Glover has been named 
senior director for the UF Career Re-
source Center.
Glover had been serving as in-
terim director since July 1, 2017, after Heather White stepped down to serve as Dean of Students, UF spokesperson Margot Winick wrote in an email. Winick said Glover’s salary couldn’t be confirmed be-
cause she wasn’t 
in the university’s 
system yet. 
Although  
Glover served 
as interim direc-
tor, or temporary 
director, for the center for the past eight months, she was selected over two other applicants in UF’s national search for the position, Glover said.
“It’s been surreal,” she said. “A 
real blessing.”
The UF alumna has spent more 
than 10 years as a job recruiter for the office, she said. Glover received 
a master’s degree from UF’s War-
rington College of Business Admin-istration in 2010. Her new position will be effective 
March 23, according to a press re-lease Thursday. She said she plans to integrate more career development 
at UF to better prepare students for 
their future careers. 
During her time as interim di-
rector this past Fall, career advis-
ers started meeting with students 
in campus housing to meet them in their own space. Glover said this summer, the 
center will have its own front door and a new name, which is part of a $7 million renovation project. It will 
add up to 10,000 square feet to the 
current office in the Reitz Union, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
“I am very excited about being 
able to lead the charge for UF in rei-magining career services here,” she said.FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
HEAD-SHAVING FOR CANCER AWARENESS
Sport Clips cosmetologist Megan Hill, 26, shaves 18-year-old UF business management 
freshman Marcos Vivot’s head, in order to raise awareness for pediatric cancer. The annual St. Baldrick event is hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council to help raise money for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation, which funds pediatric cancer research. 
By Celeste Mahfood
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs will donate up 
to $10,000 of his own money for Dance 
Marathon 2018.
For the 24th annual  
fundraiser UF Dance Marathon, Fuchs said 
he will match dona-
tions up to $10,000. He 
contributes to Dance Marathon every year, often through social 
media campaigns, vid-
eos, attending meetings 
or participating in the closing ceremony. This year, the Dance Marathon leadership 
asked him if he would be willing to donate 
his own money, and he agreed. 
“I’m just a willing participant eager to 
help in any way I can,” Fuchs said.
More than 800 UF students work on 
Dance Marathon, a fundraising event in which participants try to stay on their feet for 26.2 hours, Rachel Auld, a UF Dance Marathon spokesperson, wrote in an 
email. It will be held March 24. 
The money goes to the Children’s Mira-
cle Network Hospitals, and it’s local near-
est location is UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital, to provide financial support and 
awareness for children with health issues. Auld said this is the first time Fuchs or 
any former UF president has made a finan-cial donation to Dance Marathon.
“President Fuchs is a man we all ad-
mire,” Auld said. “A true role model to the 
UF population.”
The organization also raises money 
through donor drives, mini marathons, merchandise, monetary sponsorship and community events, Auld said. Of the 
funds, 10 percent goes to education, 42 
percent to patient care and 48 percent to research.
The opportunity to support children’s 
healthcare influenced Fuchs’ decision to donate. He said the cause is special to him, especially because the funds go into a local children’s hospital. 
Fuchs said he hopes his donation will 
increase motivation to all the students in-volved in the organization and donors. 
Ashlyn Tosey, a 19-year-old UF animal 
sciences freshman and Dance Marathon 
member, said it’s incredible to see the UF 
president willing to get behind the stu-dents working toward the cause.
Not only does Dance Marathon bring 
students together, but Fuchs also inte-grates himself into the Student Body to back the organization, Tosey said.
“He’s not just the president,” Tosey 
said. “He’s definitely supportive of all his 
students.”Kent Fuchs to give $10,000 of 
salary to Dance Marathon
Fuchs
Glover
By The Associated Press
A pedestrian bridge that was under con-
struction collapsed onto a busy Miami high-
way Thursday, crushing at least eight ve-hicles under massive slabs of concrete and steel and killing multiple people, authorities 
said.
Search-and-rescue crews drilled holes into 
the debris and used dogs to look for survi-
vors. They had to work carefully because part of the structure was still unsafe. At least 10 people were taken to hospitals.
The 950-ton bridge had been assembled 
by the side of the highway and moved into place Saturday to great fanfare. The span 
stretched almost 200 feet to connect Flori-
da International University with the city of Sweetwater. It was expected to open to foot traffic next year.
“We have a national tragedy on our 
hands,” Sweetwater Mayor Orlando Lopez said.
Jacob Miller, a senior at FIU, was visiting 
a friend in a dorm when he heard sirens and 
horns honking. He went to a balcony and 
could see rubble coming down.
“I saw there were multiple cars crushed 
under the bridge. It was just terrible. I saw some people stopping their cars, trying to get out, trying to assess the situation to see if there is anything they could do to help,” he said.The exact death toll was unclear.Robert Bea, a professor of engineering and 
construction management at the University of California, Berkeley, said it was too early to know exactly what happened, but the de-cision to use what the bridge builders called an “innovative installation” was risky, espe-cially because the bridge spanned a heavily traveled thoroughfare.
“Innovations take a design firm into an 
area where they don’t have applicable ex-perience, and then we have another unex-pected failure on our hands,” Bea said after reviewing the bridge’s design and photos of the collapse.
Sweetwater Police Detective Juan Llera 
was in a nearby meeting when the bridge collapsed.
“I heard a ‘boom’ like a bomb had ex-
ploded,” he said. “At first I thought it was a terrorist attack.”
The main companies behind the $14.2 
million construction project have faced ques-tions about their past work, and one was fined in 2012 when a 90-ton section of a bridge collapsed in Virginia.
Florida International University is the 
second largest university in the state, with 55,000 students, most of whom live off-cam-pus. The bridge was supposed to be a safe way to cross a busy highway.
A university student was killed in August 
while crossing the road the bridge was sup-posed to span.FIU footbridge collapses onto 
highway, crushes 8 vehiclesA WAWA REPRESENTATIVE 
SAID THE STORE WASN’T 
ANNOUNCING NEW LOCATIONS.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Publix locations will face 
a rival to their signature sub when three 
planned Wawa stores bring their hoagies to Gainesville.
Three Wawa locations, on Archer Road, 
in east Gainesville and in Celebration Pointe, a mixed-use shopping mall next to Interstate 75 and north of Archer Road, have been proposed, said Francine Sutton, a planning technician in the Gainesville Planning De-partment.
The 5,600-square foot Archer Road loca-
tion, at 2373 SW Archer Road, near Bartram Apartments was first proposed in May 2017, 
said Jason Simmons, a Gainesville city plan-
ner. Construction on the building, which will have six gas pumps with 12 pumping spots, can begin once final comments on the plans are addressed, according to planning docu-ments.
The Archer Road and East University 
Avenue store, located at 1021 E. University Ave., layouts are planned to be similar, ac-cording to Alligator archives. The East Uni-versity Avenue location was proposed in 
December 2017 and is not as far along in the 
approval process, Simmons said.
“It’s not surprising that it might take a 
while,” Simmons said. “They had to address the fundamental design of the project.”
The location on Archer Road hasn’t had 
the same problems in the approval process because it is in a different zoning district and has different requirements, Simmons said.
A Wawa representative said the conve-
nience store chain was not announcing any new Gainesville location.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgThree Wawa gas stations 
proposed for Gainesville
UF’s Career Resource Center names new senior directorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
Column
As part of my many evening events this 
week, I am having dinner with the broth-ers of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity.
Several years ago, SigEp was suspend-
ed from UF for hazing and drug use vio-
lations. It is hardly alone, neither at UF or other universities. Indeed, serious and often unlawful incidents related to hazing and drinking have left fraternities and sororities nationwide at a tipping point.
Pennsylvania State University banned the Beta 
Theta Pi Fraternity after 19-year-old Timothy Piazza’s death due to extreme hazing and alcohol violations last year. Pros-ecutors have ﬁ  led charges against 26 people.
Louisiana State University suspended all Greek activities 
and banned the Phi Delta Theta chapter after freshman Max-well Gruver died following a drinking and hazing incident. Police have ﬁ  led charges against 10 people.
Florida State University shuttered the Pi Kappa Phi Frater-
nity after the hazing death of 20-year-old Andrew Coffey last year. Police have ﬁ  led charges against nine people.
At UF, 22 percent of our undergraduates, or 7,584 stu-
dents, are members of 65 Greek organizations on campus. 
Although, thankfully, we haven’t experienced a death tied to 
hazing or drinking at these organizations in recent years, we do have on average, in the past ﬁ  ve years, one fraternity or sorority suspended every year for policy violations, usually involving hazing or alcohol.
What Penn State, LSU and FSU experienced could occur 
here.
How should we respond?Following the FSU incident, President John Thrasher 
received both national criticism and praise for his decisive actions in suspending all Greek activities, suspending con-sumption of alcohol on campus and launching a campus-wide initiative to reinvent Greek life at FSU.  I stand with President Thrasher and all other leaders who are setting a higher standard for all students, particularly members of the Greek community.
At UF, the Ofﬁ  ce of Student Affairs is working with the four UF Greek councils to seek to eliminate under-age drinking, hazing and sexual violence, along with managing events with alcohol more effec-tively and adding more staff support.
Amid these institutional efforts, fraternities and 
sororities also need to take it upon themselves to raise the bar.
The good news is some already are.In the past two years, SigEp, nationally and 
locally, has undergone a transformation. Policy changes remove pledging from membership and 
establish substance-free chapter houses as the fraternity stan-dard. The fraternity has worked to establish what it calls the Balanced Man Program, which eliminates hazing and instills 
purpose, perspective, academic excellence, integrity, physi-
cal health and mental wellness.
Other UF fraternities have undergone similar transforma-
tions.
The Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. chapter at UF was 
suspended in 2012 for hazing charges. After restarting in Fall 2015, it won the National Chapter of the Year award in 2017.
Although I have never been a member of a fraternity, I 
have come to appreciate the considerable value of the Greek 
community and the positive difference fraternities and so-
rorities can have on their members as well as on the univer-sity overall. The Florida Greek community shapes the college experience of its members and contributes signiﬁ  cantly to their personal development. The four pillars of Greek life at UF are scholarship, service, leadership and community. I see this lived out across our fraternities and sororities.
At UF, our overall aspiration is that we “will be a premier 
university that the state, nation and world look to for lead-
ership.” UF must lead in Greek life, particularly in being a 
model for the elimination of all alcohol and substance abuse, hazing, sexual assault, sexual harassment and racism.
At this tipping point for fraternities and sororities, I call 
on all of us involved to make sure that Greek life at UF has a future.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His column is featured 
monthly. Does Greek life have a future at UF?Like most college seniors about to graduate, you want an-
swers. You need to know where you’ll be in a few months. Real-izing you don’t have the power to see the future, you seek out someone who does: a psychic.
    As you walk through the door of the tiny, dimly lit shop, 
a whiff of incense hits you like a train. You’re early for your ap-pointment and you have to wait a bit until the psychic is ready. You think to yourself, “Shouldn’t she have known I’d be coming early?”
    After mindlessly investigating tie-dye scarves and  aroma-
therapy herbs, you head back to meet  the woman who will tell you your future. “This better be worth the $20 I paid for this,” you think as you take the cup of tea she hands you.
    The psychic instructs you to drink the tea until the leaves 
at the bottom of the cup are visible. The leaves will reveal your future, she says. As you look down into the cup, you realize you were just conned out of $20. The leaves do not spell your future. Instead, they read … 
Darts & Laurels
This Wednesday, we said goodbye to one of the greatest sci-
entiﬁ  c minds of our time. Stephen Hawking died at his home in Cambridge, England, at the age of 76. 
Although his death has created a worldwide mourning, it is, 
like the rest of his life, impressive. In 1963, when he was graduate 
student at the University of Cambridge, he was told he had only 
two years left to live after he was diagnosed with Lou Gehrig’s disease. He lived for 55 more years and devoted his life to achiev-ing, in his words, “a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is, and why it exists at all.”
While we usually award darts and laurels to individuals or 
groups, we felt Hawking’s death, a non-concrete person, de-serves its own dart. The world will be forever changed by his discoveries.
    Exactly one month after the horriﬁ  c school shooting in Park-
land, Florida, students across the country took a stand against gun violence  Wednesday. At 10 a.m., high school and middle school students walked out of their classrooms. Many did so against the wishes of school authorities. 
    To say we are proud of all of these students is insufﬁ  cient. 
We are beyond proud. Our pride has reached a point where no word exists capable of describing just how proud we are.
    To the students who participated in these walkouts and the 
people who continue ﬁ  ghting against injustice and violence, we 
award our ﬁ  rst laurel.
    On Sunday, Gov. Rick Scott signed two education bills 
into law that are likely to improve the lives of students across 
the state. One will permanently expand Bright Futures for the 
top two tiers of award recipients and prevent public universities and colleges from restricting speech to “free-speech zones.” The second bill will provide scholarship funding for bullied students to transfer to an eligible private school and threatens to decertify teacher unions if their membership falls below 50 percent of the employees they represent.
    We are thrilled to see Gov. Scott making moves to increase 
scholarship funding and protect the rights of free speech. Al-though we are pleased about the scholarship funding for bullied children, we are wary about the threat to decertify teacher unions if their membership falls below 50 percent of the employees they represent. This threat will likely encourage teachers to join their union and remain members, but we are still not thrilled at the intimidating methods it is taking to do so.
    As usual, however, we have to celebrate the almost com-
plete victories. As such, we award our last laurel to Gov. Scott  
for 75 percent of the new bills signed this week. However, we can’t let him off that easily. Gov. Scott is also the recipient of our last dart, for his ill-advised threat to Florida teachers.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
®Monday, March 12 - Wednesday, March 21
10 a.m. - 5 p.m.
University of Florida: Hub • Turlington • Little • Sorority Row
LifeSouth donor centers at: 1221 NW 13th St. • 4039 W. Newberry Rd.
All blood donors will receive:• An awesome t-shirt • Spirit points toward Dance Marathon • Points toward Dance Marathon Cup • Double spirit points for donating at a LifeSouth center
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/31/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.Perhaps you’re just a plebeian, go-
ing in and out of the Reitz Union and Southwest Recreation Center, 
showing up to various general body 
meetings of clubs and riding the 
bus. Maybe you’re a power user of Student Government services, taking advantage 
of our school’s free New York Times sub-
scriptions and subsidized late-night Uber services (Google “UF Safe Rides” if you don’t know what I’m talking about, and thank me later).
SG and the services it provides are ubiq-
uitous and useful. It’s also kind of wild, too; where else in the world do 20-some-things manage a $20 million budget?
As students, inside and out of SG, we 
have a lot of power. Think about the big conversations we’ve had this year about access to mental health counselors and free menstrual hygiene products. 
Progress ultimately came about after 
students spoke in support of the initiatives during Student Senate meetings.
Progress can be complicated, however. 
As a two-term senator, I’ve had my fair share of getting lost in the con-fusing bureaucracy of not only our SG, but also the greater UF 
administration. As a result of the 
complicated process of getting things done, sometimes there is misinformation and misdirected 
rage where there doesn’t have 
to be.
We need more transparency 
and more engagement with the Student Body as SG ofﬁ  cials, and it is along 
that line of thought that I came up with the 
idea of this column. I see this column as something dynamic, responsive and chang-ing every week, depending on what is hap-
pening in SG. Sometimes this column will 
serve as an update for what’s going on, while other times it’ll be the story behind an accomplishment or perhaps a Q&A.
I can’t tell you why you should care 
about SG, but at least I can tell you why I care.
I also thought it’d be ﬁ  tting to introduce 
myself in my ﬁ  rst column.
My name is Zachariah Chou, and I’ve had a passion for public service for as long as I’ve known. That one annoying story that got re-
peated in all my college appli-
cation essays talked about pre-school-aged me professing my desire to become a missionary to 
my parents, only to have them 
respond by questioning why I don’t instead try to be a politi-cian? My skills would likely be 
put to better use toward the greater good, 
they contended.
That led to a relatively early involve-
ment in SG in middle school, which I con-
tinued throughout high school as well. 
When I knew I was coming to UF, I knew 
I just had to be a part of SG. I went online to The Alligator website and started read-ing about all the drama. I can’t say I didn’t know what I was getting myself into.
I started my time here in UF during 
Summer B of 2016 and immediately started attending Senate meetings. At those meet-ings, I got to see just a small portion of the 
work that SG does — and even from that I realized the enormous potential that exists 
within our SG to make a difference to every student on campus.
Glossing over all the lovely partisan po-
litical drama, I got elected in the Fall as the ﬁ  rst senator for Inﬁ  nity Hall and was elected this past Fall as the senator for the 
Murphree Area. I love and stress over my 
role quite a lot, and while it’s given me more white hairs than I’d like to say, it is helping people and making positive change that keeps me going.
What keeps you going? I daresay there 
is certainly some way SG intersects with what you care about. Maybe it’s a reason for you to care more about SG. We’ll see. 
Questions, comments or concerns? You 
can email me at: zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
sophomore and serves as the senator of the 
Murphree Area. His column focuses on Stu-dent Government. 
Editor’s note: Chou formerly worked as a 
paid photographer for the Alligator.
Here are some reasons you should care about Student Government at UFColumn
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
By Vivian Nguyen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kaitlin Thorp was walking 
through Turlington Plaza when she 
stopped at a map and tried to locate Syria. She put her small pin on the country that sits between Turkey 
and Iraq. 
Thorp was one of about 30 
people who put pins on the map, 
with most generally hovering in the Middle East. But a few were pinned farther away such as in Florida and near India. The event, “Pin Syria on a Map,” was held for the ﬁ  rst time from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wednesday by the student organization as part of UF’s second annual Syria Solidar-
ity Week, said Mariam Elsafty, vice 
president of Students Organize for Syria. 
The week is a national effort 
dedicated to educating people about the Syrian crisis because Thursday marks the seventh anniversary of the Syrian revolution, Elsafty said. 
“I feel like these days a lot of peo-
ple have a lot of things to say about Syria, but, honestly, some people don’t even know where to locate it on a map,” the 19-year-old UF biol-
ogy sophomore said. 
She said it brings it back to the 
basics and normalizes Syria to peo-
ple, encouraging them to look into its history and read more about it. 
“If you can’t get yourself to un-derstand something as basic as where a country is located in a re-gion, then you can’t get yourself to understand the bigger and deeper complicated issues at hand,” Elsafty said.
Thorp, 18, said she stopped by 
because she is really passionate about the Middle East. The UF wild-life ecology and conservation fresh-man said the United States should be making more humanitarian ef-forts to help Syrians who are suffer-ing and have no control over their situations.
If people are more aware of where 
countries that are always seen in the headlines are, it makes  the people, cultures and values that come from there more real, Thorp said. 
“We have more of a reason to 
take action and try to help these people if we are aware of where they live and that they are humans and not just people we see on the news,” she said.
Students learn about Syrian crisis, try to pin country on map
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Rita Philips was checking her email Fri-
day night when she found a message in her 
inbox that made her cry.
Philips, 54, a Gainesville resident, heard 
from Jake Bramer, an independent mission-
ary in Rwanda. Bramer sent her photos of an orphanage’s soccer team decked out in 
royal purple Gainesville High School uni-
forms she donated to them in 2014. 
“It made my heart so happy,” Philips 
said. “I just couldn’t believe it because I had 
not thought about that in years.”
Philips, who is a paralegal and mother 
of a former Gainesville High School student 
and soccer player, was awestruck to see 
pictures of the Hurricanes For Jesus team 
still proudly wearing the jerseys. She posted 
the photos and story on Facebook on Fri-
day and received more than 1,000 likes and comments. 
People showed interest in donating mon-
ey to the team’s orphanage and replacing the now 8-year-old uniforms, which had been 
used for four years by the team in Rwanda 
and another four by the GHS students. Phil-ips made a GoFundMe on Tuesday, which raised more than $200 in one day. 
Philips was a booster for the school’s 
team and decided to donate the used uni-
forms in 2014, instead of tossing them out. 
She packed up 26 jerseys, 18 shorts and 26 pairs of socks into a box as a donation to 
Peace Passers, a nonproﬁ  t based in Char-lotte, North Carolina, that connects owners of new or used soccer equipment to com-
munities in need. 
Candace Murray, the group’s co-founder 
and director, matched Philips with Bramer, 
a missionary and Tennessee state trooper 
who requested men’s jerseys for Daniel’s 
House, an orphanage in Kigali, Rwanda.
Murray, who played soccer at Buchholz 
High School in her hometown of Gainesville, 
was inspired. 
“You can see the happiness in those play-
ers and the pride that they have,” she said. 
Bramer has visited Daniel’s House, which 
cares for about 200 infants and minors, ev-
ery February for the past seven years. He 
brought the uniforms in duffel bags to the orphanage.
Although the team members were ex-
cited to wear their new uniforms, they did not know what hurricanes are, Bramer said. 
After explaining the team name, the boys 
fell in love with the uniforms even more. The Hurricanes of Rwanda love their team 
name and wash their uniforms by hand af-
ter every game, Bramer said.
“I told them that hurricanes were a strong 
storm, and they really liked the sound of that,” he said. “I told them that the purple was for royalty and that they were children 
of God, and they really liked that too.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgMom raises money for African 
orphans’ soccer uniformsBy Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF professor Pierre Ramond remembers 
sitting down with Stephen Hawking at a 
California Institute of Technology cafeteria in 1979.
Hawking, who fre-
quented the Caltech cam-pus, had asked to meet with Ramond, now a dis-
tinguished professor of theoretical physics. They spoke for hours about rela-tivity. 
“One of the worst expe-
riences in my life,” he said.
By the end of the conversation, Ramond 
was exhausted. He had never met anyone like Hawking, who could hold a conversation about theories of the universe, but needed as-sistance to eat. Ramond went home and fell asleep. 
Hawking was “an extreme of what hu-
man beings can do” until his death, said Ra-mond, who was lucky enough to have met 
the world-renowned theoretical physicist. 
Hawking died peacefully in his Cambridge 
home Wednesday at the age of 76, accord-
ing to a public statement by the University of Cambridge. Hawking coincidentally died the same day as Albert Einstein’s birthday and Pi Day, March 14, which celebrates the math-ematical constant of pi, or 3.14.
Ramond met Hawking around a decade 
after the well-known scientist had been di-agnosed with Lou Gehrig’s Disease, a slowly progressive debilitating disease. He was still capable of speech at this time and began bombarding Ramond with very high-level questions.
Hawking, a witty, imaginative thinker, 
will be remembered for his ability to bridge 
the divide between science and popular cul-
ture.
By 1974, he was well-known for his dis-
covery that black holes are not a one-way energy street and can absorb and emit radia-tion — a concept now known as Hawking radiation.
Hawking further launched himself into 
celebrity status in 1988 with the publishing 
of his ﬁ  rst book, “A Brief History of Time,” 
which has been hailed as an imaginative, yet powerfully simple work describing human-kind’s effort to explain the universe with one uniﬁ  ed theory.
Just over 200 pages, the book is meant 
for experts and the general public alike, with more than 10 million copies sold.
At UF, the physics community reﬂ  ected on 
Hawking’s life after learning of his death.
On Wednesday morning, Derek Klein, 
a UF astrophysics senior, sensed shock in a study lounge in the New Physics Building as the news sunk in, he said.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely bittersweet,” the 31-year-
old said.
Katia Matcheva, a UF physics associate 
professor, began her electromagnetism lec-
ture that morning by showing a video clip 
commemorating Hawking and reminding her class of the many positives that came from his life. She said his contributions to human-ity will live on, and his passion is inspiring for anyone, even those not in science ﬁ  elds.
“He is not gone,” Matcheva said. “He 
overcame such a debilitating health problem that he had and lived a very meaningful and 
a very full life.”UF remembers Hawking
Hawking
FREE ONLINE HOUSING 
LOCATOR SERVICE
Students can search for off-campus 
housing, subleases and roommates through 
this free online site.  This site also allows 
students to post sublease listings. Go to 
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu to use 
this resource.
GATOR GUIDE TO OFF CAMPUS 
LIFE
A free publication that provides tips and 
resources for finding the right apartment, 
budgeting information, safety tips, tips to 
reduce your utility usage, a map of the city, 
and much more. To get a copy of the Gator 
Guide, visit the OCL office located inside 
the Housing Office on the corner of SW 
13th Street & Museum Road, or visit the 
OCL website at www.offcampus.ufl.edu 
and click on the Gator Guide link. INDIVIDUAL MEETINGS
Off Campus Life provides one on one 
meetings with students who are searching 
for off-campus housing. Meetings include 
information on the housing market, 
average costs, lease information, steps to 
follow to find off-campus housing, safety 
tips, transportation information, and the 
answers to your housing questions. To 
set up an appointment please complete 
the appointment request form available 
through the OCL website www.offcampus.
ufl.edu/appointments/ or call (352)392-
1207 to schedule a meeting with an OCL 
staff member.
OFF CAMPUS AMBASSADORS
OCL’s sponsored student organization 
works to connect off-campus students with 
UF and the Gainesville community. The 
OCA’s assist Off Campus Life with events, 
outreach efforts, and plan their own events 
including an annual Roommate Mixer and Puppy Palooza.  To learn more, visit 
the Off Campus Ambassador webpage 
at www.offcampus.ufl.edu/off_campus_
ambassadors/. 
DISCOVER GAINESVILLE
This monthly event series allows 
students to attend fun activities in the 
Gainesville community, and OCL covers 
the cost. Upcoming Spring 2016 Discover 
Gainesville events include hiking at Devil’s 
Millhopper (March 26th) and Free Ice Cream Scoop at Sweet Dreams (April 11th). 
To learn more about Discover Gainesville 
and to reserve a spot for one of OCL’s 
upcoming events visit the OCL website 
events page www.offcampus.ufl.edu/
events . 
SOCIAL MEDIA
Check OCL out on social media including 
Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram 
and Pinterest @UFOffCampusLife.STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   1
STUDENT LIVING  guideSpring 2018
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeWHAT IS OFF CAMPUS LIFE?
UF’s Off Campus Life, which is a part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services and resources 
to UF students living off campus since 2004. Off Campus Life is located inside the Housing Office on the corner of SW 13th 
Street & Museum Road. Visit www.offcampus.ufl.edu
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
alligatorthe independent florida2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
GETTING STARTEDGainesville has an abundance of off-campus housing options, so take 
your time, and be sure to visit at least 5-6 properties in person before 
signing a lease. Follow the steps below to find the right place for you 
or visit http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu.
TYPES OF LEASES
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease 
before signing. A lease is a contract between you and your landlord 
or apartment complex management that outlines specific details 
of your living arrangement. Leases often involve policies about 
pets, security and pet deposits, subleasing, legal entry and other 
important information. Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 
months. If you need to rent for 10 months or less, talk with the 
management about whether they can provide a short-term lease. 
There are two types of leases that are usually 
available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.
Joint Lease:  All roommates are held responsible for the lease. If one 
person breaks the lease, the other roommates are held responsible for 
paying the total rent. This tends to be the lease more prominent when 
renting a house or single family dwelling.
 
Individual Lease:  Each person is held responsible for his or her own 
actions. For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still 
responsible for paying their own rent. For most college students, individual 
leases are the best choice. Each person in the lease is responsible for his 
or her own actions and not the actions of a roommate.  • Dates of occupancy
• Monthly rent and the date 
it is due each month
• Application Fees, Security 
Deposit, Redecoration Fees, 
and any other fees charged• Responsibility for payment 
of utilities
• Responsibility for general 
maintenance and repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 
month lease, but think you 
may need the dwelling for a shorter period of time, 
make sure the lease allows 
you to sublease (rent your 
dwelling to another person 
who will assume the 
remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of leaseCLAUSES TO LOOK FOR IN A LEASE 
• The tenant may be asked to 
leave within three days
• Tenant waives all defects in 
the building
• Landlord shall not be 
responsible for injury to 
person, including tenant and guests, as a result of 
any cause
• Tenant is responsible for all 
repairs to premises 
• Landlord is allowed enter 
dwelling without notice• Landlord has a lien on all 
personal property of tenant
• For any questions on your 
lease, visit the Student 
Legal Services website 
www.studentlegalservices.
ufl.edu and set up an 
appointment with a lawyer 
to review the lease BEFORE 
you sign it. CLAUSES TO AVOID IN YOUR LEASE • Utilize UF’s Off Campus Housing Locator Ser -
vice at http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a property 
that allows you to live within your means.
• Choose a well-suited roommate or choose 
to live alone. Know what kind of person 
would best complement your personality and 
choose accordingly.
• Create a priority list. What do you care about 
most in a living space? Room size, rent, type 
of lease, type of community (large under -
graduate population, graduate students, local 
residents, etc.), location, proximity to cam -pus or bus route. Create a list of ideal charac -
teristics you want in your future living space 
and keep these criteria in mind when select -
ing a location.
• Drive around and visit the properties and 
neighborhoods where you are thinking about 
living.  
• Take a tour of the complexes or houses that 
interest you, ask questions and get to know 
the complex management or rental house 
landlord.• Ask your friends for advice on where to live. 
Which properties worked well for them?  
Which did not?
• Check the RTS bus routes www.go-rts.com 
to make sure routes work for your class 
schedule.
• Visit the Crime Reports website www.cri -
mereports.com to view, on a searchable 
map, crime statistics before signing a lease. 
• While taking a tour check for safety fea -
tures including deadbolts and peepholes on 
entrance doors, windows that lock, exterior 
lighting and well maintained properties. • Also, go back to the property at night and 
check to see if the property is it well-lit, do 
you see the security guard that management 
promised, is the security gate working, is it 
quiet enough to study and sleep, and check 
the lighting at the bus stop or parking lot to 
the complex or house.
• Once you’ve narrowed down your search, 
make an appointment with UF’s Student Le -
gal Services by going to their website www.
studentlegalservices.ufl.edu. SLS can help 
you in reviewing the lease BEFORE you sign 
it. This is a great way to understand your le -
gal responsibilities under that lease. 
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Finally finding the perfect house or 
apartment can be exciting, but don’t let 
your enthusiasm get the best of you – the 
first thing you need to do is have your 
lease reviewed by one of the qualified 
attorneys at UF Student Legal Services 
(SLS). The attorneys at SLS are extremely 
familiar with landlord-tenant case law and 
work full-time assisting UF students with 
these cases, as well as many others. SLS is 
funded by Student Government, so there 
is no charge to UF students for this ser -
vice.
A lease review appointment gets you 
one-on-one time with an experienced SLS 
attorney who can point out important as -
pects of your lease and offer recommenda -tions on how to protect yourself. Proper 
planning is key, and some of the easiest 
things to do include: keeping copies of all 
lease-related documents; taking pictures 
or video of the place as it was when you 
moved in; and asking about any mainte -
nance issues early on. 
A wide variety of issues can crop up 
during your lease, and SLS can help with 
these as well. Things like pest control and 
site maintenance can infringe on your 
right to habitable premises, so seek out 
SLS should you encounter problems your 
landlord will not resolve – do not attempt 
to withhold rent or break your lease on 
your own.
Emotional Support Animals (ESAs) are a new trend in landlord-tenant cas -
es. There are specific qualifications that 
must be met for an ESA – such as a sup -
porting letter from a qualified healthcare 
provider – but you are still responsible 
for any damages caused by the ESA. The 
landlord is only required to make reason -
able accommodations, and the ESA can be 
denied should it negatively impact your 
roommates. 
At the end of your lease, you may en -
counter claims against your security de -
posit for damages. Should these seem ex -
cessive, contact SLS as soon as possible 
– deadlines are attached to claims like 
these and must be met in order for an at -
torney to help. Protect yourself and the new space you 
want to call home – contact SLS for a lease 
review today! For more information or 
to schedule an appointment, visit www.
studentlegalservices.ufl.edu, call (352) 
392-5297(LAWS) or email sls@studentle -
galservices.ufl.edu.Experienced Attorney Can 
Help UF Students For FREE
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus Life• What is the monthly rent?
• What is included in that rent? Utilities, gas, water, 
cable, internet, furniture?
• What is not included in rent? What is the average 
monthly cost for gas, electric, water, garbage disposal? 
If management doesn’t know, contact GRU at www.
gru.com and they can give you average costs of utili -
ties from the previous year.
• Want to have a pet? Factor in the deposit and monthly 
cost for food, medical and grooming care.
• Don’t forget the insurance. Before you sign your lease, 
call your insurance company and see how much it will 
cost monthly to insure your apartment or house.• Are you going to need fuel for your vehicle or are you 
going to use the bus? Factor parking decal costs and 
car maintenance costs into your budget.
• How much will you spend monthly on groceries or on 
a meal plan?
• Have some fun! Don’t spend so much on rent that you 
don’t have money for fun stuff.
• What do you spend on clothing, shoes and accesso -
ries? 
• How much money can you save every month? It’s 
ideal to save some money every month to cover unex -
pected emergency expenses. Even $20 a month saved 
is good.  Every little bit counts!BUDGETING TIPSYou can’t find the right place to live until you know how much you are able to 
spend. Here are some budget questions you should think about while touring.
Your living environment plays a major factor in your overall happiness level. 
Know what you want to get out of your living space and choose your location and 
roommate(s) accordingly. Gainesville is home now, so let Off Campus Life help 
you get the most out of your off-campus experience.
SHOULD YOU HAVE A ROOMMATE?
Having a roommate is a great way to divide the cost of living off campus, but if you 
don’t find the right person to live with, living off campus could be challenging.
• Start your roommate search with a friend 
or sibling. These are often good options 
for roommates since you already know 
them.
• Communication is key.  Talk about your 
budget for housing, expectations for 
safety, expectations for guests, and what 
your housing needs are before you even 
begin your search. Being on the same 
page as your roommate(s) will improve 
your roommate experience and reduce the 
possibility for conflict. 
• Before moving in, establish an agreement 
about who will get which bedroom and 
bathroom along with which cabinets/
storage space each person can use.
• Discuss how payment of rent and bills will take place. Is each person responsible 
for their own bills or will someone be in 
charge of collecting payment from each 
roommate?
• Don’t have someone you want to live 
with? Some apartment complexes offer 
“Roommate Matching” or “Roommate 
Placement.”
• Make sure you can change apartments if 
management places you with roommates 
you are not compatible with, be aware 
there is typically a fee if you need to move 
due to a roommate issue.
• Off Campus Life’s Housing Locator 
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu has a 
roommate finder feature where you can 
search for roommates.
SAFETY TIPS
FOR RENTERS
Both personal and property safety is important as you 
search for off-campus housing.  Before signing a lease, Off 
Campus Life recommends you check the crime statistics for 
an area before moving there.  The Crime Reports website 
www.crimereports.com allows you to search by address, 
and see on map, crime that has occurred in that area over 
the last three weeks. Below are five tips to utilize when 
looking at safety during your apartment search:1. Go back to the complex at night. How do you feel? Is the place 
well-lit and populated or dark and isolated?
2. Does the property have working security gates and/or guards?
3. Check for dead bolts on the exterior door(s), locks for 
individual room doors, alarm systems, etc. and ask specific 
questions about the security. Is there an extra charge for a 
security system?
4. Has there been crime in the area recently? What actions have 
been done to prevent crime from happening?
5. Don’t forget about purchasing Renters Insurance to protect 
you and your stuff from the unexpected.
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
By David Hoffman  
& Rachel Porter
Alligator Writers
For 17 minutes, about 100 Eastside High 
School students, arms linked, stood silent 
in their school courtyard Wednesday morn-
ing. Catherine Sarosi, 18, had never heard her classmates so quiet.
“We felt the gravity of what had hap-
pened, and we wanted to respect the peo-
ple that lost their lives,” Sarosi said.
Sarosi and her classmates were among 
thousands of students who marched and 
walked out of their schools across the 
country to protest gun violence and de-
mand gun reform. Students left their class-
rooms for 17 minutes, one minute for each victim of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, according to The New York Times. Alachua County School Board member Robert Hyatt said students 
who participated in Wednesday’s protests 
would not face punishment.
The students walked out of classes at 
about 10 a.m. and met in the courtyard. 
Some brought signs, including one that listed anti-gun laws, Sarosi said.
After the 17 minutes of silence, Eastside 
student Ari Bechtel told his classmates to take a stand and get involved. After Bechtel spoke, students went back to class — but not to stay. At about noon, before lunch period, students marched out of classes again, this time more informally, said Bai-ley McIntyre, a 17-year-old high school se-nior.
McIntyre said the second walkout was 
an opportunity for students to talk about change they want to see. 
“I’m contacting legislators,” McIntyre 
said on how she plans on making a change.
Across town, about 100 other protest-
ers marched from Buchholz High School to Congressman Ted Yoho’s office, located at 5000 NW 27th Court, where they hon-ored the victims of the Parkland shooting and advocated for stricter gun regulations. Women’s March for Gainesville and Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America’s Gainesville chapter co-sponsored the event.
Yoho talked with students from the 
march over Skype from his Washington D.C. office at about noon. His office sched-uled the meeting Monday when the Alach-ua County Sheriff’s Office told Yoho’s aids of the Wednesday protest, said Yoho con-stituent advocate Jessica Norfleet.
When the 11:15 a.m. march from Bu-chholz High School began, Lorelei Esser’s grandnephew ran ahead of her. 
Four-year-old Gabriel jumped up and 
down the sidewalk with his blue and yel-
low sign that read “Children’s Lives Mat-
ter.” 
Esser, 68, said she struggles with how to 
present the dangers of guns to her grand-nephew. She doesn’t want to frighten him. But then she thinks of the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, where children only two to three years older than Gabriel were killed. 
“Age is indiscriminate. It doesn’t mat-
ter whether you’re his age or my age,” she said. “These shootings affect all of us.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhofman@alligator.org 
Gainesville students walk out of class for gun reform
David Hoffman / Alligator 
Five students, including one middle-schooler, Skyped with Congressman T ed Yoho, who was in his Washington, D.C., office Wednesday during the nationwide Walkout Wednesday protest.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Students lie in the grass on Plaza of the Americas, holding signs as a part of Indivisible UF’s lie-down protest Wednesday morning.
do if shots rang out in their class-room. Instead of joking how they’d all probably fall while ice skating during their Spring Break trip to Or-lando, Sarosi and her friends talk about which room they want to be in, and whether they’d hide or fight if a shooter came. 
Her environmental science teach-
er urged them to run if an active shooter situation ever arose. Her English teacher walked her daugh-ter, a freshman, around the school to point out hiding spots, she said.
Alachua County Public Schools 
are doing the best they can to put students’ minds at ease, said School Board member Robert Hyatt.
“This district did not wait for 
Parkland to be addressing safety needs,” he said. 
In 2017, all administrators re-
ceived ALICE training — active shooter response protocol that stands for Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter and Evacuate —  and are reviewing material now, Hyatt said earlier this month. 
Unlike other counties, every 
Alachua County Public school has a school resource officer, he said. During the 2016-2017 school year, school resource officers suggested safety-related facility needs. Follow-ing reviews, schools added fencing, gates and doors, Hyatt said. They plan on conducting another walk-through soon. 
The shooting has spurred Ala-
chua schools to reexamine policies and facilities to ensure the safest environment possible. Now, schools are required to lock their classroom doors throughout the school day, Hyatt said. 
Residents in Alachua County can 
vote on a half-cent sales tax referen-dum in November that could pro-vide additional funding for public schools, part of which could be used to strengthen facilities, Hyatt said. 
Alachua County Public Schools 
will receive an additional $1.1 mil-lion specifically for school safety measures as a result of the school safety bill, SB 7026, Gov. Rick Scott signed March 9, Hyatt said. 
Along with more funding, the bill 
also raises the age to buy a gun to 21, bans the sale of bump stocks — 
devices that make a semiautomatic 
weapon fire like an automatic weap-on — and gives law enforcement 
greater authority to seize weapons 
from individuals deemed mentally 
unfit.  
The idea of armed teachers, met-
al detectors and bulletproof glass 
doesn’t necessarily make Sarosi feel 
comfortable. 
“We’re not supposed to be in a 
war zone,” she said. 
The high school senior is espe-
cially concerned about the provi-sion that allows some teachers to be 
armed.
“I think it breaks down some of 
the safety that students can find in 
their teachers,” she said. 
Roderick Jackson, a junior at 
Buchholz High School, walked out of his math class Wednesday morn-ing for something he said was big-ger than himself. The 17-year-old 
marched to Rep. Ted Yoho’s office to 
demand answers to the questions he 
finds himself asking every day. 
“How long can we wait before an-
other one happens?” 
“How long before my friends die 
in front of me?”
“How long before I die?” Since the shooting, he feels like 
adults are starting to value the voic-
es of students more, but he doesn’t 
want all of the responsibility of 
changing the broken system to be placed on his generation. 
Jackson said he is proud to see 
his classmates mobilizing for a cause 
they care about, but he fears elected 
officials like Yoho don’t understand the urgency of the situation. They don’t understand the fear. 
“(Yoho) kept saying that our gen-
eration is the future,” he said, “but 
we can’t change the future if we 
can’t live to see the future.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@FEATURE,  from pg. 1Alachua Schools now requires all classroom doors to be locked
•   •   •14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & 
AVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.
com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     3-16-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, March 20th at 12:00 PM
321 Loans Inc. Receivership Case
1410 SW 3 Street,
Pompano Beach, FL 33069
Sale will consist of luxury vehicles including: 
2014 Tesla Model S, P85+ (miles: 47,678), 
2015 BMW i8, 1.3L L3 Hybrid Super Car 
(miles: 15,632), 2015 Land Rover Range 
Rover Autobiography Edition (miles: 28,271), 
2006 International 3000 Custom Luxury 
School Bus (upgraded and equipped) and 
2003 Blue Bird Body Co. Custom Luxury 
School Bus (upgraded and equipped). 
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Receivership Case #0:17-60907- CIV-FAM
Preview: Day of sale 9 AM to Noon - 6%-18% BP - $500 refundable cash deposit to 
register. (800) 840-BIDS - info@moecker -
auctions.com AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin  
3-16-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR 
BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  
352-256-8370,352-246-8645
3-23-18-6-2
Several cute & clean houses & apts.for August in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. From $525/mo.Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     3-26-17-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or VisaThe Alligator Office2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.orgBy Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FINDPayment by major credit card ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY. MARCH 16 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Psyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
Apply in Person
Cooks, Management, Waitresses
3-23-17-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Photographer making underwater
Youtube videos at Blue Springs seeks
female models. Gig pays $25 for 90 minutes
plus pictures and park reimbursement.
Call for more info  352-286-4579
3-19-18-5-14
part time help 3 to 4 days a week to help main-tain Horses and the barn. Must have equine Knowledge Contact Ken at 4077219711 or Najorkaperformancehorses@gmail.com     3-16-18-3-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 159404 or 160560 at www.gatordining.com     3-23-18-6-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY. MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-21-25-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.     3-16-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Fifth pillar of
Islam
5 Puts on a patch,
say
9 Intestinal tract
division
14 Moises of the
2002-’04 Cubs
15 Card in a baby
straight
16 Playground retort
17 *Prepares to
pass the football
19 Butyl acetate,
e.g.
20 Graphic novel
artist
21 *Baseball
position
23 Is connected
25 Water__: dental
brand
26 Curator’s deg.
27 Word with idea or
luck
28 Gaucho’s
weapon
31 Schmoozing sort33 Hardy heroine35 Sweeping37 Shocks, in a way38 *Strokes in tennis41 Uppity sort44 Hospital fluids45 Hair adornments49 Aerobic regime,
familiarly
51 Many a Black
Friday worker
53 Casual negative54 First __55 Two-timer57 100 percent59 *Basketball
strategy
63 Big haulers
64 Comedic pianist
Victor
65 Fair play? ... or
the key to
understandingthe answers tostarred clues
67 “Sneak Previews”
co-host
68 Niagara Falls
source
69 Empty70 Pranks71 It may be
payable monthly
72 Bodily passageDOWN
1 Natural
environment
2 Amino acid used
in protein
biosynthesis
3 Derby VIPs4 Diner devices,
familiarly
5 Orch. section6 Piccadilly Circus
statue
7 Turned on the
waterworks
8 Network admin
9 One of many
seen at the
NCAA’s Frozen
Four
10 Mascara target
11 Puts to rest12 Cover charge
relative
13 Pestle partners
18 Smidgen
22 Barnyard rooter24 Stellar
phenomenon
29 Fellows30 Corporate
machinery, e.g.
32 Caustic remark34 Like racehorses36 Went like
racehorses
39 Modern concert
conveniences
40 Mae West
persona
41 Crossed a picket
line
42 Capital east of
Lake Victoria
43 Requested at a
drive-thru
46 Primer application47 Wagner’s 
“Die __”
48 Lawyer to avoid
50 Clumsy one52 Big cat56 Old hat
58 Religious leader
60 Prefix with
industry
61 Unwavering62 Salt Lake daily,
familiarly
66 Realize
By Roland Huget©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/16/1803/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, March 16, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Croquet surfaces
6 Chic
11 Christopher A.
Wray’s org.
14 Roundish15 Course without
much challenge
16 Neurotic cartoon
dog
17 Dual-purpose
machine
19 Trauma ctrs.
20 Airport limo
driver’s concern,
briefly
21 “Later, dude”
22 Scrawny
24 One in the
woods?
26 End of the end of
“Gone With the
Wind”
28 Water filter brand30 Socialite adopted
by the media
31 In-house trial
36 Cool drink
37 Lower
40 Court org.
42 Shut the door on43 “How pathetic!”46 “Tree of Smoke”
novelist Johnson
50 Place to order
matzo ball soup
55 Facebook entry56 Yarn coil57 Words of
urgency
59 WWII battle site,
for short
60 Rock concert
effect
61 Certain investor
... and, based onthe word hiddenin each, what 17-, 26-, 37- or50-Across is?
64 Tokyo-born artist
65 Jazz pianist
Chick
66 Flash of light
67 Word with cell or
cent
68 Vacuum
attachments
69 Like R.L. Stine
storiesDOWN
1 Serious state of
decline
2 Personification
3 Pungent
condiment
4 __ degree
5 Flow slowly6 Four-door ride,
usually
7 Call in a pool
game
8 Until now
9 Manhattan liquor
10 Walmart rival
11 Like some
revealing slips?
12 Name associated
with alpine
rescues
13 Fashion
magazine
18 Actor Stephen23 Tango land:
Abbr.
25 Words to a traitor27 Vishnu 
worshiper
29 Fizzy prefix
32 Take the wheel
33 Appreciative text34 __ hall35 Bus. card
address
37 Baal
38 Like 2017
39 Lose it, in a way
40 Requests
41 Trilogy starter
44 Sushi fish
45 Decent sort47 “Darned if I
know”
48 “Cross my heart!”49 Tempestuous
51 Some designer
gowns
52 Award show VIP53 Haas of
“Witness”
54 Suffix
suggesting
resemblance
58 Outfits
62 And
63 Business letters
By Bruce Haight©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/15/1803/15/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 15, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Watch out
1.  Annoy5.  Not these 
2.  ____ with cheese6.  Self-composure 
3.  Swaying, rocking 7.  Smart
4.  Papa Hemingway AEERBW
EBORHTSHOTE
SPIEO
PHORPWE
NIREGLERBHTIG
STEERNANSWERS: 1A-Beware  5A-Those  6A-Poise  7A-Bright
1D-Bother  2D-Whopper  3D-Reeling  4D-Ernest  B-Noah Webster3-16-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person has been called the “Father 
of American Scholarship and Education.”
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida diver Brooke Madden 
ﬁ  nished 13th overall in the 1-meter dive at the NCAA Championships on Thursday. She was one of nine UF athletes to compete in Columbus.THE MADNESS BEGINS
Aside from Florida’s 77-62 win against St. Bonaventure on Thursday, notable 
outcomes on Day 1 of the NCAA T ournament included No. 3 T exas T ech best-
ing No. 14 Stephen F. Austin 70-60, No. 4 Arizona falling to No. 13 Buffalo 89-68 and No. 11 Loyola-Chicago defeating No. 6 Miami 64-62.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFOOTBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Dan Mullen knows expecta-
tions are high.
He knows fans want results 
right away. But he also has ex-pectations of his own, and they have nothing to do with wins and losses. 
With spring practice opening 
today at 4:25 p.m. with full pub-
lic access at the Sanders Practice 
Fields, Mullen is expecting some 
bumps. He’s expecting his players to struggle with learning a new offense and defense. And before 
they even get that far, he’s ex-
pecting them to have to adapt to 
the new law of the land. 
“It’s always a challenge be-
cause it’s just not learning the 
offense or defense and special 
teams but learning what we ex-
pect in the speed of practice,” Mullen said. “How practice is go-ing to go. Running from drill to drill and just how things work. It’s different, so that will be a challenge.”
A challenge that will surely 
be full of hurdles under a radical change of philosophy and pro-cess, but one Mullen is hoping produces results by the Orange and Blue Debut on April 14. With that in mind, here are three ques-tions Mullen could address in spring ball. 
1. Will the new conditioning 
program make that much of a difference?
Director of strength and con-
ditioning Nick Savage has been hailed as a savior to a program that has been ravaged by injuries in recent years. Last year, run-ning back Malik Davis, receiver Tyrie Cleveland, guard Brett Heg-gie, defensive lineman Jordan Sherit and safety Marcell Harris were just some of the players who missed signiﬁ  cant chunks of last season for Florida. 
Athletic Director Scott Strick-
lin wasn’t shy about noting the strength program’s deﬁ  ciencies when former coach Jim McEl-wain parted with the school, and Stricklin said it would be an em-phasis moving forward. Players believe that so far, Mullen and Savage have delivered on that promise. 
“It’s really their team,” safety 
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson said of the strength staff. “Everything ﬂ  ows through them. Once we go in that weight room, it’s all lit.”
It’s impossible to predict if 
fewer injuries will occur as a result, but Gardner-Johnson be-lieves having players who are big-ger and stronger certainly won’t hurt. 
“You tell coach Savage and his 
 Three questions that merit answers 
entering spring football practice
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 20Picture this 
scenario. You decide to go to the mov-ies, but you 
aren’t sure what ﬁ  lm you want to see. In front of you are two choices. 
The ﬁ  rst is “Star 
Wars: The Last Jedi.“ You’ve 
heard mixed reviews about this movie, but everyone wants to see 
it because of how iconic it is. You 
would be missing a lot by not see-ing the movie.
The second is “Three Bill-
boards Outside Ebbing, Mis-souri.” It’s a really good movie in its own right, and it has all the el-ements it needs to succeed. How-ever, outside of its limited screen-
ing, not many people would care 
about it. 
So which would you rather 
see? If my guess is right, probably Star Wars. 
Now if you were 
a college basketball 
fan, would you rather 
see Trae Young and Oklahoma play in the NCAA Tournament, 
or slightly more quali-
ﬁ  ed bubble teams like USC, Middle Ten-
nessee, Marquette or Oklahoma State?
For those wondering how 
Oklahoma could have possibly gotten in over some of those oth-er teams, it is extremely puzzling 
at ﬁ  rst glance. In OU’s last 12 
games of the season prior to the Big Dance, it lost nine of those contests, including an 11-point defeat to Oklahoma State in the 
ﬁ  rst round of the Big 12 Tourna-
ment.
But what it comes down to is Putting Oklahoma in the NCAA 
Tournament was the right callJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 20
lead by the buzzer, the Gators shot 
below 30 percent from the ﬁ  eld in the opening period.
Adams — St. Bonaventure’s lead-
ing scorer — struggled to ﬁ  nd his shot. He didn’t convert a ﬁ  eld goal until the 8:27 mark in the second half. As a team, the Bonnies shot just 26.1 percent in an opening half so 
ugly, coach Mark Schmidt described 
it as a “rock ﬁ  ght” in an on-court in-
terview during the TV broadcast.
Florida began the latter half of ac-
tion with three unanswered buckets: a fadeaway three from guard KeV-aughn Allen and layups from both Koulechov and guard Chris Chiozza. Suddenly, the Gators found them-selves riding a 12-point lead just two minutes into the half.
While St. Bonaventure’s poor 
performance from the ﬁ  eld contin-ued, trips to the charity stripe and sub-par shooting from Florida kept the Bonnies in the game until late. They shot 34 free throws, compared to the Gators’ 18.
With fewer than 10 minutes to 
play, Hudson ﬁ  nally found the bot-
tom of the net from downtown after 
six missed three-point attempts. His 
shot was followed by two more as-
sists from Chiozza, putting Florida 
up 54-35 with 8:55 remaining.
Hudson, seemingly sparked by his 
ﬁ  rst connection from deep, helped the Gators bury the Bonnies late. 
A two-handed put-back slam was 
followed by another three-pointer. 
Fourteen of his 16 points came in the 
second half.
A 23-point deﬁ  cit with just under 
seven minutes to play proved too daunting a task for the Bonnies. The remainder of the game carried out in 
front of a mostly empty arena.
UF will play again on Saturday 
against third-seeded Texas Tech at 8:40 p.m. The Red Raiders earned a 
spot in the second round with their 
70-60 defeat of Stephen F. Austin on 
Thursday. 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 1Florida faces Texas Tech 
on Saturday at 8:40 p.m.
The Associated Press
Chris Chiozza dished 11 assists and scored eight points on 3-of-9 shooting in Florida’s win over St. 
Bonaventure on Thursday.
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  
1236 NW 21st Ave
(off of 13th St.)
OPEN Monday - Saturday
11AM–7PM
Closed Sunday
(352) 260-6958A perfect study & meeting spot...URBAN
THREAD
OPEN  
Monday - Friday 11–7, 
 Sat 11–6, Sun 11–5HARPER’S CORNER
at
URBAN THREAD
2 LOCATIONS:
1236 NW 21ST AVE
(352) 271-1179
802 W. UNIVERSITY AVE
(352) 727-7500
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Andrew Baker leaned forward with his 
hands on his knees. He oozed a conﬁ  dence 
and swagger that would have made Muham-mad Ali blush. 
He’d taken a hefty lead off second base in 
the bottom of the sixth inning in what had slowly become a 10-1 drubbing of Siena in the third game of Florida’s 2018 season. Saints pitcher Danny Hobbs took a step off the rub-ber, turned and cocked his right arm toward Andrew, who took three quick strides back to the bag before abruptly stopping in his tracks.
Nobody was covering second base. Hobbs never threw the ball. He only took 
a ﬂ  eeting glance at Andrew before turning his attention back to his pitching routine. So when Andrew halted just before he reached the bag, Hobbs missed an opportunity to see the side of Andrew’s personality that makes so many of his teammates smile.
The energetic sophomore pumped his ﬁ  sts 
at his sides and made an exaggerated running motion toward the base before extending his 
arms into a mock slide. He then slyly glanced 
back at Hobbs, daring the pitcher to do some-thing about his tomfoolery.
There’s no guarantee that Andrew will see 
the ﬁ  eld tonight at 7 in UF’s SEC opener on the road against South Carolina. While he has been a reliable reserve, Florida’s depth chart places him ﬁ  rmly in the dugout most games.
But through it all, Andrew maintains his 
playful temperament. Understanding his hu-mor is vital in getting to know him. Though his life was beset by a medical emergency that almost tore the seams of his family apart, his competitive spirit, jocularity and faith has kept him grounded and focused while also lifting him up.
For all his parents know, Andrew was liter-
ally born to play baseball. His mother, Patri-cia, remembers trying to take a family portrait when he was a toddler. The photographer gave Andrew a ball to hold as a prop. He placed it in Andrew’s right hand.
“Andrew just transitioned it over to his left,” 
Patricia said. “And me being the momma, I took it out and put it back in the right, because I only know how to deal with right-hand kids.”
But Andrew wouldn’t cooperate. He 
swapped it over to his left once more.
“My dad said, ‘This is going to be my left-
handed baseball player,’” Patricia recalled. 
Andrew, currently a pitcher and outﬁ  eld-
er for the Gators, grew up in the suburbs of Haines City, Florida, just off the north shore of Little Lake Hamilton. The Baker family house-hold sits on a quiet, winding backstreet in front of a vast expanse of open ﬁ  elds and orange groves.
Andrew and his older siblings, Antrice and 
Anthony II, would walk to Alta Vista Elemen-tary School, a third of a mile north from where 
they lived. However, simply walking back 
home afterward was never an option in young Andrew’s mind.
“He’d race… anybody who wanted it,” An-
thony II said. “He’s a natural competitor.”
The Bakers decided Andrew needed an out-
let. He tried his hand at ﬂ  ag football ﬁ  rst. The coaches played him at quarterback. Even with his age, Anthony II estimated Andrew could 
throw the football 25-30 yards downﬁ  eld. 
But Patricia wasn’t a fan of the activity. While Anthony II was starting to make a name 
for himself as a linebacker at Haines City High School, she didn’t want to linger on the pros-pect of her youngest boy growing up playing a full-contact sport.
“Football is not for my baby,” Antrice re-
membered her mother saying. 
Anthony I, Andrew’s father, convinced An-
drew to play a different sport. The pastor of 33 years and former Marine suggested he try the game his father had taught him while growing up: baseball. 
When Andrew was 5 years old, he gave it 
a shot. He started playing for the Haines City Sharks, a local little league team.
He exceeded everybody’s expectations. 
Though his family knew Andrew had a can-non for an arm even at such a young age, folks were taken aback at how he could throw a la-ser from center ﬁ  eld to the plate while sporting a Sunday church belt looped around the waist-band of his uniform and a knockoff Walmart glove.
“We were totally clueless,” Antrice said. 
“We pretty much just threw Andrew out there 
and he was naturally,” she paused as if to pon-
der the absurdity of it all, “just good at it.”
Andrew remembers attending his father’s 
church, Faith Kingdom, almost every day growing up. As Andrew went to his dad’s ser-vices, Anthony I became aware of the intersec-tion between baseball and faith, and how it could help his son. 
“Don’t let any obstacles change your life,” 
Anthony I would tell Andrew. “It doesn’t mat-
ter if you think you should be playing and the 
coaches won’t allow you to play. Your steps 
are ordered by God.”
Though his family contested otherwise, a 
young Andrew was convinced he wasn’t per-forming well with the Sharks.
“I was just a little kid,” he said. “I wasn’t 
sure if I should keep playing.”
Read the rest of this story online at alligator.
org/sports.
  FAMILY, FAITH AND BASEBALL:
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Pitcher/outﬁ  elder Andrew Baker has gained a reputation for being one of the funnier 
players on Florida’s roster.
Andrew Baker’s evolution from little league novice to UF two-way player
•   •   ••   •   •20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2018
crew,” he said, “they know what 
they are doing.”
2. What will the new offense 
look like?
This one should be answerable 
by the spring game. It might not be as fine-tuned as Mullen would like, but by April 14, his offense should 
be ready enough to show off. 
It’ll be hard to judge its capa-
bilities based on a scrimmage, but 
quarterback Feleipe Franks claims the new offense is very graspable 
and easy to learn, especially for 
quarterbacks. 
“It’s something different than 
what we had with coach Nuss,” 
Franks added.
One would hope so after for-
mer offensive coordinator Doug 
Nussmeier’s Gators were 108th in 
points per game and 110th in yards 
per game last season. 
At Mississippi State, mean-
while, Mullen’s Bulldogs ranked 
41st in points per game and 46th 
in yards per game. 
“They were able to put a lot of 
points on the board in big games,” UF wideout Josh Hammond said, 
“and, you know, we are just really 
excited.”
3. Who will start at quarter-
back?
Someone has to start the spring 
game, but it’s very unlikely Mullen commits to that starter, whoever it ends up being, before the fall.
“I don’t worry about that,” he 
said. “It’s spring to me.”
He’s more concerned with get-
ting players to give maximum ef-fort and getting as many deserving guys on the field as possible. But again, someone has to do it. 
His options are Franks, red-
shirt sophomore Kyle Trask, red-shirt freshman Jake Allen and true freshman Emory Jones. Mullen said while he’ll be all over the field during spring practices, he’ll pay special attention to that group, so 
he’ll get a thorough chance to eval-
uate them all. And he’ll give any-
one who earns it time on the field. 
“We might play more than 
one,” Mullen said. “It’s guys earn-
ing the right to get on the field.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 18UF kicks off spring practice today at the Sanders Practice Fields
which team would be more excit-
ing to watch. Although Oklahoma was a mediocre team at best and 
ultimately lost in the first round 
of the NCAA Tournament to Rhode Island on Thursday, the Sooners possessed one of college 
basketball’s most exciting NBA 
prospects in Young, a freshman point guard who led the NCAA in scoring this season.
Why wouldn’t you want some-
one like Young playing on the biggest stage of college basket-ball? His name alone brings na-
tional attention and gives people 
an added reason to watch the NCAA Tournament.
From that standpoint, it 
doesn’t matter if another team was more deserving of the space OU occupied. No team that was left out had as big a star as Young on its roster. As long as the Soon-ers had a decent record and a couple of good wins to their name, they were going to make 
the tournament.
I can understand the other 
side of this argument.
From a statistics standpoint, 
Oklahoma shouldn’t have made 
the tournament. USC, who fin-ished second in the Pac-12 stand-ings and made it to the confer-ence championship game, got snuffed for a team in the Sooners that finished seventh in the Big 12.
Saint Mary’s — another snub 
— won 28 of its 33 games this season, including a victory over then-No. 13 Gonzaga. Oklahoma, 
on the other hand, lost 13 of 31 
games including an embarrassing defeat to Iowa State.But, none of that stuff matters.With a polarizing figure like 
Young on the Sooners, it isn’t dif-ficult to see how Oklahoma made the NCAA Tournament. Even it 
lost on Thursday, the selection 
committee made the right call.
Jake Dreilinger is the Alliga-
tor’s assistant sports editor. Con-tact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg 18Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
First-year football coach Dan Mullen and the Florida Gators are opening up their four-week-long 
spring practice schedule today at 4:25 p.m.
