We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A hotel is opening up near The Standard
Visitors will share the parking garage, pg. 8
Check out a guide to Changeville
Artists are going to perform for social change, pg. 13GATORS TAKING ON TIGERS TONIGHT
The Florida men’s basketball team is facing LSU
 at 6:30 p.m. at the O’Connell Center, pg. 18 By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
A former banking executive and an Or-
lando-based lawyer have been appointed 
to the Board of Trustees.
If conﬁ  rmed, banker Thomas Kuntz and 
attorney Daniel O’Keefe will ﬁ  ll the spots left open by board members Steven Scott and David Thomas,  UF spokesperson Mar-
got Winick wrote in an email.
Trustees volunteer to serve on the 
board, and therefore they do not get paid. 
Members serve staggered 5-year terms, ac-
cording the current bylaws. The last ap-
pointment of new members was in June of 2016, according to Alligator archives.
Both appointees cannot become full 
members until receiving approval by the 
Florida Senate, Winick said.
“The university is excited to welcome 
them to our board,” Winick said. “They 
bring a wealth of important experience 
with their leadership.”
O’Keefe, appointed by the Board of 
Governors, received his business degree in 
1990 from UF, where he also attended law school.
O’Keefe plans to bring his years of busi-
ness and legal experience to the board po-
sition, he wrote in an email.
He is a co-managing partner at Shutts 
and Bowen LLP’s Orlando ofﬁ  ce, where he 
deals with real estate and land usage, and 
for the past ﬁ  ve years, he has also served 
as chairman of the South Florida Water Management District, which manages wa-By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The Challenge Party has started 
a petition to rename the O’Connell Center in a video announcement 
sent to The Alligator and posted 
on Facebook on Tuesday.  
Janae Moodie, who is running 
for Student Body president with 
Challenge, said the video was 
made to educate students on Ste-phen C. O’Connell’s restrictions 
on the black community at UF 
in the 1970s after they told him about their concerns about safety and inclusivity. 
In the video, Moodie spoke 
about Virgil Hawkins, who was denied admission to the UF Col-lege of Law in April 1949 because of his race, according to UF’s web-
site. Moodie said when Hawkins 
petitioned his rejection to the Florida Supreme Court, O’Connell 
was a justice who concurred in the 
decision. 
Challenge’s campaign manager 
Wayne Selogy said they got the 
information from “African Ameri-
cans at the University of Florida,” a history book by Betty J. Stewart-Dowdell and Kevin M. McCarthy published in 2003. 
“The main reason we decided 
to make this one of our ﬁ  rst ac-tion points is because of the sheer 
mass of people who vocalized 
this,” Moodie said. 
The center is a sports, gradu-
ation and concert venue. The UF 
basketball, gymnastics and swim 
team currently use the venue. It recently went through a $64.5 mil-
lion renovation.
O’Connell started as the uni-
versity president in 1967, one year 
after the university was desegre-gated. 
On April 15, 1971, also known 
as “Black Thursday,” the Black 
Student Union organized a sit-in to express their disappointment 
in the university for not encourag-
ing black students to enroll or em-ploying more black faculty mem-bers, according to UF’s website. O’Connell refused to meet with 
students, but demonstrators didn’t VOLUME 112 ISSUE 55
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaFUN AND
FITNESS
2018
SEE TRUSTEES,  PAGE 5SEE O’CONNELL,  PAGE 5Nate Bustamante / Alligator Staff
Actor T erry Crews smiles for the crowd as he makes an enthusiastic entrance inside the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday night at the ACCENT Speakers Bureau-hosted event.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Terry Crews jumped out onto the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts 
stage screaming, ﬂ  exed his pecks at 
the audience and turned back to his in-
terviewer, UF journalism department chair Ted Spiker, for a chest bump. 
“Man is it good,” Crews shouted 
into the microphone at a volume that caused some audience members to jump in their seats. “Lord, I love it.” 
The actor, known for his roles in 
comedy movie “White Chicks” and TV 
sitcoms “Everybody Hates Chris” and 
“Brooklyn Nine-Nine,” spoke Tuesday night at the Phillips Center to an audi-ence of about 1,400. Accent Speaker’s 
Bureau paid Crews $40,000 for the 
speaking event, according to Alligator archives. All of the free tickets were given away.
Crews touched on everything from 
funny Hollywood experiences to his troubled upbringing with an abusive father. 
He recounted how he bombed an 
audition the same day he landed his role in “White Chicks.” Looking back, he said he knows he failed at the ﬁ  rst audition because of the fear and pres-sure he felt. 
“You have to trick your brain be-
cause it’s going to betray you,” he said. “You’re going to think, ‘Oh my god, it’s the worst thing ever,’ and it’s 
actually the best thing for you.” 
Crews described how he used com-
edy growing up to cope with trauma. 
Some of his earliest memories are of his father shoving his mother to the 
ground, he said. 
Before he and his brother cried or 
hid in another room, sometimes they 
would laugh, he said. 
“Comedy is a way you keep from 
going insane,” he said. “It’s a way to process; your brain has to process tragedy.” 
Friends Peter Nguyenho and Livia Actor Terry Crews talks 
success, struggle at UF
SEE CREWS,  PAGE 5
Challenge Party announces eﬀ  orts to rename O’Connell
Two appointed to UF’s Board of Trustees for 5-year terms
Both await Senate conirmation
GATORS TAKING ON TIGERS TONIGHT
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
HIGH  78° LOW  58°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Workshops for people seeking le-
gal advice
The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar 
Association to present a se-
ries of workshops called Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights. These will be held 
5:30-7 p.m. Thursday at Library 
Partnership, 4:30-5:45 p.m. 
March 22 at Library Partnership 
and 5:30-7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road Branch. Josiah T. Walls Bar Association attorneys and UF Levin College of Law stu-dents will provide one-on-one assistance to people who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in applying to have 
their civil rights restored. They 
will also meet with people who are interested in having their re-cords sealed or expunged. These presentations are free and open to the public. Registration is not required. For more information, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Free Citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League 
will offer free citizenship classes 
6-7:30 p.m. every Thursday un-til March 29 at the Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawomensleague.org.
Camp GatorNights
The Reitz Union will hold Camp 
GatorNights on Friday night. 
The event will allow students to relive summer camp memories by creating friendship bracelets, work on nature-weaving and paint rocks. The event will also feature four square, tetherball 
and an obstacle course, as well 
as a tent-building contest. Treats at the event will include s’mores and a trail mix bar. GatorNights is always Friday, always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card. Attendees must be current students, and they’re allowed to bring a maximum of one guest.
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-zation, is holding Stomp the Swamp for Autism to benefit the UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities 10 a.m.-1 p.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. CARD supports indi-
viduals with autism and their 
families through training and assistance. To learn more about autism and to register for “Stomp the Swamp,” visit card.ufl.edu or search the Facebook event page.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ race
Registration is now open for 
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers’ Five Points of Life Race Weekend on Feb. 17 and Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. Gainesville’s largest running race begins on the UF Cultural Plaza. Both days will include food, free massages and music. All pro-
ceeds go to the Five Points of 
Life Foundation, which educates people on ways to share life with others, including the donation of blood, organs and tissue.
Student Government Elections
Spring Student Government Elections will be held 8:30 a.m.-
8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and 21 at loca-
tions across campus. All absen-tee ballot requests are due by 5 p.m. today. Visit sg.ufl.edu/elec-tions to request an absentee bal-lot before the deadline.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWords on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing competition at the Harn Museum of Art, lo-cated at 3259 Hull Road, for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. The selection of artwork features a variety of me-
dia, including pieces from Asian, 
Contemporary and Modern col-lections. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/word-soncanvas. The deadline is Feb. 25. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
jtavel@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Correction: 
A story published by The 
Alligator titled “ACSO: Man stabs 
wife and then cuts himself”  and 
"Gainesville man stabs wife then 
cuts himself," incorrectly report-ed Gainesville Police handled the case. It was handled by Alachua 
County Sheriff's Office. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 55
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, February 7, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:       To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
UF MBA is leading the way in two catego -
ries of the Financial Times’ “Global MBA 
Ranking 2018.” The UF MBA Full-Time 
program earned the No. 1 ranking in value  
for money in the world and has the highest  
salary percentage increase among U.S. schools.
Additionally, 88 percent of UF MBA 
alumni indicated their aims were achieved, 
meaning the extent to which alumni ful -
filled their reasons for pursuing an MBA.
“The program offers concierge-level service  
with access to all of the resources of a large 
university,” said Todd Hales, MBA ‘14, Se-
nior Manager at Ryder. “The program al-
lowed me to successfully change industries 
while more than doubling my pre-MBA 
salary. To top it all off, the reasonable tu-
ition and generous scholarships make it an 
unparalleled value.”
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSlands will also feature a silent disco featuring stu -
dent DJs, food trucks, student organization-led 
activities and art installations made by students.
“This festival is focused on three core ideas: Dis -
covery, Passion and Unity,” said Kyle Kocinski, 
festival director for The Wetlands. “Showcasing 
the richly creative talent and achievement of UF 
students is essential to this event.”
Tickets are available through the O’Connell 
Center Box Office. Student tickets are $15 and 
general public tickets are $30. Re-entry will be 
permitted, so students can pop in to hear their 
favorite groups or make a day of it. The event is 
sponsored by Student Government and Gators 
Going Green.
Learn more at www.wetlandsfest.com.Student Government Productions (SGP) will 
host UF’s inaugural student-run music festival 
on Sunday, Feb. 25 from 3 to 10 p.m. on Flavet 
Field. The Wetlands festival focuses on celebrat -
ing the accomplishments of the student body 
while bringing together local and national artists.
Snakehips, A$AP Ferg, and Saint Motel will 
headline the event with performances from oth-
er local artists and students.
“One of the biggest things about The Wetlands is  
how it will bring together multiple genres and stud-  
ents from different backgrounds and interests,” 
said Alex DesRosiers, SGP chairman. The Wet -The Wetlands
Erin Jackson has a new material in her life: Ice.
The 2015 University of Florida Materials Sci-
ence and Engineering alumna traded her in-
line skates for ice skates just four months ago. 
Now she is heading to Pyeongchang, South 
Korea, for the Olympics as a member of Team 
U.S.A. in long-track speed skating.
She finished third in the 500-meter race 
during the Olympic trials in Milwaukee 
snagging the final of three spots. Before the 
qualifying races, Jackson had never skated the 
course in less than 40 seconds. In Milwaukee, 
she had two personal bests completing the 
course in 39.22 seconds and 39.04 seconds.UF Alumna  
Making 
Strides in  
PyeongChangRetired bank executive Tom Kuntz and 
Orlando lawyer Daniel T. O’Keefe have 
been named to the University of Florida 
Board of T rustees.
Kuntz, appointed by Gov. Rick Scott, suc -
ceeds Steven M. Scott and is appointed for 
a term beginning Jan. 26, 2018, and end-
ing Jan. 8, 2023. O’Keefe, appointed by 
the Board of Governors, succeeds David 
Thomas, who was appointed to the Board 
of T rustees in 2013. Both appointments 
are subject to confirmation by the Florida 
Senate. 
“These two new members have a keen un-
derstanding of what our students need 
to be successful both before and after 
graduation,” UF President Kent Fuchs 
said. “I welcome them and look forward 
to working with them as we continue our 
efforts toward becoming a top-five public 
research university.”
To learn more about Mr. Kuntz and Mr. 
O’Keefe, visit: trustees.ufl.edu.UF Welcomes  
Two New 
Board of 
Trustees
UF MBA 
Rises in the 
Rankings
Gators, let’s get consensual. Each year, 
STRIVE hosts a variety of activities the week 
of Valentine’s Day that teach about consent 
to sexual activity and intimacy. We share 
what consent is, what it isn’t, and how to 
navigate uncertainties, all while you’re having 
fun. We want to emphasize that consent and 
sensuality go hand in hand. 
The centerpiece of the week is the Cupid’s 
Consent Fair, which will take place on Val -
entine’s Day between 10 and 2 p.m. at the 
Reitz Union Terrace. With 15 partner orga -
nizations,  both on-campus and local, the fair  
is an amazing opportunity to learn about con-  
sent, hear from diverse voices in our com-
munity, and take home some Valentine’s Day  
cards for your boo. Students who visit a major -
ity of the tables at the fair will earn a consent  
campaign t-shirt (while supplies last), as well 
as many other goodies you won’t want to miss.
On Feb. 13,  STRIVE, the Women’s Stu -
dent Association and Planned Parenthood  
Generation Action will host Dr. Laurie Mintz 
at our General Body Meeting. She will talk 
about pleasure equality, sex positivity, and 
her new book Becoming Cliterate, followed 
by a Q&A and book signing. This event 
is at 6:15 p.m. in the Reitz Union, room 
2315. You can also find us at GatorNights 
on Friday, Feb. 16 where we will have an -
other activity about consent and, as always, 
more health advocacy tools you can win!  
Look for information about these and other  
events on our Facebook page: @StriveUF.Cupid’s  
ConsentIf you’re interested in sports, race or gender is -
sues, don’t miss this chance to hear from one 
of the best storytellers in the business. The UF 
College of Journalism & Communications is 
hosting ESPN baseball writer, Claire Smith on 
Feb. 21 at 6 pm in the Pugh Hall Ocora. Smith 
is the first woman and only the fourth African 
American to cover major league baseball full 
time. She is also the first woman to be present -
ed with the J.G. Spinks Award, the top honor 
from the Baseball Writers’ Association of Amer -
ica. She will share her perspectives on race and 
sports over the past several decades and her most 
interesting experiences from a long career. This 
event is free and open to the public.The Art of 
Telling a Story
It has been  reported that Jackson was shocked 
to not just surpass her Top 10 dreams but 
make the team.
Even more surprising,  Jackson is from Ocala, 
where the closest ice rinks are more than an 
hour away. Though inline skating has been a 
feeder for top ice speed skating competitors.
During her time in the Department of Mate -
rials Science and Engineering, Jackson worked 
with Dr. Jack Mecholsky. Her undergraduate 
thesis focused on fracture mechanics of dental 
ceramics and was completed in conjunction 
with UF’s Center for Dental Biomaterials.
“I think she developed the skills of organiza-
tion and timeliness from her love of athletics,” 
Mecholsky said. “Her senior thesis work was 
outstanding and will contribute to a journal 
publication.” She graduated cum laude with 
her bachelor’s degree.
Show some Gator love and support Jackson here:  
T witter:@ErinJackson480  
Instagram:@speedyj
               – Andrea E. HallThe following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In a letter sent to The Alligator on Tuesday, 
Sen. Branden Pearson (Independent, Lakeside) 
announced his disafﬁ  liation with Inspire Party.
“The party that I slated with back in Sep-
tember is not the party that Inspire is today,” 
Pearson said.
Pearson said Inspire prioritizes their brand 
before the well-being of students and tokenizes 
minorities. 
Inspire President Ben Lima said he dis-
agrees with Pearson.
“I am certainly fully conﬁ  dent in the vision 
of Inspire party and our caucus,” Lima said. “We are dedicated to representing Gators from all walks of life.”  
In Pearson’s letter, he said he was attacked 
by Inspire leadership when he wrote a biparti-san letter in support of the Gators Matter, Pe-riod. initiative. 
He said when he disagreed with Inspire 
about their policies and procedures, he was taken off the executive board.
Lima said Pearson was removed from their 
executive board about two weeks ago — but because he was mistreating members. Pearson 
disagrees.
“Disagreement to them is divisive,” he said.
At Tuesday night’s Senate meeting, Inspire 
and Impact Senators debated an amendment the Judiciary Committee unanimously failed Sunday. It would limit senators from serving on more than one committee. 
Four judiciary committee members serve 
on two committees. Senate President Pro Tem-pore Trevor Schaettle (Impact, District B) said he doesn’t see a conﬂ  ict of interest.
“I think that their decision was for the best 
for all students, not just themselves,” he said. 
The three political parties also began devel-
oping campaign platforms Monday and will continue collecting ideas throughout the week.
Felipe Gatos, a UF economics sophomore 
and an Inspire Senator, wrote on Inspire’s board about issues he’s seen.
“There’s not enough scholarships and work opportunities for international students on campus,” the 19-year-old said. 
Nicole Mooradian, a UF theatre sophomore, 
spoke with Challenge Party members about in-clusivity.
“I think it would be good for all parties to 
come forward and really talk to the students about what they’re for,” the 19-year-old said.  
Michaela Rechdan, 18, said she went to Im-
pact’s table and suggested adding handwipe stations to each ﬂ  oor of UF’s libraries, espe-cially for ﬂ  u season.
“I think we could really beneﬁ  t from stay-
ing clean,” she said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgSenator leaves party, preparations for election beginWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A popular convenience store 
may be coming to Gainesville to 
ﬁ  ll your tank – and your stomach.
Wawa, a convenience store 
chain which sells gas, made to order sandwiches and other food items, proposed building a loca-tion on the corner of Southeast 10th Street and East University 
Avenue, said Jason Simmons, a 
Gainesville city planner.
The location, which would be 
at 1021 E. University Ave., would have six gas pumps with 12 pump-
ing spots and a convenience store 
that would be about 6,000 square feet, Simmons said. They began the ofﬁ  cial planning Dec. 19, 2017.
Simmons said the proposal is 
in its ﬁ  rst review cycle with the city planning division. He doesn’t know when the location will open.
“What they proposed isn’t 
quite what the land code calls for 
in that area,” Simmons said.
Wawa would have to make ex-
pensive changes to its plan, like bringing the structure closer to the 
street and moving parking spaces 
to the back and side of the build-
ing, to be approved, he said.
Wawa did not respond for com-
ment. The closest location is in Or-ange Park near Jacksonville.
Megan Zimmerman, a UF bi-
ology senior, said she’s a fan of Wawa stores and described them as “an upscale gas station.” She said bringing one to Gainesville is 
a great idea.
“It’s fast, it’s easy and I feel 
like a lot of college students would 
beneﬁ  t from that,” the 22-year-old said.
Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org Wawa convenience store could be coming to Gainesville
Ledbetter got to the Phillips Center at 5:20 p.m. and were ﬁ  rst in line.
When he ﬁ  rst saw Crews on “Everybody 
Hates Chris” at about 12 years old, Nguyenho instantly fell in love.
Now Nguyenho, 20, said Crews’ vocal sup-
port for victims of sexual assault and disclo-
sure of his own porn addiction is a beacon of 
what Hollywood should be.
“I really appreciate the way he uses his 
platform to speak out and really push things forward,” the UF psychology junior said. “I wish there were more celebrities like him.”
Ledbetter, a longtime fan of Crews’ work 
in “White Chicks,” said she waited more than 
90 minutes at the Phillips Center not just to 
laugh at the actor’s comedy but hear his story.
“I like that he’s willing to reveal so much 
about himself,” the 20-year-old UF women’s studies and sociology junior said. “I feel like 
with actors we get caught up in their celeb-
rity-ness. We get to see more of his serious side.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgter in 16 counties along with efforts to restore the Everglades, O’Keefe said.
“My focus will be on the student 
experience and making sure that a UF education remains affordable and pro-vides a strong foundation for students obtaining productive jobs,” he said.
Kuntz was appointed by Gov. Rick 
Scott for a term starting Jan. 26, ac-cording to a press release. Kuntz is currently serving his term on the Board of Governors, which isn’t supposed to end until Jan. 1, 2019. 
He retired from a 35-year career at 
SunTrust Banks Inc. in 2015. He was the president and CEO of the bank for 
eight years.
Kuntz has a bachelor’s degree in 
business administration from Rollins 
College and a degree from the Gradu-
ate School of Banking at Louisiana 
State University. 
The Alligator could not reach Kuntz 
for comment.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org CREWS,  from pg. 1 TRUSTEES,  from pg. 1He was paid $40,000 to speak. UF’s trustees are unpaid.
want to disperse. As a result, 66 students were arrested, and 60 others were placed on academic probation. O’Connell refused 
to grant amnesty to the students who were 
arrested. And as a result, 123 black students and two black faculty members left the uni-versity. 
This is not something that can be solved 
overnight, Moodie said. “As an African American student, it’d be 
very impactful on the overall climate of mi-
nority students in general,” she said. “This 
is more than just a black and white issue. Anytime any group is oppressed, it affects the overall climate of the institution.”
Moodie said it is a student-driven peti-
tion, and she’d let students decide on the center’s new name if it were to be changed. 
“I know that students haven’t only spo-
ken to Challenge Party about this concern,” 
she said. “We’re handing the power to the students to speak.” 
“I deﬁ  nitely do have some sentiments 
about having the center named for what it 
is,” Black Student Union president Dwayne Fletcher said. “It’s well known that he was against policies to allow more black stu-
dents to be a part of the university.” 
The issues that the Black Student Union 
brought up to O’Connell in 1971 were ig-
nored, Fletcher said. 
“Students said ‘We’re not comfortable 
here; here are the different things we need to thrive as students,’” he said. “There were a lot of things that resulted from him not 
listening to the different needs of the stu-
dents.” 
Fletcher said every once in a while peo-
ple bring up the idea of changing the name 
of the O’Connell Center. 
“In terms of a complete and organized 
movement, I haven’t seen anything like 
that as of yet,” he said. “I’m not really sure where it would go. It would depend on the 
temperament of people at the time.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgThe party said students can vote for a new name.
O’CONNELL,  from pg. 1The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinionsAlexa, stop reinforcing gender stereotypes
The Amazon Echo, more commonly 
known as “Alexa,” was the star of the Super Bowl — at least if you’re the kind of person who was in it for the commer-cials. In the ads featuring the virtual per-
sonal assistant, after the automatic voice starts to cough, chaos erupts. While Alexa’s sick, Jeff Bezos and some Amazon employees rush to find a replacement. None of them fit the bill: Gordon Ramsay is too hostile, Cardi B plays Bodak Yel-low when asked to play country music, and Leslie Jones and J.B. Smoove can’t agree on what romantic advice to give a lovesick user. The voice of Alexa returns, assuring everyone, “I’ll take it from here.” 
With that, all is right in the world again. We all go back 
to asking her about the weather, instructing her to remind us about things in our calendars and commanding her to tell us jokes. She goes back to speaking when spoken to. 
It’s clear from the commercials just how much these 
digital assistants now permeate our lives. The main-stream assistants are all programmed a little differently, with somewhat different personalities and varying witty responses to questions. But the one thing they have in common is the gender of the voice coming out of their speakers. 
There’s Cortana, Microsoft’s version of the female as-
sistant, and there’s Siri, which when asked about its gen-der says, “I don’t have a gender,” in a distinctly feminine voice. Even the voice that responds to “OK Google” is that of a female. Finally, there’s Alexa from the Amazon Echo. She’s our weather forecaster, DJ and, most importantly to Jeff Bezos, a personal Amazon shopper. 
In a world that’s finally seeing that women are so much 
more than the subservient secretaries of the Mad Men era, the gender of almost all of our digital assistants’ voices is a step in the wrong direction. No, we’re not hurting Siri’s feelings or diminishing Alexa’s self-worth, but we are reinforcing gender stereotypes that women were created to serve people. How that will af-fect users — especially young ones — remains to be seen. 
The problem, of course, isn’t that these digi-
tal assistants exist. There’s no way I’d remem-ber half of my to-do list without Siri’s remind-ers. They serve other important purposes, too — at the command of “Hey Siri, 108,” iPhones will call emergency services; Alexa will read 
personalized bedtime stories to kids. These inventions make life easier and, at times, better. 
What’s problematic is that the default voice for all of 
these products is a female’s. Market research showed Ap-ple, Amazon, Google and Microsoft that we’d all prefer our menial tasks be done by a robot presenting as female — and that’s another issue. 
It’s strange that these inanimate objects even need to 
have a gender either way. People don’t need to identify as male or female, so why do robots? 
“Genderless voice is hard,” Robert Weideman, a 
spokesperson for Nuance Inc., which provides the voices for these devices, told the Wall Street Journal. Maybe the key to taking gender stereotypes out of our devices is find-ing a gender-neutral voice and a gender-neutral name, which doesn’t seem too difficult to me. Or maybe it’s as easy as giving the users a choice when they set up their phones and creating half of the advertisements with the digital assistants’ male voices.
As for me, my new personal assistant, still named Siri, 
has the voice of an Australian man. He reminds me to sign up for spin class and transcribes my text messages when I’m too lazy to type. You have to start somewhere. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her column focus 
es on feminism. 
ColumnEditorial
Why didn’t UF 
bring Burrito Bros. 
on campus?
UF does not exist in a vacuum. 
As the university continues its outward expansion, 
taking over surrounding streets with its presence, the 
impact is felt by local businesses. 
It was only natural for the university to pump more 
money into buildings as it chased the top-10 public institution preeminent goal. 
Now, UF is bringing in 500 more faculty members with $52 
million to pursue a top-five spot. This will mean carving out a space for them within the already existing campus or buying more property. UF will continue to extend its reach into the city, which has the potential to create jobs and opportunities.
But the university must acknowledge that everything it 
touches either thrives or dies, and it has the option to help local 
businesses thrive. 
Its employees and students accounted for more than half the 
city’s population in Fall 2016, according to UF’s Institutional Re-
search and Planning and Census Bureau data. With that eco-nomic power, UF’s impact on local businesses can’t be ignored. 
UF didn’t lead to the direct death of the beloved Burrito Bros. 
Taco Co., but construction around the university — and the presence of the mammoth The Standard building, which came in response to the student population — strangled the mom-and-
pop shop.
In 2016, the university bought the land for Leonardo’s By 
the Slice and Bistro 1245, two mainstay Gainesville restaurants. 
Though the two have remained open despite the sale, they could one day be forced to close. 
With a growing campus and student and faculty population 
and goals of national and international recognition, it’s under-standable that UF would want to expand. But this can’t be at the expense of the culture that makes Gainesville unique.
Last year, UF brought WingZone, started by two UF alumni in 
a fraternity house kitchen, to campus. The restaurant had roots in Gainesville, and the university recognized that. 
So why did UF just debut its sixth on-campus Starbucks? It 
had an opportunity to introduce the UF Levin College of Law to a local coffee shop like Karma Cream or Maude’s — places that do well on their own but perhaps could do better with more ex-posure near students. While we don’t know whether there is an underlying contractual agreement that allows the coffee chain to 
have a monopoly on selling coffee products — as the university 
does with Pepsi Co. — we do know there is an opportunity to bring the Gainesville culture to campus. 
Corporate companies are attracted to UF like magnets, and 
they have the resources to buy the exposure. For instance, there are three Chick-Fil-A restaurants on campus. There are three Subways. Some may argue that three of each is not enough; oth-ers might say it’s three too many. But when Einstein Bros. left campus, it could have been replaced with a local shop.
In reality, the university could help in countless ways. Profes-
sors could connect business, advertising or marketing students with local entrepreneurs through class projects. UF could create an advocacy committee that protects the interests of these local businesses. It could also offer specific space for them.
Unless UF takes action, we will hold it accountable every 
time a local family loses its business. Co-existing with a top in-stitution should be an advantage, not a drawback. UF should be the springboard for entrepreneurs, not the stumbling block. 
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINTCarly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE
Today, we can listen to any 
song in a never-ending mu-
sic library, and we have the 
power to stream nearly any movie ever made. But we al-
ways seem to revert to familiar clas-sics in both categories. And there’s 
a reason why.
It’s the same reason I see rows 
of ‘90s hair scrunchie-clad wrists 
when I walk to class and why Spo-
tify playlists with names like “Middle School 
Jams” and “’80s Yacht Rock” exist — and are 
arguably some of the most well-loved.
Nostalgia has been a buzzword in recent 
years. But a longing for the past, a desire to 
listen to songs we loved when we were 16 and a newfound love for old accessories are rooted 
in psychology.
We feel connected to certain images and 
sounds not only because we associate them 
with speciﬁ  c memories or a certain time in our lives (typically adolescence), but also because 
psychologists believe between the ages 12 and 
22, the music we love is essentially wired into our brains as we undergo rapid neurological 
development. Whoever or whatever you lis-
tened to during the formative years of your life 
determines your nostalgia.
Studying nostalgia from the psychological 
standpoint makes me think that even though 
we sometimes look to memories as a means of escaping the present, we can’t escape some 
elements of the past even if we wanted to.
A new study shows that our longing for 
a bygone era even impacts how we engage 
with content on social media. In a research article about social media engagement pub-
lished in “Visual Communication Quarterly,” 
University of Missouri School of Journalism professors T.J. Thomson and Keith Green-
wood report that more Instagram users have 
a greater propensity to “like” still photographs than videos because photos repre-sent “nostalgia for an images-only 
environment.” Some participants 
even suggested that Instagram should remove the video-posting 
feature to preserve the art of the 
still photograph.
Maybe this explains why Fu-
jiﬁ  lm’s Instax ﬁ  lm has been the 
top-selling photo product on Ama-
zon for nearly two years. There’s 
also a growing prevalence of iPhone photog-raphy apps such as Huji Cam, which turns 
the screen into a makeshift disposable cam-
era and produces perfectly blurry, sun-ﬂ  ared images — complete with a time stamp in the corner that reads “1998.”
Some may argue that taking an interest in 
pop culture of the past is the same as hopping on a trendy bandwagon, but I’d say the adage, 
“Everything old is new again,” is not exactly 
new. It’s rare to analyze fashion, beauty, art or entertainment of any decade and not ﬁ  nd 
an element of the past woven into it.
Others may argue that the return of Po-
laroid pictures and disposable camera-esque photograph is purely aesthetic, but there’s a 
reason we’re drawn to the certain photos or 
music that look or sound old. Perhaps it’s be-
cause we’re searching for a distraction from the chaos of our current culture or because subconsciously we’re trying to mimic experi-ences of another time.
Coming from someone who grew up lis-
tening to my parents’ “Madonna" and "Men 
at Work” cassette tapes, I’ll take the ubiqui-
tous scrunchies, choker necklaces and endless throwback jams over some of today’s horriﬁ  c 
social trends any day.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. 
Her columns focus on human behavior and 
sociology.I grew up watching Super Bowl 
commercials that worked 
within the stereotype of them 
being created for laughter. They were essentially rodeo 
clowns.
Their highest aim was to make 
you laugh until the game resumed. 
The Super Bowl commercials this 
year, though, seemed to go in an-
other direction. A lot of companies 
went for the heart rather than the cheap gag. 
To be honest, this bothers me, and one com-
mercial in particular was absolutely galling. 
We see an elegy to the American dream: 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters, construction workers, teachers, 
soldiers and mothers doing the dirty work of life — the type of work that sustains a family, 
a neighborhood, a community and a nation. 
The focus is not on the heroes, but on their 
noble steeds, Ram trucks, which we see spo-
radically throughout the commercial. “If you wanna be recognized, wonderful,” Dr. Martin 
Luther King Jr. preaches in the background. 
“If you wanna be great, wonderful! But rec-ognize that he who is greatest among you 
shall be your servant.” The commercial closes 
with King saying the only thing needed to be 
a great servant is “a heart full of grace, a soul 
generated by love.” The screen fades, and the words “Built to Serve” with the Ram logo ap-pear innocently on the screen.
What would King say to that? Such power-
ful words, crafted and spoken with the sin-gular passion of a prophet, used to disguise 
a wolf in sheep’s clothing. Ram didn’t use 
King’s sermon to sell trucks but to make you think it's more than that — to make you think 
that it's not just a proﬁ  t-hungry company. 
What they did was facetious. How can 
you take a King sermon and use it for pub-lic relations with a clear conscience? And yet 
I saw other companies attempting a similar thing: to make themselves out to be thoughtful, enriching, seri-
ous organizations generated not 
by money but by love and ethics. T-Mobile, Hyundai and Toyota 
had commercials with a message 
beyond why we should buy their 
product.
Of course, companies like Tide, 
Doritos and Amazon went for the 
big laughs, and, for the most part, 
they succeeded. And I’m sure that serious ads have been a part of the Super Bowl experience 
just as much as the silly ones. Regardless, I 
personally think companies should stick with being funny because that’s the highest form of transparency a company can share with us. 
When we watch a funny commercial, both 
we and the company are aware that at the bot-tom of the ad a product is being advertised. 
Let’s face it — every company wants your 
money, and any interaction we have with a company centers around that premise.  
Companies have the power to be forces for 
change, but they aren’t nonproﬁ  ts. They’re structured primarily to make money and grow; 
altruism is a secondary consideration and is 
only taken seriously when acting in such a 
way will sell more products. Companies like 
Doritos know that we know this and just try to make us laugh. They know that any message untethered from promoting their product will be cheapened and debased because, in reality, 
any greater message is not that great.
Capitalism feeds off money, but human be-
ings need more than that to thrive. We need 
love, moral guidance, relationships, purpose, etc. — things that Ram cannot, at the end of 
the day, sell us in a commercial.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His 
columns focus on popular culture.Your nostalgia is rooted in psychology Commercials should stick to humorColumn Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was con-
victed Monday for killing a re-
tired UF professor and lighting his house on ﬁ  re in 2015. 
Circuit Judge Mark W. Mose-
ley sentenced Stephen Under-wood Jr., 40, to 50 years in pris-on for the murder of Thomas Oakland, a then-75-year-old re-
tired UF education professor, ac-
cording to online court records. 
Attorney Stephen Bernstein, 
who represented Underwood, said both families wanted to avoid a trial. Underwood pled no contest, a plea that accepts the charges without admitting guilt, and the charge was re-duced from ﬁ  rst-degree homi-cide to second-degree homicide 
so he could avoid a life sentence.
“He has remorse on what 
happened,” Bernstein said. “He 
took responsibility for what he did.”
Underwood will serve 40 
years for the homicide charge and 10 for the burglary charge, Bernstein said. His charges of 
grand theft, arson and tamper-
ing with evidence will be served at the same time. 
Underwood will be trans-
ported to the Florida Depart-ment of Corrections, where he’ll 
serve his sentence, excluding 
1,068 days — nearly three years — of served jail credit, Bernstein said. 
The murder, which oc-
curred March 4, 2015, stemmed from Underwood swindling more than $37,000 from Oak-land since 2013, according to a 
sworn complaint presented to 
the court. In May 2014, Under-wood was incarcerated for fraud after Oakland ﬁ  led a complaint against him. 
When Underwood was re-
leased from prison in December 2014, he continued to harass Oakland for more money, the 
report said. Two months later, 
Oakland had authorities issue a trespass warning to prohibit Underwood from coming to his home.
Oakland told police he knew 
Underwood was stealing money from him, but he “just wanted to be a good Christian and help a 
poor man get back on his feet,” 
according to Alligator archives. 
On the day of the murder, 
Gainesville Fire Rescue ofﬁ  cials found Oakland’s body after they responded to a ﬁ  re in his home, where he lived alone, at 1921 SW Eighth Drive. 
Underwood had hit Oakland 
on the head with an unknown object, knocking the elderly man unconscious and killing him, according to a police re-port. A medical examiner deter-mined he died before the ﬁ  re. 
Underwood, then 38, was ar-
rested two days later in Jackson-ville after attempting to ﬂ  ee. 
In 2015, Jean Crockett, the 
former director in UF’s College of Education who worked with Oakland for a year before his re-tirement, said he was an “edu-cator at heart,” according to Al-ligator archives. 
“Talking to him, you knew 
you were to talking to a very 
brilliant man,” Crockett said. 
“But you also knew you were talking to a very kind man.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgMan sentenced to 
50 years for murder
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
In the ﬁ  rst of eight public 
forums before the March 20 
election, City Commission can-
didates, except for District 1 
incumbent Charles Goston, said 
they felt the commission should 
maintain control of Gainesville 
Regional Utilities. 
This is one of many issues 
four out of the ﬁ  ve candidates 
running for City Commission addressed in the forum hosted 
Monday night at the Gainesville-
Alachua County Association 
of Realtors Conference Center. 
Both candidates running for At-
Large Seat 1, Gail Johnson and incumbent Harvey Budd, were 
present as well as District 1 can-
didates Gigi Simmons and Gos-
ton. Tyra (Ty Loudd) Edwards 
was not in attendance.
The candidates shared their 
thoughts with about 30 resi-dents in attendance on afford-able housing, economic devel-opment, Gainesville Regional 
Utilities governance, the zero-
waste mission and primary is-
sues they would tackle if elect-
ed. 
The GRU governance bill 
will appear on the ballot in No-
vember. If the bills fails, the 
City Commission will remain in control of GRU. If it passes, 
a newly formed independent 
board will take over.
Pat Bartlett, president of the 
Gainesville Kiwanis Club, at-
tended the ﬁ  rst forum and said 
each candidate brought unique 
and applicable experience. 
“It’s so obvious that all of us 
must come to the table and talk about what’s important to us 
and come up with an agreement 
for all of us,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org2:30 P.M. SUNDAY
HOSTED BY THE ALACHUA COUNTY 
DEMOCRATIC BLACK CAUCUS
DOWNTOWN GAINESVILLE HEADQUARTERS LIBRARY
401 E. UNIVERSITY AVE.
6 P.M. MONDAY
HOSTED BY AFRICAN AMERICAN 
ACCOUNTABILITY ALLIANCE 
POLITICAL COMMITTEE
ALACHUA COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT, 
THOMAS COWARD AUDITORIUM
224 SE 24TH ST.
2 P.M. TUESDAY, FEB. 20
HOSTED BY THE COMMUNITY 
COALITION FOR OLDER ADULTS 
SENIOR RECREATION CENTER  
5701 NW 34TH BLVD.NEXT CANDIDATE 
FORUMS:Gainesville City Commission candidates 
present positions at public forums  
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville visitors will have a 
new hotel to choose from starting this 
month. 
The AC Hotel Gainesville Down-
town, located at 151 NW 14th St., in 
the same building as The Standard 
apartment complex, will open its doors Feb. 20 and begin renting rooms Feb. 22, said Kristin Bond, the hotel’s director of sales. Prices for rooms be-gin at about $200. Along with the 144 rooms available, guests will have ac-cess to a rooftop pool, ﬁ  tness center and lounge. 
“There’s a lot of really nice things 
that are really going to elevate the 
Gainesville area,” she said. 
The AC stands for Antonio Catalan, 
President of AC Hotels. The 10-story 
hotel has a European-style, modern design, Bond said. It will also incor-porate local businesses into the expe-rience by serving beer from Swamp Head Brewery and First Magnitude Brewing Company in the lounge. 
Megan Morey, a UF ﬁ  nance sopho-
more and resident at The Standard, likes that AC Hotel is taking the op-portunity to promote Gainesville busi-nesses but has some concerns about it.
She worries that because hotel 
guests will share the parking garage 
with The Standard residents, it will 
become crowded and dangerous, the 19-year-old said.
“The parking garage in general is 
already pretty dangerous,” she said. “For people who don’t live there, like, there’s really sharp turns. You have to be careful.”
Morey also said residents at The 
Standard can be loud.
“They blare music until like 3 
a.m.,” she said. “I don’t think people who stay there will like it very much.” New hotel near The Standard to openFUN AND FITNESS   •   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
FUN AND
FITNESS
2018
FUN & FITNESS
By Natalie Rella
MPH, CPH, CWHC: Health Promotion Specialist 
and Wellness Coach at 
GatorWell Health Promotion Services
With Spring Break just around 
the corner, you may be feel -
ing an unpleasant pressure, in 
your own mind and from oth -
ers, to have the perfect beach 
body. You are not alone in this. UF students 
across campus are experiencing the burden 
of negative body image. In the 2016 Healthy 
Gators survey of UF students, 30% of wom -
en and 15% men said feeling fat frequently 
interferes with enjoying everyday life, 21% 
of students worried about losing control over 
how much they eat, 16% said that food dom -
inates their life and 12% said they feel fat 
when others tell them they are too thin. 
So, what exactly is body image? Accord -
ing to the National Eating Disorder Associa -
tion, body image is how you view yourself in 
your mind or what you see when you look 
in the mirror. A person with a negative body image perception is dissatisfied with their 
body. They have a somewhat distorted view 
of their body. Instead of looking at their body 
as an indomitable whole, they may scruti -
nize and criticize certain parts of their body 
(thighs, stomach, arms, nose, etc.) and label 
those parts inadequate. They feel ashamed, 
discontent and self-conscious about various 
aspects of their body to a degree that causes 
anxiety. A person with a negative body im -
age feels uncomfortable, disappointed and 
unhappy in their body. Apart from having an 
impact on everyday quality of life, negative 
body image perception is the best known 
contributor to the development of an eating 
disorder-a potentially fatal condition.
So, what’s a Gator to do? You can pro -
mote positive body image and help create a 
culture of body acceptance at UF:
• Inspire  others by being confident in 
who you are. Model positive body talk 
for people around you.  For example: “I 
appreciate my body because…”• Recognize  that your body is not an 
ornament for others’ pleasure/amuse -
ment, but a vehicle to reaching your life 
goals and aspirations. 
• Celebrate  the diversity! Appreciate that 
people come in all shapes and sizes and 
embrace the diversity of all body types, 
shapes, sizes, colors! 
• Recognize  that images you see in the 
media are highly altered and that you 
are likely programmed into accepting 
unrealistic and unattainable versions of 
beauty. 
• Challenge  these unrealistic images/
messages by engaging in discussions 
about how body types are portreyed in 
the media.
• Understand  that bodies can be healthy 
in many sizes; being a certain weight 
does not determine whether you’re 
healthy.
• Focus  on positive traits of yourself and 
others that are not appearance oriented.In honor of National Eating Disorder 
Awareness Week (February 26 - March 4), 
GatorWell Health Promotion Services is host -
ing the Celebrate EveryBODY event series in 
an effort to positively impact the culture of 
body acceptance at the University of Florida.  
Come join us :
• MIRRORLESS MONDA Y , February 
26th, all day in participating buildings 
on campus
• BEYOUTIFUL  HEALTH AND WELL -
NESS FAIR , Wednesday February 28th, 
11am-2pm at the Plaza of the Americas
• EVERYBODY CAN MOVE , Tuesday 
February 27th, 11am-2pm at the Plaza 
of the AmericasBEYOND THE BEACH BODY
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion Services10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   •   FUN AND FITNESS ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
By Natalie Rella
 MPH, CPH, CWHC: Health Promotion  
Specialist and Wellness Coach at GatorWell Health 
Promotion Services
Incorporating physical activity into your 
day can be a healthy habit that benefits every 
aspect of your life including stress and anxi -
ety, mood, energy, weight management, and 
sleep.  According to the 2016 Healthy Gators 
survey 78% of UF students responded that 
they do not get the recommended amount of 
moderate exercise (30 minutes, 5-7 days per 
week). In the same survey students ranked 
“stress/anxiety” and “overweight/obesity/
weight management” as their top two health 
concern.  Sound relatable?  
The Centers for Disease Control and Pre -
vention recommends adults should do at least 
2 hours and 30 minutes each week of mod -
erate-intensity aerobic physical activity or 1 
hour and 15 minutes of vigorous-intensity 
aerobic activity per week. Additionally, mus -
cle training 2 or more days a week is recom -
mended. You’ll know if you are working at 
a moderate level if you are able to talk while 
participating in these activities, but not sing.  
You know you are doing vigorous aerobic ac -
tivity when you are breathing hard and un -
able to say more than a few words without 
taking a breath. Here are some tips to help 
you get started or increase your current level 
of physical activity:
1. You don’t have to leave your house. 
• Use technology.  Try online fitness vid -
eos, or fitness DVDs. 
• Get up during commercials and study breaks and do some jump-jacks, sit-ups, 
or push-ups.  
2. Change your daily routines. 
• Park at the end of the parking lot on your 
errands.  
• Take the stairs instead of the elevator.
• Chores count too- vacuum, dust, mop, 
scrub, they all get you moving.
•Bike to campus and to classes.
• Walk to that next class rather than tak -
ing the bus.
• Use a phone app to track your steps…
every step counts!
3. Get Social! 
• Get an exercise buddy that will keep you 
motivated.  
• Go to a group fitness class and hit the 
gym at RecSports
• Grab a couple friends and take a trip 
out to Lake Wauberg: canoeing, ropes 
course, climbing, disc golf, mountain 
biking, sailing, water sports!  
•Join an intermural team, club team or 
physical activity-related student organi -
zation.  
4. Try New Things.
• UF Rec Sports has multiple options for 
all sorts of fitness activities-check out 
they’re website! 
• The Gainesville Rock Gym offers a fun 
rock climbing experience.  
• If you’re up for a little adventure, the 
Lake Alice walking/biking path, Paynes 
Prairie State Preserve, Morningside 
Trails, and/or San Felasco Hammock Preserve are fun options to experience 
nature while getting in some physical 
activity.  
5. Other Tips.
• Gradually build new activities or longer 
time spent exercising into your routine.  
• Feel proud of your accomplishments and 
celebrate your successes!  Use an app to 
keep track.
• Keep at it! Try new things until you find 
an activity that is both challenging and fun.  The more you incorporate physi -
cal activity into your daily routine, the 
more you will start to feel the benefits 
of it. Get a friend, set up a couple times 
you’re available during the week, and 
get moving!  
***SAFETY NOTE  : when exercising af -
ter dark, alway do so with a friend and a 
flashing light (pick one up for free at Gator -
Well)***GET UP TO GET DOWN WITH FITNESS
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion Services
• Trampolines
• Ninja Courses• Dodgeball• Laser Tag• Arcade Games• Ropes Course   ... and more!GRAND OPENING
Join us February 10
A brand NEW  
45,000 sq. ft. 
trampoline based 
entertainment center.
7400 W Newberry Rd.
 has you covered!
Stop by these locations to pick up 
your FREE face mask : 
GatorWell Main office (Reitz Union)GatorWell Health HutRecreation CentersThe HubStudent Health Care CenterNewell HallMarston LibraryResidence hall area desks
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   •   FUN AND FITNESS ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
By Sara Ryals, MS, CHES
 CWHC: Health Promotion Specialist and Well -
ness Coach at GatorWell Health Promotion 
Services
Feeling overwhelmed by everything 
you have to do?  Searching for ways to 
increase your productivity?  Learning 
how to manage your time effectively 
helps increase productivity and reduce 
procrastination, which in turn reduces 
stress and improves academic success.  
Try these 7 quick tips to improve your 
time management:
1. Assess how you are currently 
using your time.  
For 2-3 days, keep a time log of 
what you do during the day and 
how long you spend doing it.  Af -
terwards, look for trends.  Identify 
which activities are important (see 
#2) and which are time wasters.
2. Know what’s important!  
Prioritize your daily and weekly 
tasks.  Then, organize your time 
according to your priorities.  You 
should make time for your highest priorities first!
3. Make time to manage time, 
ahead of time.  
Planning ahead sets you up for suc -
cess!  Set aside consistent time in 
your daily and/or weekly sched -
ule for organization and planning.  
There are a wide variety of tools 
that can be used to help with this 
including planners, desk/wall cal -
endars, online calendars, apps, and 
“to do” lists.  Pick whatever works 
for you and your organization style 
and then make sure to use it con -
sistently.
4. Minimize distractions and 
Maximize motivators.  
Identify what your common distrac -
tors and time wasters are.  Then, 
brainstorm strategies to minimize 
these where possible.  This may 
mean studying in a different en -
vironment, changing your study 
schedule to match your high-ener -
gy/high-focus times of the day, or 
even silencing or turning off devices 
or wi-fi.  Then maximize your moti -vators by surrounding yourself with 
them.  Try incorporating motiva -
tional quotes, music, or videos into 
your pre-study routine.  When you 
sit down for a study session, start by 
creating a goal for what you want to 
get accomplished and a quick plan 
for how you will achieve your goal.
5. Learn to say NO!
  Sometimes it feels like you do not 
have enough time in the day to get 
everything done because… YOU 
DON’T.  If 24 hours rarely seems like 
enough time, then you may be put -
ting too much on your plate.  Sound 
familiar?  This is where tip #2 can 
help again!  Identify current tasks 
that are not priorities and decrease 
them or cut them out completely.  
In the future, when considering new 
opportunities, ask yourself it if re -
alistically fits in with your priorities 
and schedule.  If it doesn’t, don’t try 
to squeeze it in.  If you do take on 
something new, think about what 
you can reduce or cut out of your 
schedule.
6. Make time for self-care! Living a balanced life is important 
to your overall wellbeing.  Sched -
ule time to take care of yourself and 
manage your stress.  Take breaks 
while studying, make time for 
physical activity and healthy eating, 
relax at the end of a long day, and 
get plenty of sleep.  Taking care of 
yourself will increase your energy, 
focus, and overall health, which in 
turn will help you be more produc -
tive when you sit down to study.  
7. Ask for help!  
Feeling overwhelmed and not sure 
where to start?  Reaching out to a 
friend, family member, mentor, or 
campus professional for help with 
time management can be a great 
place to start.  Ready to make a 
change?  Make an appointment to -
day with a Wellness Coach at Gator -
Well to discuss time management!
For more information about time 
management or to learn how to sched -
ule an appointment with a Wellness 
Coach, visit GatorWell’s website: ga -
torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu.7 TIPS TO IMPROVE TIME MANAGEMENT 
AND INCREASE PRODUCTIVITY
Information printed with the permission of UF’s GatorWell Health Promotion Services
Take these steps to prevent the spread of 
influenza (flu) to you and others:
• Wash your hands often! 
• Cover your cough or sneeze into a tissue.
• Avoid touching your face (eyes, nose or mouth) .
• Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
• Clean surfaces frequently. (Door handles, work areas, keyboards)
• Practice self-care for a good overall health!
Most people with the flu have mild illness and do not need 
medical care or antiviral drugs. If you get sick with flu symptoms, in most cases, you should follow the CDC’s advice and stay home for the first 24 hours until after your fever is 
gone. Additionally, avoid contact with other people except to get medical care.
For more information on preventing and treating flu, 
visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu
(352) 392-1161 | shcc.ufl.edu | @ufshcc
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. Inside story teaser/headline
Inside story description pg #
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Black History Month:
Concert to celebrate on Bo Diddley (pg. 15)FEST Wrestling: 
The explosive event returns to Eight Seconds (pg. 14)By Avenue Staff
Downtown Gainesville might give New Or-
leans a run for its money Thursday and Friday.
Changeville Music and Arts Festival, an an-
nual collection of artists performing for social 
change downtown, is just in time for Mardi 
Gras weekend this year.
“If you can’t go to New Orleans for Mardi 
Gras, then, you know, it’s kind of like the next 
best thing if you’re in Gainesville,” Pat Lav-ery, music and productions director for Chan-geville, said.  
The festival, which began in 2016, has 
grown into a two-day event across multiple venues downtown featuring dozens of artists. 
These include Dirty Dozen Brass Band, an au-
thentic New Orleans group; Princess Nokia, an “Afro-Nuyorican” female rapper; and Benja-min Booker, the headlining songwriter and UF alumnus, among several other local musicians and performers. The full schedule is available at changeville.us/schedule.com.
“Every year we’ve been growing it and 
growing it,” Lavery said.
Lavery said what began as a collaboration 
in 2015 for an “after party” in front of the Hip-podrome Theatre for the frank conference has evolved into Changeville, a separate music event, the past few years.
He said the festival continues to grow, and 
roughly 4,000 people should turnout this year.
“Come support something local, you know, 
bringing a really high-quality, high-caliber mu-
sic festival into Gainesville,” he said.
Single-show and multi-venue tickets are 
available online, but wristbands for admis-
sion will be picked up at the Hampton Inn and Suites downtown Thursday 3-9 p.m. and Fri-day 2-8 p.m.
Discounted admission to Benjamin Booker 
and Dirty Dozen Brass Band is also available in exchange for donations brought Friday to Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza for GRACE market-
place or Peaceful Paths. More information is available at changeville.us/tickets/.
For more information about the festival, 
here’s Avenue Staff’s guide to Changeville 2018. 
Benjamin Booker
Benjamin Booker, a raspy-voiced power-
house singer from Virginia, is headlining Chan-geville 2018.
Booker’s music is deeply emotional and at 
times very personal, as he shares moments from difﬁ  cult phases of his life and tackles sen-
sitive topics of social dialogue. While Booker 
shies away from a “soul” musical branding, the inﬂ  uences are felt, particularly on tracks from his most recent album.
Booker has branded himself a “witness” 
with this release. As the title of his 2017 al-bum, “Witness” tracks Booker’s experience in a world where the pain of inequality hits too close to home. Booker told NPR that like a bib-
lical “witness to the truth,” he needed to bear 
witness to the truth of the racism and violence he was seeing on the news and in the world around him. 
Changeville marks a return to Gainesville 
for Booker, a graduate of the University of Florida journalism program. Booker will per-form Friday night on the stage on Bo Diddley in downtown Gainesville. Booker’s performance will be opened by the Dirty Dozen Brass Band and local band, The Savants of Soul. The show 
will begin at 5:30 p.m. and end at 9:30 p.m.
“Benjamin Booker has been doing some 
really cool stuff, and he’s got this, like, just 
awesome bluesy, soulful, rock ‘n’ roll sound, and he does a great balance of all of those things,” The Savants of Soul’s Alex Klausner said. “That’s an artist, that’s a guy I’ve always wanted our band to play alongside… This guy rips!”
Princess Nokia, Hugo $anchez & more: 
Princess Nokia, a New York-based rapper, 
will also headline Changeville. She’ll perform at High Dive on Thursday with local acts Ret-
rolux, Hugo $anchez and Azazus. Tickets are 
$17 in advance, $20 at the door or free with a Changeville multi-venue pass. Tickets are available at changeville.us and Hear Again Re-cords. 
It’s been two years since Jorge Hugo San-
chez, who goes by Hugo $anchez onstage, opened for New Orleans rapper Curren$y. 
Sanchez has learned a lot in the two years 
since this performance. In fact, being onstage is where he feels most at home.
“I personally try to give it my all when I do 
performances, so people can expect a very en-ergetic, sweaty, passionate, scary performance from me,” he said.
Sanchez’s stage presence is gritty, energetic 
and unapologetic. He’s a spitball of emotion, using his rap as a gateway to talk about rel-evant political topics that relate to him as well as his audience. 
His most recent album, “Bad Hombres,” 
was released Jan. 21 and includes a variety of tracks that discuss problems marginalized people are currently experiencing. 
Sanchez wanted to get involved with Chan-
geville because of his passion for social change. He credits Princess Nokia, who is known for using her music to promote intersectional femi-nism and acceptance for women of color, as being one of his biggest current inspirations. 
“Just her talking about where she comes 
from and how she is an amalgam of all the things she was surrounded by in her environ-ment, in my opinion, to me, that’s America,” Sanchez said. “When I look at her, watch her videos and listen to her music, that’s America to me. It’s culturally diverse, it’s beautiful, it’s accepting, it’s courageous and it thinks with-out borders.”
As for himself, Sanchez said he’s been 
working on his own set for the past few months, comprising his act with material from two of his past albums, “Lil Tony Danza” and “Bad Hombres.” He said he’s most looking for-ward to perform his song “Brown Privilege,” which was recently highlighted by Bandcamp on a feature about the best hip-hop records from 2018. Sanchez added that fans can also 
expect a personal performance that is different 
than his albums. 
“I just take it back to the basics, and I do 
a loud voice over some dirty grinding beats, and at the end of the day, that’s what hip-hop is really about. It’s about a DJ spinning dope beats and a dude spreading dangerous ideas,” Sanchez said. 
Local Artists 
Changeville brings talent from all over the 
world. Just behind these headliners, however, 
is a slew of local artists who you can catch 
even after Changeville has its curtain call.
Changeville’s lineup is stacked with 
Gainesville musicians that represent a melting pot of talent. Here’s a list of some of the local performers and where to ﬁ  nd them.
The Savants of Soul
The Savants of Soul are Gainesville’s soul 
music powerhouse. The 10-piece ensemble will be performing on Bo Diddley alongside headliner Benjamin Booker. Currently, The Sa-vants of Soul are preparing for the release of their next single, “Dead Man Running.” They will also compete in the battle of the bands at High Dive next Thursday for a spot on the 
Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival lineup.  
Flipturn
Flipturn, an indie rock band who burst onto 
the Gainesville music scene with their debut 
EP in 2017, will be performing on the High Dive stage Friday night. Flipturn will also be performing at the Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival and the Student Government Wet-lands Music Festival. Flipturn is preparing to release the ﬁ  rst single, “Churches,” off their upcoming album later this month.
“I know all these bands were picked to play 
at Changeville because they believe in social change, too, so that will be cool to play with likeminded people and be surrounded by posi-tive energy,” said ﬂ  ipturn bassist Madeline Jar-man.
Sooza 
Sooza is a brass instrument-based band 
made up of predominantly UF music majors. Sooza will be rolling out their ﬁ  rst original 
track at Changeville this year, and they plan to 
release a full original EP this year. Sooza will also be performing Feb. 24 on Flavet Field.
“In the end, it’s all just about high-energy 
music, but also having, like, a lot of different textures within that music,” said Sooza tenner saxophone player Ryan Gamberino. 
DJ Robzilla & Marley the Messenger 
DJ Robzilla & Marley the Messenger will be performing together Friday at The Wooly. DJ Robzilla is featured on Hugo Sanchez’s, another Changeville performer, new album. The album, “Bad Hombres,” was featured on 
Bandcamp’s “Best Albums of January.” DJ 
Robzilla is also planning to release a new beat tape in the coming months.
Pearl and the Oysters
Pearl and the Oysters is a Gainesville-based 
alternative pop group originating out of France. 
They released their ﬁ  rst self-titled album in 
2017, debuting a truly unique sound that has landed them a spot on the Okeechobee Mu-sic and Arts Festival lineup. They will also be performing at the Heartwood Soundstage an-niversary show Feb. 24.
“We haven’t played in Gainesville in the 
longest since we started playing, so we’re re-ally excited to go back on stage,” said Juliette 
Davis of Pearl and the Oysters. “We feel that 
this is the beginning of a musical touring ses-sion... It’s great to start with Changeville.”
In Bed by Ten
In Bed by Ten is a Gainesville indie rock 
pair. The band released their ﬁ  rst album to Bandcamp.com last week and promises a dy-namic performance on the Changeville stage. In Bed by Ten’s Kathy Sohar is a mentor at Gainesville Girls Rock Camp, teaching empow-erment through musical instruction. 
“I love the Gainesville music community. 
It’s supportive and it’s amazing, and there’s so many great opportunities to really access it and be involved in it,” Sohar said.
Other local artists performing at Changeville 
include Retrolux, Hugo $anchez, Aquanova, GUTS, Wester Joseph’s Stereo Vudu, Mike Llerena & The Nerve and Azazus. 
Workshops, virtual reality, comedy & 
more
Changeville is much more than just music. 
The festival will also feature comedy, ﬁ  lm, virtual reality, poetry, panels and workshops and much more, all pursuing the goal of social change through each art form. For more infor-mation on other non-music events, check out changeville.us. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Changeville, a festival dedicated to social change, hits Gainesville this week.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Avenue’s Guide to Changeville, a festival for social changeBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
FEST Wrestling is a showcase for the vibrant 
independent professional wrestling community 
that strives for inclusivity above all and a place where, sometimes, people get hit with chairs.
“Take everything you think you know about 
wrestling, and throw it out the window,” said Tony Weinbender, the founder of FEST.
Weinbender created the annual Gainesville 
music festival, FEST, in 2002 to celebrate the same type of talented underground musicians that he admired growing up. Through FEST’s massive success Weinbender has been able to highlight yet another one of his childhood loves: wrestling.
FEST Wrestling is a bimonthly competition for 
independent wrestlers from across the country to compete on a professional stage. This Friday and Saturday, FEST Wrestling returns with The Love Cup, a Valentine’s Day inspired tag-team smack-down.
Night One of The Love Cup will be 8 p.m. Fri-
day at the St. Augustine Amphitheatre.  Night Two will be 5:30-9 p.m. Saturday at Eight Seconds in downtown Gainesville. Eight Seconds is located 
at 201 W. University Ave. Tickets for Night Two 
are $15 in advance and $20 at the door. Tickets can be found at festwrestling.limitedrun.com. 
Unlike most wrestling competitions, FEST 
Wrestling is always coed. In other words, male and female wrestlers compete directly. Wein-bender said he was surprised to ﬁ  nd that this was not common practice and that talented female wrestlers are often barred from competing against their male counterparts.
For those concerned about the safety of coed 
wrestling, Weinbender said that the female wres-
tlers hold their own. The last two FEST Wrestling 
champions, Heidi Lovelace and Su Yung, are both women. Since competing at FEST Wrestling, Lovelace, or Dori Elizabeth Prange, has gone on to compete in the WWE under the moniker Ruby Riot.
According to Weinbender, FEST Wrestling 
only works when it’s based on a supportive com-munity. In a sport where the heat of competition 
sometimes leads to derogatory insults and heck-
ling, the FEST Wrestling community makes it clear that sexism, racism and homophobia have no place in the ring or the stands.
This approach has won FEST Wrestling fans 
who might have shied away from the sport be-forehand. During each show people from all walks of life bust through the doors and are face-to-face with the ring and between 300 and 1,000 
fans cheering on their favorites and booing the 
competition.
“It’s not just a bunch of rednecks drinking 
Mountain Dew,” Weinbender said. “It’s punk people drinking PBR.”
 FEST Wrestling events are open to those 18 
years old or older.FEST Wrestling returns to Gainesville with The Love Cup  reunion14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer  
After seven consecutive years, Neon Liger’s 
exclusive dance parties reached icon status within the Gainesville community. They not only created a safe space for marginalized citi-zens but also a home for many up-and-coming 
DJs and electronic music fans.
The infamous bar The Motor Room hosted 
Neon Liger’s ﬁ  rst party Feb. 2, 2008, which es-
tablished their dedicated partnership until the bar closed in 2015 and Neon Liger, without having a venue to throw their weekend par-ties, ended their run.
Although they stopped throwing parties ev-
ery weekend, Neon Liger wasn’t gone for long. 
They returned in 2017 to throw a nine-year re-
union located at The Atlantic, The Alley and Arcade Bar.Keeping up with the tradition, Neon Liger 
will be celebrating their 10-year anniversary by throwing one of their legendary parties at The Wooly this Saturday from 8 p.m. - 2 a.m.
The party will include more than 10 unique 
DJs and special guests, live LED performances by Pyrotica Entertainments and three indoor and outdoor areas to enjoy the party.
Holden Howard, one of the DJs playing 
Saturday, has been a regular attendee of Neon Liger’s parties since 2010. He even said he would drive up from Ocala just for the music and atmosphere.
“I was lucky enough to be asked to play 
semi-regularly from December 2014 up until the closure of The Motor Room, and those gigs were easily the most fun I’ve ever had playing music,” said Howard. “There was just some-thing special about that party. Between the music, the people and that badass Plymouth DJ booth, there was nothing like it.”
Howard said that if it wasn’t for Neon 
Liger’s parties, he might’ve given up working as a DJ, as they changed his life and his idea 
of what he could accomplish in the DJ scene. 
However, when discussing Gainesville’s DJ and electronic music scene, Howard admits that it’s currently in a transitional period.
“Without a dedicated venue or any regular 
weekly parties, it’s a weird feeling,” said How-ard. “I think Over Easy, Lucid and Visionary FAM are all doing awesome work in their re-spective lanes, and I hope the scene will con-
tinue to thrive and survive.”
Andrew Garcia, a 24-year-old ﬁ  rst-year 
UF College of Pharmacy student, agreed with 
Howard’s statement. He said now that Neon Liger and Realm are closed, he wouldn’t know where to go if he wanted to go somewhere spe-ciﬁ  cally for electronic music.“I’m hoping they could have semi-regular 
parties again,” said Garcia. “The Wooly is a great venue, so if there’s interest, I don’t see why not.”
Garcia said he plans to go to the party to not 
only celebrate the reunion of Neon Liger but to get exposure to music that he doesn’t normally listen to.
“I’m deﬁ  nitely looking forward to seeing 
them pull out all the stops as far as staging and music goes since this will be their ﬁ  rst party in a while,” said Garcia. “And I’m deﬁ  nitely look-ing forward to the energy, too, of some Neon 
Liger-deprived folks who I’m sure are ready to 
party.”
The Neon Liger 10-year Anniversary at The 
Wooly includes an 18-and-up main room and a 21-and-up back patio. The tickets are $10 with presale available at neonliger.com. 
Neon Liger dance party to celebrate 10-year reunionPhoto courtesy of Speedy Productions
FEST Wrestling turns stereotypical wrestling on its head, bringing men 
and women to compete while emphasizing a supportive community.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
By Gabriella Paul 
Avenue Writer
Black History Month is cel-
ebrated in many ways over many 
years.
But Sunday from 2 p.m. to 
around 6 p.m., Black History Month will be celebrated for the ﬁ  rst time on Bo Diddley Commu-
nity Plaza with various black mu-
sicians performing, Ballard, the events coordinator for the City of Gainesville Parks Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department, said.
“Black musicians over the 
many years have contributed just really to every major genre of popular music,” Ballard said. 
“There’s a little something for ev-
erybody.”
The free concert will fea-
ture world-renowned trumpeter Longineu Parsons and award-
winning songwriter Billy Buchan-
an with his Rock ‘n Soul Revue coming together under the stage name Dr. Neu & Blujafunk, ac-
cording to a press release.
The name comes from the col-
laboration of genres between the 
two bands, performing everything from blues to jazz to funk.
The concert, presented by 
the City of Gainesville, is free to the public and funded in part by Culture Builds Florida. This cam-
paign strives to promote art and culture to create a continually 
vibrant and creative Florida, ac-cording to the website.
“To be able to welcome every-
body, nobody has to buy a ticket. Nobody has to not come because they’re on a budget,” Ballard said. “You know, it’s just really 
something that everybody from all walks of life and all incomes 
can come and have a great time together.”
People are invited to bring 
blankets or lawn chairs down-town to Bo Diddley and enjoy a concert that “celebrates many of the great pioneer artists of black 
music,” according to the press re-lease.
Ballard said he expects any-
where from 500 to a couple thou-
sand people to show out Sunday 
afternoon, similar to the turn-
out of free Friday night concerts downtown.
Ariel Williams, a black 
Gainesville native, said she hasn’t attended a Black History Month event downtown in more 
than 20 years.
“However, I remember it viv-
idly and think about it often,” 
Williams said.
She said the black community 
has always come together in cel-ebration of its history, whether at church, barbershops, hair salons or cookouts.
“Seeing it at large, if you will, 
reinforces what I already know and have been raised to know — that our community is love, strength, resiliency and joy,” Wil-
liams said.
She recently attended a similar 
event, “Take Me To The River,” a 
nationwide tour of several Delta 
musicians celebrating the evo-
lution of blues to modern day hip-hop, which performed in Gainesville.
“It was an eye opening explo-
ration of how racism directly im-pacted the Memphis Blues scene and Black communities in the Jim Crow era,” she said.
She said now she is even more 
excited for the concert Sunday.
“Learning about cultures and 
communities outside of your own is progressive and what this city 
needs,” she said. “If you are curi-
ous, come with an open mind and listen to understand without judg-ment.”Free concert downtown to celebrate Black History Month 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Billy Buchanan, pictured here (foreground), will come together with his Rock ‘n Soul Revue to 
form Dr. Neu & Blujafunk for Sunday’s show. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the 
benefits of an abundance of out door life with 
the benefits of nearby cultural activities in 
and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
FOR RENT NEAR SF
HOUSE 4BR/2BA . Very cool house - sum-mer doesn't need A/C. 352-328-1479    2-9-18-2-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018    ALLIGATOR   17 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatest
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
ATTENTION INDIVIDUALS WITH GRITResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-14-18-10-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Progressive talk radio is on
WGOT 100.1 FM
along with indie rock, punk, jazz, electronica, folk and more. Visit wgot.org     2-9-18-4-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-14
NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)ACROSS
1 Curve on a
slalom, e.g.
4 Frugal folks
10 Sea devastated
by irrigation
projects
14 “Something tells
__ should’vestayed in bed”
15 Brunch staple
16 Walk worriedly
17 Super-fun
experience
19 Tolkien beasts20 Concrete
strengtheners
21 German auto
pioneer
23 Junior or senior24 Certain baby
tiger
26 Grandmotherly
type
29 Sarge’s superior
30 Stand behind34 Rural stopover35 Cramming three
seasons into a
weekend, say
39 A pop40 Contemptuous
one
41 Wolf pack
member
44 Natural night
lights
48 Salsa percussion
instrument
52 Crowe’s “A
Beautiful Mind”role
53 Remove field
heat from beforestorage, as crops
54 Japanese faith
56 Like cotton
candy
57 Securing strap
59 Owned60 Horseshoes
score
61 Short-lived
obsession
62 Neighborhood
63 Make certain64 Trout lure
DOWN
1 Developmental
stage
2 Sargasso
wriggler3 Nautical stage
name of
comedian DavidAdkins
4 Lemony cocktail5 Rock concert
gear
6 Zoo staffer7 Slur over8 Hire a new crew
for
9 “Shrek!” author
William
10 Historic Harlem
theater
11 Treasury
collectible
12 Accumulating, as
interest
13 “__ Miz”18 Source of
tomatoes for
homemade sauce
22 Bad beginning?
24 “Iron Chef
Showdown” hostAlton
25 “Big” London
attraction
27 ESL part: Abbr.28 Citrus drinks31 “Is This Love”
singer CorinneBailey __32 Power source
33 Sandy-colored35 1940s jazzman
36 Totalitarian control
37 Naval pronoun38 Having a twist
39 Happy hour site
42 It may form the
outline for a
meeting’sminutes
43 Front-of-bk. list
45 Skedaddled46 Celestial
47 Substandard49 Paso __: two-
step dance
50 City where Joan
of Arc died
51 Arm bones
54 Crystal ball
reader
55 Where you are,
on a mall map
56 __ Na Na
58 Bearded grazer
By Roland Huget
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/07/1802/07/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 7, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Jazz singer
Simone
5 Colorado ski
resort
10 Apple computer
with a Magic
Keyboard
14 Ambulance-
calling situation:
Abbr.
15 Take off
16 Fizzy drink17 Cold dish topped
with hard-boiledegg
19 Grasp20 Sent to the
canvas
21 Japanese beef
city
22 Wisdom tooth,
e.g.
23 Having many
curves
25 Longtime Susan
Lucci soap role
28 Bully’s warning
words
30 A cat may climb
one
31 Beginning
32 Skater’s surface
33 Tiny amount
37 Place for pillow
talk
38 It clicks on the
dance floor
41 Crown installer’s
org.
42 Picked out of a
lineup, briefly
44 Fizzy drink
45 “Here’s the 
deal ... ”
47 Metal in steel49 Hire, as a lawyer50 Appear
intermittently
54 Nocturnal calls56 Wonderland
visitor
57 Simplify59 Tiny insect egg60 Bread for a gyro61 It may be a
boundary
betweenneighboringcountries ... orwhat each set of
circles depicts?
64 Nights before
65 Confess
66 Radar screen
spot
67 Take a break68 Medicinal
amounts
69 Flies on a fast
plane
DOWN
1 Mandolin parts
2 Bit of gratitude
from an awardrecipient
3 Driver’s invitation4 [I want a treat!]5 As well6 Naval builder7 Not as tanned
8 Juan Perón’s wife
9 Homer Simpson’s
friend Flanders
10 “The pressure
was too much forme”
11 Greenbacks12 Hunter
Quatermain of“The League ofExtraordinaryGentlemen”
13 Close-knit group18 Like greenhouses
22 West of old films
24 Brewery container26 Rash symptom27 New Orleans
cuisine
29 Attach with a click31 Back-tied sash32 Co. for Web users
34 Underlying reason
35 Police artist’s
composite pic
maker
36 Blackball39 Duck’s habitat40 “Your choice”43 Like many metal
toys
46 __ Tomé48 Singer Carly __
Jepsen49 Rock band’s
helper
50 Zany adventure
51 Martini fruit
52 Tiny parasites53 Causes of illness
55 Fitbit units
58 Film backdrops
61 No longer edible
62 Prefix with meter
63 Prez whose
library is in Austin
By C.C. Burnikel©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/06/1802/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, February 6, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 PersonalsKicker Eddy Pineiro was one of 
six former Gators invited to the NFL Combine on Tuesday. The scouting event is taking place in Indianapolis from March 2 to 5.Gators ﬁ  nalizing 2018 freshman class today
Florida's football team will add new players to its roster this morning during 
the annual National Signing Day. UF landed 15 recruits on Dec. 20 during college football's ﬁ  rst-ever early signing period. Go online to alligator.org/sports for up-to-the-minute coverage of the day's events.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
There are holes. 
Along the inﬁ  eld, at catcher and in 
the outﬁ  eld, Florida’s baseball team, coming off its ﬁ  rst national title, lost six players to the MLB Draft and two 
more to graduation. 
To ﬁ  ll those spots and try to repeat 
as champions, UF is turning to some 
fresh faces, starting with Brady Mc-Connell.
McConnell was selected in the 
33rd round of the 2017 draft by the Reds, but he had a higher rating than his slot suggests. McConnell was 
awarded the ranking of 29th-best high 
school player in the country by Perfect Game, which wrote of McConnell, “5 tool player with a huge ceiling.”
The two players directly in front 
of and behind him in those rankings got taken in the second round, which should tell you McConnell’s draft-day slide wasn’t talent based. 
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan apparent-
ly agrees. He said that although Mc-Connell — who hit .372 as a senior at Merritt Island High School — has been battling an illness lately, he’s still the favorite to start from day one 
at shortstop. And if not, he’ll start at 
third base. 
McConnell is replacing Dalton 
Guthrie, who started at shortstop for UF the past two years and was taken by the Philadelphia Phillies in the sixth round. 
If McConnell does end up at third 
base, last season’s third baseman, 
Jonathan India, will slide over to 
shortstop.
Staying in the inﬁ  eld, Florida will 
be without seasoned second base-man Deacon Liput to start the season. Liput was suspended in the offsea-son for undisclosed reasons, and al-though he’s back with the team now, O’Sullivan said he’ll miss an undis-
closed number of games. 
His replacement will be junior 
Blake Reese, who hit .233 in 40 games 
last season.
“Blake Reese had a really good 
fall,” O’Sullivan said. “So I would an-ticipate him being able to start at sec-ond base, and he’s earned the right to do that.”
First base was voided by JJ 
Schwarz, who will play catcher in the absence of Mike Rivera and Mark Kolozsvary, who were selected in the sixth and seventh rounds, respec-tively. 
Sophomore Keenan Bell, who 
started seven games at ﬁ  rst base in 2017, should be the everyday guy this year. He hit .283 with 12 RBIs in 92 
at-bats last season. 
On his days off, Schwarz will be 
relieved by a combination of fresh-
man catchers Cal Greenﬁ  eld and Brady Smith or junior transfer Jonah Girand. Girand, the most experienced of the trio, hit .256 last season at Seminole State College while Green-ﬁ  eld (No. 6) edged out Smith (No. 9) 
in Perfect Game’s high school catcher 
rankings. 
“Nothing to complain about,” ju-
nior pitcher Brady Singer said of this team’s young inﬁ  elders. “They’re all  UF hoping new position players 
negate last season's draft losses
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 20Ah yes, the Su-
per Bowl. The event 
where millions of people around the country ﬂ  ock to a TV 
set for three and a half 
hours, not to watch the championship game of America’s most popular sport, but to obsess over the new, 
fun, ﬂ  amboyant com-
mercials that debut throughout the night.
Especially this year, when the 
game featured two of the most dis-liked teams in the NFL. The Eagles, who skated by following the loss of starting quarterback Carson Wentz, defeated the Patriots 41-33, earning the Lombardi Trophy for the ﬁ  rst 
time. The matchup made it easy for 
viewers to focus mainly on the ad-vertisements.
But now that Super Bowl LII is 
over, it’s time to look back at why everyone watched the game in the ﬁ  rst place and rank the top three commercials from Sun-day night.
No. 3: "Touch-
downs to Come"
This one was im-
portant. In the last few years, sports fans have become disillusioned with professional foot-ball, christening the 
NFL as the “No Fun 
League.”
Rule changes, not knowing what 
a catch is and playing favorites for 
certain teams — *cough, cough Pa-triots* — have made fans angry. 
Penalties on touchdown celebra-
tions, something the NFL has since changed its stance on, have pissed off fans beyond belief.
This commercial highlighted 
that. Showing Odell Beckham Jr. and Eli Manning practicing a celebration to the theme of Dirty Dancing, the advertisement reminded us why we love football in the ﬁ  rst place.Ranking the three best 
commercials of Super Bowl LII
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJakeBy Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
After three straight conference loss-
es, senior guard Chris Chiozza — leader of the reeling Florida men’s basketball team — is ready to see some changes take place during the second half of SEC 
play.
“We went through this before where 
we bounced back pretty well,” Chiozza 
said, referring to the team's six-game 
winning streak in late December and 
early January that came after losing four 
of its previous ﬁ  ve games.
Chiozza is looking to help the Gators 
(15-8, 6-4 SEC) regain their form against 
LSU (13-9, 4-6 SEC) tonight at 6:30 at the O'Connell Center.
The Gators have dropped three of 
their last four games — the sole win coming against non-conference foe Bay-lor — with many of their struggles com-
ing in the second halves of those losses.
During a home defeat against South 
Carolina on Jan. 24, Florida hit a ﬂ  urry 
of shots to open the second half, only to be outscored 38-24 over the ﬁ  nal 16:11. Three days later against Georgia, UF had a stretch in the second half where it missed 19 of 20 shots. Most recently, Florida squandered a six-point halftime lead over Alabama. The Gators were outscored 41-17 by the Crimson Tide af-ter the break.
For coach Mike White, it’s back to 
the drawing board.
White said he’s considering “whole-
sale changes” for his team after drop-ping from ﬁ  rst in the SEC standings to a three-way tie for third over the course of the team’s current losing streak.
“Some of it was a little bit effort,” 
White said. “Some of it was a little bit of wind. But most of all, it was our guys weren’t in the right spot that they were supposed to be in.”
White said he wants to see more 
discipline from his players moving for-ward. He also wondered if he was keep-ing his starters on the court for too long.
“Some of our second-half collapses 
defensively, I think, have to do with playing guys too many minutes,” White said. “We’re not a very deep team. We’ve got to somehow get a little bit 
deeper. We’ve got to infuse somehow 
a little bit of conﬁ  dence in a couple of these freshmen to give us something.”
White said freshman guards Deaun-
drae Ballard and Mike Okauru have Gators look to end SEC skid tonight against LSU Tigers
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Despite the Florida men's basketball team dropping three of its last four games, guard Chris 
Chiozza isn't worried. "We went through this before where we bounced back pretty well, " he said.
SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 20
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 20Jake’s on a Plane / OpinionMEN'S BASKETBALLWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Senior infielder Nicole DeWitt has a .329 career batting average as well as 
104 RBIs.
WOMEN'S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Last Saturday, the No. 3 
Florida women’s tennis team walked into its dual meet against Florida State with a 55-1 all-time record against the Semi-noles, but was swiftly defeated 4-1.
Facing a similar scenario 
against the No. 18 Oklahoma State Cowgirls tonight at 6:30 in Stillwater, Oklahoma, UF is hoping that history doesn’t re-peat itself.
The Gators (2-1) have yet to 
lose against the Cowgirls (5-1) in the all-time series, currently sitting on a 10-0 lead. UF’s most significant win over OSU came last year in the quarterfinals of the NCAA Championships on May 21.
Like Florida, Oklahoma State 
has some new players on its roster, though its roster is much bigger, with 10 players on the team compared to UF’s seven.
Only two of the 10 are fresh-
men, meaning Gators first-year players Katie Kubicz, Victoria Emma and McCartney Kessler will see competition from play-ers far more experienced than themselves.
“Oklahoma State is a team 
kind of like ours,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release. “It should be fun for us to play a lot of matches here against some good, quality competition.”
OSU is looking to capitalize 
on its momentum coming off a 4-2 win against Arkansas, while UF is hoping to come back to form after its shocking three-point loss to FSU. OSU’s one loss this came against Ole Miss on Jan. 27.
While the dual meet should 
be a tough one for Florida, Thornqvist is also looking ahead to one of the bigger events of the year: the ITA National Team Indoor Championships.
“We’re going to get a good 
look at all the best teams in the country pretty much, so for a young team like ours that’s go-ing to be great for us,” he said. “Everybody will get to see the level of competition on the na-tional stage.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgUF facing Cowgirls 
tonight following 
tough loss to FSUBy Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
With slightly over seven minutes 
remaining in Monday night’s game, 
Florida held a one-point lead over No. 15 Missouri. However, when the last shot missed the rim and the contest went final, the Gators dropped their eighth SEC game of the season and their third straight conference game against a ranked opponent.
UF’s 66-64 road loss to the Tigers 
on Monday was the team’s closest loss in terms of final score during its current three-game losing streak. It was also UF’s sixth conference loss by single digits.
Despite another losing effort, coach 
Cameron Newbauer said he was im-pressed with his team's energy.
“We made big plays when we had 
to and made stops,” Newbauer said in a release.
Throughout Monday’s game, the 
Gators went basket for basket with another ranked program out of the SEC. 
The lead changed 10 times against 
the Tigers, and the Gators’ deficit nev-er ballooned larger than six points.
“I could not be more proud of this 
group and their fight tonight on the road against a top-15 team,” New-bauer said.
The loss to Missouri closely mir-
rored Florida’s mid-season matchup with Kentucky. Both teams went back and forth in the fourth quarter until Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu missed a three-pointer in the final sec-onds to end the contest.
At the time, both UF and the Wild-
cats were fighting for their first con-ference win of the season. Now, just a month and a half later, Florida is playing neck and neck with teams ce-mented at the top of the SEC — a con-ference many would argue is the best league in women’s college basketball.
The Gators held their own for 
much of the first half against No. 2 Mississippi State on Jan. 25 before the Bulldogs pulled away in the latter part of the contest. 
Just a few nights later, Florida held 
a seven-point lead over No. 20 Geor-gia midway through the second half. The Bulldogs needed a 31-point surge from their offense in the final quarter to avoid the upset.
Despite the tough losses to high-
caliber teams this season, the Gators are taking these losses with a grain of salt.
“I’m tremendously proud of our 
fight and team effort,” Newbauer said. “They played their guts out.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org
Gators showing potential in recent lossesWOMEN'S BASKETBALLSOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
It’s been 246 days since Flor-
ida’s softball team felt the pain 
of coming up two games short 
of a national championship, getting swept by Oklahoma 2-0 in the Women’s College World 
Series.
This season will mark the 
last opportunity for seniors 
Aleshia Ocasio, Kayli Kvistad, Nicole DeWitt and Janell Whea-
ton to make it to the finals of 
the WCWS in Oklahoma City, and potentially take home the title as well.
Their resumes leading up 
to this year includes three SEC regular season championships, three No. 1 national seeds, one WCWS runner-up finish and 
one WCWS championship title.
The team’s seniors heading 
into the 2018 season carry a lot 
of weight for the team. It will 
need the experience of the up-
perclassmen to take them deep into the WCWS again this year. 
DeWitt has been a starter in 
almost every game throughout her career, with the exception of eight games between her freshman and sophomore sea-
sons.
This season, her work as 
an infielder will help with her 
transition to third base as she strives to take the Gators step-
by-step to Oklahoma City once 
again.
Going into this season, she 
has a .329 career batting aver-
age as well 104 total RBIs.
Wheaton is another strong 
asset to the team, providing the 
professional leadership quali-ties that have caught coach Tim 
Walton's attention.
“Janell Wheaton is prob-
ably one of the most underrated 
players in the country,” he said.
While Wheaton’s stats on 
the roster may come off as aver-age, she’s continued to progress  throughout her career, especial-ly during last year's postseason.
When it comes to Ocasio, 
Walton says she provides lead-ership to the Gators with her dynamic on the field.
Ocasio, a utility player, has 
become one of the most versa-tile players in college softball after playing multiple positions over the course of her career.
When junior Kelly Barnhill 
stepped up as the team’s top pitcher, Ocasio found other roles for herself, playing other infield positions that have been 
beneficial to the Gators.
When it came to Kvistad, 
Walton emphasized her well-
roundedness as a player and 
student.
Kvistad was one of five play-
ers from Florida selected to the 
2018 Preseason All-SEC Team. For the last three years she’s 
been selected to the SEC Aca-
demic Honor Roll.
Kvistad had 53 RBIs last sea-
son, the most of anyone on the 
team, and a batting average of 
.368.
“They’re all so different, yet 
they all have the same thing in mind,” Walton said. “They all 
want to win and they want to 
win the right way.”
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgSenior leaders have another championship run in mind for Florida
Wednesday, Feb. 7
Men's Basketball vs. LSU, 6:30 p.m.,  
     SEC Network
Women's Tennis @ Oklahoma State, 
     6:30 p.m.
Thursday, Feb. 8
Women's Basketball vs. Mississippi       State, 7 p.m., SEC Network +
Friday, Feb. 9
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Tiger       Paw Invitational, All Day
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Iowa  
     State Classic, All Day*Softball vs. Illinois State, 4:45 p.m.Men's Tennis @ Michigan, 6 p.m.Gymnastics vs. Alabama, 6:45 p.m.,  
     SEC Network
Women's Tennis @ ITA National Team       Indoor Championships, TBD
Saturday, Feb. 10
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Tiger       Paw Invitational, All Day
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Iowa  
     State Classic, All Day*Softball vs. Michigan, 11 a.m.Men's Basketball @ South Carolina,  
     Noon, CBS
*Softball vs. Georgia State, 1:15 p.m.Women's Tennis @ ITA National Team  
     Indoor Championships, TBDSunday, Feb. 11
Women's Golf @ Northrop Grumman  
     Challenge, All DayLacrosse vs. Colorado, Noon, ESPN3
Men's Tennis @ Ohio State, Noon
Women's Basketball @ South Carolina,  
     1 p.m., SEC Network*Softball vs. UAB, 1:30 p.m.Softball @ South Florida, 4:15 p.m.Women's Tennis @ ITA National Team       Indoor Championships, TBD
*Denotes Neutral Site GameTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2018
hard-nosed kids who play hard and work hard. I’m ex-
cited to see them get out there and play.”
In the outﬁ  eld, the Gators only lost senior Ryan Lar-
son. The trio of sophomore Austin Langworthy (LF), senior Nick Horvath (CF) and junior Nelson Maldonado 
(RF) started together eight times last season, so that 
seems like the logical group to start this season. 
The one exception could be Maldonado, who is still 
nursing a lingering arm injury sustained late last season. O’Sullivan said Maldonado will likely start the season as Florida’s designated hitter — he hit a team-best .299 last year — which leaves an outﬁ  eld spot open for a newcomer. O’Sullivan hasn’t said who the contenders are, but one likely option is Wil Dalton. 
A sophomore who transfered from Columbia State, 
Dalton hit .392 last season with 15 home runs, good for the second-most in school history. 
Another option is freshman lefty Jordan Butler, who 
will also likely contribute out of the bullpen. He’s a Team USA alumnus and was drafted in the 34th round by the Yankees. 
“We do have a lot of young guys,” Langworthy said, 
“and there’s just a lot they haven’t learned. Coming in 
your ﬁ  rst year — especially in the SEC — it’s a big learn-
ing curve.”
Those new faces will need to adjust to that curve 
quickly for Florida to return to Omaha.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 18Maldonado hit 
.299 last season
Alligator File Photo
Nelson Maldonado is still nursing a lingering arm injury from late last 
season and will likely start the year as Florida's designated hitter. 
It was fun.
When you have the new and improved XFL 
knocking on the door attempting to weaken the NFL’s professional football monopoly, a com-mercial like this is exactly what was needed to 
lighten the mood.
No. 2: "DORITOS BLAZE vs. MTN DEW 
ICE"
I don’t know about you, but Peter Dinklage 
rapping to Busta Rhymes’ verse in “Look At Me 
Now,” followed by Morgan Freeman lip-syn-ching Missy Elliot’s “Get Your Freak On,” was nothing short of awesome. It was one of the best moments of the night, behind the actual game.
Bringing the ﬁ  re-and-ice theme from season 
seven of Game of Thrones (and using one of the characters from the show), PepsiCo succeeded in reinventing two products that most Ameri-
cans already know about. The new Doritos 
Blaze and Mountain Dew Ice are fresh takes on old products.
Not to mention the ﬁ  nal shot featured both 
Dinklage and Freeman facing each other, with ﬁ  re on one side and ice on the other. 
It also may or may not have spoiled a possi-ble plot point for Game of Thrones season eight. 
No. 1: "It's a Tide Ad" & "It's Another Tide 
Ad"
NBC charged just over $5 million for a 30-sec-
ond ad for the Super Bowl. Tide had just shy of two minutes worth of ads and paid roughly $20 
million.
It was worth it.
In what seemed like yet another car, beer or 
Mr. Clean advertisement, David Harbour, com-ing off his role as Jim Hopper from Netﬂ  ix’s “Stranger Things,” interrupts to utter the phrase, “It’s a Tide ad.”It’s one of those ideas designed to show that 
not every Super Bowl commercial needs to be the same to be iconic. Poking fun at convention-al advertisements can be just as effective. 
When Harbour appeared in what seemed to 
be an Old Spice commercial, it proved that no-tion. 
In an event as large as the Super Bowl, where 
all eyes were watching the Patriots lose, standing out made all the difference.
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator’s assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg 18looked good in practice and their playing time 
might increase.
Another factor White zeroed in on was shot se-
lection. While he wants the Gators to shoot with conﬁ  dence, White would like to see fewer forced shots against the Tigers — something his ﬂ  oor gen-eral, Chiozza, agrees with.
“We’ve been known to try to take hard shots 
to get something going when we don’t have every-
thing going our way,” Chiozza said.
Another reason Florida has a tendency to force 
shots is its inconsistent defensive play, something 
Chiozza pointed out in the loss to Alabama.
Defensively, Chiozza will have his hands full 
with LSU guard Tremont Waters. Waters leads the Tigers with 15.3 points per game and is coming off a 27-point, 11-assist performance in a win against Arkansas on Saturday.
White praised Waters’ playmaking abilities as 
well as LSU forward Duop Reath, who is second behind Waters in scoring and leads the Tigers in blocks.
“Boy, (Waters) is a handful,” White said. “He’s 
really, really gifted with the ball in his hands… and I don’t know what (Reath’s) numbers were last year off the top of my head but he’s had some huge games and he’s continued to improve.”
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgMEN'S B-BALL,  from pg 18Reath leads the 
Tigers in blocks