We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
See Valentine’s Day coverage in The Avenue 
You can ﬁ  nd out things to do for Galentine’s, pg. 8
Tommy Hilﬁ  lger store coming to Gainesville
 It will open within the next two years, pg. 4GATORS HOST BULLDOGS 
TONIGHT AT 9
Florida’s men’s basketball team is looking to improve its SEC record to 9-4, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 58
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE TWO VICTIMS 
HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Two hours after shooting 
and killing two people and ab-
ducting the ofﬁ  ce manager at 
Summer Place Villas on Tues-
day, a Gainesville man was taken into custody in another state, Gainesville Police said.
Police said Cedric Tremaine 
Plummer, 23, shot two people in the leasing ofﬁ  ce of Sum-mer Place Villas apartment complex, located at 3316 SW 
41st Place, before ﬂ  eeing to 
Lowndes County, Georgia, where he was arrested. He was found driving north on Inter-
state 75 at about 3:30 p.m. with 
a gun and the ofﬁ  ce manager — at least an hour and a half’s drive from Gainesville. 
Police identiﬁ  ed the two 
employees killed as 28-year-old Jude Onyegbulam Osuji, Jr. and Robert Earl Brumbaugh.
Police are unsure if the gun 
found was used in the shoot-ing, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben Tobias said. Ofﬁ  cers re-
sponded to a call at the apart-ment at about 1:30 p.m. and found a bullet hole in window and two bodies, Tobias said. 
Tobias said police used wit-
ness accounts and electronic 
communications to ﬁ  gure out 
who the suspect was. Within about two hours from when GPD started investigating, 
Georgia law enforcement had 
the suspect within custody and had recovered a woman who was taken by the shooter.
The shooter, who was a res-
ident of the complex, had taken ofﬁ  ce manager Hailey Roberts, 19, against her will, said Rob-erts’ boyfriend, Troy Matthews, 
22. He received a call at about 
2:30 p.m. at his job at Zaxby’s. He went to the scene and was told she was missing.
Less than an hour later, Mat-
thews and friends and family of Roberts, who were gathered at the entrance of the apartment’s driveway, learned that she had 
been found by police. They 
cheered, cried and hugged in 
front of the crime scene tape 
blocking off the parking lot.
“She’s going to come home 
safe,” Matthews said. “That’s 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government’s Im-
pact Party chose to continue supporting one of its candi-
dates despite learning about 
his prior criminal charges after questions from The Alligator on Tuesday.
At ﬁ  rst, Impact President 
Omarley Spence said the party would stop supporting Charles McMillan, its 20-year-old Pub-lic Health & Health Professions candidate. However, after 
Supervisor of Elections Erica 
Baker said McMillan could not be removed from the ballot  because absentee ballots were mailed already, Spence said the party would still provide re-
sources to McMillan during the 
election.
The party didn’t run an ini-
tial background check on Mc-Millan, Spence said.
“I feel like we didn’t need to 
do that because of his service, and the service he’s done on campus and the community,” 
he said.
McMillan, a UF health sci-
ence and pre-occupational 
therapy junior, was charged for possessing a fake driver’s li-
cense in Fall 2015, according to 
a sworn complaint. The felony charge was downgraded to a misdemeanor, and prosecu-tion was deferred, according to court records.
McMillan was arrested twice 
for stealing signs on campus during his sophomore year, ac-cording to sworn complaints. Charges were dropped before 
trial in both cases. 
McMillan said he’s tried to 
improve his life through SG 
and Dance Marathon. 
“I take responsibility for this 
incident,” McMillan said. “My charges have been dropped, and I have learned from this. I don’t want this to be my main 
focus here at my time in UF.”
@Christina_M18
Cmorales@alligator.org
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
In a ﬁ  ery debate between the candi-
dates from three UF political parties, Student Body president hopefuls 
bickered about politics and tokeniza-
tion. 
During the debate, presidential 
candidates Janae Moodie (Challenge Party), Ian Green (Impact Party) and 
Revel Lubin (Inspire Party) went 
back-and-forth about tokenization in Inspire and Impact after a student questioned if candidate selection was based on identity rather than qualiﬁ  -
cations. 
“I’ve never been anyone’s pup-
pet,” Green said in the debate. 
He added that he found it con-venient that Moodie and Lubin left 
Impact a month before the election. 
Moodie resigned from her position as 
Senate Pro-Tempore in early January, and Lubin disafﬁ  liated from Impact the next week.
Moodie rebutted Green, saying she 
didn’t resign for her own personal gain. 
“One of the primary reasons I re-
signed from Student Government was 
because of the hostile work environ-
ment,” Moodie said. 
Moodie said the arguments about 
each party’s history and all three can-didates’ past with Impact was tense.  
“It was deﬁ  nitely emotionally 
charged, but I think that’s what you can expect when you’re passionate Suspect in custody after shooting left two dead, police say
Impact still supporting candidate 
after learning of criminal charges SG executive candidates 
debate qualiﬁ  cations SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 5
SEE DEBATE,  PAGE 5Andrew Stanﬁ  ll / Special to the Alligator
Police investigate a scene at Summer Place Villas apartment, 3316 SW 41st Place, Tuesday afternoon after an 
apparent shooting left two dead. A woman, who police said was held hostage by the suspect, was later found.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
HIGH  74° LOW  57°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT'S HAPPENING?
Student Government Spring 
Elections
Spring SG elections will be held 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and 21 at locations across cam-
pus. These elections include the 
Student Body president, Student Body vice president and Student Body treasurer, as well as 50 sen-
ate seats representing the various 
colleges and classifications. For 
more information, visit sg.ufl.
edu/elections.Y-Not Theatre Trivia Fundraiser  The Y-Not Theatre’s First Anniversary Theatre Trivia Fundraiser will be held Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.  It costs $25 per person to play. Cash and card will be taken at the door. Y-Not 
develops new American plays in 
North Central Florida.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 58
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Take these steps to prevent the spread of 
influenza (flu) to you and others:
• Wash your hands often! 
• Cover your cough or sneeze into a tissue.
• Avoid touching your face (eyes, nose or mouth) .
• Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
• Clean surfaces frequently. (Door handles, work areas, keyboards)
• Practice self-care for a good overall health!
Most people with the flu have mild illness and do not need 
medical care or antiviral drugs. If you get sick with flu symptoms, in most cases, you should follow the CDC’s advice and stay home for the first 24 hours until after your fever is 
gone. Additionally, avoid contact with other people except to get medical care.
For more information on preventing and treating flu, 
visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu
(352) 392-1161 | shcc.ufl.edu | @ufshcc
THE CLASS OF 2022 IS 
EXPECTED TO BE ABOUT 
6,400 STUDENTS.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Maddie Schmidt waited anx-
iously all day until 6 p.m.
Since submitting her applica-
tion to UF back in September, the 
18-year-old senior at Collins Hill 
High School in Suwanee, Geor-
gia, has anticipated the school’s decision for months. On Friday night, Schmidt was one of 14,866 applicants who opened the portal to ﬁ  nd the same message. “Con-gratulations!” the screen read.
“I was very relieved,” she said. 
“UF has always been my dream.”
Out of the 40,849 applications 
UF received for the class of 2022, the school accepted 36 percent, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an email. The university expects 43 percent of the students accepted — about 6,400 students — will choose to attend UF. 
The average GPA was 4.4 for 
the 11,741 admitted for Fall 2018. Orlando said 3,125 were admitted for Summer B.
Although more than 1,000 ap-
plicants were accepted this year compared to last, admission rates for the Innovation Academy and Pathway to Campus Enrollment were less than last year. IA admit-ted about 600 students compared to the 979 accepted to the class of 2021, and PaCE accepted 2,271 applicants, 149 less than last year.
Schmidt said she was admit-
ted for the Fall and plans to study in the College of Journalism and Communications. She wants to be a sports broadcaster one day. 
After the good news, she took 
to Twitter to announce her ac-ceptance. UF saw her post and replied with a GIF. 
Orlando said UF’s social media 
team had been working for weeks on a new social media scheme to make admitted students feel ex-cited and welcome. 
Social media specialist Ryan 
Morejon, one of seven members of the social media team, said they started planning in early 
January for creative ways to in-
teract with students on the plat-forms they use, like Twitter and Instagram. 
But, not everything can be 
planned. Morejon said his team had to adapt when Instagram’s new GIF sticker feature launched less than three weeks ago. The 
GIF stickers are animated icons 
users can paste over their pic-tures. The team designed more than 20 stickers, including a danc-ing Albert Gator and a ‘UF22’ ani-mation.
Morejon said the stickers 
were sone of their most popular posts on decision day, bringing in about 15 million views.
GIFs, photos and memes are 
incredibly useful tools, espe-cially when it can be hard trying to reach thousands of different students in a way that is still per-sonal and organic, Morejon said.
“You want to make these 
students feel like they’re part of a family, part of a community,” he said. “And just that one mes-
sage coming from UF goes a long 
way.”
#UF22 was trending on Twit-
ter last Friday when decisions were sent out — despite the start of the Winter Olympics at the same time, he said. 
The team also tabled last 
Wednesday at the O’Connell 
Center and on Turlington Plaza 
to ﬁ  lm current students react-ing happily or surprised in GIF video form. Morejon said he was surprised by how many students were willing to be ﬁ  lmed for it.
“There’s a lot of different ways 
to engage,” he said. “And I think a lot of units on campus have to-
tally embraced that.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
More than 14,000 students admitted for incoming class
We asked students where they 
were when they found out they 
got accepted to UF. Here are our 
favorite responses.
“I was sitting by the ire I had ignited 
using my Florida State University 
acceptance letter as tinder when I decided 
to check to see if UF decisions were out. 
I saw the word “Congratulations” and 
poured some more igniter luid into the 
lames as I maniacally laughed.”
 - Tyler Sommer
“I checked my application status at a 
basketball championship surrounded my 
coach and players and found out I got in! They were all so excited for me. My 
coach is a huge Ohio State University 
fan, but he did a Gator chomp in the 
bleachers in celebration of my acceptance. 
I could’ve cried.”
- Sophia Goodwin
“I was so nervous throughout the entire 
school day, and I had cried out of 
anxiety about four times leading up. I 
was at water polo practice until 7 p.m. 
After it ended I looked at my phone, and 
I started crying out of excitement and 
happiness! This has been my dream since 
I was 9 years old, and I still can’t believe 
I’m going to be a Gator!”
- Mia Minkin
29,31930,80032,02634,55340,849
12,923 13,667 13,624 13,21414,866
05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,00040,00045,000
2018
44.1%
Accepted2019
44.4%
Accepted2020
42.5%
Accepted2021
38.2%
Accepted2022
36.4%
Accepted
Total Applicants Total AdmissionsUF ACCEPTANCE RATES FOR CLASSES OF 2018 - 20224   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmJordan Bourne/ Alligator
A star marks the T ommy Hilﬁ  ger store location.Reserve at 
Kanapaha
93 24Walmart
Supercenter
Butler
EntranceCelebration
PointBy Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF student Bianca Barrera looks forward 
to strutting on campus with the signature 
red, white and blue logo of Tommy Hilﬁ  ger on her clothes.
A Tommy Hilﬁ  ger store, which sells lux-
ury clothing and jeans, will join the slew of stores opening in Celebration Pointe, north of the intersection of Interstate 75 and South-west Archer Road within the next two years.
Barrera, a UF business junior, said she’s 
excited for Tommy Hilﬁ  ger to open, as it will be closer than a store in St. Augustine. 
“It’s a good brand that’s worth the extra cost,” the 21-year-old said.
Ralph Conti, a principal and manag-
ing member of RaCo Real Estate, which is 
partnering to oversee the development, said 
there is no set opening date for the store.
Celebration Pointe, a 160-acre mixed-use 
development, will be a space for people to shop, hang out, work and live, according to a press release. The space should be com-plete by 2020, according to the developer’s website.
“It’s going to be a pretty cool place,” 
Ralph Conti said.
Brands like Bass Pro Shops and Regal 
Cinemas are considered the anchor brands for the space, said Chris Conti, marketing di-rector for RaCo Real Estate and Ralph Conti’s son. He said tenants and tenant coordinators work together on designing the store space.
“The overall idea is for the development 
to be a great place to basically celebrate life’s moments,” Chris Conti said.
Other stores have opened or are sched-
uled to open soon in the development. Bass Pro Shops opened in November 2016, and Regal Cinemas will open this spring, accord-ing to a press release. Celebration Pointe also announced in January it will open a Nike 
Factory Store in spring, according to Alliga-
tor archives.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgTommy Hilﬁ  ger store to open in GainesvilleBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
Dozens of anonymous people told the same 
story.
Financial burden. Choosing between rent or 
food. Playing catch-up from time missed. Feeling 
undervalued.
At Tuesday night’s Senate meeting, 13 sup-
porters of the Alachua County Labor Coalition 
read out responses to its survey of UF’s Other 
Personnel Service, or OPS, employees, who are paid by the hour and are not given beneﬁ  ts. 
The survey, which asked about the feelings 
of OPS employees, was sent out to about 5,000 
workers and got 535 responses, said Timothy Tia, 
a UF economics senior and labor coalition com-munications organizer and director. 
“It is quite frustrating to be reminded how op-
tional you are to the university,” one response said.
Tia said the group was trying to get different 
voices across campus to support OPS workers, who he said are vital to the university. In Novem-ber, members met with UF’s faculty senate to ask 
for support, according to Alligator archives. 
The group proposed a resolution asking for 
Senate to support paying OPS workers for time 
missed due to Hurricane Irma, and another to re-classify OPS workers out of temporary status if 
they’ve had the position longer than a year. The 
resolutions will be heard in the Judiciary Com-mittee in about two weeks, Tia said.
Tia said though OPS workers don’t typically 
get paid for time off, UF could have given the pay. 
Vice President of Human Resources Jodi Gen-
try has previously said the OPS work agreement says employees are not eligible for paid leave, ac-
cording to Alligator archives. 
“If it was a priority for the University of Flori-
da they would have already done it,” the 21-year-
old said. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
about student issues,” she said. “People are 
passionate about the fact that there’s no access 
to Student Government.” 
David Enriquez, who is running for Student 
Vice-President with Impact, said the debate was competitive. 
“We were honest when we needed to, even 
when some would consider too blunt,” En-riquez said.
Enriquez said a party that grants people po-
sitions based on identity does not exist within Impact. 
 “I think it’s a distraction from the real con-
versation, which is that Janae and Revel want to be Student Body president,” he said. “The 
question is who is qualiﬁ  ed and who has the 
best platform. Rather than addressing that, they kept going back to this ridiculous accusation.”
Impact plans to do more to increase diversity 
by co-sponsoring events and increasing the rate of black students coming into the university, Enriquez said. He said Green plans to travel to local high schools to help minority students learn how to apply to UF if he is elected. 
“We’ve had a historic commitment to diver-sity,” he said. “It’s the Impact Party that has produced pro-Latino legislation on the Senate ﬂ  oor.”
Alyssa Bethencourt, Inspire’s Student Body 
treasurer candidate, said the party stands for a positive campaign and would never speak down to other candidates. 
“I think some of the slander that was thrown, 
speciﬁ  cally between Impact Party and Chal-lenge Party, could’ve been limited,” Bethen-court said. “I felt that we were actually losing purpose of the questions that were being asked. That’s a disservice to the students.” 
During the debate, Challenge accused In-
spire of releasing a platform that mirrored many of their own points. 
“I think it’s important to realize that a lot of 
the points Inspire has on our Spring platform is also on our Fall platform,” Bethencourt said. “Challenge Party and Inspire party do stand for the same thing, and I’m happy to see whoever is elected in this position will serve our Student 
Body.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
all that matters.”
A detective took Roberts’ parents 
to Georgia to pick up their daughter. Police are still investigating why she 
was taken, Tobias said.
Police closed Southwest 41st 
Place for about three hours and told 
residents to avoid leaving shelter 
while they tried to locate the shooter. 
Some UF students in the area 
were concerned UF Public Safety 
didn’t share an alert for the shooting, which happened about a mile from campus. UF spokesperson Steve Or-lando said alerts are sent out when 
the incident happens less than 1,000 
feet from campus.
Dillon Edens, a UF biology sopho-
more passed the crime scene on their 
way to Dollar General. 
“It would be nice to know to take some precautions,” Edens, 19, said.
James Workman, 60, lives in the 
apartment complex and heard the news about the shooting from police 
who asked him to leave his apart-ment during the investigation. He watched detectives go in and out of 
the leasing ofﬁ  ce and worried about 
Roberts, who he said was a “sweet-heart.”
The apartment manager declined 
to comment. 
Residents who could not drive 
on the street gathered in the park-ing lot of Dollar General. They were shocked to see patrol cars in their 
neighborhood. Tobias said crime 
like this is uncommon for the area.
“When I heard the call go out, I 
said to myself, ‘This is too weird in this area to be a call,’” Tobias said. 
“Unfortunately, it was a real call.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgSHOOTING,  from pg. 1
DEBATE,  from pg. 1The woman who was held 
hostage was later found
They spoke about tokenizationStudents support part-time 
employees at Senate meeting
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
UF Student Government presidential candidates answer questions 
submitted by students during the debate Tuesday night in the Reitz Grand Ballroom. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
On Valentine’s Day, we’re reminded to think of oth-
ers — wafﬂ  es with your friends for the Galentine’s Day crowd or a candlelit dinner with your signiﬁ  -cant other. 
Some argue that actions on Valentine’s Day 
should be an everyday thing; you should always be show-ing the people you love that you care for them. 
So why aren’t you showing that same love to yourself on 
a daily basis? 
Stress, anxiety and depression are familiar feelings. For 
some readers, they may feel exponential if your plans don’t fall between the ideals of Valentine’s Day. But today, we at The Alligator want you to focus on yourself.
It’s especially important to appreciate your own talents 
and skills as a college student, especially when school and life can feel overwhelming. A recent story from the Chron-icle of Higher Education noted that college students across the country are suffering from anxiety. A national survey, the Healthy Minds Study, found one in four undergradu-ates and graduates students reported feeling symptoms of anxiety. But less than 40 percent of students who are feeling anxious and depressed get help. 
We at The Alligator understand those feelings. It’s no 
secret that the majority of students who make up our staff are student journalists, and sometimes it can be hard to remember that our self-care comes ﬁ  rst.  
Social media has its pros and cons in helping the up-
hill battle to understand our self-worth. For instance, if you check the UF class Facebook pages, you can ﬁ  nd the occa-sional photo of a positive message left somewhere on cam-pus. “Love yourself,” the notes read. “You are beautiful.” “Smile. You are worth it.”  
With midterms coming up, we’re sure you feel stress, 
too. But it’s important to step back and take a moment for yourself. It’s easy to let stress levels build up, and it’s easy to skip a meal or trade away an hour of sleep for an hour of studying. But there needs to be a balance, and Valentine’s Day presents a perfect opportunity for that.
We know you might walk into Publix and roll your eyes 
because of the overﬂ  ow of ﬂ  owers and chocolates. Don’t. Even if you’re nursing a broken heart or if you’ve never been in love, no matter what your relationship status is, we want you to smile until your cheeks hurt today. 
It’s the day you get to treat yourself. Eat that pizza for 
a cheat meal. Spend the extra money for guac at Chipotle. Finish the pint of Ben and Jerry’s tonight. If food is not your No. 1 passion as it is ours, take time to drive to Bo Diddley Community Plaza or Lake Alice, and relax. Buy those shoes or that video game you’ve been dreaming about for the past few weeks. Listen to your favorite song on repeat.
Make sure that ﬁ  ve years down the road, you’ll be able 
to look back to Valentine’s Day 2018 and excitedly reﬂ  ect on a memory that makes your heart happy. This Valentine’s 
Day, love yourself 
ﬁ  rst
Column
Feminists, as well as fans of generally en-
tertaining television, would like to thank 
Arie Luyendyk Jr. for two more hours of 
productivity each week. To be frank, his season makes many previously devoted 
fans cringe, and many of us just can’t watch “The Bachelor” anymore. 
This season is unequivocally the most boring 
season in the franchise’s recent history. The show is heading for a crash with Luyendyk, the newest bachelor, in the driver’s seat. (Get it? Because he’s 
a race-car driver, which is arguably the only moderately ex-
citing thing about him.) 
The biggest problem with Luyendyk isn’t that almost all 
of what he says is some version of “this process is difﬁ  cult, but it will be worth it if my wife is in this room.” It’s not that 
he speaks exclusively in clichés, or that when asked what ex-
cites him, he replies with “excitement.” It would have been ﬁ  ne that he is just a mild-mannered, run-of-the-mill 36-year-old — but the operative phrase here is “would have.” As in, it would have been ﬁ  ne before the show gave us Rachel 
Lindsay as its Bachelorette. 
The franchise has taken a step backward with Luyendyk. 
In the last season, Lindsay brought the show, and the role 
of Bachelorette, to a new level. She was open-minded but 
straightforward. She was kind but outspoken. She let view-
ers in on her decisions to send home certain men, many of whom were crowd favorites. She had no tolerance for im-maturity or unnecessary drama between the contenders, and she often left the instigators without a rose for that reason. 
Despite the stigma, she spoke openly about her struggles 
with mental health after a difﬁ  cult break-up. 
When it was revealed that one of the contestants had es-
poused racist and hateful views on Twitter, Lindsay shut him down, later saying it was an “opportunity to be a spokesper-
son for African Americans, for women.” 
Fresh off the high of watching the genuine, dimensional 
Lindsay ﬁ  nd love, we are now forced to watch her polar 
opposite, Luyendyk, attempt do the same. He’s the typical 
Bachelor: a good-looking guy searching for a wife who will uproot her life and follow him around the country 
for his career.
That’s why when Jacqueline Trumbull, a con-
testant this season, brought up the fact that she was planning on getting her Ph.D. in chemical psychology, Arie implied that their relationship might not work out. 
“I don’t really see her ambitions and dreams 
as a hindrance,” he told the camera later. “It would just be another obstacle that we have to get through together.” She still got a rose — this time. 
Feminist viewers never used to watch “The Bachelor,” 
wine in hand, our Twitter apps open, every Monday night to see real people ﬁ  nd real love. In fact, for many, the show was happily hate-watched. We expected to be disappointed with outdated ideas about gender roles and a woman’s place 
in a marriage. But then came Lindsay, and for the ﬁ  rst time, 
we stopped hate-watching, and we just watched, cheering her on the entire time. 
In a post-Lindsay world, it’s tough to justify spending two 
hours watching Luyendyk fumble every opportunity to show 
he’s anything more than a pretty face with antiquated ideas. 
Why did the show regress instead of feeding off of Lindsay’s season? Simply put: ratings. 
The show’s creator, Mike Fleiss, said Lindsay’s sea-
son saw a ratings drop that was “incredibly disturbing in a Trumpish kind of way.” That is as if to say that a strong-minded, feminist black woman was not appealing to the franchise’s usual audience. If that is the case, Fleiss’s choice of Luyendyk was one that ran from the problem to appease 
viewers who tuned out for Lindsay’s season. 
Of course, “The Bachelor” is a business, and ratings are 
a measure of its success. But after 22 seasons on air, it’s ac-
quired a cult following, and it has the power to showcase diverse people who stand up for what is right. Until the show 
starts using that power for the right reasons, it will not re-
ceive my ﬁ  nal rose. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
focuses on feminism. The regressive politics of “The Bachelor”
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The Olympics, at its best, 
pick up the slack of poli-
tics, culture, education and 
everything in between. It does what these areas of-
ten fail to do: bring the many into one. It’s the simplicity and hon-
estness of competition that does 
this. Either you receive a medal or you don’t, and you earn a medal by doing better than the next per-son. I can only wish the government was this 
transparent. 
The Olympics give nations something to 
root for and rally around. Part of the thrill of 
watching the Olympics is knowing that mil-
lions of Americans are watching too.
But at its worst, the Olympics reﬂ  ect a na-
tion’s division and stratiﬁ  cation. For those of 
us who watched the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics, we witnessed this 
paradox in action.
The big story surrounding Pyeongchang 
was the uniﬁ  cation of South and North Korea, 
who mutually decided to share representa-
tion for their athletes. They are not competing 
separately but instead as one uniﬁ  ed Korea. 
Not only that, but just four days ago, Kim 
Jong Un extended a personal invitation to South Korea’s President, Moon Jae-in, to trav-
el to Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea. 
North and South Korean leaders have not of-ﬁ  cially met in 10 years. This is historic and the best example of the healing power of sport in recent memory.
Regardless of what else happens dur-
ing the Winter Olympics, the possibility of a friendship between North and South Korea is by far the best storyline of the competition. 
The ramiﬁ  cations of this are global; we would 
all beneﬁ  t from a calmer, friendlier and less trigger-happy Kim Jong Un. 
Watching the two Koreas walk together 
during the opening ceremony, the athletes 
waving a ﬂ  ag displaying one single Korea, 
was a treat. Everything that is good about the Olympics were expressed in that moment. Who knows what will happen after the competition is ﬁ  nished, 
whether North and South Korea 
will be at each other’s throats again or whether real peace comes from this, but we shouldn’t worry about that now. We should enjoy 
seeing the two Koreas compete 
and struggle together, hoping this is just the prologue to a great, uni-ﬁ  ed future.
While I watched two bickering nations 
complete as one, it made me think America needs to follow suit. Sure, we aren’t techni-cally divided into two nations. But we might as well be when it comes to class distinction.
I don’t know why, but while watching the 
opening ceremony, I was particularly struck this year by the sea of white, smiling faces who represent our country. 
For a second, I thought we were Norway 
or Russia. According to The New York Times, 243 athletes are competing for America, the most out of any nation, of which 10 are Afri-can American and 10 are Asian American (the 
U.S. Olympic Committee does not release data 
on other ethnicities because they do not think said data is reliably collected.) It doesn’t take a sociologist or political scientist to deduce from those numbers that America's multieth-
nic state isn't accurately reﬂ  ected.
This is a problem that I doubt will change 
soon. The pursuit of Winter Olympic sports — 
snowboarding, skiing, hockey, bobsled — is an expensive one, plain and simple. In Amer-
ica, wealthy people are mostly white people, 
hence why most of the athletes are white. How can a nation root for itself if a portion of its population is competing? It is a shame. 
Winter Olympic sports are not the most en-
tertaining, but they are beautiful and require admiration.
In any case, the Summer Olympics are al-
ways better anyway.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His 
column focuses on popular culture.When people say that dat-ing just isn’t the same 
as it used to be, they’re 
right.
Romance isn’t dead, 
but in a culture shaped by technol-ogy, it sometimes feels like modern 
love should come with a handbook 
— one that can be opened on an iPhone or tablet, of course.
Today’s couples face socially 
constructed norms that dictate acceptable and 
annoying social media behavior, and when 
these norms are violated it can lead to con-ﬂ  icts that were nonexistent 20 years ago.
Social media has the potential to play a 
role in each stage of a budding relationship. For starters, dating apps give people the odd ability to browse the ﬁ  sh in the sea, then ac-cept or reject a potential partner without actu-ally facing them in person.
Then comes the meet-the-parents-and-
grandparents phase, which often occurs for the ﬁ  rst time on Facebook when a new person is tagged in our photos and excited messages 
from friends and family members blow up our 
notiﬁ  cations.
On Snapchat we’re expected to maintain 
the messaging streak with the most important people in our lives, which likely includes ro-
mantic partners. On Instagram and Facebook 
it’s considered normal for people to post pic-tures of the person they’re dating. It’s become out-of-the-norm or deviant for someone in a relationship not to share photos of their part-
ner.
On one hand, I think these norms associat-
ed with modern dating are par-for-the-course. 
Posting pictures on Instagram and messaging 
through Snapchat with our friends and signiﬁ  -
cant others have become mainstream ways of communication and documenting glimpses of our lives. 
And, in all honesty, it simply feels good to 
share happy memories on our proﬁ  les. Some psychologists refer to this as the “slot machine effect” — it’s the euphoric, rewarding feeling that stems from positive reactions on a social media post.
That being said, it’s easy to get 
trapped in the proﬁ  les of other couples, and this can pave way for unhealthy social comparisons. According to a recent study in the 
Journal of Youth and Adolescence, 
young adults who admitted to com-paring themselves to others online were more likely to have a weaker 
sense of themselves and their identities when 
compared with those who didn’t.
In the study, researchers Chia-chen Yang, 
Sean Holden and Mollie Carter from the Uni-
versity of Memphis surveyed more than 200 
college freshmen and found that in students 
who compared themselves to others on Ins-tagram had lower levels of overall self-esteem and psycho-emotional wellbeing. 
Though social comparisons have always 
been ingrained in American culture, social media has made it easier to compare ourselves to others and reap negative emotional side ef-fects, especially when it comes to dating.
Today, we’re faced with scrolling photo 
streams showcasing other couples celebrating random milestones with gold-foil balloons. We see constant posts showing the where-abouts of every romantic duo in or out of 
our social circles. Today’s couples can easily 
spiral into feelings of doubt or even question their friends’ relationships solely based on their social media posting habits.
But despite how frequently or infrequently 
one chooses to document their dating lives, what matters most are the stories behind the snaps and the off-camera interactions that make each relationship unique and impos-
sible to capture on a social media proﬁ  le.
Even in a world inﬁ  ltrated by cute puns 
and pictures, the truth is that actions will al-
ways speak louder than Instagram captions.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column focuses on human behavior and 
sociology.The Olympics highlight socioeconomic 
class division in the United StatesSocial media is shaping dating, but 
it shouldn't deﬁ  ne relationshipsColumn Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Destination Okeechobee:
Six groups will battle it out for a spot (pg. 10)Impossible Burger: 
Loosey’s is the ﬁ  rst to serve this meatless alternative (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Emma Witmer
 and Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writers
It’s Valentine’s Day and you still don’t 
know what to do? Gainesville has plenty 
of ways to impress your valentine with 
something different than last year. If the 
standard dinner and a movie isn’t your style, don’t worry — we’ve got you cov-ered. Here are seven nontraditional ways 
to spend the holiday with that special 
someone.  
For beer and cookies…  
Midnight Cookies has partnered with 
Swamp Head Brewery for a sweet and 
tipsy evening. Guests will have four Val-
entine’s Day inspired beers to taste, cre-ated by the brewers at Swamp Head, and fresh cookies from the bakers at Midnight 
Cookies. The event begins at 4 p.m. and 
continues until 10 p.m. Swamp Head is lo-cated at 3650 SW 42nd Ave.
For beer, cupcakes and romcoms… First Magnitude Brewing Company is 
hosting a reservation-free event with food, booze and a romantic comedy on the big screen at 7 p.m. “Crazy Stupid Love” will be streamed live in the warehouse along-
side Patticakes cupcakes and specialty 
beers. All you need is a blanket, an ap-petite and someone to cuddle with. First Magnitude is located at 1220 SE Veitch St. 
For the nature lovers… 
Paynes Prairie is a National Natural 
Landmark with alligators, bison, horses 
and hundreds of bird species. The park is full of trails where you can get away from 
the city and ﬁ  nd yourself face-to-face with 
Florida’s natural beauty. Paynes Prairie is located at 100 Savannah Blvd. in Micano-py, Florida.
For the artsy valentines...
If you have an artistic bone in your 
body, date night at Painting with a Twist 
was made for you and your valentine. From 7 to 9 p.m. at Gainesville’s studio 
location, you can grab an empty canvas, 
create art and make some memories. All you need is a prebought ticket online at paintingwithatwist.com/studio/gaines-ville/event/1420160/ and a bottle of red 
or white wine from home.
For the die-hard Gator duo...
If you and your valentine are as in love 
with the Swamp as you are with each 
other, you’re in luck. A romantic eve-
ning cheering on Gator basketball at the O’Connell Center is calling your name to-night. The men will take the court in the O’Dome against the Georgia Bulldogs at 9 p.m.. Can I get a “go gators”?
For some competition… Nothing says romance like bowling 
shoes. Splitz Bowling, located at 1301 NW 
76th Blvd., is offering special deals to cou-
ples looking for a bit of competition. This Valentine’s Day “Deal for Two” includes four two-person games, shoe rental and a 
$10 game card to Splitz’s arcade.
For the trivia (and pizza) lovers…  
Grab your teammate and head to Satch-
el’s Pizza at 7 p.m. for 20 “mind bend-
ing” trivia questions from Imagine Trivia. 
Satchel’s, a quirky Gainesville hot spot, is 
located at 1800 NE 23rd Ave. This trivia event is actually available every other Wednesday night, so you can start a new 
couple’s tradition this Valentine’s Day.Seven unconventional spots 
to spend Valentine’s Day
Courtesy to the Alligator
Midnight Cookies and Swamp Head Brewery are teaming up this Valentine’s 
Day, making for a great event for lovers and Galentines alike. 
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
The hit NBC show “Parks and Recreation” 
gave us a lot of memorable gems like “treat yo 
self,” DJ Rumba and every single one of Ann Perkin’s nicknames but, most importantly, it gave us the most signiﬁ  cant holiday of the 
year, Galentine’s Day. 
The show follows Leslie Knope, the femi-
nist, trailblazing lead who is in charge of 
Pawnee Indiana’s Parks and Recreation de-partment, who quickly makes it clear that she adores her girlfriends possibly even more than she loves her wafﬂ  es drenched in maple 
syrup.  Even though Leslie made herstory by 
coining Galentine’s Day on Feb. 13, why stop the festivities then? Here are a few fun events that you can do in Gainesville to celebrate the greatest love of all — sisterhood.Valentine’s Black Hearts Ball/Retro 
Video Dance Party
Tease your friend’s hair, ﬁ  nd your best 
neon spandex and scavenge for the most 
oversized pair of parachute pants you own, 
because this is your night to get wild. Tonight 
the Atlantic will be hosting a retro video dance 
party featuring music from the ’80s, ’90s and 
2000s. There’s nothing more empowering 
than getting down to TLC’s “No Scrubs” or 
Destiny Child’s “Jumpin’ Jumpin’” with some of your closest friends. The ﬁ  ve-hour dance party starts at 9 p.m. and ends at 2 a.m., so stay safe, dance your heart out and try not to 
drink too much of Tom Haverford’s signature 
Snakejuice.
A Valentine’s Night at the Museum
There’s no better way to spend Valen-
tine’s Day than with a group of your closest, competitive friends, ﬁ  ghting over trivia ques-tions like your life depends on it. However, I 
have to warn readers that depending on your 
competitive nature, you could potentially lose friends from this.
The Florida Museum of Natural History 
will be hosting this event, which includes triv-ia as well as a scavenger hunt that makes its way through the exhibits. The night runs from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. with a dessert bar provided by Celebrations Catering, so hunger won’t get 
in the way of your winning glory.
Farmers Market
Make Leslie Knope proud by supporting 
Gainesville’s very own Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs department who devotedly or-
ganize the Union Street Farmers Market every Wednesday on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Eat your way through downtown by enjoying more than 40 local vendors selling an assort-
ment of fresh and local produce, bakery items, 
jams and more. Enjoy organic coffee and snack on some freshly baked German pretzels 
while taking in the lively, diverse Gainesville 
community. While the market only runs from 
4 to 7 p.m., you don’t have to wait another 
year to take your friends, as it returns every Wednesday.
Netﬂ  ix and Chill
While going out on the town is always 
fun, there’s nothing better than just spending a comfy night inside with some good snacks, and best of all — you don’t need to wear 
pants. Invite a few friends over and watch a 
good TV show or movie that reﬂ  ects the same girl power that you’re celebrating. Netﬂ  ix contains a large selection of movies and TV shows that would be perfect to commemorate 
female friendship. You could watch “Jessica 
Jones,” “New Girl,” “The Incredible Jessica James,” “Garfunkel and Oats” or, heck, you could go ahead and binge-watch all seven sea-sons of “Parks and Recreation” to really com-
mit to Galentine’s Day. Make your friends a 
fresh batch of wafﬂ  es, douse those bad boys 
in maple syrup and spend the night quoting 
our holiday’s founder, Leslie Knope herself. Four ways to keep your 
Galentine’s Day going WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
“CLASSIC DINING WITH A UNIQUE TWIST”
For reservation and discount information visit
www.warehousedining.com
502 S. Main St. • 352-240-6432BUY ONE, 
GET TWO FREE
• Bring student ID
• Purchase a dinner entree and 
get two of these FREE salad, dessert or wine
• offer valid February - March
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer
It was a Midtown fairytale.
Ten years ago, two Gainesville bartenders fell 
in love. 
Now Danny and Joy Hughes are the found-
ers and co-owners of Loosey’s, a local dive bar 
named after the ﬁ  rst thing they ever owned to-
gether: a lanky, golden-coat dog from Gainesville 
Pet Rescue.
Loosey’s downtown pub is now one of two 
Gainesville locations serving burgers off the cast 
iron grill and brews from around the country.
Joy, a UF alumna with a degree in ﬁ  nance, 
said she thought after graduating in 2008 she 
would work an ofﬁ  ce job from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
“I guess it’s time to get a real job,” she said. 
“And I hated it.”
She said at that point, she and Danny had a 
combined 25 years experience in the restaurant 
industry.
“We talked a lot about the future as people 
who are in love do,” she said.
By 2010, they were engaged and the proud 
new owners of a bar.  
Two days after Market Street Pub, a locally 
renowned downtown bar of 22 years, shut down, Danny and Joy signed the lease for it.
 At ﬁ  rst, she said, the kitchen was slow to 
open. But once it did, the menu evolved. Their half-pound burgers became a best-seller.
“I think now more than it used be we’re, like, 
half-and-half food versus booze,” she said.
Adding to the burger menu in January, 
Loosey’s is now the ﬁ  rst venue in Gainesville 
to serve the Impossible Burger, a revolutionary vegan patty that tastes like real meat. The cre-
ation was crafted by Impossible Foods, a team 
of scientists, engineers, farmers and chefs with 
headquarters in California.
Danny said local customers are lovingly call-
ing it the “science burger.”
They weren’t actively pursuing a vegetable-
based alternative when it was brought to their attention by partner and co-worker Tim Hutch-
ens, he said.
However, this patty is extraordinary.
“For us to be bringing it in, it kind of already 
has a tall mountain to climb because we have a really good burger, and we have a really good 
veggie burger,” Danny said. “And it’s still hold-ing its own.”
In fact, he said, he has been surprised by the 
number of return customers for the Impossible 
Burger so far.
“I expected it to be a novelty ﬂ  ash,” Danny 
said. “I ﬁ  gured it would hold on, but it’s deﬁ  -nitely done better than I anticipated.”
Danny thinks there’s a handful of people he 
could hand the burger to and they would never know it wasn’t real meat.
Joy said she encourages any meat-lover like 
herself to have an open mind and come out to try it.
Conﬁ  dent that they have mastered the din-
er-style burger with the impossible patty, the 
young couple said they are now playing with the 
idea of using it in other applications like lasagna or shepherd’s pie.
For more information on the Impossible Burg-
er, including its environmental beneﬁ  ts, check 
out https://www.impossiblefoods.com/burger/. Loosey’s becomes ﬁ  rst local venue to serve Impossible Burger
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Impossible Burger is a meatless option that tastes, looks and 
feels like real meat. 
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Every year, artists compete in Destination 
Okeechobee competitions throughout Florida 
in hopes of earning a spot on the Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival line-up. The first round, which concluded about a month ago, 
consisted of online voting exclusively. Flip-
turn, a Gainesville alternative indie group, beat out nearly 3,000 other artists and bands for their spot.
The second round of Gainesville’s Destina-
tion Okeechobee is Thursday night. This round is called the Battle of the Bands, and local and regional performers will fight for their spot on the stage at High Dive. The online voting pro-cess from the first round also determined what artists would qualify.
The show will begin at 8:30 p.m., with 
doors opening at 8 p.m. Tickets for the show are available at HighDiveGainesville.com for $6 in advance and at the door for $8. An addi-tional $3 charge applies to all guests under 21.
The 2018 Battle of the Bands will feature 
performances from competing musicians The Savants of Soul, Retrolux, Faze Wave, N.W. Izzard, Venm and Losa Fólk. In addition to the competing bands, Battle of the Bands will 
feature a performance from the 2017 winner, 
Side Trakd, and dynamic décor from Eclectic Electric.
From indie to electronic to soul, Thursday’s 
performers embody a wide span of genres along with the raw talent that they’ll bring to the stage. Here’s what you need to know about each of them.
Retrolux
Retrolux is a Gainesville indie-electronic 
duo made up of Anna James and Maynard Shaye. James and Shaye have quite the story, involving a Craigslist ad, a Halloween party and some skeptical parents. Today, however, the duo has fully embraced the Gainesville music scene together, signing to Swamp Re-cords in 2015 and releasing their first two EPs in 2017.“With the first EP, we didn’t really under-
stand our style, and we were just learning how to work together and write together. I feel like with the second EP we figured out a more effi-cient way to write songs together and get them out,” James said.
Retrolux, Shaye said, realized that they had 
to compete in Destination Okeechobee since The Delta Troubadours’ victory in last year’s 
competition. Now, James and Shaye are flood-
ing the internet and the streets with posters and video content reaching out to fans to come out and support their journey.
 “We have a lot of room to grow, and we’re 
excited to put in the hard work to get us there,” James said.
For an idea of what to expect from Retrolux, 
check out their smooth release “Silhouettes.”
Faze Wave
Faze Wave is a four-piece alternative band 
from Jacksonville made up of Matthew Flynn, Jacob Nemeth, Hunter Hileman and Zachary Stickler.
The guys of Faze Wave are a modern alter-
native take on the beach band, combining that nostalgic, iconic beach-style with more com-plex instrumentals and production. This style shows best in their recently released single and accompanying music video, “Leagues.”
N.W. Izzard
N.W. Izzard, with its bouncing, folk-in-
fluenced, soulful sound, takes the High Dive stage Thursday night as well. After two years of performing under the moniker N.W. Izzard, the band announced that it would change its name to Honey Hounds on the night of Battle of the Bands. Honey Hounds’ song, “Easy Like the Breeze,” is a must-hear for those new to their music.
VENM
VENM is a dubstep duo composed of Berk-
lee College of Music student Julian Beal and UF student Nate Green. The two hone relent-less bass and an overall heavy style of produc-tion to create one of the most explosive sounds to battle it out Thursday. The duo just released a clip of their next single, “Unbelievable,” to SoundCloud, a release that takes things to fiery new heights.
Losa Fólk
Losa Fólk may have the most to prove at 
Battle of the Bands, as he did not originally qualify. Losa Fólk, or Brady Bauer as he is known offstage, is a Gainesville native DJ who is passionate about “quality electronic music.” Originally, Bauer was the runner up in online 
voting, one space short of competing at the 
Battle of the Bands. However, after one of the 
original acts unexpectedly dropped out, Bauer secured a spot.
As for who he is, Bauer describes himself in 
a straightforward way.
“I’m a pretty average person who finds a lot 
of peace and happiness in music, so I’m trying to spread that to other people,” Bauer said.
Now that he has found his way into the 
Battle of the Bands, Bauer is excited for the possibility of performing at Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival.
“Okeechobee is home for me, in all hones-
ty,” Bauer said. “I’ve never felt more comfort-able at a music festival or just surrounded by a huge group of strangers. So, I mean, I’ve been going every year since it started. I look at it as my key festival, so to be able to go back and 
actually play there, it would be jaw-dropping.”
For an idea of what to expect from Losa 
Fólk, check out his more than 20-minute “take 
me to okee” mix on SoundCloud. 
The Savants of Soul
The Savants of Soul are a Gainesville sta-
ple, bringing their energetic signature to stages around Gainesville and all of Florida since 2010.
The massive group is known for their dy-
namic performances and distinctly soulful sound. To get a taste of The Savants of Soul powerhouse style of music, check out “Second Chance Lover,” the single from the 2016 EP, “Sunday Best.”
Musicians and producers to battle for Okeechobee Spot
Courtesy to The Alligator
On Thursday, six groups from across genres will battle for a spot at March’s 
Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival.
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor 
Mind-bending producer Digital 
Ethos hits Gainesville this Sunday 
at Simon’s. The show will run 
from 9 p.m. - 2 a.m., with tickets available via Eventbrite for $12.61 
to $17.89.
Never one to shy away from 
gritty basslines and alien synth melodies, the artist sounds like 
a blend of Bassnectar, G Jones, Bleep Bloop and something 
wonky and wonderfully unique 
from the three. He’s a precise embodiment of underground, 
downright odd bass music that is 
confusing to some but loved by a niche community. And while he’s 
certainly not for the faint of heart 
— he’s guaranteed to blow the doors off Simon’s on Sunday. 
In addition to the sound, Digi-
tal Ethos’ name is on the rise. 
After dropping a menacing 
collaboration titled “Slather” with Bassnectar in December 2017, the artist and his unorthodox tracks 
are gaining speed. And although 
this collaboration rose to be one of Bassnectar’s most-loved releas-es of 2017, Digital Ethos’ discog-
raphy literally goes much deeper 
than “Slather.” Here are some of the producer’s must-hear tracks.
Slather
Through teaming up with a 
household electronic name, Digi-
tal Ethos and Bassnectar strike 
gold with this in-your-face col-laboration. If there’s one song you 
should hear going into the night, 
it really is this one. 
Paroxysm
With furious-paced percussion 
and clean drops, this could be one of Digital Ethos’ best. 
The Jungle
This abstract release sounds 
more robotic than jungle-like, and the subtle hip-hop beat gives you 
something to hold on to. 
Cortex
“Cortex” slows things down 
with both wobbling and constant-
ly cascading synths, making for a moody but subtle mood. 
Wormhole
As one of Digital Ethos’ earlier 
releases, “Wormhole” sounds just 
as odd and alien as you’d expect 
it to. Bass-heavy producer 
Digital Ethos to performBy T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
VegFest, a celebration of a healthy, 
sustainable and compassionate life-
style, will return due to high demand Saturday at Depot Park. 
The free, family-friendly event 
was created with the goal for people of all ages to have fun while learning about ways to improve health and lessen impact on the environment. 
This year’s VegFest will include 
30 restaurants specializing in either food, beverage or dessert, and all of them encompass what VegFest is all about — fresh, natural ingredients and a healthy lifestyle. 
According to the website, there 
will be popular local vendors at the event such as Curia On the Drag, Daily Green, Humble Wood Fire, Big Island Bowls and more. However, there will also be a few who will travel to the event. 
Tea Nation USA is a web and 
event-based store originating in Jack-sonville. The team behind the store travel all over North Florida selling 
their organic hand-crafted tea blends 
that are geared towards healing. 
Kayla Taylor, a co-founder of Tea 
Nation USA, was a nutritional thera-pist and holistic healer producing healing teas for 15 years. Kayla start-ed the business with her husband, Samuel Taylor, where she said they work together to make natural heal-ing mainstream. 
“We’ve found that those who 
have committed to a vegan lifestyle are typically highly health-con-scious,” Kayla said. “At Tea Nation we aim to educate people about natural alternatives, so VegFest is a perfect fit for us.”
Kayla said she makes each indi-
vidual tea by hand to ensure consis-
tency, only using organic ingredients. 
She added that if you aren’t drinking organic, then you’re drinking a cup of carcinogens, which negates the healing properties of the tea. 
“We get positive feedback all the 
time, and that is exactly why we are in this business,” she said. “We are helping people take back control of 
their health and thus their lives.”
Kayla said that her husband and 
she both highly recommend their im-
muniTEA, which was one of the first blends that Kayla developed and has worked miracles for her weak im-mune system. She said she used to get sick four times per year consis-tently but hasn’t gotten sick since she 
first made the tea. 
“Not only does this tea seriously 
work, but the blend of eucalyptus, el-
derberry, ginger, hibiscus and other herbs is just delicious,” Kayla said. “We always have a pitcher in the fridge.”
Kayla said she’s looking forward 
to the event to meet all of the health-
conscious people as well as to try 
some kombucha from their friends at Wellspring, who specialize in spar-kling probiotic tea. 
“People should come by and see 
us because we will be sampling one of our signature teas in addition to offering custom blends on site, so attendees will have the option to de-
sign their own teas,” said Taylor.
In order to promote their goal of 
reduced animal suffering, VegFest 
will also include a variety of animal rescues and sanctuaries. These in-clude the Alachua County Humane Society, CJ Acres, Gainesville Rabbit Rescue, Pug Rescue of Florida, Plenty of Pit Bulls, Jungle Friends Primate 
Sanctuary, Kindred Spirits Sanctuary 
and Another Chance Ranch. 
Felicia Sobieska, a 21-year-old UF 
speech therapy senior, said she was inspired to go to the event due to the countless healthy vegetarian options.
“It’s important for everyone to 
respect food and understand how badly animals are treated,” Sobieska 
said. 
The event, which runs from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m., will include speak-
ers, vendors, exhibitors, educational booths, music and children’s activi-ties. 
VegFest returns to Depot ParkBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Marina Property- Priced to sell!!!Private waterfront community.With Concierge Boat Service & boathouse slipOnly $139,880Video: www.WaterfrontLifeFL.net877.628.3349 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.    2-9-1-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any Dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N    2-9-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
FOR RENT NEAR SF
HOUSE 4BR/2BA . Very cool house - sum-mer doesn't need A/C. 352-328-1479    2-9-18-2-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, W/D, bike to UFNo pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier$1500/mo. 352-256-8370,352-246-86452-19-18-3-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
ATTENTION INDIVIDUALS WITH GRITResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-14-18-10-14
NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
Part-time bilingual (English / Spanish)assistant for law office.
Send resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com    2-16-18-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.14 Help Wanted 15 Services
1. SCIENCE: What is the threadlike 
conductor in an incandescent lightbulb 
called?
2. MOVIES: Who played the lead 
in the 1980s movie “Moscow on the 
Hudson”?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the offi-
cial language of Mozambique?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
female swan called?
5. TRANSPORTATION: What air -
port would you be traveling through if 
the three-letter designation is LGW?
6. TELEVISION: What is the sub-
ject matter of the drama called “Big 
Love”?
7. ANATOMY: A normal set of 
human teeth has how many incisors?
8. LITERATURE: To whom did 
Herman Melville dedicate the novel “Moby-Dick”?
9. GOVERNMENT: Which coun-
try’s parliament is called the Althing?
10. AD SLOGANS: What company 
advertised its products as “the best a man can get”?
Answers
1. Filament2. Robin Williams3. Portuguese4. A pen5. Gatwick, London6. Modern-day polygamy
7. Eight
8. Nathaniel Hawthorne9. Iceland10. Gillette, razors
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
February 12, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
My name is Jason. I am 39 years old and 
looking for a female companion between 28-38 yrs old for a weekend getaway to Disney. I would like a person that is sweet, kind, & has great goals for her life & that is outgoing. I am not looking for any "exchanges" or "hookups".Please call or text me@ 352 225-6429    2-21-18-19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/19- 2/22 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-19-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Progressive talk radio is on
WGOT 100.1 FM
along with indie rock, punk, jazz, electronica, 
folk and more. Visit wgot.org     2-9-18-4-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Drive-thru device
4 Org. people line
up for?
7 Sell under false
pretenses
14 Tries to scam
online
16 South Pacific
region
17 Good thing to
break gently
18 Bought time
19 Has no chance of
working
21 “__ Lisa”
22 Golf’s “Big Easy”
23 “This is a sure
bet”
28 “Halt and Catch
Fire” network
31 Writers Patchett
and Brashares
32 Korea setting34 Rhodes of
Rhodesia fame
36 “__-Man”:
superhero film
37 Longtime
SeaWorld star
38 Four-legged
collar wearer
40 Indigo plant41 Rubble-making
stuff
42 “Hold on a sec”46 Storybook crone47 Close at hand48 2000s sitcom
starring JasonLee
53 “God willing!”
55 “We’ve heard
enough”
57 Accumulates58 Cautious bettors
59 Mailer’s need
60 Many promos
61 Spot for family
game night
DOWN
1 Manhunt letters
2 Winter warm
spell
3 Skirt style4 Title role for
Geena
5 Attached, as a
button
6 Give the 
go-ahead7 Something
struck by a
model?
8 One in a cast
9 Circulars
10 Store collections11 The Beach Boys’
“God __ Knows”
12 Quaint “For
shame!”
13 Fidget spinners,
apparently
15 Kate McKinnon is
in its ensemble,
briefly
20 End of a
question begun
by part of 19-,
23-, 42- and 48-Across
23 Regatta entry24 Diamond
situation after aleadoff double
25 Full-length, as a
film
26 Several CBS
dramas
27 Bread grain28 Yoga pose
29 Make like
30 Sink sealant33 Captain
described as a
“grand, ungodly,
god-like man”
35 Beirut natives
36 Bubbly prefix
39 Winged steed of
myth
43 Performer with
many fans?
44 Secured, as a
gate45 Tire features46 Bouncing off the
walls
48 Shape
49 Hairdressing
challenges
50 Uru. neighbor
51 Swamp thing52 Angler’s fly, e.g.53 Pub letters54 Squirreled away56 Bank acct. info
By Loren Muse Smith and Bruce Haight
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/14/1802/14/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, February 14, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  National ____
1.  Aviator 5.  ____ beef
2.  Mass ____6.  Pig or boar
3.  Interweave 7.  Thrown about
4.  Grotto HAMTNE
AMAINRSAROT
WISEN
ANRISTT
IWENNETETNSRW
ACRNVEANSWERS: 1A-Anthem  5A-Roast  6A-Swine  7A-Strewn
1D-Airman  2D-Transit  3D-Entwine  4D-Cavern  B-Manhattan2-14-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to 72,000 about 
people per square mile.
BONUS
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 22 TicketsBy Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
With runners on second and 
third base deep into the seventh 
inning, Florida freshman outﬁ  elder Jordan Matthews had one job.
She stepped up to the plate, 
awaited a pitch from Illinois State’s Morgan Day and swung.
In her ﬁ  rst collegiate game as a 
Gator, Matthews not only hit the pitch well enough to help  team-mates Aleshia Ocasio and Sophia Reynoso score, but she hit a home run to left ﬁ  eld, UF’s ﬁ  rst long ball of the year.
Her three-RBI blast pushed the 
Gators to a 9-0 lead in their season opener against the Redbirds on Fri-day.
“That just has to be a special 
moment to ﬁ  nally see her play col-lege softball," coach Tim Walton said. "And for her to get a home run in her ﬁ  rst collegiate game is really special.”
Coming off a solid weekend 
at the USF Softball Stadium, the Gators (5-0) will host their ﬁ  rst home game of the season at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium tonight at 6 against North Florida (2-3). To-night’s matchup is one of 29 regu-lar season games they’ll host this season.
The No. 2 Gators are coming off 
an opening weekend that saw them 
record four shutouts in ﬁ  ve games, 
a good start for a team that’s hop-ing to make up for its defeat in last year’s Women’s College World Se-ries.
Matthews is just one reason the 
Gators have a lot to look forward to this season.
The Anaheim, California, na-
The Florida women's golf 
team ﬁ  nished seventh at the Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge on Tuesday. Sophomore Carlotta Ricolﬁ   led 
UF with a score of 6 over par.UF swimming and diving kicks off SEC Championships
The Florida men's and women's swimming and diving teams are in College 
Station, T exas, this morning for Day 1 of the SEC Championships. The men are defending conference champions, while the women ﬁ  nished seventh in last year's competition.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
More than three quarters of the 
way through a season ﬁ  lled with 
highs and lows, the Florida men’s 
basketball team faces Georgia to-night at 9 in the O’Connell Cen-
ter in the teams’ second meeting 
of the year. The Gators (17-8, 8-4 
SEC) fell 72-60 at Georgia (13-11, 
4-8 SEC) on Jan. 30, their second 
of three straight SEC losses, but 
enter tonight’s matchup riding 
momentum from convincing wins 
over LSU and South Carolina. Here 
are three things to look for in to-
night’s rematch, which will air on 
the SEC Network.
(1) Georgia’s Yante MatenThe 6-foot-8, 240-pound Maten 
appears to be on his way to a third-
straight All-SEC selection, despite the Bulldogs being a middle-of-the-pack SEC team. The senior forward 
is having a career season, leading the league in scoring (19.4 points 
per game) while pulling down the third-most rebounds (8.7 per 
game).
In UGA's ﬁ  rst game against 
Florida, Maten led all players with 
20 points, made all ﬁ  ve of his free 
throw attempts and pulled down 
seven rebounds in 31 minutes of 
action.
Florida coach Mike White said 
he doesn’t anticipate making a 
lot of changes to his team’s game plan this time around. Instead, he wants to see the Gators compete 
with more energy than they did the 
last time they faced the Bulldogs.
“The game at Georgia isn’t the 
only one that we’ve lacked in those areas,” White said. “It’s kind of 
who we’ve been.”
(2) Florida’s defense
Fresh off one of its best perfor-
mances of the Mike White era — 
holding South Carolina to 41 points 
on Saturday — Florida’s defense is looking to clamp down on a 
Georgia offense that outscored the Gators 24-9 over the ﬁ  nal 10:29 of 
the two teams' previous matchup.
Bulldogs guards William Jack-
son II (16 points) and Juwan Park-
er (12 points) helped Maten keep the Gators' defense on its heels, 
something UF will look to avoid tonight.
“We put a big emphasis on 
guarding Yante Maten,” Florida 
guard Jalen Hudson said. “So 
much of an emphasis that we let 
their guards kind of get free and do 
whatever they want.”
Hudson and White said the 
team has spent a lot of time focus-
ing on defense this week. While it 
was encouraging to see his players shut down South Carolina on Sat-
urday, White said what really mat-
ters is for the team to maintain its 
elevated levels of defensive energy 
moving forward.Gators geared up for tonight's matchup with Bulldogs
SEE MEN'S BBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16I might be a little late to 
the party on this one, but something hap-pened this past week-end that deserves rec-
ognition.
Usually, interesting 
storylines involving non-revenue college sports receive little to no cover-age by the media. College sports fans tend to only care about basketball, football and baseball.
Consequently, they miss out on 
some of the best stories, ones that bring to light topics more important than any game or player.What I’m referring 
to is from this week-end’s UF lacrosse game against Colorado. The average fan might re-call that the Gators won the game 16-9 and that it was the season open-er. That’s it.
But the story sur-
rounding the lacrosse game was much more important.
Colorado senior attacker Julia 
Sarcona died in a single-car accident on Jan. 13, nearly four weeks before the Buffaloes’ season opener against Sports stories go deeper than 
scores. We too often forget thatJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
Nate Bustamante / Alligator Staff
Florida men's basketball coach Mike White isn't satisﬁ  ed with his team's defense despite it holding South Carolina to a season-low 41 points on Saturday. "I don't want to act like... we've got it all ﬁ  gured out, " he said.
SOFTBALL
Matthews oﬀ   to a hot start for UF 
heading into today's home opener  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be not publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pmMEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
The loudest voices on the courts 
of the Ring Tennis Complex prefer 
quiet before a match.
Freshman Duarte Vale and junior 
McClain Kessler played at the No. 1 doubles position as the Florida men’s tennis team took on No. 13 Michigan and No. 2 Ohio State in last week-end’s road trip. Home crowds in Gainesville have only seen the duo 
on the No. 2 court, but recognize it 
for its loud cheers and pumping ﬁ  sts.
In the hours leading up to a 
match, however, the two enjoy relax-ing in each other’s company.
“I’ll come over to (Vale’s) room 
and we’ll put on some chill music and just sit back,” Kessler said of their pre-match routine. “And then 
closer to the match we’ll get hype 
and more hype.”
That hype led Kessler and Vale to 
an upset victory over a pair from No. 1 Wake Forest last fall, to a top-ﬁ  ve ranking this spring, and – most re-cently – to the team’s No. 1 doubles position last weekend.
On Friday, the Gators defeated 
Michigan 4-2 for their strongest win of the season so far. Florida recov-ered from a slow start in singles because of an early advantage after winning the doubles point. Kessler and Vale were the reason for that ad-vantage.
Up against the nation’s ninth-
ranked doubles team, Kessler and 
Vale defended two match points 
before securing a 7-6(6) victory and breaking the tie from the No. 2 and 
No. 3 positions. Without the point, 
the match’s outcome would have been determined by the closely fought third set at the No. 5 singles position, which was not ﬁ  nished once the Gators clinched.
Against OSU on Sunday, the im-
portance of the doubles point re-vealed itself again.
After Kessler and Vale lost 6-2 on 
the No. 1 court and junior Alfredo Perez and freshman Oliver Crawford defeated the Buckeyes’ No. 2 duo, the point was decided at the No. 3 posi-tion.  Sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and senior Chase Perez-Blanco were unable to overcome a late deﬁ  cit and lost Florida the advantage. The 
Gators never recovered and eventu-
ally lost to OSU 5-2.
“Playing on the road against one 
of the top two or three teams in the country, it’s kind of tough after los-ing the doubles point,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “I deﬁ  nitely have a lot of trust in our guys to get that win the next time.”
Shelton expects to keep the dou-
bles lineup relatively intact with only a few small changes going into the ITA National Team Indoor Champi-onships this weekend. Kessler and Vale will have a heavy responsibility to keep their team alive in doubles play against some tough competition.
With the new challenge, the two 
rely on a strong dynamic rooted in their high energy.
“I’ve played with a lot of different 
partners,” Vale said. “But McClain is deﬁ  nitely the player I have the big-gest connection with. We’re hyped all the time.”
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.org Kessler, Vale play top position as UF 
experiments with doubles lineup
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida’s No. 1 doubles pair — Duarte Vale (left) and McClain Kessler 
(right) — helped lead UF to a 4-2 win over No. 13 Michigan on Friday.
LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
Heading into the 2018 sea-
son, the biggest question facing 
the Gators was how they would replace the production of last 
year’s seniors.
Florida appears to have an-
swered that question.
Although the team returned 
many key contributors from 
2017’s Big East championship-winning squad, it lost its top two 
points leaders in Sammi Burgess 
and Mollie Stevens. The Gators knew they needed to replace that scoring prowess, and after one game, coach Amanda O’Leary seems to have found the solution 
in a class of talented freshmen.
Freshman attackers Kassidy 
Bresnahan and Grace Haus swift-ly made their mark in the ﬁ  rst 
half of Florida’s 16-9 home vic-tory over Colorado on Sunday, combining to score four of UF’s ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve goals.
“It was exciting to see them 
get on the board early,” O’Leary said.
Bresnahan, whose older sis-
ter, Taylor, was a senior on the 
team last year, scored two goals 
and an assist in the victory. Haus also had two goals and an as-sist. Both players started in the Gators’ season opener.
Freshman midﬁ  elder Shan-
non Kavanagh also started on Sunday, and O’Leary trusted her to take the majority of the draws. She won eight draw controls in the victory, facing off against Colorado’s Darby Kiernan. Kier-nan led the Buffaloes in points, goals and assists a year ago, and her 120 draw controls in 2017 ranked 11th nationally. Howev-
er, she was held to only one goal 
in the loss.
Kavanagh also had a goal and 
an assist for the Gators.
Junior midﬁ  elder Madi Hall 
was impressed by the contribu-
tions of the young players.
“They deﬁ  nitely stepped up,” 
she said after the game.
Freshman contributions in 
the game were not limited to the offensive side. Defender Sa-brina Cristodero was matched up 
against one of Colorado’s best 
scorers, Miranda Stinson, for the 
entire game.
Stinson scored seven goals 
in the Buffaloes’ 20-10 victory over Michigan on Friday night, but scored only one goal on 10 shots in a losing effort against the Gators.
With No. 1 Maryland com-
ing to town on Saturday, UF will need another strong performance 
from its freshmen.
Competing with the top-
ranked Terrapins won’t be easy, 
but Hall believes the team’s new-comers have something to build on after a promising start to the season.
“I thought they did awe-
some,” she said. “They deﬁ  nitely need to keep that up.”
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org  Freshmen  making an 
early impact for Florida16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2018
“I don’t want to act like this is a new season and 
we’ve got it all ﬁ  gured out,” White said. “Let’s see 
if we can get it three games in a row.”
 (3) White trying different lineups
Junior guard KeVaughn Allen started 22 of UF’s 
ﬁ  rst 23 games but has come off the bench in the 
Gators’ last two contests against LSU and South 
Carolina. Allen has struggled to ﬁ  nd a rhythm in 
a guard-heavy rotation featuring new additions in 
Hudson and graduate transfer Egor Koulechov, the 
top two scorers on the team.
White said that Hudson, Florida’s sixth man 
in 10 of the previous 12 games, started in Allen’s 
place against LSU as discipline for Allen being late 
to the team’s shootaround. But after a 73-64 victory 
over the Tigers, White elected to start Hudson again 
against the Gamecocks.
White has also started to rely on his second unit 
more and more as the season has gone on. He said  
the team's younger players have gotten better at playing their roles and bringing enough intensity to the court.
Hudson said giving the bench a longer leash 
is good for the team and said he felt encouraged knowing there isn't any drop off when the subs come in.
“When you play guys and everybody gets their 
turn, you get more conﬁ  dent,” he said.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgMEN'S BBALL,  from pg. 14Allen started 22 
of irst 23 games
Michigan on Feb. 9. 
A team preparing for the upcoming season 
had to turn its attention to comforting one an-
other as well as Sarcona’s family. Nearly 1,751 miles away, UF senior midﬁ  elder Allie Pavi-nelli felt the same pain.
Pavinelli and Sarcona grew up together playing lacrosse in Northport, New York, as neighbors. Instantly, a story covered exten-sively in the Boulder, Colorado, area now has a unique tie to Gainesville. It could have been an article that was picked up right away. It wasn’t, not even by us, the Alligator.
Even after the game had passed, and both 
teams wore shirts and wristbands remember-ing Sarcona, not much was mentioned in news 
stories outside of maybe a sentence or two or a quote from coach Amanda O’Leary.
“This was an emotional game for us,” she 
said. “We asked our team to honor Julia (Sar-
cona) by playing as hard as they can, and I feel like we accomplished that.”
But like I said, most people were too fo-
cused on what was going on with the Florida football, baseball or men’s basketball teams rather than pay attention to this tragedy. 
This was the type of story that had the potential to garner a lot of national attention, even bringing more focus to the sport itself. But more importantly, it’s a rare story that meant a lot more than sports in general. 
Sometimes it’s important to take the player 
out of the game and focus on the story at hand.
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator's assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at jdreilinger@
alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14tive was one of their most impressive play-
ers during opening weekend. After hitting a home run in UF’s ﬁ  rst game of the season, Matthews started the next four at either right 
ﬁ  eld or designated player.
Overall, she recorded 10 RBIs, two home 
runs and 12 total bases in the ﬁ  ve-game 
stretch, the most on the team for each of those categories.
Her slugging percentage so far this season 
isn’t something to scoff at either. She’s sec-ond behind sophomore utility player Jamie Hoover (1.000), coming in at .923.
Matthews also ranks third on the team in 
batting average at .462, just behind Hoover and junior outﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz, who are tied for ﬁ  rst at .500.
“Jordan was out there playing a new posi-
tion and looked good,” Walton said.
North Florida is on a three-game losing 
streak coming into tonight's game with the Gators.
Junior utility player Navia Penrod holds 
one of the highest batting averages (.526) and slugging percentages (.579) on North Florida’s roster and also has a team-high four RBIs.
With the help of Matthews, the Gators will 
look to extend their 7-0 all-time record against the Ospreys tonight.
“That’s all you need to say," Walton said. 
"Jordan Matthews, pretty good.”
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Matthews hitting .462 ive games into career
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida softball coach Tim Walton was pleased with the production he received 
from freshman Jordan Matthews during the team's opening weekend.
