We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF ﬁ  nally pays back the county
The check was sent in February, pg. 4.
GPD investigating after women shot in leg
Patrols in an East Gainesville apartment complex will rise, pg. 4.INDIA HEATING UP
Florida third baseman Jonathan India leads the 
SEC in batting average heading into tonight’s matchup with Vanderbilt, pg. 14.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 74
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FIVE SPECIALISTS SERVE ABOUT 
600 STUDENTS EACH.
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Nestled alone in her cubicle, Marti Stein 
can ﬁ  dget all she wants. 
During past exams, the UF nutritional sci-
ences junior felt like all eyes were on her as 
she shifted in her seat, trying to keep her heart 
from racing. 
But tucked away in her own room at the 
Disability Resource Center in Reid Hall, Stein 
her heartbeat starts to slow down. There are no lingering eyes, no professors to keep her 
from taking bathroom breaks and no time 
pressure. 
“It takes that whole burden off of me,” the 
21-year-old said. 
Stein is one of the growing number of stu-
dents who receive accommodations through the DRC. Students with a physical, cognitive, 
sensory or psychological condition can use the center to help manage their disability, said di-rector Gerardo Altamirano. But as the number of students using the center climbs, the fund-ing hasn’t. 
Ever since Stein was diagnosed with mul-
tiple gastrointestinal conditions her junior year of high school, sitting uninterrupted for an exam has become difﬁ  cult. 
She has to think about where the nearest 
restroom is in case of emergency. She thinks about if she’ll have enough time to ﬁ  nish her exam. She assumed there were no resources to help. 
It wasn’t until an intense ﬂ  are-up and failed 
calculus midterm her freshman year she was directed to the Disability Resource Center. 
During the 2012-13 school year, the center 
served 1,214 students. This academic year,  3,055 students are registered to receive help from the center. Only one more specialist has been added in the meantime — bringing the team from four people to ﬁ  ve. 
In October, the center requested an in-
crease of 4 cents per credit hour to 5.2 cents per credit hour from the local fee committee to hire another staff member, wrote UF spokes-person Margot Winick. The increase would have given the center about $64,500, Altami-
rano wrote in an email. 
Their request, along with all other requests 
for fee increases, was denied. 
Now, the center is working to meet grow-
ing demand with limited resources. 
“When there’s limited funds, I think that is 
when we ﬁ  nd ourselves in a predicament like Disability Resource Center struggles with growing demand
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Ben Nichols expected to re-
search seedless mandarins for 
another year. Instead, he’ll be 
forced to wrap up his studies in 
three months.
The 32-year-old UF horticul-
tural sciences graduate student 
and other researchers are gath-
ering as much data as they can from the orange, peach, grape-fruit, apricot and avocado trees at UF’s Horticultural Sciences Fruit 
and Teaching Orchard off of Hull 
Road before the bulldozers arrive in the Fall.
“I’m under a time crunch 
now,” he said.
Almost 1,000 trees will need 
to be propagated to make room for a new baseball stadium. The process of propagation, which 
is cloning a plant from its leaf 
or stem cuttings to re-plant, will delay research by two years, said José Chaparro, a UF associ-
ate professor studying fruit tree 
breeding and genetics. 
The trees are used to ﬁ  nd com-
mercially viable alternatives to Florida oranges, said Chaparro, 
who has worked in the more than 13-acre orchard since 2004.
Chaparro said this research is 
essential for Florida citrus, which is currently at-risk from citrus 
greening, which has claimed more than $7.8 billion in revenue since its discovery in 2005, ac-
cording to UF/IFAS studies.
“We’re down to the produc-
tion levels of the 1940s,” he said.
He said the move to a new plot 
will result in a net loss of about 6 acres but will all be worth it when 
UF/IFAS cashes a $3 million pay-ment from the University Athletic Association for the property. He 
said the money will go toward re-
locating the current experiments south of the orchard, rebuilding a greenhouse and modernizing the irrigation system.
“Probably (in) three years, 
when we look back, we’ll think it was all worthwhile,” Chaparro said.
UAA will pay UF/IFAS $3 
million over the next ﬁ  ve years to build a $50 million ballpark, which was approved by the UF Board of Trustees in a meeting 
last Friday, according to Alligator 
archives.
The stadium will be built by Citrus research delayed 
two years by baseball stadium construction
Aaron Ritter / Alligator
BOOT THE BRAIDS
Protesters chant “Boycott Wendy’s” outside Tigert Hall. Groups, including Chispas, Lucha Latina, the 
Hispanic Student Association and Women’s March, organized the event.  See more photos, pg. 3 .SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
SEE CITRUS,  PAGE 9FEATURE FRIDAY:
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
HIGH  75° LOW  53°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Survivors of Sexual Violence Art 
Exhibit
 The Civic Media Center, located 
at 433 S. Main St., will hold a Survivors of Sexual Violence Art 
Exhibit from 7 to 9 p.m. Friday. 
The Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center is organizing the fifth annual ex-hibit in honor of Sexual Assault Awareness. The show will re-main open until Thursday.
A Dialogue on Black and Latinx 
History at UF
 The Samuel Proctor Oral History Program will hold "A Tale of Two Houses: A Dialogue on Black and Latinx History at UF" at 5:30 p.m. Friday in the Pugh Hall Ocora. This event will focus on the work done by UF students and faculty to have the Institute 
of Black Culture and the Institute 
of Hispanic-Latino Culture estab-lished. Visit oral.history.ufl.edu for more information.
Passover celebrations The Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student Center, located at 2021 NW Fifth Ave., will celebrate  
Passover seders at 7:45 p.m. 
Friday and 8:45 p.m. Saturday. All Jews, regardless of affilia-tion, religious background or level of observance, are invited. For more information, to RSVP, or if you have any questions re-lated to Passover, please visit PassoverUF.com or call Rabbi 
Goldman at 352-336-5877.
First Magnitude beer launch 
Friday supports butterfly con-
servationThe Florida Museum of Natural History and First Magnitude Brewing Company will host a fundraiser from 5 to 8 p.m. Friday 
to support butterfly conserva-
tion. As part of the event, First Magnitude, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., will release a specialty beer called “Bartram’s Blonde,” highlighting the federally endan-gered Bartram’s scrub-hairstreak butterfly. For more information, call 352-273-2022.
Libraries closed for Easter
Alachua County Library District will be closed on Easter Sunday. All branches will be closed. Book drops at branches and on-line services through the Library District’s eBranch at aclib.us will be available. All 12 branch 
locations and two bookmobiles 
will resume regular schedules Monday. For more information, visit aclib.us or call 352-334-3900.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. 
Corrections: 
In an article that ran March 26 titled “UF counselor remem-bered for kindness, saving lives,” The Alligator incorrectly stated UF student Livia Ledbetter said Roberta   Albers-Seldman was one of the first female counselors. UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh made the statement. The story 
also incorrectly stated Albers-
Seldman started her career at the  UAA. Albers-Seldman started her career at the Student Mental Health Services, which merged with UF’s Counseling & Wellness Center in 2010.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 74
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator
Protesters walked to Tigert Hall on Thursday afternoon to demand that the school’s administration forces the fast food chain to sign onto 
the Fair Food Program, which works to protect farmers’ rights.
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator
A group of about 20 students protest outside Tigert Hall on Thursday afternoon. They said Wendy’s was not serving the interests of migrant farmers. Aaron Ritter / Alligator
Protesters march on Thursday, calling for Wendy’s removal from campus. Wendy’s is not a member of the Fair Food Program, an international initiative to ensure humane working conditions on participating farms.Meryl Kornfield
 Alligator Staff Writer
Protesters walked from the 
Reitz Union, where the on-
campus Wendy’s is located, 
to Tigert Hall  on Thursday 
afternoon. They demanded 
UF’s administration tells 
the fast food chain to sign 
onto the Fair Food Program, 
which works to protect farm-
ers’ rights. 
Before they marched, 
speakers told the group of about 20 students Wendy’s 
was not serving the interests 
of migrant farmers.
Organizer Daphne Fernan-
dez said all workers deserve a living wage.
“Having Wendy’s on this 
campus is an ethical dilem-ma,” she said. 
Fernandez said UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs should take action soon.
“We are going to pressure 
Fuchs to remove Wendy’s from our campus,” she told 
people at the protest.Boot the braids: Students protest Wendy’s presence at UF4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
GPD WILL INCREASE 
PATROLS IN THE AREA.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are looking 
for a shooter after officers found 
a woman shot in the leg at about midnight Wednesday at an East Gainesville apartment complex.
Police officers in the area at 
Martin Luther King Jr. Multi-purpose Center heard four or five shots fired from Gardenia Garden Apartments, located at 1727 NE Eighth Ave. about a mile away, GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. Police received a 911 call 
seconds later, advising that a 
woman had been shot in the leg.
Officers responded to the 
apartment complex and found a woman with a gunshot wound to her lower leg. Police gave her first aid until the area was safe for paramedics to treat her, To-bias said. Tobias didn’t provide the condition, as of press time.
After searching the area, 
police found a bullet had gone 
through a bedroom window of 
a nearby apartment but did not hit the woman or her infant son inside, Tobias said. A bullet hole was found in an exterior column of the apartment building near another apartment, Tobias said.
“Witnesses could not provide 
any suspect information at this 
time,” Tobias said.
Tobias said while the shoot-
ing investigation continues, pa-
trols in the area will increase. 
Authorities are asking anyone 
with information to contact GPD at 352-393-7670 or CrimeStop-pers at 352-372-STOP.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgPolice investigate after 
woman shot in leg
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer
After accidentally sending Ala-
chua County an incorrect payment 
for Richard Spencer’s event, UF has reimbursed the county with a $67,461.11 check.
UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
said the updated payment covers the cost of food and lodging for law enforcement officers incurred by the county. Law enforcement officers from 62 agencies assisted, Winick said.
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and UF have a mutual aid agree-ment in which the two agree to share law enforcement officers in certain cases, but it does not require payment for those support services. 
Winick said UF wanted to compen-
sate the county.
“We believe it’s fair to reimburse 
the county for food and lodging cost that is incurred,” Winick said.
In a February letter to Lee Pinko-
son, the chair of the board of County Commissioners, UF President Kent Fuchs wrote the event was not UF-sponsored, but they had to provide space. He said despite the mutual aid agreement specifying costs would be handled by each responding agency, UF would pay for food and lodging.
“We have built a very solid rela-
tionship between UF and local law 
enforcement and work very well to-
gether to keep our community safe,” Fuchs said. “We hope that this mu-tual cooperation and coordination will continue.”
Winick said the updated check 
was sent in February. In January, UF accidentally paid the county’s full invoice of $302,184 due to an “internal miscommunication,” ac-cording to Alligator archives. The county gave the money back to UF at the university’s request.
Mark Sexton, an Alachua County 
spokesperson, said the county does not plan to ask for more money than 
UF sent.
He said UF determined the cost 
by reviewing the county’s request 
and the requests of other agencies that assisted during the Spencer event. Fuchs and Chief Operating Officer Charlie Lane met with coun-ty manager Michele Lieberman after the accidental payment, but Sexton said the meeting was not a negotia-tion.The county reimbursed the sher-
iff’s office for the about $300,000 as-sociated with the event, Sexton said, which is then what it requested from UF.
“It was a learning experience for 
everyone involved,” Sexton said. “If we are faced with a similar event in the future, we’ll all know much better how to handle it and how to have better conversation about ex-penses.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF reimburses Alachua County $67,000 for Spencer event
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was charged 
with crashing into a motorcyclist, who 
is not expected to survive his injuries, 
and walking away from the wreck, 
Gainesville Police said.
Daniel Granados-Altamirano, 35, 
ran a stop sign 
turning on South-
west 24th Avenue from Southwest 19th Court on Wednesday, forc-
ing 40-year-old 
motorcyclist Ben-jamin Glazer, of 
Gainesville, to crash into the front of 
the car’s driver’s side at about 10:30 
p.m., GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Glazer was thrown from the mo-
torcycle, which was destroyed in the 
crash and kept by police as evidence, and taken to UF Health Shands Hospi-
tal for life-threatening injuries. He is not expected to survive, Tobias said.
Granados-Altamirano’s car was too 
damaged to drive after the crash. He got out of the car and left the scene on foot, according to the report. He walked to his apartment, which is about an hour away on foot.
Police found Granados-Altamirano 
in his apartment at about 2 a.m., ac-cording to the report. He told officers he was involved in the crash and had 
left the scene because he was afraid his 
immigration status would be revoked.
Granados-Altamirano was arrested 
for leaving the scene of a crash that caused serious injuries.
He was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail where he remains, as of press time, awaiting an appearance before a judge to determine bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgMan walks an hour away 
from a hit-and-run crash
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
PLAZA THRIFT SHOPPING 
From left: UF students Grace Gibson, a 21-year-old environmental science and political 
science junior, and Veronica Baez, an 18-year-old biology freshman, stand in front of a mat full of used clothes at the Clothing Swap on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday afternoon. Gibson said the UF EcoReps hosted this event to raise awareness about the environmental impacts of clothing and remind people about local thrift stores.
Granados-Altamirano
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Natalie Leon had never heard of 
COMPASS until she opened her UF 
email Wednesday night. Although it caught her eye for a second, the 22-year-old scrolled passed it. 
Leon, a UF English senior, said 
she didn’t know the Campus-wide Modernization Program to Advance Student Services, or COMPASS, man-ages the academic data of every UF student. 
The program is a series of projects 
over three years to modernize UF’s information processes and portals, 
said Associate Vice President Tammy 
Aagard.
UF initiated the program in 2015 
to make student and faculty portals user-friendly and integrate data sys-tems throughout the university’s of-fices and colleges, said Debra Amirin, a program management leader. 
“Adjustments will be made. It’s 
like when you get a new phone,” she said. “It takes a little while to fig-ure out the new phone from the old phone.”
Here are five things to know about 
COMPASS before the final updates are rolled out in August:
1. COMPASS has updated the One.
UF and my.ufl.edu portals to allow students to check their degree audit, view their unofficial transcript and register for classes online without vis-
iting an academic office, Amirin said. 
2. COMPASS created Gator360, 
UF’s data management system that 
connects different offices. The pro-gram makes student interactions with university offices readily available to advisers to efficiently address student issues, Amirin said. 
3. COMPASS is a factor in UF’s 
goal to become a top-five public uni-versity, said Aagard. She said timely graduation plays a role in univer-sity ranking, and the program allows students to focus on their education rather than worry about how to track course requirements.4. UF computer engineering stu-
dents offered feedback as students who use the services. They also col-laborated with COMPASS to design portal updates, Aargard said. 
5. The program plans to reach out 
to UF alumni and implement a One.UF feature for students who consider changing majors. Amirin said in May, 
the Degree What-if feature will be 
added, which will allow students to view which course requirements are needed to switch majors. 
Leon said the What-if feature 
would have come in handy when she changed her major three times before deciding on English. Although she won’t get to use all of COMPASS’ 
features, Leon said she is happy for 
incoming freshmen who won’t have to go through what she did.
“I think it’ll make their lives a lot 
easier,” she said. “You wouldn’t have to jump through as many hoops as I did.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
COMPASS updates UF’s websitesFRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
1236 NW 21st Ave
(off of 13th St.)
OPEN Monday - Saturday
11AM–7PM
Closed Sunday
(352) 260-6958A perfect study & meeting spot...URBAN
THREAD
OPEN  
Monday - Friday 11–7, 
 Sat 11–6, Sun 11–5HARPER’S CORNER
at
URBAN THREAD
2 LOCATIONS:
1236 NW 21ST AVE
(352) 271-1179
802 W. UNIVERSITY AVE
(352) 727-7500
By The Associated Press
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) — 
Nikolas Cruz, the suspect in the Florida 
high school shooting that killed 17, is get-
ting letters of support in jail, including fan 
mail and pictures of scantily-clad women, in addition to hundreds of dollars in con-tributions to his commissary account.
The South Florida Sun-Sentinel ob-
tained copies of letters, including one from 
a woman who called Cruz “beautiful” and 
others with suggestive photos.
Cruz, who is on suicide watch, has not 
seen any of the letters, which are opened 
by the jail.
On March 15, a teenager sent a letter 
from Texas in an envelope with happy 
faces and hearts.
“I’m 18-years-old. I’m a senior in high 
school. When I saw your picture on the television, something attracted me to you,” the letter stated. “Your eyes are beautiful and the freckles on your face make you so handsome.”
Another letter told Cruz to “hang in 
there and keep your head up,” and an-other mailed six days after the shooting said “I reserve the right to care about you, Nikolas!”
Public defender Howard Finkelstein, 
Cruz’s lawyer, told the newspaper his cli-ent has indeed received “piles of letters.”
In addition, $800 has been deposited 
into a commissary account, which can be 
used by inmates to buy snacks, radios and 
personal hygiene products.
“In my 40 years as public defender, I’ve 
never seen this many letters to a defen-
dant,” Finkelstein said.
Finkelstein said they have read a “few 
religious ones to him” but will not read 
him any fan letters or share any photo-graphs.
“The letters shake me up because they 
are written by regular, everyday teenage girls from across the nation,” he said.Florida school shooting suspect 
gets ‘piles’ of fan letters, photosBy Kayla Bain
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Sasha Brown hunched over a pe-
tri dish, poking gelatin with a metal 
stick alongside three other middle 
schoolers.
“I want to be a chemist when I 
grow up,” Brown said. “I don’t know 
what in chemistry, but something to 
do with chemistry.”
Brown, a 12-year-old seventh 
grader from Howard Bishop Middle 
School, was one of four girls who attended the UF Women in Science and Engineering’s ﬁ  fth-annual Girlz 
Science Spring Camp. The weeklong 
camp lets sixth- and seventh-grade girls experience different elements of science, mathematics, technology and engineering, said May Mansy, a UF biomedical engineering doctoral student.
A maximum of 15 girls can attend 
the $50 ﬁ  ve-day camp, Mansy said. 
Mansy said the camp makes con-
cepts easier to understand by break-ing them down step-by-step. For their experiment Tuesday, the girls made models of the brain by mixing 
agar, which is a substance similar to 
Jell-O. 
The organization aims to expose 
girls to different areas of STEM and introduce them to other female sci-
entists, Mansy said. 
“We are trying to show them that 
we are there in the ﬁ  eld and there 
are other people like you who can do 
it,” Mansy said. 
This year, the lessons are more 
in-depth and explore ﬁ  elds like bio-medical, electrical, chemical and 
computer engineering, Mansy said. 
Khushi Patel, an 11-year-old Lin-
coln Middle School sixth grader, said it was her ﬁ  rst year attending the 
camp, and she is excited for the food 
sciences experiment scheduled for Friday. 
“I am really interested in science, 
and I really like this camp because we get hands-on experiences,” Patel said.
Throughout the week, the girls 
will use a machine to hear their 
heartbeat and listen to their brain 
waves, said Sarah Rowlinson, a UF biomedical engineering professor. 
“I remember when I was a little 
girl at a science camp, and that really changed things for me,” Rowlinson said.Four middle school girls explore STEM programs at UF
Kayla Bain / Alligator 
Sasha Brown, 12; Alana Keller, 11; Maggie Klein, 12; and Khushi Patel, 
11, are middle school girls learning about brain phantoms, which are a material that have speciﬁ  c characteristics to the brain tissue.
By Cheyanne Durham
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In an effort to encourage students to use 
reusable water bottles, UF is offering free 
T-shirts and paddleboard rentals.
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability and Rec-
Sports started a semesterlong promotion for Cupanion, a company that focuses on promoting the use of reusable products. By putting stickers with a scannable barcode 
on their bottles and scanning the code us-
ing the Cupanion Rewards app every time they ﬁ  ll their bottles, students can earn points toward winning prizes, said Allison 
Vitt, the outreach and communications co-
ordinator for the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability.
“This came out of a goal to emphasize 
reuse on campus, especially to incentivize students to avoid using single-use plastic 
bottles,” Vitt said. 
Students earn one point with each re-
ﬁ  ll. Every time they hit 250 points, they’re 
automatically entered in a monthly prize drawing. Stickers can be picked up at sta-tions outside Southwest Recreation Center, 
located at 3150 Hull Road.
The Cupanion app tracks reﬁ  lls and 
lets users know the equivalent number of 
single-use cups saved. It also shows how 
many more points are needed for the next 
prize entry. 
Incentives in February included a 
three-day paddleboard rental and free 
small-group ﬁ  tness classes, said Tiffani 
Stephenson, the coordinator for marketing and assessment at RecSports. A few sus-tainable UF prize packs including T-shirts, 
buttons and bandanas were up for grabs in 
March, and the prize for April has yet to be announced.  
“We are giving students another oppor-
tunity to live in motion with us,” Stephen-
son said. 
Isabella Keiser, 19, said students who 
use reusable water bottles would be inter-
ested in the active prizes.
“I use my bottle every day anyway, so 
it would make sense to win prizes,” the UF psychology freshman said.UF gives prizes to students 
for using ecofriendly bottlesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
As you drown in stress and scramble to ﬁ  nish a paper you 
should have started a month ago, you become eternally grateful 
for the large sum of Easter candy your mom sent you in a care package earlier this week. It’s chocolate bunnies and jelly beans galore: It’s absolutely everything your stressed out self is craving.
About ﬁ  ve Reese’s Eggs later, you start cracking open the plas-
tic eggs she put in the package. Most of them are ﬁ  lled with more sugary goodness — Starburst, Hershey’s chocolate, Skittles.
One egg, however, is unique. It instead has a note hidden 
inside. You unfold the paper, expecting a sappy letter about how much your family misses you. Much to your surprise, the paper reads ...
Darts & Laurels
Laura Ingraham, a Fox News host, attacked David Hogg, a 
survivor of the high school shooting in Parkland and a March For Our Lives organizer, in a tweet Wednesday. Sharing a The Daily Wire article about Hogg getting rejected from four colleges, Ingraham accused Hogg of whining about it. 
Shortly after, four companies — TripAdvisor, Wayfair, Nestle 
and Nutrish — said they would pull their advertising from Ingra-ham’s show.  The scandal caused Ingraham to publicly apologize “for any upset or hurt my tweet caused (Hogg) or any of the brave victims of Parkland.” She also invited the 17-year-old to appear on her show, according to The New York Times.
Although we appreciate her apology, we are disappointed it 
only came after she was under ﬁ  re. As a TripAdvisor spokes-person put it, Americans should be able to disagree on and ex-
change ideas in a peaceful manner. For this, we award our ﬁ  rst 
laurel of the week to the four companies that forced Ingraham 
to backtrack on her rude comments. More corporations should recognize the economic power they hold and use it to make our society kinder.
On Thursday, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said 
as tensions rise between the U.S. and Russia, the world is ap-proaching a situation similar to that of the Cold War. He told the Associated Press reporters Thursday he is “very concerned.”
The statement, which is one many have dreaded over for the 
past several years as they watched pressures intensify, comes af-ter the United Kingdom accused Russia of using a nerve agent to poison former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter March 4. As a result, Russia expelled more than 150 diplomats, including 60 Americans, in retaliation to the West-ern action. U.S. State Department spokesperson Heather Nauert called Russia’s actions “regrettable” and “unwarranted.”
Whether Guterres’ warning will materialize is yet to be de-
termined. Nevertheless, we award our ﬁ  rst dart of the week to 
world leaders, especially our own, for allowing their disagree-ments to reach tensions of such a threatening level again. Have we learned nothing from the past?
Last week, we ran a letter to the editor submitted by UF 
basketball player Chris Chiozza’s grandmother. Mary “Bunny” Chiozza wrote a short piece thanking the UF community for the “excellent education” her grandson received. It was perhaps one of the most heartwarming letters The Alligator has received, and 
for that, we would like to give a laurel to Mary Chiozza, for 
sharing your kind words with our readers and the Gainesville 
community.
Last Friday night, President Donald Trump released two docu-
ments outlining the administration’s plans to ban transgender troops in the military. The administration has touted this new plan as more open than the previous proposed ban, which would have disallowed any transgender person from serving. 
NBC reported the new report states “nothing in this policy pre-
cludes service by transgender persons who do not have a history or diagnosis of gender dysphoria and are willing and able to meet all standards that apply to their biological sex.”
This new plan, however, is just as bigoted and closed minded 
as the ﬁ  rst. As such, we award our last dart to Trump.The NFL has work to do before it goes overseas
This upcoming August, English soccer 
club Tottenham Hotspur will open its 
massive new stadium. But what makes 
the new 64,000-seat facility noteworthy is the large ﬁ  ngerprint left on it by the 
NFL.  Unlike most soccer stadi-ums, this new venue will have locker rooms 
designed for American football games, as well 
as a retractable football ﬁ  eld underneath the soc-cer pitch. The NFL’s $13.3 million contribution to this overseas stadium is a major move in the 
league’s mission toward international play.
Since 2007, the NFL has played some regular season 
games in London. However, the recent spike in invest-
ments and general interest in the international series are signs the NFL is determined and committed to having the 
NFL expand abroad. The idea of there being international 
franchises and weekly games played overseas is no longer a dream but instead a real possibility.
The idea is wonderful, but some serious challenges are 
facing the NFL’s lofty dreams of expansion.
The ﬁ  rst is that of logistics. Travel and the extra prepara-
tion of playing a game abroad (that likely cuts into a team’s regular season routine) will frustrate many players and coaches. Right now, current players often complain about 
having to play a game in England, and it makes sense. Be-
ing a professional athlete and playing football at the highest level are not easy tasks. Introduce jetlag and the chaos/stress of traveling into that and the already physically de-manding sport becomes miserable.
To accommodate the players, wonky scheduling and lo-
gistics of an overseas game, the NFL would need to have a more ﬂ  exible and considerate game schedule, possibly using their Thursday or Monday night slot for overseas games. That way, teams playing overseas could at least 
have the reward of a slightly longer break between games. 
Another option is to give any team playing overseas a bye week following the game.
Another concern is viewership, with the existence of 
time zones being the NFL’s archnemesis. If you live in San Francisco and want to watch a traditional 1 p.m. kickoff in London, you’re going to have to get up 
at 5 a.m. PST, and a 6 p.m. kickoff in London is 
10 a.m. PST. Now go the other way. If you live in London and want to watch a game starting in Seattle at 1 a.m. PST, it will be 9 p.m. for you. What about an 8:30 p.m. prime time Sunday 
night game? Forget about it. Nobody in England 
is staying up until the early hours of Monday morning to watch a game.
What is the solution then? Well, last season 
the NFL had a deal with Twitter where they made their Thursday night games streamable online, and it was awe-some. If you want to maintain interest abroad, you’re going to have to make the games themselves easy to watch online and available at different times, such as the next day.
A ﬁ  nal concern is acquiring and keeping fans. Fans 
abroad lack the history and emotional connection that comes with having a team in your city for decades, the bond many form when growing up with a team, through the ups and downs. It is this loyalty and deeper connec-
tion that keeps people coming to Cleveland Browns games, 
despite an atrocious last decade of performance. It’s what gets Buffalo Bills fans into the stadium in December when it’s a slushy and gray 20 degrees and the snow is coming 
down sideways.
The solution? The NFL will have to focus on the enter-
tainment aspect of the game. With many of the procedures 
and rules of the game being up for debate, the league should take this chance to speed up the pace of play and make the 
game more engaging, instead of a four-hour tractor pull. 
Make the games interesting, and fans will come back.
The idea of the NFL becoming an international league is 
now even closer to becoming a reality. The thought of an overseas franchise is awesome. However, there are still a 
variety of hurdles the league must successfully overcome if 
it wants to see its audacious plans achieved.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
focuses on entertainment.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The executive branch is the 
bee’s knees when it comes 
to running Student Gov-
ernment programming and getting things done. Now 
that there is a new SG administra-tion coming in soon, applications are open for agency heads, cabi-
net directorships and executive 
secretaries. Judicial branch posi-tions are open as well (the judicial 
branch ofﬁ  cials are picked by the 
executive branch).
So what are all these positions?
As stated on the SG website, “Agencies are 
government bodies that specialize in particular 
student needs on campus and within student 
government.” You can see agencies in action 
when agencies such as Accent bring in speak-ers for us to see or when Chomp the Vote has 
voter registration drives. 
You can see the full list of agencies on SG’s 
website under “agencies.” Each agency has a head, and those are the positions currently 
open that you can apply for. Looking at some of the successful agency head applications 
from last year, I can see the successful ones 
had multiple pages of proposals, goals and even charts detailing the applicant’s proposed 
structure for the agency. Previous experience 
with the agency would likely help, as there are likely applicants who have already served their 
time in staff or vice-chair positions, but if you 
think you can manage something impressive, you should give it a shot.
Complementing agencies are cabinets. To-
gether, agencies and cabinets are the bread and butter of SG programming. There are 18 differ-
ent cabinets under three divisions with respec-
tive cabinet directors and division chairs, and you can apply for both. A full list of cabinets 
can also be found on SG’s website under “cabi-
net.” 
The Student Body beneﬁ  ts from cabinets in 
a number of ways. These people are respon-sible for Disability Affairs, Finance and Afford-ability, LGBTQ Affairs and Women’s Affairs. 
Internally, these entities are supposed to do a 
lot of work in the communities they represent. Externally, the work of the different cabinets can easily be seen in the 
one-day fairs we see every so often, 
such as the recent SG housing fair.
Finally, there are executive secre-
taries within the executive branch. These 13 ofﬁ  cials serve as liaisons between the Student Body president 
and different aspects of campus. In 
truth, these are not signiﬁ  cantly dif-ferent from the cabinet, but nonethe-
less are distinct and important.
Again, these positions are available on 
SG’s website, but a couple examples include Academic Affairs, Campus Safety, Legal Affairs 
and Technology Secretary. Though each role is pretty specialized, it generally involves work-
ing with a corresponding university depart-
ment or entity, advocating for students’ needs and making sure the president is up to date.
Outside the executive branch are the su-
pervisor of elections and the Supreme Court. These roles are pretty unsurprising and mostly 
match their real-world counterparts. The su-
pervisor of elections runs the elections, and the Supreme Court, which you can apply to if 
you’re in the Levin College of Law, rules and 
issues opinions on our law and SG constitution.
A little bird told me Student Body President-
elect Ian Green will be writing his own column promoting applications so I’ll hold off on trying to say too much about what speciﬁ  cally hap-
pens in the application process and what he 
may be looking for. 
What I will recommend, however, is that 
if you feel well-qualiﬁ  ed for a particular posi-tion, give it a shot. Even if you don’t get the position this time around, once all the agency 
and cabinet heads are chosen, these newly ap-
pointed ofﬁ  cers will need to choose their new staff members, and applications will likely be 
released for positions like vice-chairs and gen-
eral staff positions. It isn’t over until it’s over.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email 
me at zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
sophomore and Murphree Area Senator. His 
column focuses on Student Government.There’s something about 
the books we chose to read throughout our 
childhoods and those we 
were forced to read in 
high school English classes that stay with us in odd ways. 
We often recognize the titles 
when they come up in conversa-tions or when they are featured on banned book lists. The Uni-versity of Utah is home to a large 
number of banned books and participates 
in Banned Book Week to raise awareness of banned books and to celebrate the freedom we have to read. From childhood favorites 
with a bad reputation to prohibited titles on 
prison bookshelves, concerned parents and parties have made some interesting chal-lenges to books over the years.
"Where the Wild Things Are” by Mau-
rice Sendak is one of the many fascinating additions to the banned book list, which is expanding to include books that have been challenged, but not banned, in schools and 
public libraries. Sendak’s classic children’s 
work was banned in schools because some people felt the story’s dark and occult-like nature was unsuited to the age group. Max’s journey to the land where the wild 
things are was considered too frightening 
for the young minds the story is meant for. This idea and the later banning of the book were encouraged by an article written for 
Ladies’ Home Journal by Bruno Bettelheim, 
a well-known child psychologist, saying ex-actly that.
“What (Sendak) failed to understand is 
the incredible fear it evokes in the child to 
be sent to bed without supper, and this by 
the ﬁ  rst and foremost giver of food and se-curity — his mother,” Bettelheim said.
Though it has been banned in many li-
braries over the years and has made it onto the list of the most banned books from 2000 to 2009, it was most heavily banned in the South.
Another children’s series that has made 
its way onto banned book lists is Barbara Park’s “Junie B. Jones” series. These books chronicle the life of Junie B. Jones as she explores and creates solutions to common 
childhood problems, such as riding the school bus, swearing and the 
birth of a younger sibling. The books were banned by some li-
braries because Junie B. doesn’t 
speak properly, and parents were concerned about their children’s potential to develop behavioral 
problems as a result.
The possibility of bad behav-
ior and grammar are odd reasons 
to want to ban a book. The mid-dle and high school reading cur-
riculum classic, “To Kill a Mockingbird,” by Harper Lee, has recently been challenged for possibly the vaguest reason yet.
“There is some language in the book 
that makes people uncomfortable,” said Kenny Holloway, the vice president of the Biloxi School Board in Biloxi, Mississippi.
Lee’s work has been consistently chal-
lenged and banned across the nation since 
1966 for a variety of reasons, giving it the 
21st spot on the most banned or challenged books list between 2000 and 2009.
Concerned parties across the U.S. are 
banning books for more than dark themes and incorrect grammar. The Utah State Prison recently banned Robert Greene’s “The 48 Laws of Power” and “The Art of Seduction.” Both of these works contain 
themes such as power, seduction and war, 
which Greene centers many of his works around. Though these themes drive many social, political or economic interactions, 
ofﬁ  cials at the Utah correctional facility 
feared the books would teach inmates the art of manipulation. The Salt Lake Tribune stated the books were banned as a security measure by an ofﬁ  cial who is no longer 
working for the prison.
Sometimes censorship can come as a 
surprise, and these shocking books are just 
a few of the many books challenged in the 
U.S. every year. 
Take a look back to a childhood favor-
ite now deemed inappropriate and learn 
something from a book banned in your lo-cal prison — think about how reading is a 
necessary part of our world today.
A version of this column by Jaycen 
Eggleston originally ran in the Daily Utah 
Chronicle.Student Government executive branch 
applications close Wednesday: Here 
are some positions you can apply for Debunking banned books in the U.S.Column UWire
Jaycen 
Eggleston
UWire
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
James Hudleston, a 42-year-old Gainesville local, performs the song “Under the 
Bridge” at The Swamp Restaurant’s live karaoke event, “Swamp Idol. ”  Hudleston’s band, “Subliminal Pepper, ” will perform at the same venue on April 7.T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Kendel Paller, of the Gainesville-based band Friday Avenue, performs a live karaoke set at The Swamp Restaurant on Wednesday evening as part of their weekly “Swamp Idol” event.
Local artists, bands belt it out at The Swamp karaoke
we are currently,” Altamirano said. 
Altamirano said the center will request 
more funds again next year in hopes the com-
mittee will choose to raise the student health 
fee, he said.
“I’m confident that we’ll get that sup-
ported, I think it’s just a matter of when that 
money’s available,” he said. 
Currently, the center’s five learning spe-
cialists, who meet with students to manage their needs, juggle about 600 students each, he said. This means longer wait times to see specialists and more interaction over email rather than face-to-face. 
To combat the limited number of learning 
specialists, the DRC has brought on five in-terns to lead support groups for students. It gives students another resource to turn to if the waiting period for their preferred learning specialist is too long, Altamirano said. 
Bradley Minotti, a UF psychology sopho-
more, said sometimes he’ll wait two to three 
weeks to see his specialist. Despite the back-
log, his learning specialist has taken the time 
to build a personal relationship with him, he 
said. 
A few weeks ago, Minotti, who uses a 
wheelchair, found himself unable to go to class because an elevator in Keene-Flint Hall was broken. His specialist was able to address his issue immediately and had the elevator fixed. 
“I think a lot of people don’t understand 
all the support services that the DRC provides to people and how many people actually need them,” the 20-year-old said.  
Marti Stein believes the center needs to 
hire another specialist as they grow. She said because UF puts emphasis on being a wel-coming and inclusive environment, it should be willing to invest more money in the DRC. While the center’s staff does the best they can with the resources they have, Stein fears it won’t be enough if more students register. 
“They’re not functioning all the time at 
their highest capacity because they just can’t,” she said. “As more students get registered, they’re not equipped to handle all the stu-dents.”
Along with longer wait times, the center’s 
space is packed with students who need to 
take exams with special accommodations. As of now, more than 11,000 students take ex-
ams in the center, which means students may find testing rooms becoming more crowded, he said. 
Limited physical space is one of the most 
noticeable problems facing the DRC, Stein said. Students spill out of the study space when popular classes have an exam. She wor-
ries soon there won’t be enough space to fit all 
the students who need it. 
“You can tell during a huge exam that they’re swamped in there,” she said.  
Stein hopes the center gets more funding 
so all students can use the resources that have 
helped her over the past three years. 
“It’s leveling the playing field and giv-
ing you an opportunity that you otherwise wouldn’t have,” she said.  “Not having enough money to expand the DRC as a whole 
… is a huge hindrance.”
@jessica_giles_ 
jgiles@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1Along with longer wait times, center struggles with limited space
Robert Carroll / Alligator Staff
Currently, the center’s five learning specialists, who meet with students to manage their needs, juggle about 600 students 
each. This means longer wait times to see specialists and more interaction over email rather than face-to-face. 121415541774209926393055
2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18Staff to Student Ratio
Number of Learning Specialists Registered StudentsTotal Students/Staff
Year1:3041:3891:3551:4201:5281:611FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/31/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020Elliot Nasby / Alligator
José Chaparro, an associate horticultural sciences professor who’s been breeding fruit varieties at 
UF since 2004, checks on a citrus plant variety bred with genes to make it more freeze-resistant. 
Elliot Nasby / Alligator
At the orchard, researchers study fruit varieties grown in subtropical regions all over the world, including South Africa, Morocco, Egypt, Australia and Spain.
Stadium will provide better fan experience, face away from sun
2020, and it will address the current 
stadium’s concerns with shading, UF Athletic Director Scott Stricklin said in 
the meeting. Its home plate will face 
northeast, away from the shining sun in the afternoon, and a 360-degree pathway around the stadium will pro-
vide a more engaging fan experience, 
Stricklin said. 
Kevin Heinicka, the director of 
IFAS Facilities Planning and Opera-tions, helped negotiate the land trans-
fer with UAA and said funding will 
also go toward renovating ofﬁ  ce spac-es and educational research facilities off Hull Road, across from Fiﬁ  eld Hall.
“It will offer an enhanced research 
and teaching experience for stu-dents,” Heinicka said.
Heinicka said the teaching orchard 
is the last on-campus space for farm-
ing, aside from greenhouses, so pre-
serving it for horticulture students is a top priority. He said the aim was to keep the trees on campus instead of moving them to Citra, Florida, where 
other citrus research is already taking 
place.
“You can’t relocate the students 30 
minutes away to effectively teach a class,” he said.
The pale white ofﬁ  ce buildings, 
some of which are more than 50 years old, will be renovated to be more visually appealing and professional-
looking, Heinicka said.
Thomas Fraleigh, a UF plant sci-
ence and political science senior, said 
although research is being set back, upgrading older-looking buildings 
and improving technology will be bet-
ter for the program in the long run.
“In some ways it’s a part of cam-
pus people forget about,” the 21-year-
old said. “Overall, the beneﬁ  ts might 
help to revitalize the area.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgCITRUS,  from pg. 110   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Contributing Writer
City Commissioner David Arreola remembers sitting 
at his college graduation ceremony surrounded by his 
schoolmates. They were all worried, wondering if the time and money they had put into their degrees would get them jobs after. 
“Year after year,” said 27-year-old Arreola, who 
graduated four years ago, “I watched my friends get their diplomas and walk off the other end of that stage, headﬁ  rst into a recession in this state.”
Six people gathered outside the closed Gainesville 
Job Corps Center on Wednesday morning for the Gainesville stop in the “Rick’s Recession” tour.  The events seek to hold Gov. Rick Scott accountable for con-ditions in Florida following the 2007 recession. Arreola, 
the City of Gainesville District 3 commissioner, was 
one of the speakers alongside others including Alachua County Commissioner Ken Cornell.
The protest was organized by For Our Future, a pro-
gressive advocacy group that focuses on a number of issues that impact working families.
The “Rick’s Recession” tour website was launched 
last November at the end of Florida’s legislative session, Williams said. 
James Ingle, the president of the Gainesville chapter 
of a labor union called the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, said some jobs have been created during Scott’s terms as governor. However, those jobs have been low-wage, short-hour jobs that don’t provide ﬁ  nancial security, health insurance or other beneﬁ  ts.
“We need better jobs, not just more jobs,” Ingle said.Gainesville commissioners gather 
for ‘Rick’s Recession’ protest tour
Jessica Curbelo / Alligator
City Commissioner David Arreola speaks outside of the 
closed Gainesville Job Corps Center on Wednesday for the Gainesville stop of the “Rick’s Recession” tour.
By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 80 people walked 
into the UF Innovate lobby 
Wednesday, surrounded by 
sleek chrome light ﬁ  xtures and 
stacked two-story-high win-dows.
UF Innovate, a business in-
cubator located on the corner of Southwest Second Avenue and Southwest Seventh Ter-race, held an open house for its new second wing, said UF In-
novate Director Jim O’Connell. 
It’s meant to promote the suc-cess of start-up companies and the students who work there 
and provide internships to stu-
dents.
“We all know what we 
think when we hear ‘stu-dent internships.’ Unpaid,” 
O’Connell said. “We think stu-
dents should be paid for their work.” 
The wing opened Jan. 2, 
and its expansion doubled the Hub’s size to a total of 100,000 square feet, according to Alli-gator archives. Construction to expand the building began in November 2016 after available 
space ran out for companies in 
the ﬁ  rst wing. 
UF Innovate spokesperson 
Sara Dagen said the build-
ing was previously called “In-
novation Hub,” but it’s been changed to “UF Innovate | The Hub.”
The expansion was funded 
by an $8 million grant from the U.S. Economic Develop-ment Administration and an additional $9 million from UF, 
according to Alligator archives. 
Director of Incubation Ser-
vices Mark S. Long said the 
facility has 34 companies cur-rently working in the build-
ing and is looking to add four 
more. 
John Harper, a 31-year-old 
UF College of Medicine senior, 
stood in the sun’s glow through 
the lobby’s array of windows. 
“It’s beautiful in here,” 
Harper said. “They did a great job. It reminds me of a 
cathedral.”UF Innovate Hub 
holds open houseBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
4-6-18-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14Seeking Friendly, Dependable,
Team Orientated Employees
for Fast Casual Salad/Sandwich Store.
$8.50/HR to start w/FREE SHIFT MEAL. Rotating Week-ends. Apply IN PERSON@ HoneyBaked Ham 618 NW 60th St, or
EMAIL @marketcafe@bellsouth.net.    3-30-
18-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
INTERIOR / EXTERIOR PAINTINGDrywall repairs, caulking, pressure wash-ing, wood replacement, through final coat. Insured. Call Daniel to set up free quote 352-535-4642     4-2-18-2-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Psyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Archaeologists Needed!
Work in Gainesville area.
Applicant must be in good physical condition.
Anthropology majors preferred.
Full or Part-time (full days).Contact Wes (713-822-3637).               3-30-18-4-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Like “le” in Fr.
5 Degrade
10 There’s no
money in it
14 Prefix with
syllabic
15 Starbucks
offering
16 Cap with a flat,
circular top
17 Religious text for
a Texas senator?
19 Flex ending
20 Home of
Amboseli
National Park
21 Pennant race
mo.
22 Tied accessory
23 Cause of a
sleeve
movement
24 Pet for a Spanish
surrealist?
26 More uneven
29 Puts in a vault, in
a way
30 Dos Passos
trilogy
31 Mild rebuke33 With 44-Across,
Hanna-Barberafeline
34 Cravings36 Sidekick38 Glimpse42 Not a good start?44 See 33-Across45 Shade46 Michigan
neighbor
50 Baptized boys,
often
53 Underage child of
a German
chancellor?
55 Milk source
56 Whac-__57 Heating stat58 Finnish architect
Alvar __
61 Look closely
(over)
62 Household help
for a 19th-century
president?
64 Bank offerings65 Resort WSW of
Denver
66 __ coffee67 Titillating
message68 Silly ones
69 Cong. period
DOWN
1 Sham
2 Israeli port
3 Nonspeaking
movie role
4 Ingratiate oneself
(to)
5 “When We Were
Kings” subject
6 It takes a beating
7 Befuddled
8 Basic
9 Sushi selection
10 65-Across
feature
11 Interoffice
connection
12 Poise
13 Madonna
portrayals
18 Crèche trio
22 Glee club
member
25 Completely
26 Accept27 Consumption28 List ender32 Idiosyncratic
contraction
35 Of least
significance37 They squelch
discussions
39 It goes over the
tongue
40 “Piano is not my
forte,” e.g.
41 With 51-Down,
sometimes-
sighed line
43 French weapon46 Congo natives47 “That’s enough
already!”48 Middle section of
an insect
49 Hoping to get
home
51 See 41-Down52 Religious ascetics54 Common blood
group
59 Connections60 Chances62 Identify on
Facebook
63 Unified
By Mark Feldman©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/30/1803/30/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, March 30, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 “... __ a puddy
tat!”
5 Bygone 26-Down
rival
10 Limit
13 Small rodent
14 Bold alternative
16 Have a mortgage17 “... two fives for
__?”
18 Helix-shaped
pasta
19 Pince-__
20 Surprisingly little,
pricewise
23 Picasso’s birth
city
24 Desertlike27 Superfast
32 RR stops
35 Healthy drink36 Immigrant’s subj.37 Maxim about
frugality
42 Comic strip cry
43 “Deadliest Catch”
narrator Mike
44 View from
Catania
45 It’s learned the
hard way
50 Put away
51 Split up
54 Confusing
statements ...
and a hint to thecircled letters
60 MSNBC’s
“Morning __”
62 Add value to63 Avian digestive
system part
64 Brewpub order65 School bud66 Singer Horne
67 “Not __”
68 Bond and others69 Macron’s state
DOWN
1 Nobelist Pavlov
2 Revered emblem3 Singer/songwriter
__ Ray Joel
4 Followed the
crowd?
5 European
dumpling
6 Not exactly
hummable7 Post-WWII
alliance
8 Settled on a
branch
9 Ho Chi __ City
10 Harmonious
11 Leave open-
mouthed
12 Candy with an
Emoji dispenser
set
15 VI x XVII21 Flat-topped cap
22 Editor Talese
with a
Doubleday
imprint
25 “Show time!”
26 Co-founder of the
SkyTeamalliance
28 Skin care name29 “That is sooo
cute!”
30 Wasikowska of
“The Kids Are AllRight”
31 Engine starter:
Abbr.
32 DNA lab items33 Unspoken34 Call for an
appointment38 Before, in
ballads
39 Scand. land
40 Temple athlete41 Squid
appendage
46 Light opener?47 Coined money48 Pageant bands49 Anesthesiologists’
work sites, briefly
52 White-plumed
wader53 “Strawberry
Wine” countrysinger Carter
55 Gen-__56 First family
grandson?
57 Let go of58 Actress Rogers59 Rescue team
acronym
60 Word with hawk
or walk
61 “¡Viva el matador!”
By Jerry Edelstein and Bob Monat©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/29/1803/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 29, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Chaotic situation 
1.  Bewilder 5.  Type of painting
2.  ____ volcano 6.  Void
3.  ____ Hawks 7.  ____ of Hormuz
4.  Type of feline MEDABL
MESBEUARMLU
NULAN
RMDTNAO
ANTALATITTASR
OTCOELANSWERS: 1A-Bedlam  5A-Mural  6A-Annul  7A-Strait
1D-Bemuse  2D-Dormant  3D-Atlanta  4D-Ocelot  B-Amsterdam3-30-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to more than 1,200 bridges. 
BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets
Freshman Katie Kubicz and 
the Florida women's tennis team defeated Arkansas 4-1 on Thursday at the Ring T ennis Complex.Opening Day Roundup
Twenty-six MLB teams kicked off their 2018 campaigns on Thursday. The highlights 
of the day included a three-home run performance from White Sox designated hit-ter Matt Davidson, a two-home run day from Yankees designated hitter Giancarlo 
Stanton and a walkoff home run from Orioles center fielder Adam  Jones.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Missing 44 consecutive 
games due to injury had to be tough for 
Florida center John 
Egbunu.
But for them be the final 44 
games of his collegiate basket-
ball career? Now that’s brutal.
The 6-foot-11, 265-pound 
center tore his ACL on Feb. 14, 
2017, in a 19-point victory over Auburn two seasons ago. It forced him to 
miss the remaining 10 contests of his red-
shirt junior campaign. He then missed every second of what would have been his red-shirt senior year in 2017-18.
It reminded me of the time I hurt my own 
knee two summers ago.
I was involved in a knee-to-knee colli-
sion with an opponent — whose name, out of pure coincidence, happened to be Mi-
chael Jordan — during a game of pickup basketball.
I half-walked, half-dragged 
my right leg off the court, hop-ing some ice and rest would 
have me up and at ‘em soon. I mean, when this had happened to me before, the soreness only 
lasted for a few days.
However, in this particular 
instance, it stuck around for an 
entire month.
I hated it.
I limped around everywhere, unable to 
hoop at the local park I frequented. I was 
as frustrated mentally as I was physically.
But when Egbunu announced earlier this 
week that he isn’t going to petition for a sixth year of NCAA eligibility and will in-stead pursue a pro career, I was hit with some fresh perspective.
I had it so easy with that mere month of I feel a lot of sympathy for John EgbunuHuang Story Short / Opinion
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuangBASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
It wasn’t long ago that Florida’s of-
fense was smacking hits and spitting 
homers at the same rate you’d see in an MLB video game. It wasn’t long ago that five Gators were hitting over .300. It wasn’t long ago that UF’s en-tire offense was feared as a national menace.
But as the season has worn on, 
most players have regressed to the 
mean.
Most, except for one. 
Third baseman Jonathan India, 
rather than lulling his foot off the gas, 
has accelerated. The junior is hitting 
.430 and — if he continues his torrid 
pace — could break Florida’s single-season batting average record. 
He’s not ready to talk about those 
kinds of achievements just yet, but 
with No. 8 Vanderbilt (17-8, 5-1 SEC) 
arriving in Gainesville for a three-game series starting tonight at 6:30, he’s feeling confident.
“I’m just fully committed to it 
now,” he said, “and I feel like I wasn’t fully committed in past years.”
That isn’t to say India played poor-
ly in his first two seasons at Florida. He hit .303 as a freshman and .274 as a sophomore, with a combined 74 RBIs over that span. But he agrees that something is different this year.That, as he said, starts with being 
fully committed. His newfound will-ingness to go the other way helps as well.
India, a righty, has made a habit re-
cently of striking balls to the opposite field. Against Arkansas, for example, he hit a triple that reached the right-center field wall. 
“I’m committed to the right side 
now, and I feel like in past years I really wasn’t,” he said. “If you have the ability to trust yourself and go the other way, you can be a dangerous hitter.”
Noticing a theme here?He said he wasn’t committed in the 
past, neither to being a great hitter nor going the other way. Now he’s all in, and it shows. 
In addition to his average, which 
leads the team by .122 and the SEC by .017, India is second among Florida’s hitters in RBIs (22) and home runs (nine). And outfielder Wil Dalton, one of only two other UF players hitting over .300, leads those categories by just one tally each. 
India wasn’t having a breakout 
campaign when the season started, at least not in comparison to his teammates. Nelson Maldonado, JJ Schwarz, Blake Reese and Nick Hor-vath were all hitting over .300 until UF's offense cools, India heats up ahead of Vandy series
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators third baseman Jonathan India is on pace to break Florida's single-season batting average record, hitting .430 through 25 games this year.
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
FOOTBALL
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
He did it last season in front of al-
most 90,000 fans, sending Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium into a frenzy as he hurled 
a game-winning 63-yard touchdown to 
beat Tennessee.
And after just a handful of practices 
this spring, Florida quarterback Feleipe 
Franks did it again.
“He made a throw, and I remember I 
just looked over at (head coach Dan Mul-len),” quarterbacks coach Brian Johnson said earlier this week. “We kind of both just looked at each other and shook our 
heads.”
It was the first week of spring practic-
es, and Franks found himself in a situa-tion where he needed to scramble across 
the field before throwing to an open re-
ceiver. Johnson said the pass reminded 
him of Franks’ game-winning bomb to Tyrie Cleveland that elevated the Gators over the Volunteers last fall.
Franks’ arm strength has never been 
a concern. His new coaching staff has complete faith in his ability to throw downfield. But his decision-making while under pressure was an issue in 
2017. Head-scratching interceptions and 
poor game management from Franks played a large role in last season’s in-consistency at the starting quarterback 
position.
Neither Johnson nor Mullen have giv-
en any indication who they plan to start ‘From the class to the grass:’ 
Florida QB impresses coaches
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
Caroline May felt devastated as she lay on 
the ground.
Just minutes earlier, the sophomore was 
running through drills at practice at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium trying to catch the attention of 
Florida lacrosse coach Amanda O’Leary.
It was just a routine play.Caroline had scooped up a ground ball and 
tried to pivot. She immediately felt a twinge in her knee. The same knee that she suffered a major injury to five years prior.
She knew what had happened right away.“It was a lot of emotions flooding back,” 
she said.
A torn meniscus. Just like that, all the promise she had shown 
in practice and all the strides she had made be-came moot. Her 2017 season was over.
There was no contact on the play, just aw-
ful luck.
After all, she hadn’t played much during 
her freshman season with the Gators, appear-
ing in only seven games.
But Caroline had already seen the field five 
times as a sophomore, and she was finally 
starting to feel like she belonged.
Given how advanced sports medicine has 
become, most players can make a full recovery from such an injury, especially if it’s their first.
It was not Caroline’s first.Between her freshman and sophomore 
years of high school, Caroline suffered a torn ACL, MCL and avulsion fracture of her tibia.
Now, after her second serious injury to the 
same knee, her lacrosse career was in jeop-ardy.
“She had to come to grips with the fact that 
maybe her playing days were over,” her father, Chris May, said.
For a time, Caroline didn’t know if she 
would ever take the field again in a Gators uni-form. Her dream appeared to be dead in the water.
But after months of uncertainty regarding 
her health, her future as a lacrosse player and her role on the team, Caroline is finally making 
the impact that she always wanted to in 2018. 
After starting the last two games for Florida, she appears poised to start once again as the team takes on UConn tomorrow at noon in Gainesville.
But her future didn’t always appear so 
bright.
•   •   •
Florida was always Caroline’s top choice as 
a recruit.
Though the Sparks, Maryland, native had 
looked at — and even visited — several oth-er schools like Maryland and Big East rival 
Vanderbilt, she knew she wanted to be a Gator.
It helped that her cousin, Kayla Stolins, was 
a member of the program’s inaugural recruit-
ing class in 2009.
Stolins didn’t push Caroline, but the fact 
she had nothing but positive things to say about O’Leary and the University of Florida certainly made a difference.
“I wanted her to find somewhere she’d 
love,” Stolins said. “But I knew she’d love Florida.”
Though Caroline preferred playing as a de-
fender, she made a name for herself playing midfield in high school. She stepped into that role due to a lack of offense on the Hereford High Bulls.
“She’ll play any position, as long as she gets 
to play,” her mother, Lauren Faby, said.
She quickly became the leading scorer for 
her high school team. Meanwhile, she played attacker, midfielder and defender for her club team.
Her do-whatever-it-takes attitude caught 
the attention of Florida’s coaching staff. While O’Leary praised her lacrosse IQ, that wasn’t the thing she loved the most about Caroline.
“She always had a smile on her face,” O’Leary said. “Fun to be around, fun to talk to.”
However, O’Leary would have to take quite 
a gamble on Caroline. Although her work ethic and passion for the game were undeniable, she 
still wasn’t 100 percent healthy. Fears over a 
recurring injury loomed, even though she ex-pected to make a full recovery.
But in Caroline and her electric personality, 
O’Leary saw a player who loved and knew the game and would be willing to take over any role – whether it be attack, midfield or defense – to help her team.
O’Leary and her staff made Caroline a prior-
ity, and any doubts she might have had about UF were assuaged when she formally visited for the first time.
“I got invited down here and fell in love 
with it,” she said.
It didn’t take her long to realize Florida was 
the place for her. Within an hour of arriving on campus, she told her mother that she couldn’t imagine playing anywhere else.
Though still recovering from her first knee 
injury, Caroline committed to play college la-crosse for the Gators.
•   •   •
After arriving on campus in the summer of 
2015, Caroline quickly realized just how com-petitive of an environment Florida’s lacrosse team was. She knew she was joining a champi-onship contender, but she was surprised how 
tough it was to earn a spot.
Her freshman year, her only opportunities 
came late during blowouts while a running 
clock was in effect.
She was frustrated. She wanted to play.Ever the optimist, Caroline refused to ac-
cept her role as a bench player her sophomore year.
She believed that she had improved enough 
to see more than garbage time.
But she didn’t get the chance to show it in 
a high-stakes environment. After appearing in five games without making any significant contributions, the aforementioned knee injury at practice in late March derailed her season and, potentially, her career.
Lacrosse had been her passion for most of 
her life, and she had dreamt of playing at the 
collegiate level for years.
Now, that dream was on the brink.
“To get this far and have it taken away from 
you would be devastating,” her father said.
Perhaps the hardest part of accepting that 
she may not play lacrosse again was the fact that she had yet to prove herself on the field. After all, she hadn’t played many meaningful minutes for the Gators. Playing in games that 
were already decided didn’t give her the op-
portunity to showcase her skills.
“She hadn’t gotten a chance to show what 
she can do,” Faby said.
Caroline knew that she wasn’t going to let 
the injury end her career. She was too resilient to let that be the final chapter in her lacrosse career.
•   •   •
Rehabbing from a knee injury isn’t for the 
faint of heart.
Caroline knew she was facing months of 
physical therapy before she’d be back in play-ing shape. And even then, she’d be non-con-
tact in practices, severely limiting her ability to 
compete with the rest of the team.
On top of that, Florida had a stable of tal-
ented and experienced midfielders returning in 2018, so the path to the field was difficult.
But Caroline remained undeterred.She spent the summer working, trying to 
get healthy before the fall so that she could make a statement during preseason practice.
Even though she overcame her injury, and 
the fears of it being career ending turned out to be false, her situation hadn’t changed. Florida simply had too many midfielders.
The thing is, midfield was never Caroline’s 
natural position. She always loved playing on defense.
While many players love the offensive side, 
dreaming of scoring game-winning goals, Car-oline never felt that way.
“(Defense) is more exciting to me when 
you do something well,” she said.
She was in luck, because two of Florida’s 
starting defenders, Taylor Bresnahan and Car-oline Fitzgerald, had graduated.
The Gators had an immediate need for de-
fensive role players coming off the bench, and Caroline saw an opportunity to get on the field with regularity.
So, she made the switch to defense.“She would adapt to whatever we threw at 
her,” O’Leary said. “Whatever the team need-ed, she was willing to do.”
Playing in her natural position, as well as 
finally being healthy, paid dividends for Caro-line. Her improvement and drive wowed Flori-da’s coaches during the offseason.
“She’s given us a reason to put her out 
there,” O’Leary said.
Caroline’s hard work was finally paying off. 
As the season opener for 2018 neared, she fit into the game plan as a key reliever.
As she had learned the hard way a year be-
fore, injuries are unpredictable and often times unavoidable.
And just six games into the schedule, senior 
defender Aniya Flanagan, often considered the 
anchor of the Florida defense, went down with 
an injury. Flanagan missed the following two games, a matchup with Navy on March 13 and a contest with Vanderbilt on March 18.
For the second game of that stretch, Car-
oline cracked the starting lineup for the first time of her collegiate career, scooping up three 
ground balls and causing three turnovers in an 
11-10 win over the Commodores.
Flanagan returned three days later in the 
Gators’ next game against Towson, but Caro-line had played too well to be relegated to the bench. Even with a healthy Flanagan back in the lineup, O’Leary chose to keep Caroline a starter.
“She couldn’t be happier,” her father said.  
“This is what she’s been waiting for. Being a part of a championship team.”
After everything she has been through — 
rehabilitating after two knee injuries, accept-ing that her lacrosse career might be over and switching positions — Caroline is finally living out her dream. She’s not just on a college la-crosse team. She’s actually contributing to the success of a top-10 program.
And she’s enjoying every second, not tak-
ing a moment of it for granted because she knows all too well how quickly it can all be taken away.
“I take every day as a blessing,” she said.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgMAY’S DAY: UF lacrosse player overcomes pair of injuries
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Florida lacrosse player Caroline May struggled to earn playing time in her first two years 
with the Gators. But after a torn meniscus put her career in jeopardy, she has bounced back to earn a starting role in 2018.
Caroline May
Postion: Defender
Class: JuniorHometown: Sparks, Maryland16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 2018
recently. 
The offense overall has lagged a bit 
in SEC play, hitting .250 compared to 
its season-long average of .287. Among the list of aforementioned players, Dalton is leading the group with a .240 average in conference play.
India is hitting .571. Allen Trammell currently holds 
Florida’s single-season batting aver-age record. He hit .425 in 1965. India is on pace to break that, as well as to become the ninth Gators player ever to hit over .400.
So what does he think of those un-
usual numbers?
“I don’t think of it like that,” he 
said. “I’m just happy we’re winning and that I’m producing for the team.”
Florida (22-5, 4-2 SEC) will need 
him against Vanderbilt, the third top-10 team in a row the Gators have faced.
“They’re a great team,” India said 
of the Commodores, “so it’s gonna be a fun one this weekend. I’m excited.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14India hitting team-high 
.571 in SEC play this yearrecovery.
“You know, I’ve had my 
knee drained like probably ﬁ  ve 
times,” Egbunu said on March 
2. “I’ve had cortisone shots put in my knees. I just had a procedure done the other day. 
I had to get a second opinion 
on it, because we’re not really getting anywhere.”
That sounds horrible.All of that, and he still 
didn’t get to play.
I can’t imagine the frustra-
tion of sitting out that long, dealing with the pain and set-backs of the recovery process, unable to step on the court 
while watching my teammates pick up the slack I once held 
myself.
Egbunu isn’t the only Flori-
da athlete who recently missed the ﬁ  nal year of his collegiate career due to injury either.
Former Gators safety Mar-
cell Harris suffered a torn 
Achilles tendon in July, just 
one season after he led UF’s football team with 73 tackles.
He missed all 11 games of 
2017 in what would have been his redshirt senior campaign. Now, like Egbunu, he’s got his eyes set on the professional ranks.
While it was difﬁ  cult for 
Harris to sit out and recover from his season-ending Achil-les tear, he said he tried to 
keep a positive mindset.“You can’t really look 
back,” Harris said at Florida’s 
pro day on Wednesday. “May-
be me sitting out was probably 
for the best of things. You nev-er know.”
In the midst of uncertainty 
regarding his physical health 
and professional career, Ha-
ris found a way to look on the brightside. 
He, Egbunu and all athletes 
who have suffered major, ca-reer-altering injuries deserve credit for sticking to the ar-duous path of reclaiming the player they once were.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports 
writer. Contact him at ahuang@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14under center come September. But a lot of 
attention surrounds the 6-foot-5 redshirt sophomore who started eight of 11 games 
last year. Franks ended the season with 
1,438 passing yards, nine touchdowns and eight interceptions. He is the only quarterback on UF’s roster with game ex-
perience at the collegiate level.
So far this spring, Franks has dedicated 
himself to learning about his game on the 
ﬁ  eld with his time off the ﬁ  eld, and he has impressed his coaches in doing so.
“He has come in and studied,” John-
son said. “He has done a good job of com-ing in and taking it from the class to the grass.”
In last weekend’s open scrimmage, 
however, Franks reminded fans and me-dia in attendance that no amount of ﬁ  lm can prevent occasional slip-ups after he threw an interception straight to the hands of starting cornerback Marco Wil-son.
“That’s what practice is for,” Johnson 
said. “We’re ﬁ  rm believers that experi-ence is life’s best teacher.”
Johnson will continue to give Franks 
opportunities to learn. Whether he’s on the line of scrimmage or in the meeting rooms, Franks is expected to perform at a high level.
“We give (Franks) a lot of responsibil-
ity,” Johnson said. “He has got to come in and put the work in.”
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Feleipe Franks battling to 
retain job as starting QB
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Feleipe Franks has been working with Florida's ﬁ  rst-team offense 
throughout spring practices.
