We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF baseball rallied against LSU in SEC 
Tournament
Despite sloppy play on defense, the Gators were able to squeeze 
out a 4-3 win in the SEC T ourney’s second round, pg 14Woman allegedly targets elderly in crime spree
The woman has 12 charges pending against her, pg 4
UF alum, staﬀ   member sue Secretary of State
They claim Florida’s early voting laws are biased against stu-
dents, pg 5VOLUME 112 ISSUE 89
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Contributing Writer
A sheet of paper hangs on the wall in Savannah 
Fullard’s room. Green-, blue- and yellow-colored pen-
cil markings occupy every corner and strike through 
every class that she completes.
Fullard, a 17-year-old sophomore at Hawthorne 
High School, said her guidance counselor gave her a 
list of her graduation requirements and encouraged 
her to cross off every task she completed.
“I’m still going to have it even after I graduate,” 
Fullard said. “That sheet of paper changed so much 
for me.”
Fullard knows more than just her GPA hangs in 
the balance this year. She’s one out of roughly 300 
high school students who are at risk of being moved 
to other schools if they don’t bring their grades up. 
That means Fullard may not walk across the stage 
at commencement with her classmates in 2019 if the 
high school doesn’t pass with a C grade or higher. The 
students ﬁ  nished Florida Standards Assessment test-
ing last week, and grades will likely be released during 
the ﬁ  rst week of June. 
“If I don’t pass this, then I won’t be failing only me, 
I’ll be failing everybody,” Fullard said.
After Hawthorne received a D grade on its school 
rating last year, the district brought in Daniel Ferguson 
as the new principal of Hawthorne High School to exe-
cute new instruction strategies and motivate students.
Ferguson partnered with Santa Fe College to of-
fer dual enrollment classes to students, which adds 
points to the school’s overall score. The district also 
reintroduced an agriculture program to provide indus-
try certiﬁ  cation classes.
Ferguson said he expects about 95 to 97 percent of 
students to graduate this school year, and he and his 
administration are conﬁ  dent the school will remain 
open.
“The whole entire community pitched in,” Fer-guson said. “The progress of the school impacts the 
community.”
Since reintroducing the agriculture program, 160 
students have enrolled and more want to join.
Mike Cassels, a middle-school agriculture teacher, 
said at 7:15 a.m., there are already 30 students in his 
classroom talking about agriculture.
“I’d say it’s right up there with football at our 
school,” Cassels said. “We’re a small town, ‘Friday 
Night Lights’ kind of community, but we also have a 
group of kids who love ag (agriculture).”  
Two of his students placed ﬁ  rst and third in live-
stock evaluation contests, and Cassels has plans to 
expand the program.
“It gives them a sense of pride,” Cassels said. “I 
want to do better, and I want to keep this program 
running and this school open.”
Blake Moore, an eighth-grader at Hawthorne Mid-
dle School, said he has been part of the 4H program 
his whole life. Once the school started a Future Farm-
ers of America chapter, he began to participate in the 
program.
“It’s our reason to come to school really,” Moore 
said.
The agriculture program received donations, such 
as a Ford 2000 tractor, from alumni and community 
members. Local businesses, nonproﬁ  ts and churches 
have provided supplies such as water, snacks, back-
packs and paper for students.
Fullard saw an increase in her grades after the 
changes. She has been one grade level behind her 
peers but has since enrolled in Florida Virtual School 
online while attending classes at Hawthorne High so 
she could catch up.
Fullard said she aspires to be a nurse just like her 
mother once she graduates. She said the embarrass-
ment she felt realizing she was a grade behind her 
peers catalyzed her newfound drive to graduate.
“I want to go somewhere in life,” Fullard said. “I 
want to be successful.”Hawthorne High wraps up year, awaits its ﬁ  nal grade in June
Alyssa Ramos / Alligator Contributor
Amanda Boggs (left), who teaches 6th graders at Hawthorne High 
School, answers a question from Angel Thomas (right) about her project.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Jilda Hall has been coming to the Flor-
ida Museum of Natural History for years. 
She used to bring her son when he was a 
kid. Now, she brings her grandson, Thom-
as. 
Hall held Thomas by the hand. She led 
him through a hallway of glass frames 
ﬁ  lled with butterﬂ  ies Wednesday after-
noon. She explained to her grandson how 
butterﬂ  y specimens at the McGuire Center 
for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity used to 
be displayed in drawers when his father 
was a child.
“I hope (my son and grandson) are able 
to learn from things other people have cu-
rated and donated,” Hall said as Thomas ran ahead of her to continue exploring. 
“Maybe someday, my grandson will be a 
collector and a donor, too.”
The Hall family may soon beneﬁ  t from 
more extensive research done at the Mc-
Guire Center after a donation of more 
than 70,000 specimens was made to the 
museum last year for research. Two life-
long collectors of butterﬂ  ies and moths, 
Ed Knudson and Charles Bordelon, called 
their donated inventory the Texas Lepi-
doptera Survey Research Collection.
Bordelon died in 2016, but he and his 
partner decided to donate the collection to 
the museum before his death, according to 
the museum’s website.
Collections coordinator Andrei Soura-Butterﬂ  y collection donated 
to promote UF research 
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was arrested Monday 
for allegedly possessing drugs and parapher-
nalia and for smuggling drugs, hidden in her 
pubic area, into a jail.
Deputies from Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce saw Natalie Brewer at about 11:26 p.m., 
according to the arrest report. She was report-
edly in the driver’s seat of a silver van outside 
of 7122 SW 44th Place.
Brewer, 30, allegedly threw a marijuana 
blunt into the front area of the car. She then 
attempted to hide something in her pubic area, 
according to the report. Brewer was leaned for-
ward with her hands concealed.
The deputies reportedly smelled burnt 
marijuana. They gave commands for Brewer 
to show her hands and exit the car, but she initially refused. The car was searched after 
she complied.
According to the report, the search revealed 
the blunt and numerous drug paraphernalia, 
which included a crushed pill, a glass pipe, 
medical syringes — one ﬁ  lled with a brownish 
liquid — and two spoons with white residue, 
which tested positive for methamphetamine.
Before going to Alachua County Jail, Brew-
er told deputies there were no more drugs on 
her person. During the screening process, the 
booking detention ofﬁ  cer reportedly noticed 
something in her pubic area. 
A strip search revealed three small plastic 
bags with an unknown powdery substance 
and a Xanax pill concealed in her pubic area. 
According to jail records, Brewer’s bond 
has been set to $18,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgWoman allegedly hid drugs 
in vagina before arrest
SEE BUTTERFLY,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 89
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Wimer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerHIGH  88° LOW  70°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital 
to hold seventh annual Stroke 
Awareness Fair
In observance of National Stroke 
Awareness Month, UF Health 
Shands Rehab Hospital is host-
ing its seventh annual Stroke 
Awareness Fair, which will in-
clude free blood pressure screen-
ings, support group information 
and stroke education. The fair 
will be held at 10 a.m. to noon 
today at UF Health Shands Rehab 
Hospital, located at 4101 NW 
89th Blvd. Free parking will be 
available. For more information, 
contact Leah Harms at 352-265-
0373 or harmsl@shands.ufl.edu.
Alachua County Commission to 
conduct special meeting today
The meeting begins at 1:30 p.m., 
in the Grace Knight Conference 
Room, located on the second 
floor of the Alachua County 
Administration Building, located 
at 12 SE First St. 
The meeting agenda includes a 
sheriff budget presentation, a lo-
cal business tax discussion and 
an Alachua County Fairgrounds 
update. The public is invited to 
attend this meeting. It will be 
available to view live on Cox 
Channel 12 and on the County’s 
Video on Demand website.
Free parking is available for 
citizens attending this meeting. 
Please park in the Southwest 
Parking Garage, located at 105 
SW Third St., and bring your 
parking stub to the Alachua 
County Manager’s Office, located 
on the second floor of the County 
Administration Building, to re-
ceive a chaser validation ticket. 
For more information, contact the 
Alachua County Communications 
Office at 352-374-5204.Florida Museum to host ‘Bats & 
Brew’ today
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History invites guests for an eve-
ning of bat-inspired drinks and 
snacks to learn more about the 
only true flying mammal as part 
of the museum’s new exhibit. 
The program fee is $35 for non-
members or $30 for members. 
Participants must be 21 years or 
older. Pre-registration is closed, 
but walk-in registration will oc-
cur if there is enough room. For 
more information, visit floridam-
useum.ufl.edu/event/bats-brew 
or call 352-273-2064.
Satchel’s grand reopening
Satchel’s Pizza will celebrate 
the grand reopening of Lightnin 
Salvage Enterprises, the indepen-
dent toy store and live music ven-
ue, located in the building behind 
the restaurant at 1800 NE 23rd 
Ave. The event will take place 
June 1 at 6 p.m. and end June 2 
at 10 p.m. The event will feature 
live music, a movie night, bounce 
house, balloon animal artist, priz-
es and giveaways. A playground 
project created by a design 
team from the UF Architecture 
Department will also be unveiled.
Little Jake Mitchell and The Soul 
Searchers play ‘Free Fridays’ 
concert June 1 to kickoff 
African American Music 
Appreciation Month
Kicking off this year’s celebra-
tion of African American Music 
Appreciation Month on June 1 is 
Little Jake Mitchell and The Soul 
Searchers, featuring old school 
blues and rhythm and blues art-
ist Jake Mitchell. June is African 
American Music Appreciation 
Month and concerts are featured 
every Friday night in June at the 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza as 
part of the “Free Fridays” series.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to editor@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. 
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Texas governor supports two 
small gun rules after shooting
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — 
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said 
Wednesday he could support 
stronger regulations for gun stor-
age and quicker reporting to law 
enforcement when a court has 
determined someone is mentally 
ill in order to keep them from 
having weapons.
Abbott said those were top con-
siderations to emerge after meet-
ing representatives of a gun con-
trol group and gun owners, as 
well as mental health and edu-
cation experts in discussions on 
school safety after the shooting 
at a high school killed 10 people 
near Houston.
“We have one goal ... making 
sure we’re going to keep to our 
students, our schools, our com-
munities safer,” without limiting 
the right to bear arms, Abbott 
said.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 89
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
woman on May 8 and have been 
uncovering more crimes she has 
allegedly committed targeting the 
elderly.
Keyasha Patterson, 22, has 12 
charges pending against her from 
GPD including using stolen credit 
cards in April and May.
Patterson allegedly stole the 
ﬁ  rst victim’s purse at Walmart, 
located at 5700 NW 23rd St., on 
April 4 around noon. It contained 
her Social Security card, her driv-
er’s license and her credit card.
Soon after, a fraudulent charge 
of $61.01 was made at Murphy 
Express gas station, according to 
the report. At 7:16 p.m. the card 
was declined for $265 at DTLR 
on North Main Street. On April 5, 
it was declined for $1 at Sunoco.
Patterson is seen on surveil-
lance video at Murphy Express 
and DTLR, according to the re-
port.
The victim, 89, then allegedly 
let Patterson into her home to use 
the phone on the evening of April 
21, according to the report. Pat-
terson allegedly stole the victim’s 
new purse, which contained the victim’s replacement credit card 
and $200 in cash.
About 30 minutes later the 
credit card was charged $262.88 
at Tommy Hilﬁ  ger in Celebration 
Pointe, according to the report. 
Surveillance video identiﬁ  ed Pat-
terson using it.
On the morning of April 29, 
a second victim, 84, asked what 
Patterson was doing when she 
walked out of his room at Brook-
dale Senior Living Facility, ac-
cording to the report. She said 
she was looking for someone and 
had the wrong room.
The victim saw his drawer 
partially open and his wallets 
missing, according to the report. 
The wallets had the victim’s ID, 
Social Security card, $600 in cash 
and a debit card. The victim 
called 911 soon after.
As Patterson was leaving the 
facility, a GPD ofﬁ  cer arrived. 
The victim pointed out Patter-
son’s car and the ofﬁ  cer pulled 
her over.
The ofﬁ  cer did not ﬁ  nd the 
victim’s belongings on Patterson 
or in her car. Patterson was cited 
for driving with a suspended or 
revoked license without knowl-
edge and was released.
Charges of $20 at a Shell gas station and $10.29 at a Wendy’s 
were made on the victim’s stolen 
card April 30. The card was de-
clined for $700 at a Value Pawn 
& Jewelry, $402.95 at a Family 
Dollar and $1 at a Best Western 
hotel. 
Surveillance video shows Pat-
terson at the Family Dollar, ac-
cording to the report.
An ofﬁ  cer obtained an arrest 
warrant for Patterson for schem-
ing to enter two elderly victims’ 
residences and steal their wallets 
May 1, according to the report. 
She used the debit cards at two 
stores on the same date.
When Patterson was arrest-
ed May 8, her wallet contained 
the ﬁ  rst victim’s Social Security 
card and more, according to the 
report. She denied stealing any-
thing from Brookdale.
Patterson has been in Alachua 
County Jail since May 8 due to 
additional charges from the Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and 
GPD. The Alligator only has re-
ports from GPD. She currently 
has a $420,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgWoman allegedly commits multiple crimes on elderly
CRIME
Theft Petit
Grand Theft from 
a Dwelling
Burglary of a 
Dwelling
Grand Theft
Credit Card Fraud
Intent to obtain 
property using 
false pretensesApril 4
April 21
April 29
April 29
April 4
April 21
April 30
April 21
April 29April 4
April 21
April 30Patterson reportedly stole an 89-year-old woman’s 
purse at Walmart, the contents were valued at $70.
Patterson allegedly stole the female victim’s new 
purse from her home, which had $200 in it. The 
woman willingly let her inside.
Patterson allegedly stole two wallets from an 
84-year-old man’s dresser at Brookdale Senior 
Living Facility.
Patterson reportedly stole two wallets that had 
$600 in cash from Brookdale.
Patterson allegedly made $354.18 in stolen credit 
card charges. She tried to make an additional 
$1,369.95 in charges, but the card was declined. 
Patterson allegedly planned and lied to the 
victims in order to steal and defraud them.Patterson allegedly obtained and used multiple 
forms of identiﬁ  cation of both victims from the sto-
len purses and wallets.DATE DESCRIPTIONTHURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
A lawsuit was filed Tues-
day against Florida Secretary of 
State, Ken Detzner, concerning 
his interpretation of early voting 
laws. 
Among the plaintiffs is Me-
gan Newsome, a 22 year-old UF 
alumna who now works as a re-
searcher for UF’s physics depart-
ment.
During her undergraduate 
career at UF, Newsome was an 
ambassador for the Vote Every-where program of the Andrew 
Goodman Foundation. 
“With my title as an ambas-
sador, I registered over 3,000 
voters, and we shuttled over 100 
students to vote during the 2016 
election,” Newsome said. New-
some was also asked to look into 
the issue of early voting.
In 2014, FL Statute 101.657, 
often referred to as the early vote 
statute, was updated to include 
early voting locations where ap-
proved, Newsome said. Students 
asked to use the Reitz Union as 
an early voting location, and Detzner said no.
In November 2017, Newsome 
wrote an op-ed to draw attention 
to the issue. Guy Cecil, chairman 
of Priorities USA Foundation and 
UF alumnus, read the op-ed and 
decided to get involved.
Priorities USA Foundation is 
focused on making sure access 
to the ballot box is protected and 
expanding, Cecil said. They are 
providing the legal and financial 
resources to the League of Wom-
en Voters of Florida and the stu-
dent plaintiffs against Detzner.
Cecil said there is nothing in the statute that prohibits public 
universities from serving as an 
early voting location, and that 
Detzner “wrongly interpreted 
(Statute 101.657) in the most 
conservative way possible and in 
a way that actually restricts and 
discourages access to the ballot 
box on the part of young people 
and college students.”
“For there not to be access to 
an early vote location on cam-
pus, it’s not just unnecessary, 
it is from our perspective inten-
tionally making it more difficult 
for those students to vote,” Cecil said. 
Patricia Brigham, president of 
the League of Women Voters of 
Florida, says the state should be 
making it easier for college stu-
dents to vote, not harder.
“A lot of these students that 
live on campus in dorms don’t 
always have a car and may not 
be close to a polling center to 
vote early or to vote on election 
day,” Brigham said. “We believe 
that these students should not be 
hindered from casting their vote 
if they need to do so early. They 
should be supported.”UF alumna, research staﬀ   member sue Florida Secretary of State
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
kov said the McGuire Center houses 
one of the world’s largest collections 
for lepidoptera — butterﬂ  ies and moths 
— with its millions of specimens. 
The donation is not an exhibit for 
public viewing, but it will help UF 
receive grants for the study and im-
provement of lepidoptera collections, 
Sourakov said. It will also attract ento-
mologists who want to start their own 
collections with the reassurance they 
will be studied.
“When people collect all their lives, 
they want to put the collection some-
where where it will be used,” Sourakov 
said. “Collections are used in so many 
numerous ways that are limited only 
by the imagination of the people who 
use them.” 
Sourakov said the collection will 
help researchers study lepidoptera 
genetics and environmental changes, 
identify undescribed and unseen spe-
cies and better understand the effect of 
global climate change on their habitats.“By studying genetics of butterﬂ  ies 
and moths, people learn a lot about 
genetics of other organisms,” he said. 
“Including ourselves.”
By day, collectors like Knudson and 
Bordelon may go out into ﬁ  elds with 
nets to capture specimens. By night, 
they use sheets and black lights that at-
tract the moths.
As Sourakov pulled a thick red ﬁ  eld 
guide of North American lepidopteras 
off a nearby bookshelf, he explained 
how important it is that Knudson and 
Bordelon correctly illustrated and orga-
nized the species similarly. 
The most important thing about the 
donation, Sourakov said, is that collec-
tors want their decadeslong project to 
be studied and preserved, not kept un-
der lock and key collecting dust.
“Collections are used in so many 
numerous ways that are limited only 
by the imagination of the people who 
use them,” he said.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgBUTTERFLY,  from pg. 1Donation is not an exhibit
By Alana Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
With the rain Gainesville 
has experienced this past 
week, mosquitoes will begin 
populating the area — espe-
cially if residents don’t follow 
the recommended procedures.
Mosquitoes usually come 
out in early April, said Chip 
Skinner, public works spokes-
person for Gainesville Mos-
quito Control. The increase in 
rain this month has encour-
aged mosquito breeding.
As of Tuesday, there have 
not been any mosquito-related 
illnesses reported within the 
city, according to Skinner. 
However, mosquito-related ill-
nesses have been reported in 
livestock in surrounding coun-
ties, he said.
Residents can limit mos-
quito breeding habits by emp-
tying water in stored boats, ﬂ  ower pots and saucers, trash 
cans, discarded tires and wad-
ing pools. People must also 
change the water in bird baths 
weekly and pet dishes daily.
Mosquitoes prefer slow 
or stagnant water to lay their 
eggs. According to cityof-
gainesville.org, one table-
spoon of water can breed more 
than 200 mosquitoes. In the 
summer months, it only takes 
three or four days to complete 
their life cycle. 
One program that helps 
the Alachua County Health 
Department warn the general 
public about where mosquito-
related illnesses can be found 
is the Sentinel Chicken Sur-
veillance Program.
The department sends out 
six ﬂ  ocks of chickens to ar-
eas like Hawthorne, Alachua 
and Newberry. The chickens’ 
blood is periodically tested 
from May to November to de-termine which counties have 
mosquito-related diseases.
Anthony Dennis, the en-
vironmental health director 
at the Florida Department of 
Health in Alachua, said this 
information is used to warn 
the general public in that area.
The county is alerted when 
a chicken tests positive for 
an illness. The chicken is re-
moved from the ﬂ  ock and re-
placed with another healthy 
chicken.
If a chicken is infected, 
the caretaker brings it home. 
At the end of the surveillance 
period, the primary caretaker 
keeps all of the chickens, Den-
nis said.
“Chickens are the perfect 
sentinels because they are not 
affected by the virus, even 
when they test positive for 
a mosquito-related disease,” 
Dennis said.May rains start mosquito seasonEditorial
Column
‘Just be positive?’How about ‘just understand?’
Mental health carries a long series of 
symptoms that can be different for ev-
eryone. However, sometimes people 
not personally dealing with a mental 
health diagnosis themselves can dic-
tate recovery options or advice, despite having 
no degree or experience.
To continue awareness for Mental Health 
Awareness Month, I am writing about dealing 
with diagnoses for patients and those around 
them. 
People may be well-intentioned with their advice of a 
new diet or jog. However, I have heard from friends who 
suffer from mental illness about frustration these offers can 
create.
“Have you tried yoga or guided meditation?” is a com-
mon question I’ve heard people are asked. 
There’s also judgment for using medication to treat men-
tal illness that does not exist to the same degree for physical 
illnesses. 
Then there’s the comments: “Just be positive. It’s just 
changing your mindset.”
Mental illness occurs when a process in your brain goes 
awry. It can be caused by a speciﬁ  c event or seemingly noth-
ing at all. Your brain doesn’t regulate certain neurotransmit-
ters — the chemicals in your brain that control neurons’ sig-
nals — correctly.
Recovery and symptoms are different for everyone. A 
smile won’t ﬁ  x everything. It takes hard work and time. And 
sometimes, it takes time for the person to decide what’s best 
for them — even if it does end up being a jog, yoga or posi-
tivity. 
There’s cognitive-behavioral therapy, talk therapy, group 
therapy, self-help, medication and more. 
Instead of being a friend or relative’s doctor or therapist, 
be their support system.
It’s not easy to talk about mental illness. If you are a friend who isn’t sure what to do, there are resources.
I’ve recently found out about Seize The Awk-
ward, a campaign that helps you learn how to 
talk about mental health and reach out to a friend 
in need. 
And if you’re the friend in need, who feels 
alone, stuck or misunderstood, there are fun and 
professional resources. People going through 
what you are have made it their mission to help 
others. Doctors and organizations are also there 
to help you navigate the experience when you or 
a friend are in crisis. 
There’s Bring Change to Mind, a nonproﬁ  t that works to 
end stigma. 
There’s Hyperbole and a Half, a blog where someone 
blogged humorously, and honestly, about their experience 
with depression. 
There can also be positivity in social media, which is of-
ten blamed for some rise in mental health issues because of 
its tendency to inspire self-harming comparison, as written 
about in the Time article called “Why Instagram Is the Worst 
Social Media for Mental Health.”
However, there’s Instagram pages like The Happy News, 
The Positive Page, Let’s Talk About Mental Health, Projec-
t1in4, The Real Anxiety Blob and Beth Evans that work to 
personalize experiences with mental health or to help en-
courage people to see the positive in the negative. 
For professional help, the National Alliance on Mental Ill-
ness offers a page of helpline resources. 
Mental health is something that can’t be covered in just 
two columns. Beyond Mental Awareness Month, I encour-
age people to look beyond May and seek out how they can 
make a difference, whether it’s helping a friend or educating 
yourself.  
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Four professional basketball courts remain in use at this time 
of the year. Each team is vying for a spot in the NBA Finals. While 
the time for the courts of basketball are coming to a close, the 
courts of law are just warming up.
Judge Naomi Buchwald threw down a fast-break dunk on 
President Donald Trump yesterday in ruling that it’s unconsti-
tutional for government ofﬁ  cials to block Twitter followers. Su-
preme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch drained a fadeaway 3-pointer 
for employers three days ago by delivering his ﬁ  rst major opinion 
of his tenure. Two separate district courts in Missouri and Vir-
ginia hooked up for an alley-oop over the span of one day in a 
pair of decisions favoring transgender men.
On a basketball court, only two things ultimately matter: wins 
and losses. Opinions don’t mean a whole lot when there’s a clear 
result to look at. In the court of law, opinions are taken into ac-
count to determine a result. But in the court of The Alligator, 
two different results matter. They’re not wins and losses or prec-
edents and new decisions, but rather…
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.orgDARTS AND 
LAURELS
Speaking of important decisions, actor Chadwick Boseman 
decided (or, perhaps more accurately, was contractually obli-
gated) last month to walk the red carpet ahead of the “Aveng-
ers: Inﬁ  nity War” world premiere. Boseman stopped outside the 
theater, turned toward the cameras and posed in the now-famous 
Wakanda salute — arms crossed over the chest, ﬁ  sts clenched.
This time, however, the usual panache of Boseman’s signa-
ture salute seemed gone. There was a look of apparent boredom 
on his face, and his slumping shoulders punctuated the lackluster 
gesture. “Wakanda Whatever,” a Twitter user joked, a spin from 
the rally cry “Wakanda Forever.”
Boseman would clarify on “The Late Show with Stephen Col-
bert” the unlucky fan or fans on the receiving end of his salute 
caught “a more pedestrian” version of the pose when, theoreti-
cally, fans just minutes before witnessed a more intense version.
For that reason, we have to send a laurel Boseman’s way. 
The man wants to make people happy, and he won’t always suc-
ceed. But darn it if he won’t try anyway. Think “Inﬁ  nity War’s” 
ending, only with (spoilers ahead) real-life fans and not a snap of 
two gargantuan purple ﬁ  ngers.
Former President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama nabbed 
a movie deal with Netﬂ  ix to impart their wisdom on an audi-
ence slightly larger than their children. The multi-year deal will 
allow them to play a hand in the shows that inﬂ  uence and inspire 
generations to come, a la “West Wing.” The deal remains fairly 
open-ended.
We bestow a laurel upon the two for their interest in creating 
television “that hopes to cultivate and curate the talented, inspir-
ing, creative voices who are able to promote greater empathy 
and understanding between peoples, and help them share their 
stories with the entire world.” We hear Aaron Sorkin is between 
gigs right now if they’re looking for a screenwriter.
And at the buzzer, we’ll stick with the basketball theme and 
give a dart to the Milwaukee Police for needlessly using a stun 
gun on Milwaukee Bucks shooting guard Sterling Brown. Brown 
was arrested Jan. 26 after getting stunned, but he was never 
charged with a crime. In either a sign of changing times or a clue 
we’re now in “The Twilight Zone,” the Milwaukee Police chief 
released a public apology to Brown.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
OPEN DAILY: 6 AM - 10 PM
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner
3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
www.bojangles.com$5COMBO MEALS
Choose from 2Pc. Leg/Thigh Dinner With 
Biscuit Or Pulled Bbq Pork Sandwich Combo, 
Both Come With Side Item Plus Drink!
Oh, Florida! Land of sunshine and 
sea spray, with your miles of 
beaches and acres of swamp, how 
I have loved your climate in times 
both warm and slightly less warm. 
The bountiful depths of your balmy seas 
are perturbed only by visiting vagabond 
hurricanes; your peaceful air troubled 
only by the wind of mosquito wings; your 
clouds are as lofty and gray as the pristine 
God himself. For all the trouble you cause, 
we love you more and more ardently.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration is the greatest witness to, 
and record keeper of, your graceful rain-
fall, Florida. We are blessed to live in the 
majesty of the ﬁ  fth rainiest state in the na-
tion. I am honored to call Miami, the sec-
ond rainiest U.S. city, my eternally humid 
home. Water from your skies quenches the thirst of orange groves. It 
feeds crystalline clear aquifers 
we drink from. It bubbles up in 
springs that slink into the swamp 
and nurse the Everglades. Dur-
ing the worst of your heat and 
height of your sun, there is no 
remedy cooler than your after-
noon shower, overcast, a glow-
ing gray sheet of shade. As sum-
mer rains cede the sky, dusk falls 
and the sun sets, you rarely deny us a view 
of heaven, mottled blood red and freckled 
with bright orange.
Florida! Winter is no match for a foe as 
warm-blooded as you. You Southern rogue 
and peninsular rebel! Maps have painted 
your daring escape from the frigid conti-
nent. You have made your home in the 
Gulf of Mexico — emancipated yourself from that snowy hellscape that 
would have ensnared your burn-
ing spirit. Sister of the Caribbe-
an, you smell more of rainforest 
than of Southern pride. Daughter 
of the shallow tropical sea, your 
crashing waves sound more like 
a island beach than the cliffs of a 
Carolina coast. Your sand is skel-
etons made grain by grain from 
the tiny animals that make their 
tranquil home miles from shore. Only a 
culture warm enough for a reef could make 
a gift from a grave.
We fear too for you, Florida. The ocean 
issues a daily threat to subsume your ﬂ  at 
surface. Decades yet ahead you may be 
more reef than pasture. Coral will conquer 
where cows once grazed. But you seem 
to weather the changes calmly. Maybe it is not resignation that stills you, but ﬂ  ight 
that drives you. Florida, you are a schemer 
and planner. By the hour, you slide deeper 
beneath a salt bath that eats away at our 
condominium complexes, rusts our ﬂ  ag-
poles into dust and ﬂ  oods our streets at 
high tide. The rising waters will engorge 
our canals and choke out our homes like 
trespassing weeds. We will try feverishly 
to keep your head above water, but we 
cannot stop Florida weather once set in 
motion. It has always been too worthy an 
adversary. As much as we complain, we 
don’t really deserve you. If we can’t care 
for you, we can’t make claim to keep you.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political 
science junior. His column comes out Tues-
day and Thursday. 
One of the more interesting practices 
of our lovely Student Government 
here at UF is that we actually pay 
some of our students in certain po-
sitions. Usually people don’t really 
talk about it much, more than the yearly SG 
debate question of if one will take or donate 
their salary. That being said, I was happy to 
see The Alligator article by the SG report-
er on current Student Body President Ian 
Green using a bit of his salary toward buy-
ing suits for recent high school graduates 
from his hometown since it both illustrates 
a heartwarming use of one’s salary and also 
touched upon the topic of how much SG of-
ﬁ  cials are paid.
Our budget goes to the level of speciﬁ  c-
ity of “SG Ofﬁ  cer’s Salary” to the tune of 
$49,000. The rest you have to do some dig-
ging to ﬁ  nd out. For example, The Alligator 
reporter emailed the SG ﬁ  nance manager to 
ﬁ  nd out the president’s salary is $10,361.26. 
I put in a public records request last year to 
ﬁ  nd out the vice president gets $8,121.10 
and the treasurer gets $8,849.88.
But wait, there’s more! SG executives in the Senate also get paid. For 
their six-month terms, the Senate 
president gets $4,065.36 while 
the Senate president pro tempore 
(second in command within the 
Senate) gets $3,270.80. Finally 
there are the two special ex-
ecutive agency heads of Accent 
Speakers Bureau and Student 
Government Productions (SGP) 
who also get paid. In case you’re 
not familiar, Accent is the agency that 
brings in prominent and insightful speak-
ers to campus while SGP does the same for 
music/entertainment talent (Summer staff 
applications close May 25, in case you’re in-
terested). While my public records request 
didn’t encompass what their salaries were, 
I wouldn’t be surprised if they received sev-
eral thousand dollars for their time and ef-
forts as well.
These numbers should be pretty accu-
rate even though I put my public records 
request in during the previous ﬁ  scal year, 
seeing how the total sum put toward ofﬁ  cer 
salaries didn’t change between this and last year.
Everyone else? Free labor, 
I suppose. It’s personally a bit 
tough since I get by during my 
summers via the good grace of 
God, Bright Futures, my jobs 
and some external scholarships. 
That’s why I personally see the 
salaries as a potential good since 
they can be there for those of 
us who aren’t exactly well-en-
dowed. The positions who get salaries are 
mostly required to stay for the Summer or 
at the very least serve ofﬁ  ce hours/do a sub-
stantial amount of work. But many hours of 
hard work and staying for the Summer isn’t 
exclusive to these positions, which leaves 
me wishing we could do more for the rest of 
SG. Having Summer Bright Futures helps a 
lot, for sure, but I wonder what we can do 
as an organization to improve the experi-
ence of our public servants (or greedy re-
sume-line-grabbers, depending on who you 
ask and who you’re asking about).
We’ve also had some individuals who 
didn’t need their salaries: a couple years ago, executive branch ofﬁ  cers donated their 
salaries toward the Machen Florida Oppor-
tunity Scholars Program, which supports 
ﬁ  rst-generation, low-income undergraduate 
students. I will admit that when I ﬁ  rst was 
accepted to UF back in 2016 and was poking 
around into different political parties’ Face-
book pages, the wholesome act did catch 
my eye in a good way.
It’s always good to keep an eye on what 
your public servants are up to. Does the 
work they do line up with what they get 
paid? My guess is that we can all agree we 
probably should have withheld Smith Mey-
ers’ salary (given the damage he did to UF). 
At least with Green we should take note of 
his recent generosity and hope that other 
salaried SG ofﬁ  cers (who are ﬁ  nancially 
able) also consider using their public money 
for public good.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email 
me at zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
sophomore and Murphree Area Senator. His 
column focuses on Student Government.An ode to Florida and its lovely-yet-terrible weather
On Student Government salariesColumn
Column
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
YNW Melly to perform at Simon’s
Local talent joins the young Florida rapper for Simon’s 
“Blue Balenciaga Night” Saturday night at 10, pg 10Depot Park highlights music in Gainesville
Depot Park will host interactive musical events every Thursday 
until Make Music day on June 21, pg 9By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Tuesdays are for great laughs 
from local comedians at the weekly 
comedy show at The Midnight, a 
downtown Gainesville pub boasting 
local brews and great food.
Every Tuesday evening, The 
Midnight gives both professional 
and local comedians the opportuni-
ty to entertain a crowd and deliver 
their material. The Midnight holds a 
comedy workshop at 7:45 p.m., but 
those who want to perform better 
have their names on the list by 8:30 
p.m. because spots are limited.
The motley crew of comics will 
take their turns on the stage from 9 
p.m. to 11:30 p.m., and people can 
attend for free.
The comedy workshop is avail-
able to give comedians from ama-
teurs to professionals some in-
struction and delivery tips. The 
workshop takes place before the shows from 7:45 p.m. to 8:45 p.m.
Along with an entertaining 
show, those who are 21 and older 
can enhance their evening with a 
drink. During the event, The Mid-
night offers a special deal: 25-ounce 
tankards of beer for $4. 
In the past, the venue has 
featured appearances by nation-
ally touring comedians like Clif-
ton Cash. Sporadically they have 
themed comedy shows such as the 
Florida Snowpocalypse Show that 
happened Jan. 2. Tuesday’s show 
did not have a speciﬁ  ed theme, so 
comics brought their most original 
material.
Tom Crenzo, a 22-year-old UF 
alumnus, is a regular performer 
at the Tuesday Stand-up Comedy 
Show. He originally heard about the 
Gainesville comedy scene through a 
friend in class sometime in the mid-
dle of his sophomore year. 
“He told me that he was con-
vinced by his friend to try stand-up about a week earlier and actually 
had a pretty good experience, so 
naturally I wanted to know where 
and when the show he went to was 
happening,” Crenzo said. 
It was then Crenzo became con-
nected to another veteran of the 
Gainesville comedy scene, Micaela 
Fagan.
“Micaela had already been quite 
involved with the scene, and so she 
gave me a list of all the stand-up 
shows and open mikes that happen 
around town,” he said.
Fagan, a 22-year-old UF tele-
communications alumna, said she 
has been doing stand-up comedy 
in Gainesville since the show was 
held at what was once the 1982 Bar 
on West University Avenue. Since 
then, Fagan said, the show has 
bounced around different locations 
in town.
“Jen Vito hosted that show, and I 
followed it as it transformed to 8-Bit 
Bar, then moved to Market Street Pub and Cabaret, and ﬁ  nally settled 
at The Midnight,” Fagan said.
Fagan added that while open 
mikes are notoriously known for 
being difﬁ  cult, the environment at 
The Midnight created a great vibe.
Even though she has been doing 
stand-up since she graduated high 
school in 2014, the Gainesville com-
munity really stuck out to her for its 
positive atmosphere.
“My ﬁ  rst time performing 
here, I was immediately struck by 
how friendly and welcoming the 
Gainesville comedy community 
was,” she said. 
She continued to say she be-
lieves the Gainesville comedy com-
munity is great for comedians of all 
levels to grow and perform.
“We all encourage each other to 
keep getting better, and as much as 
we like making fun of each other, I 
seriously feel like we all like every-
one’s stuff,” Fagan said.
Crenzo had similar sentiments of bonding at the show.
“Here, all the comedians sit in 
the center of where the crowd will 
eventually ﬁ  ll, happily workshop-
ping each other’s material and giv-
ing advice on how to improve to the 
newcomers,” Crenzo said.
He said the environment of the 
Tuesday Stand-up Comedy Show 
helped ease his nerves and relax 
him, which led to a great perfor-
mance.
“The show’s creator, Jen Vito, 
was more than happy to introduce 
me to everybody and get me started, 
and before I knew it the nervous-
ness that had controlled me when 
I ﬁ  rst arrived had melted away into 
a sense of belonging,” Crenzo said.
If you are a comedian that is 
interested in performing at one of 
the shows, then get in contact with 
the show’s producer, Vito. She can 
be reached via the Tuesday Stand-
up Comedy Show Facebook event 
page.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Constant showers in Gainesville, appropri-
ately known as “Rainesville,” are known to 
kill the vibe of almost everyone in town. Now, 
imagine those gloomy skies that kill your 
plans actually killing you — Yes, deadly rain.
That is the grim reality for Scandinavian 
citizens in the newest Netﬂ  ix original show, 
“The Rain,” which premiered May 4.
The Danish drama takes place close to 
Sweden, where people are struggling to sur-
vive after a mysterious, virus-infected rain has 
fallen, killing almost their entire population.
The ﬁ  rst three episodes set the stage for a 
suspenseful, survival mystery.
At the beginning, we are introduced to the 
main character, Simone, minutes before her 
high school ﬁ  nal exam presentation, and the 
series seems like it will build into a climactic 
moment when the rain falls.
Sadly, the events of the show feel slightly 
rushed, as the audience is hurried through the 
set-up for this deadly rainfall and its effects.
Before a character proﬁ  le can even be prop-
erly constructed, viewers are thrust into the 
main conﬂ  ict of the series: Simone’s father, 
Frederik, rushes into the school to pull her 
to safety. For some reason, Simone’s father is 
aware of the virus-rain that is about to fall and 
places his family in a safety bunker.
The most infuriating part of the entire se-
ries is that the viewer has no idea what role 
Simone’s father has played in this horriﬁ  c situ-
ation. All the viewer gets from Frederik is the 
constant reassurance he gives to Simone and 
her brother, Rasmus. He says he has the cure 
for the situation.In that same breath, Frederik leaves Ras-
mus and Simone with their mother so he can 
“go and ﬁ  x this problem” — the problem that 
no one has been able to properly explain. Min-
utes pass in the scene where the children — 
just like viewers — are confused and want to 
know where their father has gone.
When there is a knock at the bunker door, 
the viewer gets their ﬁ  rst look at the effects of 
the rain. The emotionally driven children defy 
their mother and open the door only to ﬁ  nd 
someone who resembles a zombie standing in 
the rain. In this moment, the grim tone of the 
series is set.
As their mother pushes the infected man out of the way, she falls outside.
Within seconds the children watch their 
mother convulsing and throwing up before 
she ultimately dies. Simone and Rasmus are 
left without any adult supervision to wait out 
this rain and hopefully be rejoined with their 
father.
As the door to their room is sealed, Simone 
is ﬂ  ooded with emotions and remembers her 
father’s words to protect Rasmus at all costs. 
Then, Simone has a suspicious ﬂ  ashback of 
Rasmus when he was sick with an unmen-
tioned illness that now seems to be gone.
Instantly, the show has a huge time jump 
six years into the future.Simone and Rasmus, who now look to 
be in their late teens or early 20s, have been 
inside the bunker for years while waiting for 
their father and avoiding contamination.
All of sudden, their world is turned upside 
as raiders bombard their bunker, lock Simone 
and Rasmus into a room and search for any 
valuable goods. Through some quick thinking 
and plotting, Simone is able to get this group 
to allow her and Rasmus to join their brigade 
and travel with them to next bunker to get 
food.
Now, the series is ofﬁ  cially set in motion 
and the main plot becomes watching the 
group struggle to survive and ﬁ  nd answers.
Overall, the series provides a suspenseful 
and mysterious storyline that leaves view-
ers coming back for more answers. While it 
may be entertaining, the show does leave a 
lot of plot holes that seem to be glazed over 
throughout the story.
These unanswered questions could be left 
for a potential second season that will explore 
more of the company Frederik works for and 
their involvement in this manipulative meteo-
rology.
Could another rainfall be in their future?
What disease did Rasmus have, and what 
was the mysterious cure that his father devel-
oped?
What was the purpose of this infectious 
rain?
There is no set word on season two, but it 
may take another year before we see it. Pro-
duction for season one began in Denmark and 
Sweden in early June 2017 before it was re-
leased in May 2018.
If there is a greenlight for season two, it 
will likely not be seen until spring 2019.Weekly comedy show at The Midnight
Series review of the week — Netﬂ  ix’s ‘The Rain’
Courtesy of Netﬂ  ix
The Rain is Netﬂ  ix’s newest tale of suspense and survival.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
Music drives people, and to-
night, it just might be driving 
people to downtown Gainesville’s 
Depot Park for its weekly music-
centered events leading up to Make 
Music Day.
Singers, musicians and music 
lovers of all walks of life can ﬁ  nd 
a place at Depot Park’s Thurs-
day night event. From 5 p.m. to 7 
p.m., The Depot Park Team hosts 
its weekly Make Music in the Park 
Live Music Pop-up. Then, from 7 
p.m. to 11 p.m., Casual Karaoke at 
The Boxcar takes over Depot Park’s 
very own Boxcar Wine & Beer Gar-
den.
Make Music in the Park is an 
opportunity for the community to 
both experience and create mu-
sic. Various surprise musicians 
will perform live and unplugged 
throughout the park every Thurs-
day.
There will also be instruments 
available to visitors, so that you 
can contribute to the music of the 
evening as well.
The presence of live music 
serves to enhance the interactive 
aspect of the park, said Depot Park 
Manager Cindi Harvey.
If you are interested in becom-
ing a performer at a future Make 
Music in the Park instillation, email 
depotpark@cityofgainesville.org.
When Make Music in the Park 
ends, karaoke begins. Casual Ka-
raoke at The Boxcar is open to 
all ages, and there is no charge 
to participate. Guests can grab a 
beer from The Boxcar Wine & Beer 
Garden and something to eat from 
the park’s ever-present food truck, 
then sit back and relax or jump in 
line for the microphone.
As with all Depot Park events, 
Harvey said, Make Music in the 
Park and Casual Karaoke at The Boxcar aim to serve the whole 
community by providing a place of 
comfort and fun.
These events do serve one more 
purpose, Harvey explains. Both 
Make Music in the Park and Casual 
Karaoke at The Boxcar also serve 
as a grassroots advertisement for 
the park’s upcoming celebration of 
International Make Music Day.
“Make Music Day on June 21st 
is a free celebration of music,” 
Harvey said. “It happens around 
the world, and Depot Park in 
Gainesville, Florida, will be the 
second location in Florida hosting 
this event. The other event occurs 
on June 21 in Miami.”
Depot Park is joining forces 
with Hoggtowne Music to host the 
Make Music Day festivities. The 
musical extravaganza will bring 
a wide variety of music to Depot 
Park, live and free for all to enjoy.
“You may have a band playing 
in the overlook and a drum circle happening on the hill,” Harvey 
said. “You may have a violinist 
playing in the northeast gateway 
and a six-string orchestra playing 
in the northwest gateway. The 
whole idea is to activate the park 
with different groups of musicians 
all at the same time and literally 
make music that day, everyone to-
gether — the entire community.”
Depot Park, located at 200 SE 
Depot Ave., is just under two years 
old. Despite the park’s young age, 
it has already become a hub of ac-
tivity and variety. It is this diversi-
ty that makes Harvey the proudest.
“I really believe our swan song 
at this point is the variety of guests 
that we have,” Harvey said. “I 
mean, Depot Park is truly our park, 
and I mean that in every sense of 
the term. Regardless of your so-
cioeconomic background, or your 
race or your age, truly anyone and 
everyone can come out to Depot 
Park and enjoy it.”THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to The Alligator
Depot Park hosts two free musical events  every Thursday. 
Music in Depot Park
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Joe Dorsey, owner of Hoggtowne Music, enjoys last week’s 
Make Music in the Park. Photo courtesy to The Alligator.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.
BROKELIFE PHET 
PRESENTS “BLUE 
BALENCIAGA NIGHT” 
FEATURING FLORIDA 
RAPPER YNW MELL Y. 
By Eman Elshahawy
Avenue Contributor
Florida rapper YNW Melly started 
from SoundCloud, a popular music 
sharing site, and now he’s here. 
The show is open to those 18 and 
up, with general admission tickets 
on sale now for $20 and VIP tickets 
for $30. Tickets can be purchased 
through eventbrite.com or the Si-
mon’s Facebook page. Tickets will 
also be available for purchase at the 
venue for $25. Doors open at 10 p.m. 
sharp.
The 19-year-old artist from Gif-
ford, Florida, will make his debut Gainesville performance this Sat-
urday. YNW Melly will be headlin-
ing the “Blue Balenciaga Night” at 
Simon’s night club, located at 8 S. 
Main St. 
Nearly 800 people are expected 
to attend the show presented by 
Brokelife Phet, head promoter and 
event coordinator. This will mark 
the 20-year-old Gainesville native’s 
third show as a promoter of public 
events. 
“We hoping to get 1,000 people 
if we can. It’s stressful but we doing 
it,” he said. “We got a couple artists 
opening and a DJ playing music be-
fore and in between performances.”
Local rappers $lim T, 100K and 
Shoogang will each hit the stage be-
fore YNW Melly’s performance. Like 
YNW Melly, Phet says the opening 
artists range from ages 19 to 20 and 
offer a fresh, new feel to Gaines-
ville’s rap scene.
DJ melloblendz will lay down the hottest beats to hype up the crowd 
in between the artists’ performances.
“He’ll be there, mixing and chop-
ping it up,” Phet said.
Phet describes YNW Melly’s vibe 
as “charismatic and something dif-
ferent,” setting him apart from other 
rappers in the game. For more, lis-
teners will have to experience this 
self-made up-and-comer’s perfor-
mance in person.
“(YNW Melly)’s from Florida and 
he’s on the come up,” he expressed.
Phet compares YNW Melly’s 
sound, style and ﬂ  ow to an even 
younger Young Thug.
He describes how the similarity 
between the two can be seen in how 
they make hype music that is deliv-
ered through both vocals and rap — 
a variety that everyone can enjoy.
“Y’all can expect good people 
coming out and some hype live mu-
sic,” he said. “It’s gonna be lit.”Rising Florida rapper YNW Melly to perform in Gainesville
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Nineteen-year-old Florida rapper YNW Melly performs at Simon’s 
night club on Saturday.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Spend your Memorial Day out on the river with our Avenue Memorial 
Day Playlist. Photo by Emma Witmer.
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Writer
Memorial Day marks the unofﬁ  cial start of the 
summer, and what better way to celebrate the 
three-day weekend than with songs to get you in 
the summer mood?
People all over the U.S. will be celebrating the 
long weekend from Friday afternoon through Me-
morial Day on Monday. Now that the weather’s 
warm, people will be ﬂ  ocking to the nearest body 
of water to keep cool.
Whether you’re barbecuing on the beach, lake 
or your backyard, this playlist will keep the party 
going with patriotic tunes and songs that are on 
track to be summer hits.   
Keep an eye on our Avenue social media ac-
counts as we prepare to launch the section’s very 
own Spotify account. Here, readers will be able to 
access all the songs our writers review and playl-
ists that we put together. Check us out on Twitter 
@TheFloridaAve for updates.
 “Born in the U.S.A.” by Bruce Springsteen“I Get Around” by 2Pac
“I Heard You Got Too Litt Last Night” by SAINt 
JHN
“Made Men” by Migos
“Familiar” by Liam Payne and J Balvin
“Nice for What” by Drake
“Me So Bad” by Tinashe, Ty Dolla $ign and 
French Montana
“All or Nothing” by Naughty Boy, RAY BLK, 
Wyclef Jean
“Playinwitme” by KYLE feat. Kehlani
“No Tears Left to Cry” by Ariana Grande
“After the Storm” by Kali Uchis feat. Tyler, the 
Creator and Bootsy Collins
“One Kiss” by Dua Lipa and Calvin Harris
“Lift Yourself” by Kanye West
“Make Me Feel” by Janelle Monáe
“OTW” by Khalid feat. 6LACK and Ty Dolla $ign
“I Like It” by Cardi B, Bad Bunny and J Balvin
“(F*ck A) Silver Lining” by Panic! at the Disco
“Tongue” by MNEK
“God’s Plan” by Drake
“American Woman” by Lenny KravitzEssential Memorial Day PlaylistBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers only. 
Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ walk to 
UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. CAC/
heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 561-
822-7073, chaarlottekirk@outlook.com   6-7-
18-5-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
● ● MARGIE'S SECOND THOUGHT ● ●
2210 NE 55th Blvd, Gville. 386-972-2556
10 am - 6 pm, 7 days a week
● Baby supplies & toys ● Appliances ● 
Furniture ● Clothes ● Linens ● Rugs, Etc.       
6-5-18-5-10SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N     5-24-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
For Sale: Kymco Like 200i Scooter.
Just broken in and serviced. Transferable 
warantee, windshield and cover. $1500. Don 
352-328-0764    5-29-18-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2 male Grad students seek a
male roommate who is clean &
studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,
own bed/bath, on bus stop
close to UF. Pool, hot tub,
tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3
util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
W/D, front & back porches. $840/mo + utils. 
Call 352-871-6413    5-24 18-4-2
2/2 Corner Condo:
Move-in ready, washer/dryer incl.
Free internet.
10 min to UF. On bus route.
$850/mth. 352-872-3619      6-7-18-5-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave      4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
W/D included, fenced backyard, large
closets, close to shopping, midtown, buses    
Call 352-338-1000        6-7-18-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.Gainesville Regional Utilities (GRU) currently 
has an opening for a Temporary Part-Time 
Energy Analyst to work for the Energy and 
Business Services Division.  AA/DFWP/EOE/
VP Visit our website to apply: https://www.
governmentjobs.com/careers/gainesville    
5-24-18-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Designated drivers are the greatestStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      5-24-18-
4-14
Established studio seeking applicant with 
exp teaching kids martial arts. Looking to 
start ASAP. Email cory.schafer@iskaworld -
hq.com to apply. PT $10-14/hr    5-24-18-4-
14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
1. LANGUAGE: What is the accent 
mark that looks like a little tent over a 
letter like ˆ this?
2. TELEVISION: What animat-
ed show features a pub called “The 
Drunken Clam”?
3. COMICS: When did “The Phan-
tom” daily comic strip start?
4. CHEMISTRY: What common 
kitchen product’s chemical formula is 
NaCl?
5. THEATER: In which musical was 
the song “The Perfect Year” featured?
6. ANATOMY: What is the largest 
artery in the human body?
7. HISTORY: Which battle was con-
sidered to be a turning point in the 
World War II Pacific arena?
8. MOVIES: What movie won the 
Best Picture Oscar award in 2016?
9. MATH: How many faces does an 
octahedron have?
10. LITERATURE: In which of 
Shakespeare’s plays does the line, 
“The course of true love never did run 
smooth,” appear?
Answers
1. Circumflex
2. “Family Guy”
3. 1936
4. Salt
5. “Sunset Boulevard”
6. Aorta
7. Midway
8. “Spotlight”
9. Eight
10. “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 21, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Were you an INDUSTRIAL TRADESMAN 
(machinist/boilermaker/pipefitter etc) and re -
cently diagnosed with LUNG CANCER? You 
may be entitled to a SIGNIFICANT CASH 
AWARD. Risk free consultation! 855-259-
0557     5-24-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Outdated
6 Calf-length
dresses
11 Streaming
alternative
14 Let up
15 Hacienda
material
16 Crew’s control?
17 High-end eye
makeup?
19 Hollywood SFX
20 Part of a process
21 “Pomp and
Circumstance”
composer
22 Concert souvenir
23 First words of
“Green Eggs and
Ham”
25 Creeps
27 One sterilizing
Ping-Pong
equipment?
32 Supermarket
chain with a
mostly red oval
logo
33 Con man?
34 Switches
37 Adorkable one
39 Emcee duty
42 Flute or reed, on
an organ
43 Tibetan legends
45 Fireside stack
47 Org. concerned
with emissions
48 Squad car for
soprano
Kathleen?
52 Sign of fall
54 Fish-eating eagle
55 Romp
56 Old autocrats
59 Historic times
63 Place for a bud
64 Worthless stuff
from Beijing?
66 It may be
financial or legal
67 Skin dye used in
some wedding
celebrations
68 Overdue
69 Measures for
long-distance
runners: Abbr.
70 Mystery award
71 Entertain
DOWN
1 More than casual
acquaintances
2 Touch on3 __-Coburg:
former Bavarian
duchy
4 Idiotic
5 “If __ I loved her,
all that love is
gone”:
Shakespeare
6 __ of America
7 “Got it, man”
8 Give
9 Gibraltar’s
peninsula
10 Sun. delivery
11 High degrees
12 Ill-defined
13 Small amounts
18 Aden native
22 Simmers
24 Fashioned after
26 Canadian VIPs
27 Like some
Christmas
candles
28 Tommie of the
Amazin’ Mets
29 They’re stuck in
pubs
30 RR depot
31 IMDb search
category
35 Bishop of Rome
36 Sail support
38 Private account
40 Mythical bird41 Fiona, after
Shrek’s kiss
44 Auto additive with
a mostly red oval
logo
46 __ La Table:
Williams-Sonoma
rival
49 Gave religiously
50 Dieting
successfully
51 Stuck
52 Command to Fido53 GEICO
submission
57 “Mom” co-star
Faris
58 Stern
60 Wise adviser
61 Objectives
62 Inner Hebrides
isle
64 “The Motorcycle
Diaries”
revolutionary
65 In-flight update
By David Poole
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/24/1805/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Italian fashion
label
6 Invasive Asian
vine
11 CSI lab sample
14 “Cosmos” host
15 Symphonic winds
16 + or - particle
17 *Precarious
position
19 Zoo opening in
Britain
20 Long-lasting
needlework?
21 Hero of Uris’
“Exodus”
22 Business
magnate
23 Lowest in fat
25 “And __ off!”
27 Take it easy
28 Grade-schooler
29 Fido’s poodle
amie
32 Classification
prefix meaning
“arrangement”
34 What candidates
“press” a lot of
37 Time division
38 *1979 boxing
sequel
40 Wanted poster
letters
41 Do an airport
maintenance job
43 Eager about, with
“on”
44 Foul mood
45 __ Ark
47 “Get outta there!”
49 Bronchial woe
51 Totally puzzled
54 Journalist Paula
55 It has a dozen
signs: Abbr.
57 Low clouds
59 “Evil Woman”
band, briefly
60 Feeling woozy ...
and a hint to the
first words of the
answers to
starred clues
62 Knock
63 Former Houston
hockey team
64 Tequila plant
65 Citrus suffix
66 __-Roman
wrestling
67 Doled (out)DOWN
1 Subtle summons
2 1986 Indy 500
champ Bobby
3 Colorful quartz
4 ’60s TV show
whose title
means “doctor” in
Swahili
5 “Do I have a
volunteer?”
6 “MASH” setting:
Abbr.
7 WWII sub
8 Gloomy
9 Apex
10 Amer. money
11 *Hall of Fame
pitcher with the
1930s Cardinals
12 Lack of musical
skill
13 Agassi of tennis
18 Heads for
22 Honeycomb unit
24 Puts into piles
26 LP player
28 Most coquettish
29 Gave grub to
30 Anger
31 *Very small
chance
33 Jaguar model35 Hit the slopes
36 Fez, e.g.
38 Scold, with “out”
39 One way to pay
42 “Walking in
Memphis” singer
Marc
44 Attic function
46 Not as clear
48 Chi. White Sox or
Bos. Red Sox
49 Hyundai sedan50 Tossed __
51 For a special
purpose
52 ’70s-’80s Egyptian
president
53 Actor Carell
56 Folklore brute
58 Carded at a club,
briefly
60 Fall behind
61 Chinese menu
surname
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/23/1805/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, May 23, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Can ____
1.  Prom flower5.  Life ____
2.  Tax ____6.  Take on
3.  Principled 7.  Type of horn
4.  Rearview ____PENEOR
CIDHORAHCCO
URNIC
OEVNAIS
HCLEATINTEARL
ROMRIRANSWERS: 1A-Opener  5A-Coach  6A-Incur  7A-Antler
1D-Orchid  2D-Evasion  3D-Ethical  4D-Mirror  B-Concorde5-24-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ could seat between
92 and 128 passengers.
BONUS
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets
Sophomore Andy Zhang leads 
the UF men's golf team into the 
NCAA Championships after 
finishing first in regional play.Horford records double-double in Boston Celtics win
Former Gator Al Horford had 15 points and 12 rebounds in the Celtics' 96-
83 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 5 of the Eastern Confer-
ence Finals on Wednesday night. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
“The chess match is ratcheted 
up.”
That’s how ESPN play-by-play 
commentator Tom Hart described 
the end of the baseball game be-
tween Florida and LSU in the top 
of the eighth inning as Florida (42-
15, 20-10 SEC) elected to bring in a 
tandem of relievers to try and hold 
off the Tigers (34-25, 15-15 SEC).
In the second round of the SEC 
Tournament in Hoover, Alabama, 
the Gators beat the Tigers 4-3 to 
snap their four-game losing streak.
Seven pitches into the game, it 
looked as if it would be all Florida. 
LSU pitching coach Alan Dunn 
made a trip to the mound after 
pitcher Ma’Khail Hilliard walked 
the opening batter, Deacon Liput. 
Hilliard would respond by record-
ing three straight outs.
Freshman Tommy Mace got 
the surprise start for the Gators as 
normal starter Brady Singer was 
held out for the second-consecu-
tive start. JJ Schwarz also sat after 
breaking his hand in the Mississip-
pi State series and will be re-evalu-
ated after the SEC Tournament.
The Tigers backed up Hilliard 
in the top of the second inning. 
After UF second baseman Blake 
Reese recorded a throwing error 
to put a runner on first, the very 
next batter, LSU third baseman 
Jake Slaughter, uncorked a bomb 
to deep left field that easily cleared 
the fence to put his team up 2-0.
One inning later, Tigers left 
fielder Daniel Cabrera hit an RBI 
single off Mace into right field to 
plate right fielder Antoine Duplan-tis from second, putting them up 
3-0.
Florida would punch right back, 
though.
After a single and a walk put 
men on first and second, shortstop 
Deacon Liput doubled to deep left 
center to bring center fielder Nick 
Horvath home and catcher Cal 
Greenfield to third.
Greenfield scored the very next 
play as designated hitter Nelson 
Maldonado grounded out to sec-
ond base while Liput advanced to 
third.
With one out in the inning and 
a man on third, LSU elected to 
bring the infield in to try to throw 
Liput out at the plate. SEC Player 
of the Year and UF third baseman 
Jonathan India came up to bat and 
scorched a single through the gap 
between the third baseman and the 
shortstop, scoring Liput and tying 
it up at three.
Austin Langworthy knocked an 
RBI single through Hilliard’s legs in 
the bottom of the fifth and the right 
hander was pulled from the game 
with the score at 4-3.
Mace wasn’t pulled until he fin-
ished the seventh inning. He gave 
up three runs (one earned), and 
the Gators brought in reliever Jor-
dan Butler. Butler allowed a single 
and recorded an out before being 
taken out for closer Michael Byrne.
Byrne struggled in UF’s previ-
ous series with Mississippi State, 
but recorded 1.2 scoreless innings 
to earn the save.
Although Florida scraped out 
the win, errors plagued the team. 
Reese was pulled in favor of sec-Florida endures errors, holds off LSU in SEC Tournament
NOTEBOOK
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The busy world of UF athletics begins 
to wind down as summer starts to heat up, 
but there’s still plenty to follow as several 
teams are in the thick of their respective 
postseasons.
Florida’s top-ranked baseball team is 
currently taking part in the SEC Tourna-
ment without First-Team All-SEC catch-
er JJ Schwarz, who is nursing a broken 
hand. Schwarz’s availability for the NCAA Regionals, which begins on June 1, will be 
reassessed following the SEC Tournament.
Meanwhile the softball team is chas-
ing its second-straight trip to the Wom-
en’s College World Series in the NCAA 
Gainesville Super Regional this weekend. 
Florida finished as national runner-up a 
year ago after falling to Oklahoma in the 
championship series.
The men’s and women’s tennis teams 
are both competing in the NCAA Singles 
and Doubles Championships in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina. The competition ends on May 28.
After finishing the NCAA Kissimmee 
Regional with a school-record minus-42 
on May 16, the men’s golf team will travel 
to Stillwater, Oklahoma, to compete for 
the NCAA National Championship start-
ing Friday.
The men’s and women’s track and 
field teams are competing in the NCAA 
East Preliminary in Tampa, which begins 
Thursday and runs through Saturday. Both 
will look to qualify for the NCAA Outdoor 
Championships in Eugene, Oregon. The men’s team was crowned national cham-
pions at the 2017 NCAA outdoors compe-
tition, while the women’s team finished 
fifth.
Holloway signs new contract, foot-
ball and basketball announce future 
opponents
On Wednesday, UF announced that 
veteran track and field coach Mike Hol-
loway agreed to a 10-year contract exten-UF Summer Sports: A complete postseason rundown
SEE ROUNDUP,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
Although junior Jonathan India recorded two errors Wednesday night, he made a defensive play to 
preserve  UF's 4-3 lead over LSU. He also went 2 for 4 with a double and an RBI.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS MEN’S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Seniors Anna Danilina and 
Josie Kuhlman advanced on 
to the second round at the 
NCAA Division I Women’s 
Tennis Singles Champion-
ships on Wednesday.
Danilina’s round of 64 
match put her up against Cal-
ifornia’s Olivia Hauger. While 
the first set was close Danili-
na edged it out with a 7-5 win 
she was on cruise control for 
the second set as she shut out 
Hauger 6-0. Danilina will face 
off against Texas’ Anna Tu-
rati, who bested Kuhlman at 
a dual meet earlier this year, 
at 8 a.m Thursday.
Kuhlman’s match put her 
up against South Alabama’s 
Alexandria Stiteler. Stiteler wouldn’t go down without a 
fight as Kuhlman barely took 
the first set and dropped the 
second before a winning ef-
fort in the tiebreaking set, 
winning the match 7-6, 4-6, 
6-2. She will face Stanford’s 
Emily Arbuthnott at 11 a.m. 
Thursday.
Danilina and freshman 
Victoria Emma will also be 
gearing up for the first round 
of the doubles championship 
tomorrow, where they’ll face 
Oklahoma State’s Vladica 
Babic and Sofia Bianco at 1:30 
p.m. Danilina and Emma both 
played Babic in doubles play 
on Feb. 7 during the team’s 
dual meet against Oklahoma 
State in a winning effort.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgBy Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s tennis team 
had three players represent them 
in the Men’s Tennis Singles Cham-
pionship in Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, on Wednesday, but only 
one will be moving on.
Two Gators played in the early 
matches at 8 a.m. on the lower 
courts.
On Court 3, freshman Oliver 
Crawford struggled against Flori-
da State’s Lucas Poullain, losing 
in straight sets 6-1, 6-1. Crawford 
saw trouble in every aspect of the 
match, but the main issue was in-
accuracy on returns — a strength 
during the dual-match season. The 
Southeast Region’s Rookie of the 
Year, Crawford was visibly frus-
trated for the entirety of his debut 
match. 
Struggles continued on Court 
1. Sophomore Johannes Ingildsen led for most of the first set before 
he blew a 5-3 lead and eventually 
lost 7-5. It would be the last lead 
he would hold. In the second set, 
Michigan’s Runhao Hua took ad-
vantage of the momentum to domi-
nate the second set 6-2 to cap off 
the straight-set win over the Den-
mark native.
Despite tough matches in the 
morning, junior Alfredo Perez 
reversed a bleak day with an im-
pressive performance in the only 
afternoon match featuring a Gator 
player.
In his third-consecutive ap-
pearance in the tournament, Perez 
started strong against Ohio State’s 
JJ Wolf, winning the first set 6-4. 
After a rain delay lasted nearly two 
hours, he picked up right where 
he left off in the second set with 
strong serves that flustered Wolf, 
leading to another 6-4 win to help 
Perez advance to the round of 32 
for the third-straight time.Perez will play his second sin-
gles match on Thursday as well as 
a doubles match with his partner 
Ingildsen in their second-consecu-
tive appearance at the champion-
ship event. Last season, the pair 
advanced all the way to the round 
of 16 and earned All-America hon-
ors. This year, the No. 4-seeded 
duo overall will play Stanford’s 
Tom Fawcett and Axel Geller. The 
match is scheduled to begin at 5 
p.m.
Junior McClain Kessler and 
freshman Duarte Vale will also 
take part in the doubles tourna-
ment. They will take on TCU’s 
Guillermo Nuñez and Alex Ryba-
kov for the second time this year at 
3:30 p.m. TCU’s tandem defeated 
Kessler and Vale 6-2 on March 14.
 
Dylan Rudolph is a sports writer. 
Follow him on Twitter @dyrudolph 
and contact him at drudolph@alli-
gator.org.Danilina and Kuhlman 
to advance in NCAAsRough day for Gators at Men’s 
Singles ChampionshipsSOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
“This will never happen again.”
UF softball coach Tim Walton re-
ceived those words in a text message 
from then-freshman Amanda Lorenz 
after his team was eliminated in the 
2016 NCAA Super Regionals by SEC 
rival Georgia. 
This season No. 4 Florida faces a 
similar situation. 
The Gators (53-8, 20-4 SEC) will 
host another conference foe, No. 14 
Texas A&M, in the Gainesville Super 
Regional beginning Thursday night 
at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
However, Walton isn’t worried 
about his players, especially Lorenz, 
trying to keep the same mentality 
they had after losing to UGA.
“It’s one thing to be able to send a 
message like that. It’s another thing 
to deliver on a message like that,” he 
said. “She (Lorenz) obviously deliv-
ered on her promise last year by get-
ting the hit that sent us to the World 
Series.”
Now two years removed from the 
heartbreaking defeat to UGA, Lorenz 
has proven herself as one of the na-
tion’s top players. On Wednesday, 
she and teammate Kelly Barnhill 
were named as two of four finalists 
for the USA Softball Collegiate Player 
of the Year. 
The junior left fielder from Moor-
park, California, is first in the SEC 
in on-base percentage (.575) and 
walks (61) and is tied for first with 
18 doubles on the season. She’s also 
top-five in batting average (.418), 
runs scored (68), RBIs (59) and to-
tal bases (125). But Lorenz is also 
staunch defensively, only registering 
one error on the season and posting 
a .983 fielding percentage.
Barnhill is one of three pitchers picked as a national player of the 
year finalist. A fellow junior, she 
boasts a 28-1 record and leads the 
SEC in strikeouts (300) and games 
started (34). Barnhill has also pitched 
five no-hitters in 2018 as well as two 
combined no-hitters.   
But the Aggies (43-16, 13-11 SEC) 
have a big-time player of their own 
in first baseman Tori Vidales. The 
TAMU senior has turned her season 
around since Florida last faced her 
on March 26. She boasts a team-high 
batting average of .353 and has out-
hit Lorenz with 12 home runs on the 
year compared to the left fielder’s 10. 
“(She’s) a senior leader and one 
of the best players in the SEC,” Wal-
ton said. “She was 100 points lower 
in batting average when we faced 
them to where she’s at now.”
Vidales also ranks in the confer-
ence’s top 10 in RBIs with 57 and 
walks with 34.  
In the circle, Texas A&M holds 
an ace of its own in senior Trinity 
Harrington. She’s 13-5 on the season 
but is tied for the team lead with 11 
complete games and six shutout per-
formances. Against the Gators, Har-
rington threw six innings over two 
outings and allowed seven hits and 
three earned. However, her numbers 
suffered due to the fact that she came 
on in relief in both appearances with 
runners on-base.   
Yet, the prospect of squaring off 
against Vidales and Harrington for 
another series ‒ this time for the 
chance to go to the Women’s Col-
lege World Series in Oklahoma City 
‒ doesn’t make Lorenz and her team-
mates even a bit nervous. 
“This is the fun time,” she said. 
“This isn’t the pressure time.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFlorida ready to host a “fun time” in Super Regional
Alligator File Photo
Junior left fielder Amanda Lorenz leads the SEC in on-base percentage, walks and doubles this 
season. She’s also a finalist for the USA Softball Collegiate Player of the Year. 
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2018
TH
restau rant & roo ftop barE
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
sion with the team. The Gators 
have won seven national titles 
and nine SEC championships 
under Holloway, who coaches 
both the men’s and women’s 
track and field teams. He joined 
the UF track and field staff as 
an assistant coach in 1996 and 
has since been selected as UST-
FCCCA coach of the year seven 
times.
The school announced Tues-
day that the UF and USF foot-
ball teams have scheduled three 
meetings, starting in 2022. 
That meeting, and the final 
one in 2025, will be played in 
Gainesville. The 2023 matchup 
will be played in Tampa.
The men’s basketball team 
continues to beef up its non-
conference schedule, announc-
ing Wednesday that it will face 
West Virginia in the Jimmy V 
Classic on Dec. 4 at Madison 
Square Garden. The Mountain-
eers finished 26-11 last season, 
falling to eventual-champion 
Villanova in the Sweet 16.UF sports teams show aca-
demic prowess
The NCAA initiated its Aca-
demic Progress Rate (APR) in 
2003 in an attempt to hold col-
leges “accountable for the aca-
demic progress” of student-ath-
letes, according to NCAA.com.
Schools are rewarded for aca-
demic success and punished for 
a lack thereof. Each sports team 
gets its own APR score based on 
the NCAA’s criteria. Eleven of 
Florida’s 19 sports teams posted 
higher scores than the national 
average from the last four years, 
with men’s basketball, men’s 
cross country and men’s tennis 
all exceeding their respective 
averages by a wide margin.
Softball and football were 
among other teams to do so.
If a team’s four-year APR 
score is below 930 then it loses 
postseason eligibility for 2018-
19, the next academic year. The 
lowest score of any UF team was 
961 from the women’s track and 
field team.
 
 @AndrewJHuang 
ahuang@alligator.orgNOTEBOOK,  from pg. 14Holloway signs a 10-year extension with UF on W ednesday
ond baseman Shane Shifﬂ  ett after recording 
two errors. India had two errors as well. As a 
team that prides itself on defense, the errors 
were uncharacteristic, especially from the 
ﬂ  eet-footed India.
He redeemed himself in the eighth in-
ning, though. After Shifﬂ  ett recorded a nice 
play on a chopping grounder the previous play, India made a diving play to preserve 
the lead.
Slaughter laced a grounder down the left-
ﬁ  eld baseline with two outs and the bases 
loaded. The third baseman laid out about ten 
feet behind the bag, snagged the grounder, 
got up and ﬁ  red a dart to ﬁ  rst to record the 
out.
In a television interview after the game, 
India was shown the play for the ﬁ  rst time.
“Oh…wow…it happened so quick I barely remember it,” he said. “Not playing 
well defensively this game, made a couple 
errors…all my teammates picked me up af-
ter, saying, ‘Listen man, that’s not you. Just 
stay with the game and you’re going to get 
another ground ball.’”
Had India made a poor throw or missed 
the ball completely, at least one Tiger would 
have scored, if not more.
He also shined at the plate, going 2 for 4 
with an RBI. The only other Gator to record at least two hits was Horvath, who went 2 
for 3.
LSU now faces the loser of a game be-
tween Arkansas and South Carolina, while 
UF plays the winner. Times are still to be 
determined. UF will likely throw Jackson 
Kowar in the double-elimination tourna-
ment.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14Singer and Schwarz were both held out of SECs due to injuryAlligator File Photo
Coach Mike Holloway amd the UF Track and Field team will participate in the NCAA East Preliminary 
in T ampa beginning on Thursday. Holloway has won seven national titles as head coach. 
