We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Police arrest 15-year-old on murder charge
He is accused of shooting a 27-year-old in Alachua, pg. 3
UF accidentally pays county for Spencer fees
UF cited an “internal miscommunication, ” pg. 3GATORS GO COLD IN LOSS TO UGA 
The Florida men’s basketball fell to Georgia 72-
60 on Tuesday night, missing 18 of its ﬁ  nal 21 shots in the defeat, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 52
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Health Care Center in-
stalled menstrual product dispensers in the 
Inﬁ  rmary lobby Friday.
The four new dispensers, containing 
condoms, pads and tampons, are part of the renovations made to the 100-year-old building, said Cecilia Luna, a marketing 
and communications coordinator.
“We’re here to support (students’) over-all health, which in turn supports their 
overall academic success,” Luna said. 
The change came after students 
launched Gators Matter, Period., a student organization that advocates for free men-strual products on campus. 
Chase Werther, a UF philosophy and 
political science junior and the student group’s founder, said she appreciated the center taking the initiative to provide prod-ucts themselves.The center’s service is funded by the 
Student Health Fee, which is included in 
tuition, Luna said.  
The Inﬁ  rmary joins the Field and Fork 
Pantry as one of the few on-campus loca-
tions to provide free pads and tampons. 
Student Government announced last 
Tuesday menstrual products will be acces-sible in the Reitz Union GatorWell ofﬁ  ce beginning in February. The decision was reached after backlash against an SG com-mittee rejected a proposal to fund free on-campus menstrual products. 
“It’s really nice that it’s being provided 
there, but we hope that it’s not going to be exclusively held in one location just because we want these products to be ac-cessible,” Werther, 21, said. “We’re really 
hoping they will roll out to other parts of 
campus.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org Student Health Center now oﬀ  ers free tampons, pads
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Receiving a costly utility bill means 
tough choices for Sarah Dean.
This month, she had to choose between 
her $695 utility bill from Gainesville Regional Utilities and buying a car seat for her baby due next month. 
With a 3-year-old daughter at home, 
the 26-year-old Gainesville resident said it wasn’t really a choice. 
“The light bill is going to win every 
time,” she said. 
In recent months, some GRU customers 
have received higher-than-normal utility bills and taken to social media to express their frustration. GRU rates have not changed since October, but there has been 
an increase in customer usage due to the 
cold weather, wrote Chief Customer Ofﬁ  cer Bill Shepherd in an email. Increased usage along with a 2 percent base-rate increase that went into effect Oct. 1 could have 
caused higher utility bills.
“Weather is a primary driver to utility bills,” he said. “Very cold and very hot 
weather will have a direct impact on the 
cost of heating or cooling your home.”
Even people who don’t use their heat 
excessively would see an increase in cold 
weather because air-conditioning systems work hard to maintain the same setting 
when it’s colder outside, Shepherd said. 
The cold weather isn’t a satisfactory 
answer for Dean. She doesn’t believe that 
a drop in temperature justiﬁ  es the doubling 
of her electric bill. 
The increases came especially as 
a surprise to her considering how the 
City Commission suggested rates would decrease as a result of purchasing the 
Deerhaven Renewable Energy Center, she 
said.
In November, Mayor Lauren Poe said 
the purchase would bring down bills 8 to 
10 percent as early as January, according 
to Alligator archives. Shepherd said customers can look forward to a decrease in the electric portion of their bills by Cold weather causes 
increases in some GRU bills 
SEE GRU,  PAGE 3Will Clewis / Alligator Staff 
Sarah Burns, a 21-year-old UF ﬁ  nance junior, listens to Pearleen Lederman, a 26-year-
old Macy’s recruiter and UF alumna, at Career Showcase on Tuesday morning. Burns said the event was not as stressful like it was in the Fall. Close to 400 ﬁ  rms and organizations registered for the Career Showcase in the O’Connell Center. 
By Vivian Nguyen  
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ralph Chamberlain has seen 
a disease sweep over his citrus 
grove like a cancer. 
“As a farmer and as a business 
manager of a citrus business, we are actually dying a slow death,” he said.
Like many other Florida citrus 
growers, Chamberlain, the gen-eral manager of Edentown Co. in Charlotte County, is heavily affected by citrus greening. The 
disease is spread by insects that 
carry a bacteria, which causes trees to die and their fruit to taste 
abnormal, said Zhonglin Mou, a 
UF associate professor of microbi-ology and cell science. 
To ﬁ  nd a solution, three UF re-
searchers, including Mou, will re-
ceive $10.52 million Thursday in 
federal grants to research ways to reduce greening, said UF’s Insti-tute of Food and Agricultural Sci-ences spokesperson Brad Buck. 
Since greening was ﬁ  rst re-
ported in Florida in 2005, the disease has decreased the state’s 
citrus production by more than 50 
percent, Buck said IFAS research found. It’s one of the Florida’s largest industries at about $8.6 billion per year. 
Mou will receive $2.95 million 
to develop tolerant citrus trees by changing the genes that affect the trees’ immune system, he said. 
Arnold Schumann, an IFAS 
soil and water sciences professor, said every variety of citrus grown in Florida is susceptible to green-
ing. 
“What makes it so devastat-
ing is the fact that it’s incurable,” 
Schumann said. 
Schumann received $3.5 mil-
lion on Jan. 1 from the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, a division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
He plans to further his research  
he began in 2014 on a screening system that protects citrus from an insect species called the Asian 
citrus psylid that spreads the bac-
teria causing greening. 
The system he uses, called Cit-
rus Under Protective Screen, con-sists of a ﬁ  ne mesh screen that 
goes around the trees to block out 
the insect, he said. It can serve as 
UF researchers awarded grant to combat citrus disease
SEE CITRUS,  PAGE 3
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
HIGH  65° LOW  42°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fulbright Lecture Series
As part of the Fulbright Lecture 
Series, Maya Stanfield-Mazzi 
will talk about indigenous tex-
tiles in colonial Latin America at 1 p.m. today at the UF International Center in the 
Hub. Stanfield-Mazzi is a UF 
associate professor of art his-
tory, specializing in art of colo-
nial Latin America. She earned 
her Ph.D. from the University of California, Los Angeles and conducted her dissertation re-search in Peru with the help of a 
Fulbright-Hays fellowship. This 
first 2018 Fulbright lecture, en-titled “Indigenous Textiles in the Colonial Latin American Home: 
Luxury, Lineage and Leisure,” 
is a free event and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
Operation Finale: The Capture & 
Trial of Adolf EichmannThe curator of the Florida Holocaust Museum’s upcom-ing blockbuster exhibition “Operation Finale: The Capture 
and Trial of Adolph Eichmann,” 
will speak at 5 p.m. Thursday in the Judaica Suite, located at Smathers Library on the sec-
ond floor. The curator, Avner 
Avraham, has agreed to extend his time in the U.S. to speak in conversation, along with the Florida Holocaust Museum’s 
Executive Director, Elizabeth 
Gelman, to share behind the scenes stories of the Mossad capture of Adolph Eichmann 
and the importance of his trial. 
“Operation Finale: The Capture & Trial of Adolf Eichmann” is 
the first exhibition in the U.S. 
to fully document the pursuit, capture, extradition and trial of a Nazi war criminal.
Free Citizenship Classes
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship class-es from 6 to 7:30 p.m. every 
Thursday until March 29 at the 
Millhopper Library Branch, lo-cated at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawom-ensleague.org.
Throwback GatorNights
Throwback GatorNights will be from 8 p.m. to midnight 
Friday at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The event will fea-
ture an LED Dance Floor, Air Jordan, Space Jam Hoops and the Scooby Doo clan. Delta 
Sigma Theta will organize Black 
History Month festivities from 8 to 10 p.m., followed by a show-ing of the film “Henrietta Lacks” at 10 p.m. The weekly movie 
is “Back to the Future,” which 
will play in the auditorium. GatorNights is always Friday, always free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards. 
Tango classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? 
The UF Argentine Tango Club 
will hold free classes for all UF 
students. No dance experience is necessary. Join them from 6:15 to 8:15 p.m. Sundays at the 
Reitz Union, Dance Studio A.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday 
in Entomology Building, Room 
1031. Meetings are free to at-tend and open to all. For more information, visit talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org.
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-
zation, is holding “Stomp the 
Swamp for Autism” to ben-
efit the UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities at 10 a.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. CARD supports indi-
viduals with autism and their families through training and assistance. To learn more about autism and register for “Stomp 
the Swamp,” visit card.ufl.edu 
or check them out on Facebook.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ raceRegistration is now open for LifeSouth Community Blood Centers’ Five Points of Life Race Weekend on Feb. 17 and 
Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. 
Gainesville’s largest running race begins at the UF Cultural Plaza. Both days will include 
food, free massages and music. 
There will be free coffee and pastelitos from Mia Apa Café from 6 to 10 a.m. Feb. 18. All proceeds go to the Five Points of 
Life Foundation, which educates 
and raises awareness of the five ways to share life with others through the donation of blood, 
apheresis, marrow, cord blood, organs and tissue.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD 
Hawaii worker who sent false 
alert had problems but kept job
HONOLULU (AP) — Hawaii's 
emergency management leader has resigned and a state em-
ployee who sent an alert falsely 
warning of an incoming ballis-tic missile has been fired, offi-cials said Tuesday, weeks after 
the mistake caused widespread 
panic. Hawaii Emergency Management Agency Administrator Vern Miyagi 
stepped down Tuesday, state 
Adjutant General Maj. Gen. Joe Logan said. A second agency worker quit before disciplinary 
action was taken and another 
was being suspended without pay, Logan said in announcing results of an internal investiga-tion.
Putin calls Russia list 'hostile' as 
Dems decry no sanctions
MOSCOW (AP) — Russian 
President Vladimir Putin de-scribed a list of his country's officials and tycoons put to-
gether to comply with a U.S. 
sanctions law as a hostile and "stupid" move spearheaded by President Donald Trump's polit-ical foes, but said Tuesday that 
the Kremlin would refrain from 
retaliating for now.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 52
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turnera cost-efficient way to protect the 
plants. 
Schumann said it’s important for 
researchers to try to find a solution or resistance to greening.
“It employs not just people work-
ing in the citrus industry, but also 
all the satellite companies and sup-
plies,” Schumann said. “It’s kind of an iconic symbol of the state.”
The third researcher, Nian 
Wang, an IFAS associate professor 
of microbiology and cell science, 
said he received about $3.6 mil-lion on Jan. 15 to make an orange tree that is resistant to the disease 
by using a technology that modifies 
genes.
For Chamberlain and his farm, 
he can only hope for a change.
“At this point, we’re just grab-
bing for anything,” he said.
Alligator contributing writer 
Wyatt Schreiber contributed to this 
report. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
About 70 Senators shut their lap-
tops and turned off their cell phones at Tuesday night’s Senate meeting. 
After a student complained about 
Senators being on social media at last week’s meeting, Sen. Anmol Shah (Impact, District C-06) stood up at public debate to ask Senators to shut off their devices. 
“I told everyone out loud that this is something that’s going on, because when we do public de-bates, people come out and they’re spending their time talking to us, and it’s our duty to listen to them and give them our undivided atten-tion,” Shah said.
Shah said during the meeting, 
she didn’t see any Senators on their laptops or phones after she asked them to put the devices away. 
“I was actually very surprised at 
how many people did it automati-cally,” she said. 
The Senate also unanimously 
passed two Public Debate Acts, which were code revisions to the rights to debate and the procedures. At last week’s Senate meeting, about 40 people signed up for pub-lic debate. 
The acts were amended so Sen-
ate President Ian Green (Impact, Business Administration) doesn’t have to ask students if they should yield their time to the chair dur-ing public debates repeatedly, Sen. Branden Pearson (Inspire, Lake-side) said. With the new change, remaining time will be yielded au-tomatically. 
Every student is guaranteed one 
minute to speak. Students can be given up to five minutes by their peers or by members of the Senate. If a student has excess time, they’re required to give it to the Senate President or the person running the meeting, Pearson said. “Essentially, to avoid the Senate 
President asking ‘Do you yield your time to the chair?,’ we revised the code so it automatically is yielded,” he said. 
At the meeting, Sen. Maria Ar-
boleda was unanimously appointed to take over the Graduate seat, and Sen. Lisette Pellot was unanimously appointed to take over the Liberal Arts seat. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
After complaint, senators put away phones, laptopsIT WAS SENT DUE TO AN 
INTERNAL MISCOMMUNICATION, 
A SPOKESPERSON SAID.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is asking Alachua County to give 
back the money the university sent for 
Richard Spencer’s speaking costs after it 
was charged Jan. 10.
In an emailed statement Monday, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote that the  $302,184 sent to the county Friday 
was sent due to an “internal miscommuni-
cation.” Orlando said the payment was made via 
wire transfer.
Spencer’s visit in Oc-
tober was not universi-ty-sponsored, so UF is reviewing all responsibili-
ties before making pay-
ments, Orlando said. He said the review had not been completed 
when the money was transferred over. 
Mark Sexton, an Alachua County 
spokesperson, said the county commission 
will discuss the university’s request. 
“The county sent a bill for services that 
were requested — for services that were provided, and you know, when the pay-ment was made we thought that was just a normal part of the process,” Sexton said. 
“Now that this new information has been 
brought to light, I’m sure the county com-missioners will discuss it.”
The county charged UF for law enforce-
ment, fire rescue and other services, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
The reimbursement to the county came a 
day after the City of Gainesville announced 
it decided to not bill UF for $224,105 it 
spent on event security, according to Al-ligator archives.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgUF accidentally sends more than $300,000 to county
Thursday. 
Dean even received a pamphlet along with her 
utility bill this month, assuring customers that they’ll 
see a drop in their bills come February, she said. Even 
if GRU follows through on its promise to cut electric bills, she said it won’t be much help considering the recent increase.
“It’s going to be a lot easier for them to cut 10 
percent off of a $700 bill than it is a $300 bill,” she said. 
Dean, a member of Gainesville Word of Mouth, 
a Facebook group, said other GRU customers have 
shared their own grievances about recent utility bill 
increases, which means it’s not an isolated problem. 
“If it was just us, I would say, ‘Cool, you know, 
maybe it is our problem,’ but it’s more than just that 
because it’s people who live all over Gainesville,” 
she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgGRU,  from pg. 1By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua teenager was 
charged with murder after two 
shootings within a two-day span left one dead and five injured, including two children and a UF student’s nephew. 
Kemarri Latrell Hampton, 15, is 
accused of shooting Dana Walker Jr., 27, to death Jan. 14 near Ala-chua’s Maude Lewis Park, located at 15731 NW 141st St., a roughly 
30-minute drive north of UF, Ala-
chua Police Chief Chad Scott said 
Tuesday. 
Hampton was first put into 
juvenile detention Jan. 19 on a 
charge of perjury of a capital pro-
ceeding after police felt he inten-
tionally lied under oath in rela-tion to the shooting, Scott said. 
Hampton turned 15 years old four days before the shooting. 
Scott said Walker’s shooting 
likely led to a retaliation shooting 
less than 30 hours later, which 
sent two children and three adult victims to the hospital, one of 
whom, a 19-year-old man, was in 
critical condition. 
Scott said the 19-year-old is now stable but was unsure if the two children who were injured are still in the hospital. More in-
formation in relation to the sec-
ond shooting will be released in 
“the very near future,” he said. 
Police believe the two shoot-
ings are gang-related, according 
to Alligator archives. 
He said police are unsure 
whether Hampton has informa-tion on what happened in the sec-
ond shooting, but that it is likely he personally knew the victims. 
“I’m sure they were friends,” 
he said. “It’s a close community; 
everybody knows everybody.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org Teen arrested, faces murder charge for Alachua shooting
The third researcher got 3.6 million Jan. 15 Drop in bills to 
come February, 
pamphlet said CITRUS,  from pg. 1Spencer
Courtesy to the Alligator
Citrus greening is a disease that reduces the production of citrus, with symptoms 
including yellowing of the leaves, dying of the trees or branches, abnormal-tasting fruit and no fruiting. This 1-acre Citrus Under Protective Screen, a mesh screening, protects these 2.5-year-old mandarin trees by blocking out the Asian citrus psyllid, an insect that carries the bacteria that causes greening. 
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmWill Clewis/ Alligator Staff  
Students packed the O’Connell Center on Tuesday morning.
By Gabby Paul
Alligator Contributing Writer
Corey Hays buttoned up his black 
professional suit and walked down 
the sidewalk to the O’Connell Center at about 8 a.m. Tuesday.
The 22-year-old business admin-
istration senior made sure to come early. Last semester, he got stuck in a two-and-a-half-hour line as students waited to pass through metal detec-tors at the center. 
To solve that, the semi-annual 
career fair opened its doors 45 min-utes early Tuesday, and it will do the same today, running from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., said Erica Coste, the associate director of industry relations for the 
Career Resource Center. 
“Last year, it felt a little more dis-
organized,” Hays said, noting this 
year went more smoothly.
He attended the ﬁ  rst day, or non-
technical employer day, to speak with several companies he met at past showcases, including Target and Amazon. Today, others will try to in-
terview with technical employers. 
“I’m hoping this time around 
there will be a deﬁ  nite promise of an 
internship,” he said. Close to 400 employers registered 
for this Spring’s event, more than last year, Coste said. The number of stu-
dents who participated Tuesday was 
not immediately available. The fair will continue today.
One of the biggest companies ev-
ery year, Harris Corporation, a tech-nology-service company, returned again for both days.
Randy Shiver, a UF alumnus and 
project engineer with Harris Corpora-
tion, said this year marked his 25th 
recruiting at the showcase. 
“I work with a lot of people from 
UF day in and day out,” Shiver said. Career showcase continues today WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Sabrina Fenske
Alligator Contributing Writer
Terry Sanders remembers 
each of the about 20 people who 
pleaded to elected officials not to 
restrict abortion.
But when the votes came in — 
nine “yeas” and six “nays” — a 
bill that would restrict how abor-
tion is carried out advanced in the 
Florida House of Representatives on Jan. 24. 
“I was really angry,” said Sand-
ers, the president of the Florida 
National Organization for Women. 
“(The members of the subcom-mittee) all had the same talking points. They weren’t listening to 
the public.”
A House subcommittee passed 
the Dismemberment Abortion 
House Bill, which intends to ban 
abortion-by-dismemberment. The 
procedure involves the removal of fetuses one piece at a time with instruments like forceps or tongs. 
This procedure is most com-
monly used on women who are in their second trimester, according to the Guttmacher Institute.
The bill, however, would not 
restrict abortions performed by suction or when they are neces-sary to save the mother’s life.
Although it passed through the 
Health Quality subcommittee, the bill, introduced by Reps. Erin Grall and Joe Gruters, still needs to pass two committees before the House 
can vote on it. A companion bill 
was introduced to the state Senate by Sen. Debbie Mayfield. 
Due to being in session when 
contacted, Rep. Grall wasn’t avail-
able to comment. The Alligator did 
not reach out to Rep. Gruters. 
Sanders said she attended the 
subcommittee meeting to testify 
against the bill because she thinks 
abortion-by-dismemberment is the safest method for women in their second trimester. 
“They’re putting their personal 
bias against women’s lives,” Sand-ers said.
Autumn Prieto, founder and 
president of a UF medical student organization called Medical Stu-dents for Life, praised the bill as a step in the right direction. 
She said she thinks since the 
bill does not intend to restrict all methods of abortion. It wouldn’t largely affect women seeking abortions because it only restricts 
a type of procedure, she said. 
“The real problem is that abor-tion is an attack on the dignity of 
every human person,” Prieto said.
The bill specifies that the phy-
sician performing the procedure will be prosecuted, instead of the mother receiving the abortion, 
which Prieto said she agrees with. 
The bill would make performing an abortion-by-dismemberment a third-degree felony and a second-degree felony if the mother were 
to die in the process.
“There are two lives that (phy-
sicians) are obligated to protect: 
mother and baby,” Prieto said. 
“It falls on the physician to do no 
harm.”
State officials aim to ban specific method of abortionBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
An hour before the end of the 
Student Government interviews, where parties select senate candi-
dates, Livia Ledbetter got lost. 
Ledbetter, 20, followed signs 
advertising the interviews on the 
third floor of the Reitz Union only 
to discover interviews were actu-
ally being held on the floor below.
“It was really confusing be-
cause it said the third floor but it was actually on the second floor,” said the UF biology and sociology 
junior, who interviewed with In-
spire.
When the Alligator reached out 
to Supervisor of Elections Erica Baker, she wrote in an email that 
that was the first time she heard 
about students getting lost. She said the Elections Commission originally placed the signs indicat-ing students to go to the SG Of-fice in the third floor because most 
of them do not know where the 
Student Activities and Involve-ment Office in the second floor is located.
“We have people in the SG of-
fice to point to where we are and we have a banner as to where we are,” she said. 
This year, 302 students inter-
viewed with parties in hopes of gaining a Senate candidacy po-sition with one of three Student Government parties. SG elections, 
which will be held on Feb. 20 and 
21, from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., will allow students to elect sena-tors for 50 seats, representing the colleges, as well as freshmen and 
sophomores. 
In the three days of interview-
ing, a total of 136 candidates regis-tered with Inspire Party, 129 with 
Impact Party, 27 students with Challenge Party, eight as undecid-
ed and two as independent, Baker 
said. 
On the first day, only 41 stu-
dents registered. The number 
more than doubled on Monday, 
with 86 students registering. On the final day, which was Tuesday, 175 registered.
In Fall 2017, 223 students inter-
viewed with the two parties — Im-pact and Inspire — and in Spring 2017, 197 interviewed with one party — Impact. Though most in-
terviewed with parties, some reg-
istered independent.
Amy Emerson, 22, who inter-
viewed with Challenge after re-cently learning about it, said she 
now feels like she has the confi-
dence to lead the Student Body. 
“I think it’s important for ev-eryone’s voice to be heard and for everyone to feel like they’ve been heard,” the UF biomedical engi-
neering senior said.  
Avichaim Snyder, an Impact 
senator in Spring and Fall 2017, 
interviewed with the party again 
for the College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences seat.
The 21-year-old said he wants 
to publicize different resolutions and bills that are passed in the 
Senate and share what campus or-
ganizations are doing.
“I think there are a lot of things 
that Student Government and dif-
ferent organizations at the school 
does well, but doesn’t really get broadcasted out to the Student Body,” he said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgMore than 300 register to run for SG Spring elections
Upcoming dates:
Feb. 7: Deadline to 
request an absentee 
ballot is 5 p.m.
Feb. 13: SG elec-
tions debate will be at the Reitz Union Ball-
room at 6 p.m. 
Feb. 20: First day 
of SG elections from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Feb. 21: Second day 
of SG elections from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Results will be an-nounced at 9:30 p.m.
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
Hopeful students in Heavener
Students connect with potential future employers during Heavener Hall Career Week’s employer luncheon sponsored by Wells Fargo on Monday afternoon. 
GPD BLOCKED TRAFFIC 
FOR ABOUT TWO HOURS.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A motorcycle and a sedan 
crashed on Southwest 13th Street 
Wednesday night, and both drivers were taken to the hospital — one in serious condition. 
At about 6:30 p.m., a black mo-
torcycle and a white sedan crashed in front of Bivens Cove apartment complex, located at 3301 SW 13th St., and the motorcyclist was seri-ously injured, Gainesville Police Sgt. Tony Ferro said. Pieces of debris from the motorcycle were strewn on Southwest 13th Street. 
GPD blocked traffic from about 
Southwest 14th Drive to about Southwest 36th Place for about two hours.
From an initial investigation, 
police believe the motorcycle was driving north on Southwest 13th Street, and the sedan was driving 
south, turning a left into Bivens 
Cove, Ferro said.
The driver of the car, who was 
its sole occupant, and motorcyclist 
were both taken to the hospital, 
Ferro said. The driver suffered non-life threatening injuries.
Members of the Gainesville 
Sportbike Rider organization came to check on the condition of the motorcyclist. 
Jessie Converse, an unofficial 
member of the group, said he and 
other members of the group try to 
respond to motorcycle crashes to see who was involved and let the person’s family know what hap-pened.
“Motorcycles are cars. We 
have the same rights as any other vehicles,” Converse said. “We’re smaller. We have less protection 
than cars. Look for us twice.”
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orMotorcyclist seriously 
injured after crashThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
In today’s editorial, we’re going to ask you to remember your 
high school days. 
We’re not asking you to relive the awkward times, ex-
actly, but just the feeling of having an administration that had a direct inﬂ  uence over your education, and to an extent, 
your future. They were adults, and you were still trying to grasp algebra. They knew best, of course.
But did you know you had rights? The case Tinker v. Des Moines may sound familiar to some. 
For those unfamiliar, it’s one of the ﬁ  rst landmark cases about students’ First Amendment rights. Mary Beth Tinker donned a black armband to protest the Vietnam War when she went to school. She was a 13-year-old junior high school student with a voice. But school administrators suspended her, and her case 
reached the Supreme Court. Students, the Court held, do not 
“shed their constitutional rights to freedom of speech or expres-sion at the schoolhouse gate.”
But on Jan. 13, 1988, the Supreme Court made a decision that 
restricted those rights for students, in a case known as Hazel-wood v. Kuhlmeier. The issue at hand? A story about divorce and another about teen pregnancy was set to be published in Hazel-wood East High School’s paper, The Spectrum. But the principal, who felt the topics were inappropriate, prohibited the publication 
from running the stories. The students argued their First Amend-
ment rights were violated. Despite a lower court agreeing with them, the Supreme Court sided with the principal and said no rights were not violated. Because the paper was sponsored by the school, and because it was not a “public forum” in which every-one could share their views, the principal had the right to make the call, the Supreme Court decided. 
What this means today is students are being censored by their 
own administration. We live in a time when news outlets are 
strained for resources and student journalists are becoming the 
watchdogs of their community. 
We can point to instances where student reporters have bro-
ken news that professional papers were catching up on. A Kansas high school newspaper wrote about their new principal’s creden-tials. She later resigned. Just last week, a Utah high school prin-cipal deleted an article the student newspaper published on a beloved teacher being ﬁ  red for misconduct. 
Student journalists deserve our support in protecting their 
rights. New Voices legislation, started by the Student Press Law Center, is trying to give student journalists, both at the high-school and college level, protection from censorship. Only 13 states have passed the legislation, according to the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press. (Spoiler alert: Florida is not on this list, although there’s a campaign to get it passed.) In six of these states, protections are limited to high-school students only. 
This lack of protection has real impacts. Within these inci-
dents of censorship are moments of deﬁ  ance. The students in 
Utah have started a new publication outside of school control. 
The paper in Virginia ran the article online anyway. 
But these are battles that shouldn’t have to be fought. If an 
18-year-old college freshman can report on their college, why can’t an 18-year-old high school senior report on their public school? 
Today, the Student Press Law Center is hosting Hazelwood 
Day of Action, with the hashtag #CureHazelwood. Become in-formed about the ways you can support the future journalists 
who could one day cover your community. Help them learn to 
become the responsible reporters they aspire to became.Student journalists 
deserve your 
support
I am skeptical of Facebook’s  algorithm changes
A couple of weeks ago, Facebook found-
er Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook will change their focus and algorithms. According to a Facebook post, Zuckerberg has tasked his em-
ployees to care less about “helping you ﬁ  nd relevant content,” and more about “helping you have more meaningful social interactions.” Consequently, your news feed will soon show you less global content and more local content, less CNN and Nike and more from your friends and family. Zuckerberg understands this change as an overdue revival of sorts; a return to what Facebook originally purported to do. He wrote in his post, “We built Facebook to help people stay connected and bring us closer together with the people that matter to us. That’s why we’ve always put friends and family at the core of the experience.”
Dear reader, you won’t hear me complaining about 
that statement. I am a fan of Zuckerberg’s attempt at fa-cilitating meaningful relationships. It seems to me that he is trying to clarify one simple question: What is Facebook really for? 
The answer to this question a year ago would not have 
been as principled as it is now. Despite the warnings of every living sociologist and psychologist, I use my news feed for news, and maybe not surprisingly, it is drunk with information. As I scroll, the story my feed tells me is un-traceable, incoherent and dizzying. I go from Trump to the Grammy’s, from Putin to Lebron James and from some-thing about culture to a video of a baby sloth. And I do so all within a few scrolls. 
I suppose that is what Zuckerberg wants to change. He 
wants our feeds to be of people we know, not world news or advertisements. He has made it clear that Facebook is more than a commodity or a proﬁ  t-hungry business. I ﬁ  nd this to be admirable, but also naive. Facebook is something we consume, like Coca-Cola or Pollo Tropical, or any other commodity on the market; it is a proﬁ  t-hungry business because, at its core, it is a business — a very large one at that. I’m not sure if our news feeds will ever be wholly social spaces. At some level, Facebook will always be a business trying to sell a product, and thus it will follow the proﬁ  ts. It will create spaces for meaningful social interaction as long as it is making money, and we need to remember that. 
We would also do well, however, to reﬂ  ect 
on what caused Zuckerberg’s change of mind and heart. The Facebook of the 2016 presidential election was the Wild West of social media. It’s where “fake news” was given taxonomy. It is well known that Zuckerberg felt cul-pable for Trump’s election and for allowing Facebook to become overgrown with senseless amounts of information — too much to understand. If we are going to remain hu-man amid change and upheaval, then we must keep our focus on people. Zuckerberg was not the only one who lost sight of this. Nevertheless, I doubt a change in algo-rithm will have much effect. People are already assuring businesses that they can adjust to Facebook’s changes and ﬁ  nd new ways of smuggling their product or service into our feeds. People like me have grown used to getting news from our feed and our social interaction from elsewhere.
As I said earlier, Facebook is a business. The changes 
they are making are noble, but from a business perspec-tive, I think they make Facebook obsolete. Facebook is trying to be more social, but that struck gold a decade ago. That is why I don’t think an algorithm change will impact much of anything and consequently will not change Face-book that much either. I admire your ideals Zuckerberg, but sadly that won’t keep your business alive and well.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His column fo-
cuses on popular culture.
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
In today’s ultra-connected world, 
a friend is no longer just a friend. 
Thanks to a modern-day 
cocktail of social media, pop cul-ture and shifting societal norms, 
today’s friendship roles can range anywhere from Facebook friends to friends-with-beneﬁ  ts — and maybe even the occasional frenemy.
We live in an era where a friend-
ship takes on many different mean-ings, which means people have a greater pro-pensity to develop what social psychologists call “weak ties” than ever before. As a result, 
it’s becoming less common for people to have 
one strong group of core friends and more com-mon for people to have a large network of ac-quaintances.
Weak ties are better known as relationships 
that only scratch the surface, as far as impact-ing our personal lives. Many of our Facebook friends are examples of weak ties because they understand our lives in a series of select snip-
pets and moments, which are accessible to ev-
eryone in our friends or followers list.
On the other hand, our core or “primary” 
ties are family and friendship bonds crucial to our identity and sense of self — so crucial that we quite literally wouldn’t be ourselves with-out these relationships. Our core friends hear our personal stories. We see them as the family members we’ve chosen.
Core friends are dynamic, meaning that even 
with factors like distance and changing inter-ests, we remain bonded to them over the course of many years and share with them a special connection, even when we aren’t around them on a regular basis.
Some psychologists fear that as we develop 
bigger social circles of acquaintances, though, we’ll end up with weaker core bonds, which 
can have long-term implications.
This is because as we age, primary friend-
ships become more important to health, happi-
ness and wellbeing, according to a 2017 study from the journal, “Personal Relationships.”
In the study, researcher William Chopik, 
a psychology professor from Michigan State University, analyzed more than 270,000 people in nearly 100 coun-tries and concluded that while both family and friend relationships were linked with happiness and health as 
a whole, at older ages, people were 
more likely to report that their hap-piness stemmed solely from their strong friendships rather than family members.
This isn’t to say that family re-
lationships aren’t important, but Chopik’s re-search focused on the previously ignored topic of how primary friendships (speciﬁ  cally non-
family members) impact individuals later in 
life.  
As a college student, I ﬁ  nd that the line be-
tween our acquaintances and our core friends is oftentimes blurred. Our friends now may have been strangers just two years ago. How do we know who we’ll stay close with after gradua-tion? Is there a way of knowing? What if we burn bridges with someone who, later in life, 
ends up being our colleague, roommate, best 
friend, boss or even romantic partner?
While the topic of friendship can feel uncer-
tain, especially for 20-somethings on the cusp of the post-college bubble, we need to realize that when it comes to the size of our so-called social network, quantity doesn’t always mean quality. Having close friends — and being a close friend — is arguably one of the most vital 
and transformative parts of life, and it will only 
become more important as we grow up.
I believe that if we truly want to cultivate 
and maintain friendships that withstand the test of time, it’s our responsibility to invest in those who are central to our lives.
And while we don’t exactly need a research 
study to understand the value of friendship, in a world where it’s glamorous to always be busy, 
successful and an all-around “boss,” a reminder 
never hurt. 
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. 
Her columns focus on human behavior and 
sociology.Mattel ought to 
make toys so that little girls can look at you and say, ‘I want 
to be her,’” Judge Rose-
marie Aquilina said from behind her bench at Larry Nassar’s sen-tencing last week. “Thank you so much for being here and for your strength.” 
Her words followed the victim-impact 
statement of Bailey Lorencen, a former gym-nast who was sexually abused by Nassar 
under the guise of medical treatment. It was 
the ﬁ  fth of seven days of statements, during which 156 victims who had previously been doubted, discredited and silenced, were heard. 
Aquilina responded to each victim’s state-
ment, verbalizing what many in the country were feeling as the scenes played out.
“The monster who took advantage of you 
is going to wither, much like the scene in the ‘Wizard of Oz’ where the water gets poured on the witch, and the witch withers away,” she told one woman who spoke about the abuse she endured. To another former gym-nast and survivor, she said, “Your dreams are still out there; his are squashed.” In her ﬁ  nal statement, she told the court why she gave every victim, coach and family mem-
ber the chance to speak: “I try to treat ev-
erybody like family because that’s the justice system that I was raised to believe in.”
In the story of Nassar’s sentencing — 40 
to 175 years in prison — the victims are the heroes. They looked their abuser in the eye, told their stories and fought to reclaim the power that had been stripped from them. Aquilina was the faithful sidekick, helping 
to amplify their voices while staying out of 
the way. She cleared her docket for a week to give every victim the chance to speak, and she held nothing back when showing her support for their bravery. She gave the victims the ﬂ  oor as Nassar watched from the witness stand. And, ﬁ  nally, she sentenced him to likely die behind bars. 
The humanity she showed 
in her comments to victims is something we don't expect from people who work in the court sys-
tem. It’s part of the reason she’s 
being criticized all over the inter-net and accused of “grandstand-ing” by the public. This backlash is disappointing, but in a society where victims of sexual abuse are 
systematically dissuaded from coming for-ward, it’s also not surprising. 
What Aquilina’s critics fail to understand 
is that the seven-day stretch in court was not a trial; it was a sentencing hearing. Nas-sar had already pled guilty to sexual assault charges, and it was Aquilina’s job to deter-mine a prison term, rather than a guilty or innocent status. Allowing victims of his hei-nous crimes to shape that sentence wasn’t biased — it was just. There was no jury to sway, only stories to be told. Had Aquilina 
not opened the ﬂ  oor to those stories, the vic-
tims never would have had their chance to tell them to the public, to the courtroom and to the man who sexually abused.
But her emotionally charged comments 
after each of their statements were nothing new, Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University told the New York Times. 
“At a sentencing a judge can say and is 
encouraged to say just what she thinks,” he said. 
There are times when judicial distance is 
warranted, and emotions should be left out of the courtroom. This was not one of those times. If we want to encourage victims of sexual assault to come forward, we have to listen to them, voice our support for them and believe them. Despite her critics, Aqui-
lina did her job with dignity, fairness and 
empathy. To balance the scales of justice we should all learn to do the same. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. 
Her columns focus on feminism. In a world of weak ties, hold on to your 
friends and invest in those relationshipsJudge Aquilina made sure justice 
was served and victims were heard Column Column
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgCarly Breit
opinions@alligator.org“WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Super Bowl Sunday:
The best places to catch the big game (pg. 10)Dynamo and Electric Kif to perform: 
The bands will hit Heartwood Soundstage this weekend  (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer
It’s the most wonderful time of the 
year.
The ﬁ  fth anniversary of the Original 
Food Truck Rally will be held in High 
Dive’s parking lot  Saturday at 5 p.m.
The event will have 12 food truck 
vendors, free live local music from Glory Days Presents and, for the ﬁ  rst time, Over Easy Creative will also host 
a silent disco in the beer garden with 
200 headsets for $5 each. The event is 
beneﬁ  tting Climb for Cancer Founda-
tion, a local charity supporting cancer patients in Gainesville.
Pat Lavery, seven-year facility and 
events manager of High Dive, said he founded the original food truck rally downtown ﬁ  ve years ago.
“Nothing like that had ever hap-
pened in Gainesville before,” Lavery 
said.
At the time, there were almost no 
food trucks around except for Pelican 
Brothers, a local food truck that was parked out back every night at High Dive, Lavery said. With a live local concert scheduled later that month, he had the idea to quickly scout out more trucks and combine the events to throw 
Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst-ever food truck rally 
event.
“Combine the things, and let’s see 
what happens,” Lavery said.
Now High Dive hosts food truck 
rallies every six to eight weeks, he said, 
with Saturday’s rally being around 
their 40th.
 What started as an experiment, 
Lavery said, turned into something of a local tradition and spawned the food truck culture of Gainesville.
“My favorite thing to do: You know, 
you go to one line to get some food, then you go get in another line and you eat the food from the other truck while you’re waiting to be served,” Lavery 
said. “It’s like bar-hopping.”
Three years ago, Lavery implement-
ed the rallies beneﬁ  tting local charities, 
as well. Since then, he said he believes they have raised between $25,000 to $30,000 for charities in Gainesville.
Saturday, the proceeds will be made 
from a contest for best food truck. People will be encouraged to vote by 
putting money in the jar located in the 
window of their favorite truck, and the winning food truck will receive a gift from a local sponsor. All the money from the jars will be donated to the Climb for Cancer Foundation.
Climb for Cancer, founded by Ron 
and Dianne Farb, is a nonproﬁ  t organi-zation that organizes team mountain-
climbing expeditions across the world 
for individuals who have pledged to fundraise in order to climb in name of the cause.
Ron Farb, the company’s 72-year-
old co-founder who has scaled ﬁ  ve of the seven steepest summits in the world, helped create the organization as a way to combine his passion for 
climbing with his hope of one day ﬁ  nd-
ing a cure, according to the website.
“The climbing of the mountain is 
supposed to almost symbolize the bat-tle — the climb that you have to take while battling cancer,” David DiMauro, a climber and volunteer for CFC said.
DiMauro, a 21-year-old UF biology student, is currently raising $14,000 for CFC with the 2018 fundraising team for the trek up Mount Kilimanjaro.
“It’ll be by far the highest mountain 
I’ve ever climbed,” DiMauro said. “It’s both a logistical and physical challenge to raise that much money and then do 
the actual climb.”
One program within the organi-
zation, Harriet’s Helping Hand, was 
named after Farb’s sister. She climbed Kilimanjaro at 68 while battling meta-static breast cancer and undergoing chemotherapy before passing away in 2009.
Today, the program helps families 
of Gainesville patients with everyday expenses from gas money to lodging, according to the website.
“They don’t want families to worry 
about how much it costs to be with their loved ones while they’re going through something so difﬁ  cult,” DiMauro said.
He said events like the food truck 
rally Saturday are a huge way the com-
munity can support them.
“While the community is coming 
for food and for fun and for friends, 
whether they are intentionally doing it or not, they’re helping the community by supporting these charities that the High Dive is supporting,” DiMauro said.
In fact, he said they have hosted at 
least three or four food truck rallies to beneﬁ  t them in the past.
Events like these truly represent 
what community means to him, Di-Mauro said.
“(It’s) people coming together, hav-
ing fun and serving something that’s greater than themselves,” he said. Original Food Truck Rally to celebrate ﬁ  ve-year anniversary 
Courtesy to the Alligator
In addition to food, vendors and music, the rally 
will support the Climb for Cancer Foundation. 
By T aylor McLamb 
Avenue Writer
Gainesville residents can expect a night 
ﬁ  lled with a fusion of Caribbean-inspired 
reggae-rock Thursday when popular Ocala band Propaganjah performs at High Dive alongside Ellameno Beat and Burn Every 
Thing.
Richard Larson, a 23-year-old UF forest 
resources and conservation senior, said he 
plans on attending the concert, not only be-cause he was a fan of Propaganjah but also because of his desire to support up-and-coming reggae artists.
“I think in this time of unrest, it would 
be positive for more people to listen and 
support reggae in order to help spread the 
love and realize that we are all one,” said Larson.
Ever since its debut in Jamaica during 
the ’60s, reggae has been a music genre known for spreading messages of love, hope and resistance. In a world so divided, Larson mourns the lack of Gainesville reg-gae bands, saying that the lyrics of reggae 
bands tend to be more peaceful and send a 
unifying message.
Taylor Col, a 23-year-old UF chemical 
engineering senior and lead vocalist and saxophone player for opening band Burn Every Thing, agrees with Larson’s descrip-tion on the lack of Gainesville’s reggae scene. He said that while there are a lot of reggae shows in town, there aren’t many lo-cal reggae bands.
“Gainesville loves reggae music, but it 
would be awesome if there were more reg-gae bands from here,” Col said.
Col personally appreciates the support 
for local reggae bands, not only because he’s a fan of the genre but because of his role in Burn Every Thing.
“Reggae is all about taking it easy and 
enjoying life. Listening to reggae can take your mind off your stressors and help you appreciate what you have,” said Col. “Local reggae is important because as Floridians, we have a unique perspective on life since 
we are all close to the coast, and we can use 
reggae to communicate it to the world.”
Col listed Bob Marley and Shabba Ranks 
as two of his musical inspirations, saying that his love of the genre is partially due to the childhood nostalgia the music brings him, as well as its message of positivity.
“Whenever I’m at the beach or just en-
joying a beautiful day outside, I always play reggae music,” said Col. “As a style of music that came from the Caribbean, it 
resonates with me because the environment 
here is so similar.”
Col, who described his band’s sound as 
a fusion of reggae and hip-hop, said Burn Every Thing just ﬁ  nished putting together their set and is planning on rehearsing a few times before the show.
“Fans can expect positive vibes and posi-tive people,” said Col. “The song I’m most excited to perform is deﬁ  nitely ‘Ask Not.’ It’s a banger for sure.”
Col said he’s looking forward to seeing 
Propaganjah live. Col said he’s seen the band live before and recommends fans to come experience the band for themselves.
“They have a very engaging stage pres-
ence. They all have huge smiles on their faces the whole show,” said Col. “The one dude on skin drum jumps around and even got down into the crowd at one point. Some reggae bands like to keep it chill, but they get the hype.”
The 18-and-over show will start at 8 p.m. 
The tickets are $8 in advance at ticketﬂ  y.
com and $10 at the door. A $3 under-21 fee 
is charged at the door.
Roots of a Rebellion was originally on this 
lineup, but due to unforeseen circumstances the band was forced to drop out Tuesday. 
Reggae rockers Propaganjah and more to perform at High Dive
MUSICWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, Baseball
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
• Trampolines
• Ninja Courses• Dodgeball• Laser Tag• Arcade Games• Ropes Course   ... and more!GRAND OPENING
Join us February 10
A brand NEW  
45,000 sq. ft. 
trampoline based 
entertainment center.
7400 W Newberry Rd.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Saturday brings an evening of 
dynamic jazz with an edge of rock 
as Dynamo and Electric Kif bring the funk to Heartwood Soundstage.
Tickets for the show, which will 
run from 8 to 11 p.m., are avail-
able at Eventbrite.com. Tickets pur-
chased in advance are available for $15.68 and for $19.05 on the day of the show.
This performance marks the ﬁ  rst 
stop in Dynamo and Electric Kif’s combined tour, and they are look-
ing to open with a bang. Jason Mat-
thews, the keyboardist for Electric Kif, said that both groups are bring-ing high energy and long set lists.
“Dynamo is these great dudes 
from Nashville, like a killer group. It’s going to be sick. It’s really a meaty show,” Matthews said.
Dynamo is an eight-piece band 
with other musicians rotating in and out. The Nashville group’s size allows them to create incredibly layered instrumental performances overlaid with Dain Ussery’s uplift-
ing vocals.
“It’s awesome; our last record 
was such a collaboration in so 
many ways,” Dynamo keyboardist Ryan Connors said. “Everyone is 
so open to everyone’s ideas, too. I love that. This group is really great 
about no egos and always catering 
to the music and the message.”
Though they tour heavily in the 
Northeast, Dynamo rarely makes 
it to the South. This tour marks 
Dynamo’s second time visiting 
Florida and the band’s ﬁ  rst time in Gainesville.
“I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t 
looking forward to warmer weath-
er,” Connors said.
Dynamo records all of their music live and with an audience. 
Currently, the group is working on 
their next album and plans to per-
form a number of their unreleased 
tracks at Saturday’s show.
“Dynamo is our creative outlet. 
In terms of we’re not really shoot-ing for necessarily some commer-
cial success,” Connors said. “So, 
we can just do whatever we want.”
In addition to performing and re-
cording, the musicians from Dyna-
mo love to give back by putting on workshops at local schools during 
their tours. As a group that has all 
studied music extensively, Dynamo 
is able to provide practical music 
career advice to students while en-couraging an interest in music.
“It’s really rewarding for us, and 
we’re always trying to do more of 
that,” Connors said.
Unlike Dynamo, Electric Kif is 
primarily an instrumental group, 
leaning into their musical abilities 
to build a world of music that ebbs 
between the worlds of jazz, rock, funk and something else. That something else lies in the middle of Rodrigo Zambrano’s, Eric Escanes’, 
Armando Lopez’s and Jason Mat-
thews’ various backgrounds.
Hailing from France, Mexico, 
Miami and Philadelphia, each band member brings a personal touch to 
the group that, overall, creates Elec-
tric Kif. For Matthews, that touch came from listening to his parents’ records from the ‘70s and playing in 
local jazz clubs.
Last year, Electric Kif released 
their ﬁ  rst full-length album, “Heist,” and began a major tour that carried 
them to shows and festivals around 
the country. This tour was critical, 
Matthews said, because it solidiﬁ  ed the band in ways they didn’t know 
they needed.
“When you go on the road, you form a band intuition, like you start 
reading each other really well,” Matthews said. “The more experi-ences that you have, nothing can throw you off.”
Now, Matthews said the friend-
ship and chemistry among the members of Electric Kif is magnetic for audiences as much as it is fun 
for them. This bond has also helped 
them with their writing process.
Electric Kif is preparing to re-
lease their second studio album later this year. Unlike “Heist,” this 
new album will feature a more 
melodic, groove-based sound and various vocal guests. Despite these changes, Matthews said the band is devoted to their instrumental edge and rock ﬂ  are.
The band is taking their time 
with this record. By really digging 
into the collaborative writing pro-
cess, Matthews believes the new 
record will represent something 
more whole and cohesive.
“I want it to be a piece of art,” 
Matthews said.
In addition to the album release 
later in 2018, Electric Kif is also planning to put out a series of new videos, early released tracks and possibly a live album recorded at 
the Rochester International Jazz Festival in the coming months. 
These videos, which are created from the band’s more intimate jam sessions, allow the listener to expe-rience the music in a more organic 
way.
Through touring and expanding 
into new projects, Matthews hopes 
to broaden Electric Kif.
“I’m looking forward to seeing 
how Electric Kif can ﬁ  t across all platforms as we dig into the fu-ture,” Matthews said. “I don’t want to be based in any genre…. I think 
we’re more than that. I think we 
can ﬁ  t on any scope.”Dynamo, Electric Kif to perform at Heartwood Soundstage
MUSIC
Photo by Sandrasonik Creative / Courtesy to the Alligator
With band members from France, Mexico, Miami and Philadelphia, Electric Kif’s sound is as 
dynamic as the diverse homes of each member. 
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
By Brooke Steinberg
Avenue Contributor
Super Bowl Sunday is ﬁ  nally 
here, and Gainesville is getting 
ready to celebrate. Whether you’re 
a fan of the New England Patri-
ots, the Philadelphia Eagles or just watching for the commercials and beer, there are plenty of places 
around Gainesville to go to root 
for your favorite team. Find some of the best spots below.   
First Magnitude - If you’re into 
beer and chicken wings straight off the grill, First Magnitude is where you should spend your Super Bowl 
Sunday. The brewery is bringing 
out the big screen for their watch party at the warehouse. The event starts at 3 p.m., so guests can come early to watch the Puppy Bowl and 
hang out before the game.
The Social at Midtown - If 
you’re looking to watch the big 
game in Midtown, Social is the 
place to be. Starting at 5:30 p.m., 
you can enjoy their open bar and all-you-can-eat buffet while cheer-ing on your team. The open bar features Crown, Captain, Smirnoff, First Magnitude Drafts and more. 
Tickets start at $39. Search The 
Social at Midtown Super Bowl on eventbrite.com for your tickets.
Swamp Restaurant - The 
Swamp will be setting up the large 
TV projector on the lawn. There 
will be food and drink specials including an appetizer platter of mozzarella sticks, wings and 
southeastern spring rolls, as well 
as Super Bowl loaded tater tots. Other specials include $5 off buck-ets, $3 shots and $5 chips and que-so. The restaurant will also have its own version of the Super Bowl 
Square game and will give out gift 
cards to the winners. 
The Brass Tap - Starting at 
6:30 p.m., The Brass Tap will be showing the big game and giving 
out deals. They will be serving $5 
ﬂ  atbreads, will have swag to give away throughout the game and will be giving out free beer shots 
to everyone wearing one of the 
teams’ jerseys, according to their Facebook event page. They will also have the following draft spe-cials: $2.50, $3, $3.50 and $4 on se-lect drafts all day. 
The Bank Bar and Lounge - 
If you’re into potlucks, Bank is the place to go. The crew at Bank is bringing a variety of goodies such as baked ham, wings, spin-
ach artichoke dip and more. The 
game will be projected on an 80-inch projection screen as well as the other screens already in the 
bar. There will also be drink spe-
cials announced on their Facebook event page as the event gets closer.
Where to spend your Super Bowl Sunday in Gainesville By Natalie Rao 
Avenue Editor
As 2018 slowly but surely progresses, 
the diverse events, concerts and other en-
tertainment Gainesville has to offer only get bigger and better. In honor of the start of February this week, here’s some of our 
favorite upcoming events that will hold 
you over until spring break. 
Changeville Music & Arts Festival at 
various locations — Feb. 8 to 9
Changeville, the music and arts festi-
val hosted by the annual frank conference, 
is no doubt February’s largest gathering. The two-day festival will quite literally take over downtown with poetry, music, ﬁ  lms, workshops, virtual reality exhibits 
and other talented individuals pushing for 
social change. Whether you prefer the in-
timacy of a local show or the smooth hip-
hop ﬂ  ows of headliner Princess Nokia, 
Changeville will have something for ev-
eryone. Find more info at changeville.us. 
Bleep Bloop and Ethan Glass at Si-
mon’s — Feb. 9 
Although his name may sound silly, 
Bleep Bloop’s signature is anything but. 
This producer refuses to conform to any 
true genre, utilizing a gritty, in-your-
face sound that’s bursting with bass. His shows get weird, to say the least, and he’s 
guaranteed to blow the doors off Simon’s 
with opener Ethan Glass next Friday. 
Tickets are available from $10 to $15 at eventbrite.com. 
Neon Liger X 10-Year Anniversary and 
Reunion at The Wooly — Feb. 10 
Neon Liger, the underground dance party that went strong for a full seven 
years, hosts its 10-year anniversary Feb. 
10. The event was originally intended to 
be a one-time thing, but after hundreds of people packed out Spannk (later known as The Motor Room), the party turned into a weekly event. Although Neon Liger con-cluded with The Motor Room’s closure in 2015, the folks behind it return once a year to host an anniversary party. With three areas both indoors and out and produc-tion from Gator Sound and Lighting, this 
anniversary should be the biggest yet. Ad-
mission is $10. 
Destination Okeechobee at High Dive 
— Feb. 15  
Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival 
is less than one month away, and many 
UF students and Gainesville residents alike will be heading south for the festi-val come March. Roughly two weeks be-
fore the gathering, six local and regional 
bands will compete for a spot, battle of the bands-style, on High Dive’s stage. Faze Wave, N.W. Izzard, Retrolux, Savanna Leigh Bassett, The Savants of Soul and VENM will battle it out. Tickets are avail-able at HighDiveGainesville.com for $6 in advance or $8 at the door. 
Digital Ethos at Simon’s — Feb. 18 
February is a great month for bass 
lovers. Digital Ethos, a New Jersey-
based heavyweight of a producer who’s grown in popularity since collaborating with Bassnectar on wonky dubstep track “Slather,” will bring his talents to Simon’s toward the end of the month with a hand-
ful of local support. Tickets are available 
for $10.50 to $17.89 at eventbrite.com. February Events: Who to see and where to see them 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Digital Ethos, a producer from New Jersey with a heavy sound, is one of 
multiple electronic performers to hit Gainesville this month. 
MUSIC
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-31-18-6-14
Experienced Musicians Wanted
- Keys and Guitar - Musicians needed to 
play Sundays at local church. Will be
paid for their time based on experience
and skill. Call (352) 371-9646. Address:
7003 NW 39th Ave, Gainesville, FL.
2-2-18-5-14
ATTENTION STUDENTS, RECENTGRADS, PILOTS, ASTRONAUTS, ANDEFFICIENT INDIVIDUALSResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-2-18-5-14Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-14
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.THE FLOOR STORE AT THORNEBROOK2441 NW 43rd Street, Suite 18$10.00/ Hour Sales cleckApply in person                           2-5-3-14
Another Saturday night  
without a date?
READ THE ALLIGATOR.HOUSE/DOG-SITTING OPPORTUNITYMay 28th - June 22nd. 2 acres in McIntosh, FL (16 miles south of Gainesville). 5 dogs $900 plus bonus if job done well. Please call 352-207-2717    2-5-18-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
1. LANGUAGE: What is a lexicon?
2. PSYCHOLOGY: What is a fear of 
fish called?
3. ASTRONOMY: What is the sixth 
planet from the sun?
4. U.S. STATES: Which is the only 
U.S. state to begin with the letter “P”? 
5. SCIENCE: What is the term used 
when heat is transferred through a sol-id object?
6. FAMOUS QUOTES: Which 
20th-century playwright once said, “If you can’t get rid of the skeleton in your closet, you’d best teach it to dance”?
7. MOVIES: In what movie did an 
American actress say: “Fasten your seat-belts. It’s going to be a bumpy night”?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What kind of flower bulbs once were used as a form of currency? 
9. ART: What is the painting called 
“La Gioconda” more commonly 
known as?
10. HISTORY: When did the Cold 
War between the United States and the Soviet Union end?
Answers
1. Dictionary2. Ichthyophobia
3. Saturn
4. Pennsylvania5. Conduction6. George Bernard Shaw 7. Bette Davis, in “All About Eve”8. Tulips9. “The Mona Lisa”10. 1991
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 29, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 
ACROSS
1 Heist
4 Pasta nutrient8 Archie Bunker
types
14 Statement
softener, in
emails
15 Command to
Silver
16 Shangri-la
17 Five-time NBA
championship-winning coach
19 Find hilarious20 No votes21 Half an oz.?23 Olympian
Lipinski
24 German 
wheels
27 Seize the
opportunity,sunshinewise
29 Same old story32 Metal corrosion33 Part of a
biathlete’s gear
34 2017 award for
Emma Stone
38 Yale email
address ender
39 Finger painting?
42 “Deadwood”
channel
43 A little lit
45 Hellenic “H”46 All hands on
deck
47 Captain’s choice
at the SuperBowl
51 Italian rice dish
54 Transparent soap
brand
55 “I’m __ you!”
56 “Hunh!?”
58 Harvard’s is
“Veritas”
61 Excited reply to
“Who wants
dessert?”
63 Hiker’s snack
that’s literallyfound in 17-, 29-, 39- and 47-Across
66 Evening meal67 John known for
overlappingdiagrams
68 Loved, with “up”69 Agrees70 Air Quality Index
factor
71 Owen, to
Stephen KingDOWN
1 Morning co-host
with Seacrest
2 Muscat’s country3 “Cheers!”4 Sculptor’s tool5 Be under the
weather
6 Grass in a J.D.
Salinger title
7 R&B’s __ II Men8 Part of a
bedroom set
9 “What am __
do?”
10 Buffalo Bill and
Charles Dickenswore them
11 “60 Minutes”
part-timecorrespondent
12 Prom queen’s
crown
13 Thai snack
18 Hit the ball hard
22 Defib expert25 Bart’s brainy
sibling
26 Munro pen 
name
28 Pretzel shape29 Ridge on a neck30 German wheels31 Makes mad35 Present time?36 Eve’s second37 Theater seating
arrangements
39 Putin’s no
40 Perched on
41 Like a double
eagle in golf
44 Sure victors46 35-Down song48 On the clock49 “How stupid am
I?!”
50 Title job for
Shakespeare’sPetruchio51 PEDs, in slang
52 “The Best Exotic
Marigold Hotel”
locale
53 Poker-faced
57 Off-rd. 
transports
59 Bandleader
Puente
60 Team on a 
field
62 __ volente64 Sleep phase65 Mexican year
By Ed Sessa©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/31/1801/31/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 31, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Vulgar
5 Cancel, as a
mission
10 Leave in a hurry
14 Gobi Desert
continent
15 Calf-roping event16 “The __
Duckling”
17 Writer Ayn
18 Harmless garden
slitherer
20 Played the
Samaritan
22 Italian automaker
23 “The Big Bang
Theory,” for one
27 Big bang
29 Rock band staple32 Gush
33 Ones who once
shared quarters
36 Juicy Fruit, e.g.
37 Cause of
shrinking
beaches
38 Delivers the news40 Cup o’ mud
43 Love sugary
snacks, say
48 Up in the air
49 Ukr., until 199150 Many Middle
Easterners
51 More alluring53 App symbol54 Ten or more
points, reboundsand assists inone game, inhoops lingo ...and a literal
feature of 20-, 33-
and 43-Across
60 Minor infraction63 Special forces
mission
64 Ointment additive
65 Fertile desert
spot
66 Thomas __, 9/11
Commissionchairman
67 Snowy day toy
68 Hilton rival69 Poet Pound
DOWN
1 Cooking fat2 Morales of
“NYPD Blue”
3 Collection of
energy-producing
turbines
4 Avant-garde art
movement5 Specialized
jargon
6 NYC division
7 Took too much,
briefly
8 Clarinet insert
9 Shades of color
10 Baker’s ring-
shaped mold
11 Turkish honorific12 Type13 Caustic chemical19 Earthquake
prefix
21 Garden entrance24 Piece of the
action, or a shoutthat stops theaction
25 Valuable
underground find
26 Peaks: Abbr.27 2016 film based
on a Roald Dahlnovel, with “The”
28 Baseball’s Gehrig
29 Archery ammo
30 Poet Marianne
and actress
Julianne
31 Dorm decoration34 Workout count35 Waterfall spray38 Updated, as
factoryequipment39 Diner, drive-in or
dive
40 1969 Woodstock
folk singer
41 Gambling venue
letters
42 “I didn’t hear you”
sounds
43 Gives birth to
44 Pub brew
45 __ populi:
popular opinion
46 Food truck fare47 Political satirist
P.J.
52 Copier maker53 That is, in Latin
55 Ask for divine
guidance
56 Pop singer Loeb
57 Discharge
58 Perjurer
59 Writer Ferber
60 __ de deux61 Pipe bend62 Digit on a foot
By David Liben-Nowell©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/30/1801/30/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 30, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Fuser
1.  Large aquatic mammal5.  Regional, close
2.  Fishing ____6.  Asian country
3.  Curve7.  Say no to
4.  BillfoldDREWEL
AUSWLRCLLOA
PAELN
SNELCEI
PEELILSJEETRC
ALWTLEANSWERS: 1A-Welder  5A-Local  6A-Nepal  7A-Reject
1D-Walrus  2D-License  3D-Ellipse  4D-Wallet  B-Julie Andrews1-31-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: In 2002, ____ ____ was voted the 59th 
“Greatest Briton Ever” in a BBC poll. BONUS
15 Services 15 Services
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFlorida men's golf coach 
J.C. Deacon won the 2018 Islesworth Invitational Pro Division on Tuesday, earning $4,500 at the two-round event.Pro Sports Roundup: Smith traded, Love breaks hand
Chiefs quarterback Alex Smith was reportedly traded to the Redskins on Tues-
day night. Smith is expected to sign a four-year extension that includes $70 mil-lion in guarantees. On the hardwood, Cavaliers forward Kevin Love  broke his 
hand on Tuesday against the Pistons and is expected to miss six to eight weeks.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GEORGIA 72, FLORIDA 60
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
With just under five minutes left in the 
game, Georgia forward Yante Maten received a pass at the top of the key.
After no Florida player ran up to defend 
him, Maten gathered himself and nailed the outside shot to give the Bulldogs a command-ing 60-53.
In No. 23 Florida’s 72-60 road loss to Geor-
gia in Athens on Tuesday night, rebounding 
struggles and an ice-cold offense down the 
stretch snapped a four-game winning streak 
against the Bulldogs.
Senior guard Chris Chiozza scored 15 
points for the Gators (15-7, 6-3 SEC), while 
graduate guard Egor Koulechov added 13.
They were the only two Florida players to 
reach double figures.
Meanwhile, Maten led the Bulldogs (13-8, 
4-5 SEC) with 20 points and seven rebounds in 31 minutes of action.
"We just didn't do it tonight," Chiozza 
said. "We started out slow on defense, they 
got going early, so it was hard to stop them."
The Gators maintained a lead for a large 
part of the first half. Eight of the team’s first 
11 points came from Chiozza, who scored 
a layup on a game-opening steal and also knocked down two three-pointers several minutes later.
However, Georgia kept itself within strik-
ing distance by creating second chance op-portunities. Coming into the game averaging over 12 offensive rebounds per contest, the Bulldogs recorded 10 offensive boards in the first half alone.
In contrast, the Gators grabbed 17 total 
rebounds in the opening twenty minutes and were outrebounded by UGA 44-35 overall.
The Gators offense began to wither as the 
first half progressed, allowing Georgia to take advantage of its deficiencies.
Down 26-25 with five minutes left in the 
half, redshirt senior guard Juwan Parker nailed a three to give the Bulldogs their first Gators' offense falters against Bulldogs in 12-point defeat
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Chris Chiozza was one of two UF players to score in double digits against Georgia on Tuesday, registering a team-high 15 points on 6-of-13 shooting.
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
MEN'S BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Florida men’s basketball coach 
Mike White has said all season that one of his team’s shortcom-ings is its ability to play with con-sistency. Facing Georgia in Athens on Tuesday, the Gators continued that trend, suffering a loss several days after a big win for the third time this month.
Before going cold in Tuesday’s 
72-60 defeat to the Bulldogs, the No. 23 Gators took apart Baylor 81-60 at home on Saturday.
On Jan. 20, Florida (15-7, 6-3 
SEC) snapped Kentucky’s 30-game SEC home winning streak with a 66-64 victory over the Wildcats. Four days later, South Carolina 
overpowered the Gators 77-72 at the O’Connell Center.
And on Jan. 10, Florida dis-
mantled Mississippi State, 71-54. Three days later, UF lost its first SEC game of the season to Ole Miss, 78-72.
White said before Tuesday’s 
game that two keys to victory against Georgia would be defend-ing and rebounding.
The Bulldogs (13-8, 4-5 SEC) 
shot a better percentage than Flor-ida and converted 18-of-22 free throws. The Gators attempted only six free throws the entire game.
Georgia also outrebounded the 
Gators 44-35 and pulled down 15 offensive boards, including 10 in the first half. Frontcourt starters Kevarrius Hayes and Keith Stone combined for 10 points and eight rebounds, while Georgia forward Yante Maten had 20 points and seven rebounds.
Florida continues to miss the 
size of center John Egbunu and forwards Isaiah Stokes and Chase 
Florida, Allen looking to overcome issues with consistency
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Sierra Brooks led the way for the Flori-
da women’s golf team on Monday, ﬁ  nish-
ing ﬁ  rst individually in the Florida Chal-
lenge in Lecanto, Florida.
The Wake Forest transfer ﬁ  nished her 
UF debut 6 under par while going 5 un-
der in the ﬁ  nal round of the two-round 
tournament.
Brooks was followed by Carlotta Ricol-
ﬁ   (+3), who tied for ninth, and Taylor 
Tomlinson (+4), who tied for 11th. The scoring ﬁ  ve was rounded out by Marta Perez (+6), who tied for 16th, and Addie 
Baggarly (+8), who tied for 24th.
The Gators played a solid two rounds 
of golf, but failed to clinch their third con-
secutive Florida Challenge title, falling one stroke short to Miami. The team led 
the ﬁ  eld on par-4 holes and par-5 holes, 
ﬁ  nishing 13 over and 7 under, respec-tively. 
However, UF ultimately came up short 
on par-3 holes, ﬁ  nishing tied for sixth in the nine-team ﬁ  eld at 9 over.
Two Florida golfers, Elin Esborn and 
Lauren Waidner, competed individually 
in the tournament. Esborn ﬁ  nished tied 
for 11th at 4 over and Waidner ﬁ  nished tied for 34th going 10 over.
Had Esborn been inserted into the 
starting lineup in place of either Perez or Baggarly, the Gators would have won the tournament. 
Whether coach Emily Glaser chooses 
to adjust her lineup remains to be seen, 
but she was pleased that her team gained 
additional experience before heading out to Palos Verdes, California, for the Northrop Grumman Regional Invitational 
this weekend. 
“It’s great to get some competition in 
before we head to California next week as 
the ﬁ  eld there is one of the best all year,” Glaser said in a release. “This also gives 
us the opportunity to expose some weak-
nesses that need to be focused on in the coming weeks.”
@THEChrisOB Brooks places ﬁ  rst at Florida 
Challenge during UF debut
If you see eye-to-eye with me 
on this year’s Super Bowl match-
up, you’re most likely feeling de-
jected and dispirited.
How could you not?
The game is going to result in 
either the New England Patriots 
or the Philadelphia Eagles being crowned the world champions 
of professional football, a notion 
that makes me want to gag.
The Patriots — who are on 
the verge of their third Super Bowl victory in four years — are statistically the most dis-liked team in the NFL, according to a 2017 
poll conducted by Public Policy Polling, after 
years and years of ﬂ  agrant rule breaking and unprecedented dominance.
On the other hand, the Eagles — who have 
never won a Super Bowl — possess one of the most heinous and barbaric fan bases in all of professional sports, a group that once cheered 
in the stands moments after former Cowboys 
receiver Michael Irvin suffered a career-end-ing spinal cord injury.
Jesus.I’d rather bathe in my own waste than 
have to watch one of these franchises hold up 
the Lombardi Trophy on Sunday.
But alas, it’s still the Super Bowl, and it’s 
still football, the most exciting and popular sport in America.
So how can we, as a society, make watch-
ing these two detestable teams a little more tolerable? The answer, of course, is lots and 
lots of alcohol.
When in doubt, get drunk ladies and 
gents. And I know the perfect way to do so: a Super Bowl LII drinking game, courtesy of yours truly.
Enjoy.
Rules
Take a sip from your drink every time 
that:
• The Patriots or Eagles record a ﬁ  rst down (additional sip if play goes for 
25 yards or more)
• Quarterbacks Tom Brady or Nick 
Foles complete ﬁ  ve consecutive pass-
es
• A Patriots or Eagles defender records 
a sack
• A Patriots or Eagles defender forces a turnover (three sips)
• Al Michaels and Cris Col-
linsworth mention Patriots quar-terback Tom Brady’s age or num-ber of Super Bowl rings
• Al Michaels and Cris Col-
linsworth mention the Patriots 
25-point comeback over Atlanta in last year’s Super Bowl
• Al Michaels and Cris Col-
linsworth mention that Patriots 
coordinators Josh McDaniels and 
Matt Patricia are reportedly set to be-come head coaches next season
• Al Michaels and Cris Collinsworth 
mention that the Patriots and Eagles 
met in Super Bowl XXXIX
• The broadcast shows injured Eagles quarterback Carson Wentz standing 
on the sidelines
• The broadcast shows Eagles fans 
wearing dog masks in the stands
• Players on the winning team try to kiss the Lombardi Trophy
 
Finish your drink every time that:
• A referee shakes Tom Brady’s hand
• Al Michaels or Cris Collinsworth 
struggle to pronounce the name of 
Philadelphia left tackle Halapoulivaati Vaitai
• Al Michaels or Cris Collinsworth successfully pronounce the name of Philadelphia left tackle Halapoulivaati 
Vaitai
• Patriots coach Bill Belichick shows 
any sign of emotion (not likely)
Waterfall your drink for every second 
that:
• The Patriots or Eagles perform a touchdown celebration
• NFL commissioner Roger Goodell and 
Patriots owner Robert Kraft interact 
with each other after the game
Remember to be responsible and use safe 
forms of transportation if you drink outside of the conﬁ  nes of your own home, and let’s pray 
that Halapoulivaati Vaitai has a very quiet, in-
signiﬁ  cant Super Bowl performance.
Dylan Dixon is the Alligator’s sports editor. 
Contact him at ddixon@alligator.org.Drinking Game: Super Bowl LII EditionYou’re Dylan Me Smalls / Opinion
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixonThe Associated Press
Eagles starting left tackle Halapoulivaati Vaitai has one of the most unique names of 
the players competing in Super Bowl LII.
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Friday, Feb. 2
Gymnastics @ Auburn, 
7 p.m., SEC Network
Men’s/Women’s Swimming & Diving 
@ Auburn Invitational, All Day
Men’s/Women’s Track & Field 
@ Bayou Bengal Invitational, All Day
Saturday, Feb. 3
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama, 4 p.m., 
ESPN
*Men’s Tennis vs. Florida State, 7 p.m.
*Women’s Tennis vs. Florida State, 7 
p.m.
Men’s/Women’s Swimming & Diving 
@ Auburn Invitational, All Day
Sunday, Feb. 4
Men’s/Women’s Swimming & Diving 
@ Auburn Invitational, All Day
*Denotes Neutral Site Game16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 2018
lead of the night.
The triple became part of an 11-0 run for 
Georgia, which propelled the team to a seven-
point lead with just over a minute remaining in the half.
Florida forward Kevarrius Hayes responded 
with a three-point play and Chiozza nailed his third three-pointer of the night to close out the frame, but the Gators still trailed 37-32 heading 
into the locker room.
Florida began the second half scorching 
from the ﬁ  eld, with redshirt junior Jalen Hud-
son knocking down a three from the right wing 
to catalyze a 12-2 run.
Hudson drilled two three-pointers during 
the stretch, his ﬁ  rst points of the night after go-
ing scoreless in the ﬁ  rst half.
But once again, Florida’s offense stalled 
when Georgia’s perimeter defense clamped down midway through the period.
The Gators struggled to ﬁ  nd any offensive 
rhythm late, going 3-for-21 in the ﬁ  nal 10:20 of the game.
Georgia used that time to score methodical-
ly, capitalizing on Florida’s mistakes to build 
a double-digit lead and keep the game out of 
reach.
The Bulldogs came into Tuesday’s contest 
allowing just 66.1 points per game, and they played to their tough, grind-it-out style in the 12-point victory.
Florida has now lost two straight confer-
ence games and three out of its last ﬁ  ve games versus SEC opponents.
"They set the tone," UF coach Mike White 
said. "We didn't come close to matching their 
physicality."
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org 
 BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Florida shot 3 for 21 in inal 10:20 of Tuesday night's gameJohnson. All three are recovering from injury and 
haven't set a date for return.
KeVaughn Tracker
Guard KeVaughn Allen’s struggles this year 
have been well-chronicled.
Allen led UF in scoring last season and helped 
propel the Gators to the Elite Eight with a 35-point 
explosion against Wisconsin. But the Little Rock, Arkansas, native has struggled to ﬁ  nd a rhythm 
since transfers Jalen Hudson and Egor Koulechov 
joined this year’s roster.
Allen scored nine points on 4-of-11 shoot-
ing against the Bulldogs, missing four of his ﬁ  ve 
three-point attempts. He missed his ﬁ  nal ﬁ  ve shots 
of the game, snapping a streak of four straight 
games scoring in double ﬁ  gures.
Allen scored 28 points in a Jan. 17 win against 
Arkansas in what many hoped would be a break-
out performance. But Allen has followed up by 
scoring 11, 15, 10 and now nine points as he con-
tinues to struggle to regain his offensive prowess.
Hudson, who leads the team with 16.2 points 
per game, failed to get anything going against 
Georgia. The redshirt junior went 3-for-14 from 
the ﬁ  eld. Koulechov ﬁ  nished with 13 points and 
seven rebounds in the loss.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org NOTEBOOK,  from pg. 14Allen scored nine points against Bulldogs as struggles continue
Nate Bustamante  / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen scored nine points against Georgia on Tuesday. After leading UF in scoring last season, Allen 
has fallen into a lesser role behind transfers Jalen Hudson and Egor Koulechov.
