We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF appoints new Chief Diversity Oﬃ   cer
Antonio Farias is the newest addition to UF’s cabinet, pg. 4
Renter’s rights meeting educates residents
Sixty-four residents voiced their concerns in a meeting with the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition, pg. 5Not the NBA Finals matchup that you wanted?
Andrew Huang tells you why Warriors-Cavaliers IV is much 
better than it seems, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 91
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Christopher Barbey, a UF doc-
toral student, researches strawberry 
genetics at UF with his research 
partner in a lab with no name on 
its door.
His partner, 
Kevin Folta, 
used to display 
his name, but 
he took it down 
years ago when 
he began receiv-
ing death threats 
because of some 
of his more controversial research.
In a Facebook post Tuesday 
night, Folta, a professor and the 
former chairman of the horticul-
tural sciences department at UF, 
said damaging attacks from activist 
groups caused him to resign from 
his chairman position.
In his resignation email Friday, 
he said his resignation is also for 
personal reasons, which he later ex-
plained as a difﬁ  cult divorce.
“(W)hen you have personal mat-
ters to take care of and are being tar-
geted by these groups, it’s not fair 
to have to split my time that needs 
to be 100 percent devoted to my 
research, and to my faculty and to 
leadership,” Folta said.
GMWatch.org is an activist 
group that campaigns against genet-
ically modiﬁ  ed organisms, a focal 
point of Folta’s research. On Mon-
day, the group posted a story online 
with abuse allegations against Folta and called for a thorough investiga-
tion.
However, his colleagues hail him 
as a worldwide inﬂ  uence. Barbey 
said Folta is the reason he came to 
UF from Idaho for graduate school.
“I followed Kevin online because 
he is a huge champion for people 
who have a pro-science attitude to-
ward genetic engineering and what 
it can do,” Barbey said.
Folta said the group has targeted 
him for years because he is a scien-
tist, calling them a hate group that 
harrasses him, his mother and his 
ex-wife. The group has also targeted 
scientists working on vaccines and 
climate change, he said.
He said being harassed is noth-
ing new, and this will not be the 
last time as long as he continues to 
teach about technology in sustain-
able agriculture.
“All I can say to that is look at 
their website,” Folta said. “Look at 
how they’ve targeted me for years. 
This is just another set of allega-
tions that will go away like the rest 
of them did.”
UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
said Tuesday she has no informa-
tion yet on who will assume Folta’s 
position.
Folta said he will be a leader for 
the horticulture department even af-
ter resigning.
“I’m just changing the title,” 
Folta said. “I will still always work 
hard to be good at what I do.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgHorticulture chair resigns
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Adoption fees waived through Saturday
Morty, a 3-month-old kitten, enjoys being held and played with. Morty’s adoption fees, as well as the 
fees for other animals, have been waived through Saturday due to the shelter being at full capacity.
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
THE HOUSE WAS 
BUILT IN 1952.
Melanie Leonard looks back on 
her two years living in the Delta 
Gamma Sorority house with fond 
feelings.
But the 64-year-old advisory 
team chairman for the UF’s chap-
ter of the sorority could only 
watch Wednesday as a demolition 
crew bulldozed her old stomping 
grounds, and the ﬁ  rst permanent sorority house at 808 W. Panhel-
lenic Drive.
“It’s bittersweet, but it was 
time,” Leonard said, who joined 
Delta Gamma in 1971. “We 
looked into having it renovated, 
but the cost of the renovation was 
going to exceed the cost of bull-
dozing it and rebuilding.”
About ﬁ  ve years ago, the chap-
ter started planning the rebuild-
ing, and a contractor was cho-
sen in the past year. The house 
should be ﬁ  nished next year in 
July, Leonard said.
The new three-story house will 
have an elevator, 34 rooms, 71 beds, dedicated study rooms and 
an arts and crafts room. There 
will also be rooms to work out, 
have meetings and have proc-
tored tests, Leonard said.
The house will include a suite 
for the house director and a guest 
suite for visiting members of Del-
ta Gamma executive ofﬁ  ces.
Without a house to meet in 
for the time being, the chapter 
will be holding their meetings in 
Emerson Alumni Hall, the Press 
Room at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium 
and the Reitz Union.
Despite the renovations, the 
members will have memories of the previous house. An anchor 
given by the Fall pledge class of 
1957 will be refurbished and kept 
at the house, Leonard said.
Delta Gamma was colonized at 
UF in the Fall of 1948 and became 
a chapter in April 1949. The so-
rority built its house in 1952.
Beth Pelzer, the vice president 
of Delta Gamma’s house corpora-
tion board and recruitment advi-
sor, lived in the house for three 
years between 1969 to 1973. She 
said that most of her sisters went 
to the library to study then.
“Because you have access to 
everything at your ﬁ  ngertips on your computer, our women now, 
some go to the library, but a lot 
of them study at home,” Pelzer 
said. “A lot of them have classes 
online.”
Pelzer said the new house’s 
study spaces will help accommo-
date these technological advance-
ments.
“We’re just trying to make it 
for the women of the 21st centu-
ry,” Pelzer said.
@sloanasavage
ssavage@alligator.orgSorority house demolished in preparation for rebuilding
Folta
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 91
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
HIGH  89° LOW  71°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 91
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
GATORFeed
Tweet of the WeekMeme of the WeekFollow our Public Spotify PlaylistsTHURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will have its first chief diver-
sity officer July 9 after a year in the 
national spotlight due to racially 
charged incidents.
UF President Kent Fuchs an-
nounced Tuesday that UF will be 
adding Antonio Farias to his cabinet 
as CDO and senior adviser to the 
president. With this addition, the 
university makes a stride toward 
more inclusive policies.
During the past 
year, UF faced 
several challenges 
on its grounds, 
including white 
supremacist Rich-
ard Spencer com-
ing to campus as 
a speaker and an 
incident during 
the Spring graduation commence-
ment that made national news.
“It (the incidents) certainly con-
firmed that we want a person that’s 
at the level of the senior advisor to 
the president and member of the 
cabinet that’s helping all of us,” 
Fuchs said.
Farias compares the cropping up 
of issues on diversity to the game 
Whac-A-Mole. He said these events 
are a sign that there is “something 
systemic in the culture that needs to 
be addressed.”
“And that shouldn’t be shocking 
because UF is a part of Florida, and 
Florida is part of the United States,” 
Farias said. “And we have a very checkered history when it comes to 
questions of exclusion and inclu-
sion.”
Farias is coming to UF from Wes-
leyan University, where he served 
as the vice president for equity and 
inclusion. He also served as the chief 
diversity officer for the U.S. Coast 
Guard Academy.
He said his work at the U.S. Coast 
Guard Academy focused on cultivat-
ing leaders.
“We took these concepts of di-
versity, equity and inclusion, and we 
wove them into the DNA of what it 
means to develop leaders,” Farias 
said.
Farias’ breadth of experience is 
what set him apart from the other 
candidates for this position, Fuchs 
said.
Fuchs wants Farias to build rela-
tionships across campus and serve 
as a resource to everyone. He hopes 
Farias will assess UF in terms of di-
versity and hold members of the uni-
versity accountable.
Farias’ overall goal for UF is to 
create a culture “that is about be-
longing, being authentic and excel-
lence.”
“We shouldn’t expect a place that 
nothing bad happens, because that’s 
not realistic,” Farias said. “What my 
goal is, and what it’s always been in 
terms of how to develop leaders for 
changing tomorrow, is to have lead-
ers that have the right tools in their 
tool box.”
@sloanasavage
ssavage@alligator.orgUF hires first ever 
Chief Diversity Officer
By Carly Rogers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Today marks the end of Water 
Safety Month, but UF offers swim-
ming and lifeguard courses as well 
as some tips to teach students how 
to stay safe in the pool all year long.
The classes teach topics such as 
survival swimming, which is also 
known as treading water. It is the 
position swimmers take to float and 
breathe above the water for a long 
time without exerting too much en-
ergy.
The pools on campus tend to 
have the same amount of traffic they 
have year-round despite students go-
ing home for the summer.
“Summer is a big time for the 
pool,” said Emily Smith, a health sci-
ence major and aquatics supervisor 
at the O’Connell Center pool. “Less 
people are in town, but more people 
are inclined to come to the pool.”
Some of the rules that guests 
tend to ignore are what you would 
expect, such as “no running on the 
deck” or “shower before entering,” 
which is important to the cleanliness 
of the pool.
“It makes a big difference in the 
safety of swimming because impuri-
ties can float to the surface and can 
get into your eyes,” Smith said.
Whether or not you decide to 
swim on campus, there are a few tips you should know in order to 
stay safe this summer. These include 
wearing sunscreen and sunglasses 
and avoiding over-exerting yourself, 
especially in oceans or rivers with 
strong currents.
Drinking water and monitoring 
your body temperature are also im-
portant but often overlooked.
“It can be easy to miss yourself 
overheating because you don’t feel 
yourself sweat,” said UF senior Kai-
tlyn Hansen, a lifeguard for the Stu-
dent Recreation & Fitness Center. “If 
you have a headache, make sure you 
get out of the water and sit down.”
As hurricane season begins, pre-
pare to see more rain and lighting, 
which can pose hazards to swim-
mers.
“If it begins to rain, and we can-
not see the bottom (of the pool), we 
get everyone out immediately,” said 
Hansen.
She said swimmers are removed 
from the pool at the first rumble of 
thunder. They’re allowed back in 30 
minutes later if there are no lightning 
strikes or thunder.
Adult swim class registration 
can be found by visiting rsconnect.
recsports.ufl.edu/ or by going to Stu-
dent Rec’s website. Adult swimming 
classes are taught Tuesdays and 
Thursdays at the O’Connell Center 
from 6:45 p.m. to 7:15 p.m.UF teaches pool safetyFarias
THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Students at UF will now have 
the ability to virtually chat with the 
members of the Student Govern-
ment executive branch.
Student Body President Ian 
Green announced the addition of 
digital ofﬁ  ce hours via Facebook on Tuesday. The program is titled 
MeetingU.
The program allows students 
who may be unable to attend ofﬁ  ce 
hours in person to video chat with 
SG executive members, Green said.
“I don’t want Student Govern-
ment to be looked at as some entity 
that is far away from the students 
but one that is very approachable and accessible,” Green said.
The Zoom platform was chosen 
to launch the digital ofﬁ  ce hours, 
Green said. The application is 
available to all students for free, 
whether they use Apple, Android 
or Windows devices.
Nobody has signed up for a 
meeting so far, Green said, but he 
is anticipating appointments in the future.
In-person ofﬁ  ce hours will still 
be held throughout the year, Green 
said.
“From what I know, I think it 
would be really beneﬁ  cial,” Senate 
President Danielle Grosse said. “I 
am really excited to see Ian come 
and talk about it more next week.”
There was no senate meeting on the Tuesday the announcement 
was made. 
Green will be addressing the 
Senate regarding the program at 
the regular SG meeting Tuesday, 
Grosse said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgStudent Government executives announce virtual oﬃ   ce hours
By Ke’on Christian 
and Madison Rubert
Alligator Contributing Writers
Francis Donahue, 38, thought it was ridic-
ulous when the landlord from Paradigm Prop-
erties asked him to pay a move-in fee and a 
clean-up fee. He only paid it because he really 
wanted the apartment he was about to live in. 
“When I moved in, the condition was 
ﬁ  lthy,” Donahue said. “(On) the ﬁ  rst day they 
broke their agreement with me, so I knew it 
was illegal.”
Donahue isn’t alone in his experiences 
with renting in Gainesville. At an open dia-
logue held by the Alachua County Labor 
Coalition on Tuesday evening, 64 renters in 
the community expressed the problems they 
were facing as tenants.
At the meeting held inside the Emmanuel 
Mennonite Church at 1236 NW 18 Ave., at-
tendees proposed solutions to renting con-
cerns such as a lack of energy efﬁ  ciency, 
quality standards and affordable housing.
Speakers included City Commissioner 
for District 4 Adrian Hayes-Santos and Kali 
Blount, co-chair of the Alachua County Hous-
ing Authority.
The crowd quickly started clapping when the issue of segregation of housing was in-
troduced.
Blount, 61, believes that while racial seg-
regation of housing is illegal, strong economic 
segregation of housing still exists.
“It is important to obtain mixed income 
housing, but it must happen across the board. 
There’s been some willingness in this com-
munity to put market rate housing over in the 
east, that’s good up until a point unless its 
reciprocal,” Blount said.
Renters also spoke up on landlords not be-
ing forthcoming about the rights and respon-
sibilities that come with renting, such as spe-
ciﬁ  cs about security deposits and the renter’s 
right to privacy.
Hayes-Santos said more transparency is 
needed when a renter is making housing de-
cisions.
Before a future tenant signs a lease, it’s 
important they are told about their rights as 
a renter. This ensures they understand their 
responsibilities and know what to do as a ten-
ant in a given situation, Hayes-Santos said.
“I think having these discussions is what 
makes Gainesville great,” Hayes-Santos said. 
“People in our community care. This shows 
that we have a community that is progressive 
and advocating for what they believe in.”Gainesville residents hold 
meeting on renter’s rights
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Current treatments for HIV allow people 
with the disease to live longer than ever 
before. Yet, this extension of life can often 
mean that individuals may experience oth-
er medical problems.
“(People who are diagnosed with HIV) 
show early symptoms of neurodegenerative 
diseases such as Parkinson’s disease,” said 
Habibeh Khoshbouei, an associate profes-
sor of neuroscience at UF’s College of Medi-
cine. “If (a) normal population shows this 
in their 70s and 80s, HIV-infected people 
show it much earlier.” 
The collection of neurological disorders 
that have been frequently documented in 
the HIV-positive population is called Neu-
roAIDS, Khoshbouei said. The disorders in-
clude Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s.
Researchers are studying how the longer 
lifespan of HIV-positive patients is associ-
ated with NeuroAIDS, Khoshbouei said. 
In her lab, researchers study dopamine 
transmission. This month, they published a 
study in Glia, a peer-reviewed journal, ex-
ploring a protein that affects dopamine in 
the brain.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that al-lows us to begin movements and perform 
tasks, like eating, that result in reward, UF 
doctoral student Doug Miller said. 
When a person’s dopamine levels are 
out of the normal range, it means they will 
not move or behave normally, Miller said. 
The UF study, which used mice, found 
that a protein associated with those who 
are HIV positive, the HIV-1 Tat protein, 
reduces the level of a different protein, ty-
rosine hydroxylase, Miller said. Tyrosine 
hydroxylase is required for the production 
of dopamine.
This HIV-1 Tat protein in effect limits 
dopamine production in the brain.  
Funding for this study came in part from 
grants from the National Institute of Neu-
rological Disorders and Stroke and the Na-
tional Institute on Drug Abuse, according to 
the journal article. 
Their ﬁ  ndings complement other studies 
that point out a need to focus on neurolog-
ical-based treatments in the future, Miller 
said. 
“That will allow a person to have a 
much more normal life for an extended pe-
riod of time,” Miller said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgHIV-positive individuals are 
living longer. What’s next?Editorial
Column
About that Bright Futures summer textbook stipend...
I like to get my facts straight. Part of it is ﬁ  ve 
years of speech and debate. Another part is 
being a journalism major, where a fact error 
can automatically cut your grade in half.
When I ﬁ  rst ran to be the senator of Inﬁ  nity 
Hall, I took the time to fact check all of my op-
ponent’s ideas and claims by emailing the respec-
tive UF departments, asking what they thought 
of each idea. Needless to say, that sets me up 
for conﬂ  ict with people who say not the “truest” 
things ever, but if such conﬂ  ict is for the sake of 
the truth, then it is well worth the effort. Espe-
cially when it comes to politicians, you can’t just let anyone 
say anything.
That brings us to the topic of Bright Futures. I love my 
Bright Futures funding more than I love my future children 
(subject to change), so when any Bright Futures news comes 
my way, I gobble it up like a dehydrated turkey in a sauna 
in the Sahara. 
I like to think that I know my stuff, so when the Student 
Body president made the announcement in an online letter 
to the Student Body that “having a Bright Futures textbook 
stipend for the Summer is a great victory” and that “before, 
the Bright Futures textbook stipend only covered the fall and 
spring semesters,” that was news to me. Since when does 
Bright Futures include a textbook stipend in the summer?
So ﬁ  rst, I checked the UF Student Financial Affairs web-
site: “The Summer award amount does not include the $300 
college-related expenses stipend.” Huh. The Bright Futures 
Student Handbook, updated May 1, says “Fall and Spring 
semesters.” Then I really decided to do my due diligence by 
looking up the Florida Senate and House bills just to make 
sure I didn’t leave any stone unturned. Things weren’t really 
looking good for the fabled summer Bright Futures textbook 
stipend.
I dropped by Student Financial Affairs and gave the Flor-
ida Department of Education a call. They were both a bit 
bewildered. The Department of Education said it had been 
getting calls from confused stakeholders as well.
Given all that I’ve learned here in Student Government, I know that students often don’t have the full story 
or complete picture since our government can 
be pretty complicated. That element of plausible 
unknowingness in addition to the good ole “in-
nocent until proven guilty” led me to hold my 
tongue and simply wait until Tuesday night’s 
Senate meeting to question the Student Body 
president on the matter.
My ﬁ  rst question was if it was for this coming 
summer, to which he responded afﬁ  rmatively. 
My second question was if the accompaniment 
was done during the recent legislative session, 
to which he also responded afﬁ  rmatively. He seemed pretty 
conﬁ  dent that it existed so at that point I was like, “Per-
haps he just has that insider Student Body president-Florida 
Blue Key super secret knowledge” and kind of left it at that. 
Perhaps I wanted to be wrong, so I could enjoy that sweet, 
sweet summer textbook stipend.
So I was amused to see the letter to the Student Body 
was quietly updated with changes such as from “having a 
Bright Futures textbook stipend for the summer” to “having 
a Bright Futures textbook stipend for the fall and spring and 
summer Bright Futures.”
I was less amused that no one really said anything about 
it otherwise. I can still see a post on Facebook talking about 
the summer textbook stipend with a couple shares on it. If 
someone is going to realize that they low-key published fake 
news and then correct it, I would hope they would also give 
a little elbow nudge to the people who might have been unin-
tentionally misled so they can also correct the record.
Well, a whole newspaper column on this might be a heck 
of an elbow nudge, but it’s a good way to make sure we’re 
all on the same page. We good? Good.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science sophomore 
and Murphree Area senator. His column focuses on Stu-
dent Government and comes out Thursday.THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
If there’s one thing you have to understand as a 
Gainesville resident, it’s this: The rain will never relent.
The jowls of Poseidon will never cease the downpours. 
You’ll forever be at the mercy of Mother Nature and her 
temper tantrums. The weather bends to the will of the old 
gods and the new everywhere you’ll ever live, but espe-
cially so here in Rainesville.
Rainesville doesn’t care that you have class on the other 
side of campus in 10 minutes. Rainesville doesn’t care that 
you want to go drinking downtown but only own a moped.
Like the titular character from “Charles in Charge,” 
Rainesville is in charge of your days and your nights, and 
nothing will ever change that.
Exactly how hard does Rainesville try to mess with you? 
You could say it’s raining cats and dogs, or pouring buckets 
or some other tired cliche. But we here at The Alligator have 
come up with our own phrase to describe both the consis-
tently awful weather as well as our mood on Wednesday 
nights. See, we like to make it rain…
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgDARTS AND 
LAURELS
Our forecast predicts a s--- storm is heading ABC’s way. 
After a few strenuous weeks of rebooting beloved ‘90s sit-
com “Roseanne,” Disney CEO Bob Iger pulled the plug on 
it following a racist tweet from the show’s star, Roseanne 
Barr. Peddled as a show for working-class white folks, 
“Roseanne” was on a steady decline over its nine episodes 
in 2018. The show still drew an average of 13.48 million 
viewers per episode, but after its debut March 27, the show 
couldn’t quite live up to the hype with just over 10.5 million 
watching its unintended series ﬁ  nale.
For canceling “Roseanne,” we’re prepared to give Iger 
and Disney/ABC both a dart and a laurel. The laurel is 
fairly obvious. A powerful white man calling out racism is 
as rare as snow in Gainesville, so good on Iger. However, 
Barr has exhibited a pattern of racist rantings before her 
show was renewed. That Iger and Co. took a chance on Barr 
toning it down in our current social and political climate is, 
at best, naivety incarnate and, at worst, willfully negligent.
Perhaps the greatest loss in the entire “Roseanne” situa-
tion is what wasn’t covered in its place. The death toll from 
Hurricane Maria is now estimated to be thousands higher 
than the ofﬁ  cial U.S. government count of 112. According to 
The New York Times, experts are still assessing the deaths 
and estimate casualties in the thousands.
Instead of coverage focusing on current conditions in 
Puerto Rico or on those still affected by the storm’s wrath, 
outlets like CNN, FOX and MSNBC ran a stream of “Rose-
anne” Twitter analysis totaling about 10 hours Tuesday. 
Meanwhile, the coverage of the disaster’s effects lasted 
about 30 minutes. We hand a dart to cable news for failing 
to exercise good news judgment and for pandering to petty 
drama and failure to rise to basic standards of decency. Sta-
tions paid more mind to what would lure in more views 
instead of creating content that informed the rest of the U.S. 
on a horrible situation affecting their fellow citizens.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
OPEN DAILY: 6 AM - 10 PM
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner
3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
www.bojangles.com$5COMBO MEALS
Choose from 2Pc. Leg/Thigh Dinner With 
Biscuit Or Pulled Bbq Pork Sandwich Combo, 
Both Come With Side Item Plus Drink!
Society is propelled by 
technology or a battery. 
Everything is faster and 
at your fingertips.
Students type notes 
on their computers, read head-
lines with their noses buried in 
a screen, scan lessons from an 
online textbook or take quizzes 
on Canvas.
Some students whiz by on automated 
bikes, skateboards or scooters.
Because of the efficiency and perva-
sion of technology, many people argue 
print news, magazines and books are dy-
ing breeds. I disagree.
I may be in the minority, but to me, 
nothing beats holding a pen to paper, 
holding a story or the feel and smell of 
flipping the pages of a book.
For me, it makes it more real.
I still buy the hard copy of a textbook 
and pick up The Alligator on my way to 
class, hearing the door of the newsstand 
slam behind me.
I’m a kinesthetic learner and love 
writing notes, placing tabs in books and 
seeing my byline right on a page.
This isn’t to say I never use technol-
ogy. News spreads faster than ever on 
social media. I type up most of my as-
signments on my laptop. I’m guilty of 
spending too much time on my phone.
However, hard copies allow for shar-
ing experiences and holding history, 
whereas a textbook with a one-time code 
locks students into one option and an 
article can be lost in the depths of the 
internet.
I think there needs to be a balance. 
Technology can go down and be tam-
pered with, but paper is always there.
I don’t think it should be a competi-
tion. There is a space for both.
Journalism is a degree of tradition and 
innovation.
We learn to take notes on paper and 
stick to strict grammar rules. However, we also learn how technology 
expands our stories and allows 
news to reach more people. 
Photos, infographics and inter-
active elements like charts, au-
dio and video make news come 
alive.
However, not everyone has 
access to internet.
Paper is universal and cam-
pus libraries work hard to preserve spe-
cial and tactile literary artifacts. Libraries 
also digitize massive collections.
Power seems to rule the world, but, 
for me, paper is the foundation.
I grew up having stories read to me 
sitting on the laps of family. I lived for 
the day I got my library card and could 
carry out piles of books to my room. I 
got in trouble for hiding under my cov-
ers reading with a flashlight way past my 
bedtime.
Today, I also get excited by a cool ad 
in a magazine, a beautiful book cover 
and my stash of favorite notebooks, wait-
ing for the moment I have the perfect 
story to draft in them.
At the same time, I appreciate a crisp 
photo on the front page of a website, the 
quick advice or news from a journalist in 
a series of tweets and the ease and clarity 
of finding information online.
In a world where everything glows, I 
ask people to step back and appreciate 
the black type on a faded white page or 
the feel of a pen in their hands.
Technology does not need to mean the 
end of tradition. Now more than ever, I 
feel the world needs some pull back into 
the tangible moments beyond a screen.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday.Powerful foundations: Why it's 
wrong to worship digital over paperColumn
If you spend enough time on 
the internet, you learn the lan-
guage of memes. It’s a market-
driven tongue; memes go in 
and out of fashion frequently. 
If you’re not careful, you might 
find yourself in a lurch, trading 
in low-value memes. This is as 
important as any college course 
— learning to navigate the meme 
economy can make or break your 
online presence. Irrelevance, to any self-
respecting, red-blooded citizen of the in-
ternet, is a fate worse than death.
The meme economy and the real econ-
omy are similar in only a few ways. Most 
importantly, they both derive the value 
of things — stocks, products, images, 
catch phrases, etc. — from the value as-
signed to them by the mass of consumers. 
Bear in mind the main driver of a meme’s 
value is its popularity, not the quality of 
the meme itself. There is no single as-
pect of memes that makes them valuable 
or invaluable. In fact, many of the most 
valuable memes of all time, at their peak, 
started off as low-quality jokes. If you’ve 
heard somebody say, “do you know de 
wey,” sometime after January of this 
year, you’ve experienced textbook low-
value trading firsthand.
Take Ugandan Knuckles under consid-
eration. The video that started the ham-
handed phenomenon became popular 
in December 2017. Within a few short 
months, arguably weeks, we saw the 
entire meme cycle take place. First, the 
internet laughed unironically. Then the 
market was diversified by investments in 
different takes on the meme. Irony and 
self-reference took hold. The bubble con-
tinued to grow. Eventually, as it happens 
with all memes, it fell into the wrong 
hands. The market was soiled with 
counterfeit. There is some debate as to 
whether Knuckles was ever funny, but it 
certainly crashed hard onto its deathbed. 
The plunging of the Knuckles stock was illustrative of one of the 
most powerful laws of the meme 
economy: Valuable memes origi-
nate from the fringe. The gen-
eral user base of the internet is 
merely a consuming body in the 
meme economy, but when the 
bubble becomes too large and 
the barrier to entry into partici-
pation remains too low, common 
browsers of the web will hazard 
a low-effort meme. Thus, the beginning 
of its devaluation. Where once the gen-
eral internet population made it valuable, 
mass participation causes inflation and 
rapidly brings a meme to its knees.
Another fact follows from the law of 
fringe value: Memes are inherently un-
predictable. They get more and more sur-
real as time goes by. Where once the ele-
ments that made a meme great were Sir 
Patrick Stewart’s confused expression, 
outstretched hand and some Impact font, 
now to make a valuable meme you may 
need Photoshop skills and talent with 
“deep frying.” Try not to take advice from 
meme traders too seriously. Publications 
like Meme Insider can help, but only in 
a general sense to get a feel for what’s 
popular. The balance, and true value, lies 
between popularity and obscurity.
We cannot be certain about the fu-
ture of memes. But we can be certain 
that they will not go away. Images speak 
louder than words. In the digital age, 
people may look not to judge you by the 
color of your wine and cheese but rather 
by the content of your meme folder. Keep 
a wary eye on your investments.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political 
science junior. His column comes out 
Tuesday and Thursday.Navigating a volatile 'meme-conomy'
and the bubbles that come with itColumn
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Reviewing your next binge series:
Let us give you the run-down on Amazon Prime’s 
original series “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. ”A review of the newest Star Wars ﬁ  lm: 
“Solo: A Star Wars Story” is the newest addition to the Star 
Wars Universe Check out our review on page 10. By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
Garage-grunge girl group The Coathang-
ers will join forces with retro-rockers The 
Woolly Bushmen this Saturday night at 
High Dive as part of their joint tour.
Doors open for the show at 9 p.m., and 
performances will begin at 9:30 p.m. Tick-
ets for the show are available at the High 
Dive box ofﬁ  ce, Hear it Again Records and 
ticketﬂ  y.com for $10 in advance and $12 on 
the day of the show. Guests under 18 must 
be accompanied by a guardian and those 
under 21 must pay an additional conve-
nience fee of $3 at the door.
The Coathangers will also be joined by 
Glove, of Tampa, and Gainesville’s own 
OOF.
The Coathangers are an Atlanta-native 
all-female group with a professionally irrev-erent style. The triad goes by the monikers 
Rusty Coathanger, Crook Kid Coathanger 
and Minnie Coathanger.
“It’s our therapy,” said Meredith Franco, 
aka Minnie Coathanger. “Just playing and 
being together and performing on stage … 
It doesn’t matter if it’s good energy or it’s 
anger. You just let it all out.”
At the start, The Coathangers was just 
a fun way to blow off steam with friends. 
Now, the group has toured all over the U.S., 
Europe, Australia and Asia.
The Coathangers have a live album set 
for release Friday. The live album will in-
clude new tracks that will be included on 
their next studio album, which is currently 
being recorded. Franco said The Coathang-
er’s next studio album, which should be re-
leased next year, is a callback to the band’s 
early sound.
“We brought that energy back,” Franco said. “Fun and not overthinking too much. 
We’re just bringing it back to old-school 
us.”
Like The Coathangers, brothers Simon 
Palombi and Julien Palombi say they start-
ed playing music with their friends for fun, 
not knowing that seven years later the band 
would ﬁ  nd itself at the center of their lives.
“We kind of just booked our ﬁ  rst show, 
and fantasized a little bit, and we were like, 
‘Let’s do more of these, this is cool!’” Julien 
joked. “And then, now it’s a marriage.”As positive responses swelled in, the 
boys of The Woolly Bushmen decided that 
the band was something worth sticking by.
“It’s the style of music I always listened 
to,” Simon said. “We play the type of music 
we would just like to listen to. It’s fun. I 
love the old ‘60s stuff.”
That ‘60’s inﬂ  uence shows through The 
Woolly Bushmen’s style. The band leans 
heavily into the feel-good sounds of early 
rock ’n’ roll that ﬁ  nd appeal in every age 
group.The Coathangers come to High Dive
MUSIC
Andy Matchett
The Woolly Bushmen join The Coathangers as part of their joint tour. 
Yeska
Punk rockers, The Coathangers are bringing their garage grunge sound to 
Gainesville this weekend.
By Aaron Dozier
Avenue Contributing Writer
Screenings are open to the 
public on the last Thursday of 
each month until the year ends.  
The Hippodrome State The-
atre is transitioning to reﬂ  ect the 
diverse community and are pio-
neering for inclusivity.
Let the excitement begin at the 
Hippodrome for the newly added ﬁ  lm series “Black Films Matter.” 
The series takes place on the last 
Thursday of each month until the 
year ends. 
Each screening is open to the 
public at a going rate of $9. Dis-
counts may vary for matinee, stu-
dents and senior citizens at $7.  
Tickets can be purchased through 
the Hippodrome’s website, but 
they also accept MoviePass.  
The ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm for viewers plea-sure will be “Putney Swope” be-
ginning at 7:30 p.m. tonight. The 
ﬁ  lms are selected by Director of 
Operations Nicole Daenzer. Doors 
will open 30 minutes before the 
performance.
“I was looking to ﬁ  nd indie 
ﬁ  lms with more of the black per-
spective,” Daenzer said. “I want-
ed to create a series with ground-
breaking classics. Not many 
people, nor ﬁ  lm buffs, here have heard of ‘Putney Swope’ ... It’s 
just an amazing movie that came 
out late ‘60s, early ‘70s. It’s really 
funny satire.” 
The exception to the screening 
weeks will be the ﬁ  lm “Freedom 
on My Mind,” which is scheduled 
to be observed June 19 in honor 
of Black American Independence 
Day.
This ﬁ  lm series highlights 
black ﬁ  lms and black ﬁ  lmmakers.“I feel like the cinema should 
be showing ﬁ  lms that will reﬂ  ect 
the community and showing ﬁ  lms 
that would be interesting to the 
people who live here while en-
hancing their understanding of 
the world,” Daenzer said. “I’m 
starting to ﬁ  nd more ﬁ  lms as I 
dig.”‘Black Films Matter’: The ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm series of its kind at HippodromeTHURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Warning: There are spoilers ahead.
The 1950s were an era that had very 
strict gender roles. Men worked to pro-
vide for their family and made all the 
decisions, while women were expected 
to look pretty for their husbands and do 
all the small things to make life appear 
perfect.
Perfect.
That’s exactly what Miriam “Midge” 
Maisel thought of her life before the un-
expected happens. After bombing his 
set at a comedy club, Midge’s husband, 
Joel, decides to leave her.
The Amazon Prime original series 
“The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” which 
premiered in October 2017, follows 
Midge as she picks up the pieces of 
her life and assumes a role she never 
thought of before, a comedian.
The series was met with high expec-
tations due to the reputation of its creator 
and writer, Amy Sherman-Palladino.
Sherman-Palladino is known for her 
successful quirky family series “Gilmore 
Girls.” Fans of that series have described 
Sherman-Palladino’s writing as smart, 
witty and one-of-a kind.
Despite the early end to her show 
“Bunheads,” which premiered in 2012 
and ended after its ﬁ  rst season, Sher-
man-Palladino always delivers a series 
with a speciﬁ  c type of comedic timing 
and humor. This series is no exception.
The series follows the disarray that is Midge’s life after her husband leaves her 
— in the ﬁ  rst episode, no less.
Although each episode is around an 
hour long, Joel leaving Midge is com-
pletely unexpected. Sadly, viewers don’t 
get a separate view of an affair or secret 
life to understand the reasoning behind 
the separation.
Viewers must wait until the ﬁ  nal epi-
sode of the season to learn Joel’s side of 
the story.
All of that confusion creates the ba-
sic plotline for the series as Midge, dis-
traught and puzzled at the situation, 
wanders in a drunken-stupor through 
the late-night streets of New York. Then, 
she arrives at the scene where every-
thing comes to a head, Gaslight Cafe.
Once Midge arrives at the comedy 
club, wine bottle in tow, she stumbles 
on stage and starts sharing the trau-
matic events that just became her life. 
Her honesty and complete lack of ﬁ  lter 
win over both the crowd and the club 
talent booker. They are left amazed and 
shocked by this average housewife mak-
ing them uncontrollably laugh in the 
wee hours of the morning.
Then, because of the exhilarating 
feeling Midge gets from being on stage, 
she becomes a bit unhinged and starts 
cursing before dramatically exposing her 
breasts when comparing them to the 
woman her husband left her for.
Midge is arrested by local police for 
public indecency and performing with-
out a comic’s license.
Surprisingly, Midge is released be-cause her bail was posted by the talent 
booker from the club, Susie Myerson. 
Myerson tells her that she has a lot of 
talent and could be a great comedian 
with practice.
Midge realizes her obsession with 
detail for her husband’s nighttime com-
edy career, which contrasts his morning 
business day job, stems from her own 
admiration of the art.
After some consideration, Midge 
decides she is going to rebuild her life, 
become an independent woman and be-
come a successful comedian.
The rest of the series follows the ups 
and downs of Midge’s life as she be-
comes more knowledgeable of life out-
side of her typical housewife bubble.
Learning isn’t something Midge 
takes lightly. In fact, in one episode, she 
makes it a point to mention that while in 
college she was the best at studying and 
that she plans on learning everything 
possible about comedy.
Overall, while the series has a bit of 
a rushed set-up, in that short time you 
build a bond with the characters. From 
Midge and her parents; to her friends, 
the Cleary’s, and Joel’s parents, Sher-
man-Palladino does a great job of creat-
ing complex, well-developed characters 
in double time.
Due to the positive reception from 
fans, season two of the series is already 
in production. Filming began in March, 
and viewers can expect to delve further 
into Midge’s effort to ﬁ  nd balance in her 
newfound independent life.Series review of the week — ‘The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel’
Amazon
Miriam Maisel begins a journey into the world of 
comedy.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Writer
It seemed as if fans wanted “Solo: A Star 
Wars Story” to ﬂ  op from the moment it was 
announced by Lucasﬁ  lm. Much of the “Star 
Wars” fandom was wary of an origin story that 
dealt with one of the most beloved characters 
of all time, Han Solo.
When the ofﬁ  cial teaser came out for 
“Solo,” it was met with pretty strong backlash, 
mostly relating to the lead actor, Alden Ehren-
reich. People were adamant on establishing 
that Harrison Ford is Han Solo, and no one else 
could portray the character.
But, it’s not Ehrenreich’s fault that “Solo” 
turned out the way it did. Ehrenreich is fairly 
good in this second installment of the anthol-
ogy series, and he certainly has demonstrated 
his acting chops in the past (see the Coen 
brothers’ comedy “Hail, Caesar!”). 
He’s convincing enough as Solo, and this 
origin story is set several years before Luke and 
Leia meet the cynical, smoldering Han we have 
come to know and love. In this ﬁ  lm, young 
Han is earnest and just beginning to come into 
his own.
We meet the young Han on the shipbuild-
ing world of Corellia, a pretty hellish looking 
place. Han plans to escape with his girlfriend, 
Qi’ra (played by Emilia Clarke from “Game of 
Thrones”), but let’s just say the escape doesn’t 
go as planned and Qi’ra doesn’t make it off the 
planet. 
Jump ahead three years and we ﬁ  nd Han 
in the midst of a war zone as a pilot for the 
Imperial Army, still fantasizing about getting 
Qi’ra off Corellia. He essentially deserts the army but meets Chewbacca (Joonas Suotamo) 
on his way.
Han and Chewbacca team up with a crew 
of thieves consisting of Tobias Beckett (Woody 
Harrelson), Val (Thandie Newton from “West-
world”) and Rio (Jon Favreau). The ragtag 
team attempts to steal a large amount of coax-
ium, an expensive hyperfuel in high demand, during an epic train-heist sequence that goes 
awry.
When the crew doesn’t pull off the heist, 
they must answer to their employer Dryden 
Vos (Paul Bettany), the gangster leader of a 
crime syndicate. While meeting Vos, Han ﬁ  -
nally reunites with Qi’ra in the midst of a love 
triangle.Vos decides to give them another chance 
and sends Qi’ra along to oversee their next 
heist. The crew is in need of a ship and goes to 
Lando Calrissian (Donald Glover, also known 
as Childish Gambino) for help.
If you think that’s enough plot for one ﬁ  lm, 
you’d be right, but writers Lawrence Kasdan 
and his son, Jonathan, seem to disagree. The 
ﬁ  lm drags on and on with a total running time 
of two hours and ﬁ  fteen minutes. The long 
running time would be ﬁ  ne if “Solo” actually 
added anything to the “Star Wars” universe.
When Phil Lord and Chris Miller, known 
for “The Lego Movie” and “21 Jump Street,” 
were brought on to direct the ﬁ  lm, it was an 
auspicious sign that “Solo” could have the 
same success as “Rogue One.” The comedic 
duo might have been able to justify the need 
for a Solo origin story by creating something 
that had never been seen before in the “Star 
Wars” cinematic universe.
But, months into ﬁ  lming, Lord and Miller 
were ﬁ  red by Disney and Lucasﬁ  lm due to 
“creative differences.” Soon thereafter, Ron 
Howard was brought on to complete ﬁ  lming 
and ended up having to do extensive reshoots 
that added months to the production schedule.
It’s rumored Lord and Miller were straying 
too far from the script as they experimented 
and allowed a lot of improvisation on set.
Han Solo is known as a roguish, rule-break-
er who paves his own path, but this ﬁ  lm does 
exactly the opposite. In fact, it’s difﬁ  cult to re-
member most of it as soon as you step out of 
the theater.
Despite all the behind-the-scenes drama, 
“Solo” is still an enjoyable popcorn ﬂ  ick 
that answers questions you may have never ‘Solo: A Star Wars Story’ fails to shift into hyperdrive
Johnathan Olley/Lucasﬁ  lm Ltd.
Alden Ehrenreich and Joonas Suotamo star as Han Solo and Chewbacca in 
the newest ﬁ  lm in the Star Wars universe.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers only. 
Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ walk to 
UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. CAC/
heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 561-
822-7073, chaarlottekirk@outlook.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10● ● MARGIE'S SECOND THOUGHT ● ●
2210 NE 55th Blvd, Gville. 386-972-2556
10 am - 6 pm, 7 days a week
● Baby supplies & toys ● Appliances ● 
Furniture ● Clothes ● Linens ● Rugs, Etc.       
6-5-18-5-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches. Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
2/2 Corner Condo:
Move-in ready, washer/dryer incl.
Free internet.
10 min to UF. On bus route.
$850/mth. 352-872-3619      6-7-18-5-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave      4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
W/D included, fenced backyard, large
closets, close to shopping, midtown, buses    
Call 352-338-1000        6-7-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
1. MATH: What is the square root of 
25?
2. GEOGRAPHY: How many South 
American countries border Argentina?
3. SCIENCE: The conversion of 
water vapor to liquid is called what?
4. MUSIC: Who composed the opera 
“The Barber of Seville”?
5. ANATOMY: Where are the mus-
cles called “lats” located?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of lions called?
7. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the fear 
experienced by someone suffering 
from ailurophobia?
8. AD SLOGANS: What break-
fast cereal’s ad slogan was, “They’re 
GR-R-R-reat”?
9. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
writer and activist once said, “The 
opposite of love is not hate, it’s indif-
ference”?
10. MYTHOLOGY: Which Greek 
god is associated with winged sandals?
Answers
1. 5
2. Five: Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Para-
guay and Uruguay
3. Condensation
4. Rossini
5. Back
6. A pride
7. Fear of cats
8. Kellogg’s Frosted Flakes
9. Elie Wiesel
10. Hermes, messenger of the gods
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 28, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals
THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
19
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Tax time VIPs
5 GE competitor
10 “Stranger Things”
actress
15 A studio may be
in one
16 Doughnut-
shaped
17 Line from the
heart
18 Folksy Guthrie
19 Steal items on
parking lot
windshields?
21 Bottleneck
problem
23 Neatened a bit
24 Steal kitchen
tools?
28 Fashion icon
London
29 Adjective for
fighter Joe Frazier
34 Drivel
37 Hold responsible
39 Western casino
city
40 Steal plastic?
45 Trattoria bar order
46 Island east of
Java
47 Reuben bread
48 Lassie, for one
51 Sushi bar array
53 Steal wishing
well money?
59 Have an average
day on the links?
63 Buddy
64 Steal watch
components?
68 “Voilà!”
69 __ planner
70 French film
award
71 Crispy snack
72 Synthesizer
brand
73 Intense exams
74 Breaks up a plot
DOWN
1 Necklace part
2 X-rated stuff
3 Company whose
mascot uses fowl
language
4 Wading birds
5 Only city from
which two NHL
hockey teams
relocated (both
went to Canada)
6 “You can’t mean
me!”7 48-Across sound
8 Capone
henchman
9 When the
“Macbeth”
witches add “eye
of newt”
10 Subject of the
film “42”
11 Farm link
12 1857 litigant
Scott
13 Caesar’s last
gasp
14 Rough file
20 Caesar’s last day
22 Don’t bother
25 Powder source
26 1980s Chrysler
offering
27 Citi Field MLBer
30 “... boy __ girl?”
31 Actress Deborah
32 500 nickname
33 Wine quality
34 Short answer?
35 Boo-boo
36 Shade
38 Gloria’s mom in
’70s TV
41 Okra unit
42 Morning mumble
43 Shade
44 Model T feature
49 Decides one will50 Reagan role in a
Notre Dame
football movie
52 Teller?
54 DEA cop
55 Old news source
56 State bordering
six others and
the Canadian
mainland
57 Redmayne of
“The Theory of
Everything”58 Some daytime
TV
59 Building guideline
60 “__ Nagila”
61 World Cup
cheers
62 Potent start?
65 Govt. code
crackers
66 Square dance
dancer
67 H.S. yearbook
section
By Bruce Haight
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/31/1805/31/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 31, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Actress Gilbert of
“The Big Bang
Theory”
5 “Lucky Jim”
author
9 “Be silent,” in
scores
14 Stagecraft aid
15 Email category
16 House
17 App opener
18 Director
Preminger
19 66-Across, e.g.
20 Competition
among insects?
23 2000 NBA MVP
24 Part of ENT
25 Cartesian
conclusion
28 Pit stuff
29 Rule by
generations of
insects?
34 City north of
Memphis
35 “The Lord of the
Rings” actor
36 Brand once
pitched by
Garfield, oddly
39 Fabric-dyeing
technique
42 “¿Cómo __?”
43 Macy’s
competitor
45 Minneapolis
suburb
47 Tiny but
impressive
insect?
50 One on first?
53 “__ tu”: Verdi aria
54 Fairy queen of
folklore
55 Bee-related
57 Deceptiveness of
insects?
62 Gathered
intelligence
64 Israeli carrier
65 Stagecraft
arrangements
66 Barclays Center,
for one
67 Barclays Center
team
68 Cherry or pear
69 Inclined to
ramble
70 Stun, in a way
71 In __: alignedDOWN
1 Peg in a cask
2 One of two tarot
card groups
3 Small-space
renter
4 Sleep disorder
5 Starting
6 “Breaking Bad”
contraband
7 Enthusiastic
about
8 Saved
9 Greek restaurant
10 Help badly?
11 Is made up
12 Vanderbilt domain
13 Where many a
drive begins
21 Memorable first
name in Olympic
gymnastics
22 Vote against
26 Arguing
27 Mimic on a perch
30 Pen part
31 Coach
Parseghian
32 Tribal symbol
33 Whaling, say
34 Ireland’s largest
county
36 Tennis legend37 Lascivious look
38 Binky
40 Uganda’s Amin
41 Modeling
enthusiast’s
purchase
44 Eventually
46 Picked-up
48 Runway safety
org.
49 Away
50 Vintage locale51 Hurry
52 “Hold on”
56 Ones that have
infested four
puzzle answers
58 Advance
59 Court bargaining
chip
60 “Darn!”
61 Otherwise
62 Adage
63 Ace
By Winston Emmons
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/25/1805/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, May 25, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Occur 
1.  Respect 5.  Ursa ____
2.  Sleepwear 6.  Damp
3.  Previously 7.  Off the mark
4.  Deserving PAPNHE
OEGAHMARMJO
STMOI
ASMJAPA
ERALREIATASYR
HTWOYRANSWERS: 1A-Happen  5A-Major  6A-Moist  7A-Astray
1D-Homage  2D-Pajamas  3D-Earlier  4D-Worthy  B-John Grisham5-31-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “I spend a lot of time 
outlining before I write the first word.” BONUS
18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
SEC Player of the Year 
Jonathan India and the UF 
baseball team host Columbia in 
Gainesville Friday at noon.Holloway wins SEC Coach of the Year 
Mike Holloway became the first SEC track and field coach to win the confer-
ence's distinction for both the men's and women's teams in the same season. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S GOLF
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer 
Coach J.C. Deacon and the Florida 
men’s golf team came into this season 
hoping to improve after an embarrassing 
ending to its campaign one year ago.
Many believed last year’s team had 
the potential to make a deep run in 
the NCAA Championships. But after an 
eighth-place finish in the regional round, 
those thoughts became distant memo-
ries.
Thankfully for the Gators, this season 
harbored different results.
Fall Tournament Season
The season began in September for UF 
as it participated in the Carpet Collegiate 
Invitational in Rocky Face, Georgia.
The preseason-ranked No. 10 Florida 
Gators finished in fifth place at the event, 
carding an overall score of 862 (2 under).
Senior Alejandro Tosti stole the show 
for Florida individually, winning the 
event by shooting a 205 and giving him 
a score of 11 under for the weekend. He 
topped Clemson’s Bryson Nimmer by 
two strokes.
In an interview after the final round, 
Deacon was impressed with his senior 
golfer.
“Coming off a summer that didn’t live 
up to Alejandro’s high standards, he has 
come back to school more focused and 
dedicated,” Deacon said in a release. 
“Every area of his game was at an elite 
level this week.”
Two weeks later, the Gators looked 
to claim victory at the inaugural Trinity 
Forest Invitational in Dallas, Texas. The 
team played exceptionally, scoring an 835 (17 under) for the tournament and 
beating second-place finishers Auburn 
and Texas Tech by 10 strokes.
Junior Gordon Neale sparked UF on 
the final day of the event, shooting a ca-
reer-best 8-under 63 thanks to an eagle, 
six birdies and most importantly, no bo-
geys to finish second individually.
His teammate, sophomore Andy 
Zhang, followed close behind. Zhang 
concluded the final round tied for third 
individually after shooting a 207 (6 un-
der).
Florida managed to move up the Golf-
week Rankings to No. 5 after winning the 
event.
Spring Tournament Season
After a few months off, UF found itself 
beginning spring play on Feb. 17 at the 
friendly confines of Mark Bostick Golf 
Course for the SunTrust Gator Invitation-
al in Gainesville.
The Gators finished second only to 
Vanderbilt (18 under) and ended the 
weekend 9 under.
This was the team’s best finish at 
the event under Deacon. Junior Gordon 
Neale finished the best for UF, shooting 
a 4 under 206, which was good enough 
to put him in a tie for eighth.
In the beginning of March, then-No. 
5 UF traveled to Las Vegas, Nevada, to 
compete in the Southern Highlands Col-
legiate Invitational.
The Gators played well, limited un-
timely mistakes and shot 5 under to win 
the event by four strokes over second 
-place finishers Texas Tech and Southern 
California.Florida takes next step in 2018, competes at NCAAs
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Andy Zhang broke through in 2018 and picked up his first individual 
tournament victory. He will go pro next season despite only spending two years at UF.
It seems like Oct. 17 was just yester-
day. 
In reality, it has been more than seven 
months since the 2017-18 NBA season be-
gan. 
Now, the Cleveland Cavaliers and the 
Golden State Warriors meet in the NBA 
Finals once again. The two teams have 
faced each other on the biggest stage each 
of the last three years, with the Warriors 
winning twice.
With Game 1 starting tonight at 9, I 
present my personal selection of the top 
three storylines for the 2018 NBA Finals.
We take LeBron for granted.My, we are spoiled. LeBron 
James is so, so, so, so good at 
basketball, and after 15 sea-
sons, people have been desen-
sitized to it. 
Not me. We almost never 
get to see this type of longevity 
from professional athletes, and 
what makes it even more im-
pressive is that James is playing 
perhaps his best ball at 33 years old. For 
perspective, see the current state of other 
members of the 2003 NBA draft class, like 
Dwyane Wade or Carmelo Anthony.
This regular season, James set personal 
bests in rebounds and assists while play-ing all 82 games for the first 
time in his career. He currently 
leads the NBA in playoff-scor-
ing – that’s in 2018 and all-time 
– as he passed Kareem Abdul-
Jabbar for most career playoff 
points in Game 4 against Bos-
ton and almost single-handedly 
carried the Cavs through the 
Eastern Conference Playoffs.
His 45 points to clinch the first-round 
series against Indiana, buzzer-beating 
game-winner against Toronto or breath-
takingly dominant performances in 
Games 6 and 7 against Boston all prove 
how clutch he is.The King is must-see TV and we’d be 
fools to change the channel now, espe-
cially when we don’t know if he’ll keep 
this up in his 16th season and beyond.
This recurring matchup is not as 
bad as you think.
This series will have a huge impact on 
the future of both sides involved. If Cleve-
land falls, it likely loses LeBron to free 
agency. If Golden State loses, its quest for 
dynasty status hits a real speed bump.
Of course, the Warriors are the better 
team, and it seems likely the Bay Area 
will celebrate its third title in four years. Some thoughts on the NBA Finals: 'Matchup is not as bad as you think.'Huang Story Short / OpinionSEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 16
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators (55-9) arrived 
in Oklahoma City as the No. 2 overall 
seed and the favorite in their Wom-
en’s College World Series bracket to 
advance to the championship round. 
However, familiar foes and a 
National Player of the Year stand in 
their path. 
UF has Georgia, Florida State 
and UCLA in its double-elimination 
bracket. It’s a combined 2-3 this 
season against the Bulldogs and the 
Seminoles and hasn’t taken the field 
opposite of the Bruins since March 
2017. 
Here’s a look under the micro-
scope at the other teams in the 
Gators’ WCWS bracket.
Georgia Bulldogs (48-11)
UGA enters its program’s fourth 
World Series as the seventh seed of 
eight teams but brings plenty of mo-mentum with it.
The Bulldogs advanced to the 
WCWS on a game-winning home run 
by senior Cortni Emanuel against the 
then-No. 7 Tennessee Volunteers. 
Emanuel is batting .437 this season 
in the leadoff spot and has totaled 90 
hits so far. 
She is joined in the Georgia line-
up by six others hitting above .330 
on the season, including junior Alys-
sa DiCarlo. 
The shortstop has posted a .392 
average with 20 home runs and is 
slugging .835, over 50 percentage 
points higher than Florida’s closest 
batter, National Player of the Year 
finalist Amanda Lorenz (.784). 
Yet, UGA will be without its best 
pitcher, senior Brittany Gray, who 
suffered a season-ending bicep in-
jury on April 9. Sophomore Mary 
Wilson Avant and junior Kylie Bass 
have filled in nicely in Gray’s ab-
sence. The Georgia starting pitchers 
are 12-3 and 15-3 in 2018, respec-tively. 
The Bulldogs and the Gators will 
meet in the first matchup of the 
bracket, which begins at 7 tonight 
at the ASA Softball Hall of Fame Sta-
dium and will be on ESPN2. 
Florida State Seminoles (52-
11)
FSU was nearly eliminated from 
play in its Super Regional against 
LSU. After losing the first game of 
double-elimination play, the Semi-
noles outlasted the Tigers in an 
11-inning thriller to send the series to 
a third game. Florida State ace Kylee 
Hanson took the circle in the rub-
ber match and shut down the LSU 
offense, allowing only five hits and 
one run over the full seven innings to 
send FSU to its 10th WCWS. 
Hanson and fellow starting pitch-
er Meghan King have been putting up 
clutch performances all campaign. 
Hanson is 28-5 with an impressive 
1.05 ERA and a 5.7 strikeout-to-walk ratio. King is not far behind, posting 
a 22-6 record to go along with a 1.37 
ERA. The two pitchers have com-
bined for 24 complete games. 
Offensively, Florida State is pow-
ered by its third baseman, senior Jes-
sie Warren. She has 19 home runs 
beside her team-leading .386 aver-
age. Warren also knocked in eight 
of FSU’s 16 runs in the Super series 
against LSU.
The Seminoles are 2-2 against 
WCWS competition this season, 
splitting games with top-two seeds 
Oregon and Florida.  
UCLA Bruins (56-5)
The Bruins enter Oklahoma City 
searching for their 13th WCWS title. 
Not only do they boast the most 
championships of any program, but 
they also have the USA Softball Col-
legiate Player of the Year in Rachel 
Garcia. 
Garcia is an effective pitcher and batter. In the circle, she leads UCLA 
with a 27-3 record and a 1.02 ERA. 
She’s efficient as well, compiling 
273 strikeouts compared to only 39 
walks in 2018. 
Garcia also holds the fifth-best 
batting average on the team (.356) 
and the second most home runs (11).
The Bruins’ offense contains four 
batters above the .380 clip, including 
redshirt freshman Aaliyah Jordan, 
who’s hitting .434 and a squad-best 
12 home runs and 66 RBIs, and 
sophomore Bubba Nickles, who’s 
batting .405 in the bottom-half of the 
lineup. 
UCLA is 6-3 this season against 
WCWS competition. Its only series 
loss came against first-overall seed 
Oregon. The Bruins will face off with 
FSU at 9:30 tonight at ASA Softball 
Hall of Fame Stadium, and the game 
will be televised on ESPN2. 
 @mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.org.Breaking down UF’s potential WCWS bracket opponents  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer 
 
The 2018 Florida Gators women’s tennis 
team had a reputation to uphold. As defend-
ing champions, it came into the season look-
ing to win a second-consecutive NCAA title 
and, if not, showcase that UF is still a domi-
nant force in the world of collegiate wom-
en’s tennis. Half of the team’s six-person 
squad were freshmen.
The Gators did not repeat. In fact, they 
couldn’t even make it out of the second 
round, and while they did put together a 
successful regular season, the issues facing 
them could possibly put future attempts at 
greatness in jeopardy.
Despite the young lineup, UF showed 
promise early in the season when it won 
both its matches in a 4-0 sweep at the ITA 
Kickoff to start the season. 
Things quickly turned for the worse, however. Florida State defeated the Gators 
4-1, their second loss in 58 matches all-time 
with the Seminoles.
From then on, play was wildly inconsis-
tent. UF would defeat high-ranked oppo-
nents such as Stanford, Ole Miss, and South 
Carolina while dropping matches to other 
top teams such as Texas, Georgia and, most 
importantly, Vanderbilt. 
The Commodores defeated Florida all 
three times the two squads met, two of those 
for the regular-season SEC Championship 
and the final in the SEC Tournament.
The inexperience from half of the roster 
showed during big moments. After it was de-
feated in both the regular-season SEC Cham-
pionship and the SEC Tournament final, it 
was knocked out of the NCAA Tournament 
by FSU. The Seminoles claimed two straight 
over the Gators after just one victory in 57 
previous matches.
To start the year, there was also the mys-tery behind senior Brooke Austin, a 2015-
2016 First-Team All-SEC selection. After 
playing the fall season, she did not practice 
or travel with the team due to an undis-
closed injury, according to team officials. 
She stayed on the roster, but for all intents 
and purposes was missing in action, not 
even being mentioned during UF Senior Day 
on April 14.
Freshman McCartney Kessler left her high 
school a semester early to fill Austin’s void.
The Gators’ best play was fueled by the 
performances of senior Anna Danilina, who 
finished the season with a 30-11 record in 
singles play. Danilina, along with seniors 
Peggy Porter, Austin and Josie Kuhlman, will 
be leaving the squad. Only three players, all 
freshmen, will return to the team next year, 
leaving UF with only underclassmen. What’s 
more, Florida was extremely short-staffed 
with only six players last year - a situation 
that Danilina referred to as “tricky”  - and with only Marlee Zein of Sugar Land, Tex-
as, as the program’s lone verbal recruit, the 
team could find itself both understaffed and 
inexperienced next season.
However, there is certainly hope for the 
future. Coach Roland Thornqvist put togeth-
er a 19-9 record with a shorthanded squad. 
With such a young team next year, Thorn-
qvist will have lots of time to build it back up 
without any players leaving until 2020. On 
top of that, Florida’s freshmen performed ad-
mirably in 2017-18, with Victoria Emma and 
McCartney Kessler both earning SEC Fresh-
man of the Week honors during the season.
After a quick exit from the NCAA tour-
nament and a young roster for 2019, the 
Florida Gators have no grand success to fol-
low up on for their rebuild, and it may be 
precisely what they need.
 
 @riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgWith end of season, Florida women’s tennis starts anew  1  Oregon
  8  Arizona St.
  4  Oklahoma
  5  WashingtonMay 31 - 12:00 PM ET
June  1 - 7:00 PM ET
June  2 - 7:00 PM ET
June  2 - 12:00 PM ET June  2 - 2:30 PM ETJune  3 - 1:00 PM ET June  3 - 3:30 PM ET
June  3 - 7:00 PM ET June  3 - 7:00 PM ET
May 31 - 2:30 PM ET  2  Florida
  7  Georgia
  3  UCLA
  6  Florida StateMay 31 - 7:00 PM ET
June 1 - 9:30 PM ET
June 2 - 9:30 PM ETMay 31 - 9:30 PM ET
Women’s College World Series double-elimination bracket: The finals are scheduled to begin June 4 at 7 p.m.16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 31, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Florida found itself in the lead on 
the last day of the invitational thanks to 
freshman Chris Nido’s strong six-birdie 
outing in the final round.
Postseason
Florida began postseason play at the 
SEC Championships in late April.
The Gators entered as the No. 7-ranked 
team but had a rough go of it on the first 
day, finishing in 12th place. Ultimately, 
they were able to climb the leaderboard 
into a tie for second at the end of stroke 
play, compiling a score of 843 (3 over).
First-Team All-SEC golfer Zhang ac-complished a milestone that had eluded 
him during his college career by winning 
his first individual championship.
Zhang and Ole Miss golfer Cecil We-
gener competed on three playoff holes be-
fore Zhang outlasted his competitor.
“I was definitely nervous,” Zhang said 
in a release. “It is still shocking to me that 
I have my first collegiate win at the SEC 
Championship.”
UF would go on to lose to Alabama 
1-3-1 in the semifinals of match play.
In NCAA Regional play, the Gators 
hoped to erase a bitter memory that 
haunted them after last year’s horrendous 
showing in the regional round.
This year’s regional couldn’t have end-
ed any differently.The Gators blew through their compe-
tition with ease on their way to a record-
breaking performance.
Florida finished the regional at 42 un-
der, breaking the prior program record by 
five strokes.
In its third tournament win of the sea-
son, UF was led by Zhang once more.
He went on to win his second-consec-
utive individual title after shooting a 13 
under 203.
Freshman Chris Nido finished right be-
hind him in second place after a round of 
63 (9 under), a new UF-freshman record.
The Gators looked to ride the momen-
tum of a flawless regional round to com-
pete for what would potentially be Dea-
con’s first national championship as UF’s head coach.
Unfortunately for the players, they left 
their consistent play back in Florida, fin-
ishing 18th out of 30 teams and missing 
the top-15 cut on the third day of stroke 
play by four strokes.
In his last event as a collegiate golfer, 
senior Alejandro Tosti finished tied for 
43rd individually, just missing the cut to 
advance as an individual by one stroke.
After improving on last year’s post-
season woes, the UF men’s golf team and  
Deacon will look to the future in hopes of 
getting a little closer to that elusive na-
tional title.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.orgMEN'S GOLF,  from pg. 14Gators avoid back-to-back regional exits behind Zhang's playThat being said, there are plenty of 
people who wanted to see Boston defeat 
the Cavs in the Eastern Conference Finals. 
Many of these haters only root against 
James and Cleveland because they’re 
“bored” with the same teams meeting in 
the Finals every year, not because they’re 
Celtics fans.
I guess they think the Celtics would 
have a better chance to compete with the 
reigning champs than Cleveland. That’s 
delusional. Either squad would have been 
steep underdogs in that series. Knowing 
that, I’d really rather see them play Cleve-
land, a team with the best player in the 
world, over Boston, a team without its 
two best players.
All the pressure to win is on Golden 
State.
This is the Warriors’ biggest weakness 
against Cleveland. LeBron James and the 
Cavs were supposed to lose to Boston in 
the Eastern Conference Finals. Toronto 
was supposed to show them up in the second round, and before that, the Pacers 
were supposed to pull off the first-round 
upset. And they’re sure as hell supposed 
to lose to the Warriors.
On the flipside, the Warriors really 
need this title. And they better not think 
about that one time in 2016 where they 
were supposed to win, but crumbled, los-
ing its 3-1 lead as Cleveland was crowned 
NBA champions for the first time. 
People have been questioning Golden 
State’s legitimacy all year. It only won 58 
regular season games after winning 67, 73 
and 67 the previous three campaigns. 
The Houston Rockets and their roster 
designed specifically to beat the Warriors 
nearly did just that in the Western Confer-
ence Finals. 
With Golden State losing some of its 
dominance this season, its perception as 
the undisputed best team has started to 
shift. Another Finals blunder against the 
inferior Cavs could change that for good.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports writer. Fol-
low him on Twitter @AndrewJHuang and 
contact him at ahuang@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Steve Dykes / Associated Press
LeBron James is advancing to his eighth-straight NBA Finals. He passed Kareem 
Abdul-Jabbar for the most career playoff points in Game 4 of the conference ﬁ  nals. 
