We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Was it really a blowout?
The 48-10 score looks great. But how exactly 
did UF put up that many points against Colorado 
State? The answer isn’t as impressive as you 
might think, pg. 14Graduation rally to be held Thursday
After commencement changes, students are planning to speak 
out by Tigert Hall, pg. 4
Coﬀ  ee? Coﬀ  ee. 
Pascal’s Coffeehouse is open again after renovations, pg. 8MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 11
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
COLORADO STATE 10 FLORIDA 48
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Running back Jordan Scarlett rushed for a 30-yard touchdown against Colorado State on Saturday. He ﬁ  nished the 
game with 56 yards on six attempts and caught two passes for 14 yards. 
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Perhaps it was the focus on mental toughness in practice. 
Perhaps it was all the banter about the lack of physicality 
following an embarrassing loss to Kentucky.
We can speculate as to what it was, but something forced 
the Gators’ offensive line to execute on Saturday afternoon.
The ease with which Florida rolled past the Colorado 
State Rams in a 48-10 win on Saturday showed the Gators 
took several necessary steps forward for their second win 
of the year. 
And that execution woke up a Florida run game that has 
been relatively dormant to start the season.
Florida outgained the Rams 222-70 on the ground on 
Saturday thanks to the open space that the offensive line 
provided for its runners.
Jordan Scarlett danced into the endzone for a 30-yard 
touchdown run in the second quarter. The O-line picked up 
its blocks and carried out the play exactly the way it was 
intended. It was something Gators fans haven’t seen a lot 
of from the team.
“There’s always going to be times when guys are going 
to have to improvise because everything isn’t going to be 
how it was drawn up, so we just got to be ready for ev-
erything,” Scarlett said. “But it felt great that the play was 
executed perfectly.”
However, the Gators’ 7.7 yards per carry on Saturday 
was against a Rams team that ranks 119th in the nation in 
run defense. As Florida learned in its Week-2 loss, a team 
like Kentucky or LSU or even Tennessee won’t roll over so 
easily.
Maybe the Gators’ ground attack did ﬁ  nally make its ar-Observations from UF’s win over Colorado State
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
THE REPORT WAS RELEASED IN 
JANUARY.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Ellie Chisholm grew up in Jacksonville, 
the only white people she met were the ones 
who picked up laundry from her grandmother’s 
house. 
Chisholm wasn’t surprised when a 98-page UF 
report conﬁ  rmed what people of color knew to 
be true, she said. Alachua County has a racial 
inequity problem. 
The median income for white households in 
the county is $51,700, according to the report 
from UF’s Bureau of Economic and Business Re-
search that was released in January. 
For Hispanic households, the median income 
is $32,100, the report said. For black households, it’s $26,600, almost 50 percent less than white 
households.
More than 44 percent of Alachua County’s 
black children live in poverty, the report said. 
Fifty percent of high school dropouts are black.
Roughly 80 locals looked for solutions to 
bridge Alachua County’s racial gaps Saturday 
morning at the second of two meetings in the 
Thelma A. Boltin Center, at 516 NE Second Ave., 
at a talk about racial and economic disparities 
hosted by the city of Gainesville Ofﬁ  ce of Equal 
Opportunity.  
The report compiled data on issues includ-
ing law enforcement, unemployment and child 
poverty among Alachua County’s white, black, 
Hispanic and Asian populations.
The ﬁ  rst meeting, Aug. 11, focused on health-
care, housing, law enforcement and transporta-Gainesville leaders and activists look 
for solutions after inequality report
THEY ARE ALSO EXPANDING 
DINING OPTIONS.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students now have more op-
tions for food, water and toilet pa-
per. 
Student Government announced 
three new initiatives on their Face-
book page Thursday and Friday, 
including offering more halal and 
kosher options, hydration at football 
games and two-ply toilet paper at se-
lect bathrooms.
Twenty new Kosher and Halal 
options
Yogurt, hummus and bread are some of the new options available 
for kosher- and halal- conscious stu-
dents. 
To accommodate the students 
who need these food options, SG 
added new items to all POD Mar-
kets and Little Hall Express, Student 
Body President Ian Green said. 
Green said he worked with UF’s 
food service provider, Aramark, to 
get the new options into stores. 
“It’s things that you can grab on-
the-go and then heat up later,” Green 
said. “You’re getting more of a meal 
out of it rather than a quick snack.” 
Jesselea Roberts keeps kosher 
with her three roommates and often 
had to leave campus for meals, the Student Government 
changes toilet paper
SEE INEQUITY,  PAGE  3SEE SG ROUNDUP,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 11
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Marlowe Starling, Madison ForbisApril Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, HIGH  92° LOW  74°
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan ChamberlinMeryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hands-On STEAM Volunteering 
at the Cade Museum
Looking for an exciting vol-
unteer opportunity? Do you 
love science, art, technology 
and being creative? Join the 
Cade Museum for Creativity & 
Invention as a volunteer. We 
are always in need of passion-
ate volunteers to help in our 
labs and throughout the mu-
seum. Active volunteers enjoy 
benefits like free admission. 
Apply online at cademuseum.
org/volunteer, and contact 
Michele Kuhn, a volunteer co-
ordinator, at volunteercrd@
cademuseum.org with any 
questions. Our next volunteer 
orientation will be held 6 p.m. 
on Wednesday.
Enjoy an evening of live story-
telling at the Florida Museum
In partnership with Guts 
& Glory GNV, the Florida 
Museum of Natural History 
will offer “Fieldwork Fails: A 
Live Storytelling Event” from 
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Thursday, 
featuring original, true, first-
person storytelling. Food and 
beverages will be available for 
purchase. Attendees must be 
18 years or older. The program 
fee is $15 or $10 for students. 
For more information or to reg-
ister, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/storytelling, or call 
352-273-2062.
DreamQuilt
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting artists 
and performers for SoulMakes: 
Immersive Art Show from 
noon to 4 p.m. on Saturday 
at Cypress and Grove Brewing 
Company. All types of artists 
are welcome, and present-
ing artists are encouraged to 
do demos, talk with guests 
and work on projects right 
there in the available space. 
Participants and guests inter-
act in an open, creative en-
vironment blending different 
forms of art with a unique ex-
perience for visitors, including 
a collaborative canvas and col-
lage workshops. Current stu-
dents may apply to show their 
work for free. To sell art or 
craft items, a booth fee of $15 
applies. Learn more by email-
ing booking@dreamquilt.org 
or texting 352-872-2620.Entries accepted for ButterflyFest 
Facebook photo challenge 
until Sept. 24
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting the sixth an-
nual ButterflyFest Facebook 
Photo Challenge! Submit your 
best picture incorporating eco-
system services by Sept. 24 
for your chance to win prizes. 
This free challenge is open to 
all ages. The museum will post 
the top 10 images from entries 
received on its Facebook page 
Oct. 1, and the public will se-
lect the overall winner online 
via the most likes. The winning 
photograph will be recognized 
during ButterflyFest on Oct. 
13. For more information, in-
cluding entry guidelines, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
butterflyfest-photo-deadline.
Student Government Elections
Vote for your Student 
Government senator from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Sept. 
25 and 26. Polling locations 
include Broward Recreation 
Room, Hough Hall Room 120, 
Health Science Center C2-41C, 
Jennings Hall Library, Levin 
College of Law BGH Student 
Commons, second floor of 
the Marston Computer Lab, 
Murphree Conference Room, 
Norman Education Library, 
Reitz SG Print Lab, Springs 
Area Office Room C202 and 
Southwest Recreation Social 
Lounge. All write-in candidates 
must notify the Supervisor of 
Elections of their candidacy 
prior to 8:30 p.m. Sept.  26. 
Questions? Visit sg.ufl.edu/
elections, or email Supervisor 
of Elections Henry Fair at elec-
tions@sg.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum to open new 
‘Permian Monsters’ exhibit 
Sept. 29
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History will open 
its newest featured exhibit, 
“Permian Monsters: Life be-
fore the Dinosaurs” Sept. 29 
with free activities from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. As an early 
celebration of National Fossil 
Day, visitors may speak with 
members of Florida fossil 
clubs  about what fossils can 
be found around the state and 
meet paleontologists and ge-
ologists who work to uncover 
the secrets of these ancient re-
mains. Visitors can learn about the world’s greatest extinction 
event with life-size models, 
real fossils, interactive dig pits 
and computer games. While 
the exhibit has an entrance 
fee, museum members and UF 
students with a valid Gator 1 
card receive free admission. 
For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
permian-monsters or call 352-
846-2000.
Bicycle Ride to support Breast 
Cancer Research
The Pink Pumpkin Pedal-Off is 
a charity bicycle ride to raise 
funds to support local research 
on treatment-resistant breast 
cancers. Ride a bicycle to sup-
port Breast Cancer Research 
on Oct. 28. Ride distances 
are 10, 22, 40 or 62.5 miles. 
All rides begin and end at the 
Cancer and Genetics Research 
Complex at UF. Register at 
pinkpumpkinpedaloff.org. 
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of 
journalists advancing diversity 
in the workplace. With mem-
bership, students get access to 
networking opportunities and 
connections with top editors 
in national media organiza-
tions, as well as scholarships 
and mentorships. It is not just 
limited to journalism majors. 
For more information, email 
Alexandria Ng at alexandri-
ang@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Map by Jordan Bourne
A map of the locations students can try out the new two-ply toilet paper. 
THIS ISN’T A COOKIE CUTTER 
CAFE.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
Pies, cakes, donuts, cookies, bundt cakes 
and gelato. If that wasn’t enough, beer, 
wine and coffee. 
 Visitors of Celebration Pointe will soon 
be able to order desserts and paired drinks 
at Decadent, a quick service dessert bar 
that will open in the first week of Novem-
ber, said Allen Steinfeld, the owner of the 
Gainesville location.
The Celebration Pointe location will be 
the sixth Decadent dessert cafe in the coun-
try, Steinfeld said. 
The project, which cost about $200,000, 
is being developed by Level Architecture on 
1,700 square feet of land leased from Cel-
ebration Pointe on a 10-year contract. While 
it has only been under construction for two 
months, when complete, the building will 
offer about 40 seats indoors and outdoors 
and be staffed by 10 workers, Steinfeld said.
Gainesville was chosen as the brand’s 
new location due to its diversity, college life and extensive foot traffic, Steinfeld said.
“I wanted a place that had a need for 
something different,” Steinfeld said. “I don’t 
think you’ll find anything like this around.”Decadent is expected to be open seven 
days a week, from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Mon-
day through Wednesday and from noon 
to midnight on weekends, which includes Thursday, Steinfeld said. 
At the cafe, customers will choose a des-
sert and Decadent staff members will sug-
gest a pairing of a select beer, wine or coffee 
that would complement the item. A sweet 
wine, for example, would go well with a 
slice of original cheesecake, he said.
Customers will also be able to submit 
their own dessert recipes to the cafe, Stein-
feld said. If the recipe is well received by 
the chefs, the dessert will then be a fea-
tured menu item for the week, named after 
its creator.
Menu items will range from around $4 to 
$7. Steinfeld called these prices affordable 
for students.
Amelia Minkin, an 18-year-old UF ap-
plied physiology and kinesiology freshman, 
said she’s planning on visiting and is ex-
cited to indulge in the cookie and brownie 
skillets. The concept of Decadent fascinated 
her as well. 
“You can go to a coffee shop and only get 
a drink, but nothing paired,” Minkin said. 
“The whole idea is really neat.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGainesville is getting a sweet new dessert bar
Courtesy to The Alligator
A chocolate chip cookie skillet topped with gelato, chocolate and caramel sauce.
tion, according to the Facebook 
event. 
The data brought Chisholm 
back to memories of using “col-
ored” water fountains and grow-
ing up in poverty, she said. 
“We could keep developing 
programs and coming up with all 
kinds of ideas, but until we ad-
dress the root causes, I don’t think 
much is going to change,” she said.
After an hour of presentations, 
the audience split into breakout 
sessions at four tables to tackle 
issues, including education, eco-
nomic well-being, employment 
and family structure.
Volunteers wrote down ideas 
on large notepads and presented 
what they discussed.
Chisholm went to both meet-
ings to collaborate with residents. 
She sat at the economic well-being table because the topic struck a 
chord in her heart, she said. 
“I lived it,” she said. “I experi-
enced it.”
The residents at the table 
agreed the east side of Gainesville 
needs more sustainable jobs to 
support families, not those that 
pay minimum wage.
Barbara Herbert, 64, who re-
tired from teaching in public 
schools 10 years ago, taught on 
both the east and west sides of Gainesville and noticed stark dif-
ferences in student health, meals 
and education. 
All parents want the best for 
their children, but income inequal-
ity can hinder success, she said. 
“All children — all people — 
deserve opportunities in life,” Her-
bert said. “We don’t have a level 
playing field.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgINEQUITY,  from pg. 1The discussions focused on eight main areas of inequity
Healthcare
Housing
Law enforcement
Transportation
Education
Economic well-being
Employment
Family structure
20-year-old UF business administration 
sophomore said.
“Even though we don’t have restau-
rants that we can eat at, we now have 
more options to let us stay on campus 
longer,” Roberts said. 
Two hundred and fifty gallons of 
free water
There’s another opportunity for stu-
dents to quench their thirst at football 
games. 
Starting at Saturday’s game against 
Colorado State, SG placed two new wa-
ter coolers outside of Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. One of the 125-gallon coolers 
was by the Gator Walk and the other 
was between gates 15 and 16, Green 
said.
SG paid $4,000 for the coolers, 
Green said. The University Athletic As-
sociation will maintain them.
Alessandra Chiavacci, an 18-year-
old UF music theory freshman, used 
the cooler before Saturday’s game, and 
said it was a great feature.  
“People need to not be passin’ out,” Chiavacci said. “It’s hot out here, we 
need to make sure everyone’s stayin’ 
hydrated.” 
One more ply
Two-ply toilet paper is now avail-
able in bathrooms at Library West, 
Marston Science Library and the Reitz 
Union, Green said. 
The Reitz Union, which runs inde-
pendent of the libraries, adjusted its 
budget to pay for the upgrade. Green 
said he didn’t know how much it cost 
to upgrade it there.
It costs close to $68,000 to upgrade 
the toilet paper at Library West and 
Marston Science Library, Green said. 
Facility services will pick up the tab in 
the libraries. 
Ellis Howard, an 18-year-old UF 
electrical engineering freshman, said 
he’s excited about the change.
“It allows us to study in comfort 
knowing that if we have to use the 
bathroom, we have two-ply there to 
give us that extra support when we 
need it,” Howard said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSG ROUNDUP,  from pg. 1Free water also offeredEight points discussed in 
two meetings:4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
ONE PERSON WAS INJURED 
SUNDAY.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police are searching for 
suspects from two armed robbery inci-
dents that occurred a day apart. 
UF Public Safety sent students alerts 
via email about a robbery and an attempt-ed robbery that occurred Saturday and 
Sunday morning, respectively.
An armed man stole an unknown 
amount of cash at about 6 a.m. Saturday 
from Domino’s Pizza, at 3581 SW Archer 
Road, according to the email. 
The man was last seen running south 
on Southwest 34th Street near Kohl’s, the 
email said. GPD could not ﬁ  nd the sus-
pect, described as a 6-foot-tall man of av-
erage build.
The next morning, an attempted armed robbery took place outside of 117 NW 
15th St., which is behind Chipotle on West 
University Avenue. Two men demanded 
money from a man and threatened him 
with a silver handgun around 7:50 a.m., 
the email said. 
The victim and two men fought over 
control of the handgun, and a shot was 
ﬁ  red. No one was hit by the bullet, but the 
victim was injured from ﬁ  ghting the two 
men, the email said.
Police don’t believe that anything was stolen, police spokesperson Ben Tobias 
wrote in an email. 
After the shot was ﬁ  red, the two men 
ran to either a BMW or Mercedes-Benz 
and were last seen driving north on North-
west 14th Street, the email said. The two 
suspects are both men, one was tall and 
heavyset and the other was short and 
heavyset, police said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD looking for suspects from two robberies over weekend
Man stopped for driving with 
headphones, arrested for cocaineWoman accused of stealing UF 
student’s phone, using Venmo
THE SHOOTING HAPPENED 
AT WHISPERWOOD 
APARTMENTS.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Gainesville man accused of break-
ing into a home was fatally shot Sunday 
morning, Gainesville Police said.
Gregory Miller, 52, was killed by a 
homeowner in a condominium at Whis-
perwood Apartments at 4100 NW 28th 
Lane, GPD spokesperson Ben Tobias 
wrote in an email. 
The homeowner, an elderly man 
whose name was not released, called 
police at about 7 a.m. after he shot 
Miller. Police found Miller lying inside 
the living room with gunshot wounds, 
Tobias said. 
Ofﬁ  cers tried to revive Miller until 
paramedics arrived, Tobias said. Miller was pronounced dead at the scene.
The shooting is still under investi-
gation and charges are not expected to 
be ﬁ  led against the homeowner, Tobias 
said. 
Since 2011, law enforcement has 
been called to the block 12 times for 
incidents ranging from minor theft to 
an “animal problem,” according to the 
city of Gainesville crime database. From 
2011 to 2014, there have been four 
death investigations in the area.
Sunday’s incident wasn’t the only 
fatal Gainesville apartment shooting 
this year. In February,  Cedric Tremaine 
Plummer killed two people and kid-
napped another in Summer Place Villas, 
according to court records. The state at-
torney’s ofﬁ  ce pursued the death pen-
alty in Alachua County for the ﬁ  rst time 
in three years.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgHomeowner fatally shoots 
intruder, police saidHE HID IN HIS GIRLFRIEND’S 
APARTMENT, DEPUTIES SAID.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
One Gainesville man’s hide-and-seek 
game with deputies ended in several drug 
possession charges on Saturday. 
Clarence Harris III, 43, of Gainesville, is 
accused of dropping a backpack carrying 
cocaine and marijuana while running away 
from deputies Friday afternoon, according 
to an arrest report.
An Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputy noticed Harris riding a scooter near 
Northwest 75th Street wearing headphones 
covering his ears, the report said. 
After the deputy turned on the patrol 
car’s lights and siren, Harris pulled into 
a parking spot on the 7000 block of West 
University Avenue, threw down the scooter 
and ran away, the report said.    
Harris dropped a backpack containing 
6.6 grams of cocaine, about a half gram of marijuana, a scale and empty baggies, dep-
uties said.
Early Saturday morning, deputies went 
to an apartment complex at the 6800 block 
of West University Avenue looking for Har-
ris. Deputies called for Harris to come out of 
the apartment eight times with no success, 
the report said.
Harris’ girlfriend eventually came out-
side and told deputies Harris was the only 
person inside. She gave deputies permission 
to enter, the report said.
A police dog was sent into the apartment 
and found Harris hiding inside, deputies 
said. 
Harris is charged with one count of driv-
ing with a suspended license, one count 
of resisting without violence, one count of 
possessing cocaine and one count of mari-
juana possession, according to the report. 
He is held in Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $40,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgBy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gators weren’t the only ones 
to lose something during the Florida-
Kentucky football game.
Jasmine Nykiesha Robinson, 22, of 
Archer, Florida, is accused of stealing 
a student’s iPhone during the game 
on Sept. 8 and sending herself money 
through Venmo, according to an arrest 
report.
The student told University Police 
the next day that her phone, credit 
card, driver’s license and Gator 1 Card 
were taken after she left it on her seat 
during the game, the report said.
The student used the “Find My 
iPhone” app and located the phone at 
Southwest 175th Terrace in Archer, 
where Robinson lives, the report said. 
Robinson attempted to send herself 
$1,624 from the student’s Venmo, a 
money-sharing app, the student told 
The Alligator.The student’s credit card was also 
charged at the stadium for $12.50, po-
lice said. 
An ofﬁ  cer arranged to meet Robin-
son at the Archer post ofﬁ  ce Thursday 
night. 
At ﬁ  rst, Robinson denied she stole 
the iPhone, and when police asked 
why the phone appeared at her house 
on “Find My iPhone,” Robinson re-
sponded “someone else must have tak-
en it there,” the report said. 
When police told Robinson she was 
under arrest, she admitted to taking the 
phone. Police returned the phone to the 
student Thursday night, the report said. 
Robinson declined to comment.
Robinson is charged with grand 
theft and illegally using a credit card. 
She was released from the Alachua 
County Jail on a $2,000 bond Friday 
night. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
AN ORGANIZER IS MEETING WITH 
FUCHS SHORTL Y AFTER.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students are taking graduation complaints to 
UF President Kent Fuchs’ doorstep. 
Anthony Rojas, a 22-year-old UF ﬁ  rst-year po-
litical science master’s student, is hosting a “Save 
UF Graduation Rally” at 10:45 a.m. Thursday in 
front of Tigert Hall, which will lead up to a private 
meeting with Fuchs. Students will speak about 
how commencement changes have affected them. 
“We hope to see as many students out there 
as possible to have their voice heard and show 
their displeasure regarding the recent changes to 
UF commencement ceremonies,” Rojas said. 
Changes to commencement include the exclu-
sion of individual name-calling at the O’Connell 
Center during Fall and Spring ceremonies. Instead, 
a single university-wide commencement will be 
held in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
These changes come after the previous Spring 
ceremony when a graduation marshal rushed stu-
dents offstage. Videos from that commencement 
show the marshal putting his hands on minority 
students performing dances from their multicul-
tural sororities and fraternities.UF missed an opportunity to examine race rela-
tions and treatment of minority students after the 
Spring commencement, Rojas said.
Rojas, Director of Commencements Stephanie 
McBride and an unnamed, prominent representa-
tive of the African-American community at UF, 
will all sit down to talk with Fuchs about the com-
mencement changes Thursday, Rojas said. 
After the meeting, Rojas is providing the oppor-
tunity for the media to ask questions on the steps 
of Tigert Hall, which Rojas said he hopes Fuchs 
participates in. 
The ultimate decision to change UF commence-
ment ceremonies was made by Fuchs, Rojas said, 
so he feels Fuchs should make himself available 
to students.
Cy-Anne Small, a 21-year-old UF education 
senior, said she is planning to attend the rally to 
show solidarity. Small graduates in December and 
wants the ceremony to be in the O’Connell Center, 
she said. 
Though she said some of her peers don’t want 
to ﬁ  ght the new plan because UF seems commit-
ted to the decision, she believes it can change. 
“It feels like I’m being punished for what that 
faculty member did, while he got paid administra-
tive leave,” she said. 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgSave graduation rally for ThursdayMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.
THE TOPICS WERE SELECTED 
BY COMMUNITY MEMBERS 
THROUGH A FACEBOOK POLL.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
Candie Nixon wants the commu-
nity to know the faces of homeless-
ness.
Some are domestic abuse survi-
vors. Others are suffering from men-
tal disorders or battling substance 
abuse. Still, all of them share a com-
mon thread, the assistant director of 
Alachua County Community Support 
Services said. 
“They did not choose to be home-
less,” she said. “These are people 
who had a series of events in their 
lives until they gave up. Now, they’re 
trying to ﬁ  nd housing and there are 
obstacles.”
Homelessness was only one of the 
topics City Commissioner Gail John-
son and a crowd discussed Friday, 
during her ﬁ  rst Community Conver-
sation at the LifeSouth Community 
Blood Center. The forum, which she 
hopes to hold at least once a quar-ter, is for community members to talk 
about Gainesville’s issues, she said.
“This is your forum, so this is what 
you want it to be,” Johnson said. 
“The real change is going to happen 
when you hold our feet to the ﬁ  re and 
tell us what needs to change.”
A poll sent out to the community 
and posted on Facebook determined 
which topics were discussed, she 
said. About 50 people showed up to 
talk about affordable housing, home-
lessness, equity and equality.
Pamela Davis, the executive direc-
tor of Gainesville Housing Authority, 
said that affordable housing needs 
to be a priority for the city. She rec-
ommended that Gainesville create a 
separate fund designated for afford-
able housing.
“If we wait for the state, it’ll neve-
happen,” she said. “We as a commu-
nity need to decide it’s an issue.”
During the panel on homeless-
ness, Jon DeCarmine, the opera-
tions director of GRACE Marketplace, 
spoke about the Housing First model, 
which aims to get homeless people 
shelter immediately without having 
strict requirements, such as sobriety.“The more barriers you put up to 
people who need help, it’s kind of 
like going to the doctor, and she says, 
‘Great, come see me when you’re not 
sick,’” he said.
Nixon said the community also 
shouldn’t forget about the people 
who are struggling with different de-
grees of homelessness, like families 
living in hotels and people couchsurf-
ing. 
As the night went on, the conver-
sation moved onto equity and equal-
ity topics. Johnson hopes to hold 
a conference to discuss the issues 
brought up in a racial inequity report 
that was released in January.   
Natalie Hagler, a 46-year-old 
graduate student at the UF College of 
Education who attended the event, 
witnessed the racial divide ﬁ  rsthand 
when she was a student in the gifted 
program at Howard Bishop Middle 
School. She noticed that children out-
side of the program didn’t receive a 
lot of the services she did. 
“Racial disparity is the biggest 
threat to democracy,” Hagler said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGail Johnson talks equity, inequality at ﬁ  rst Community Conversation
Jessica Curbelo / Alligator Staff
City Commissioner Gail Johnson addresses the crowd at 
her ﬁ  rst Community Conversation Friday at the LifeSouth 
Community Blood Center. 
THE DRUG IS NOT YET 
APPROVED FOR HUMAN USE.
By Katie Boykin
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers created a new 
drug that could be the key to treat-
ing pancreatic cancer. 
Hendrik Luesch, a UF medici-
nal chemistry afﬁ  liate professor, 
discovered the natural compound used in the drug 
almost 20 years 
ago in the wa-
ters of Guam. 
Now, Luesch’s 
lab has created 
a synthetic ver-
sion of this nat-
ural compound, 
which has 
shown to be effective in treating 
pancreatic cancer.Unlike other pancreatic cancer 
treatments, it directly attacks the 
cancer cells in the pancreas with-
out guidance from doctors and 
makes the tumor’s environment 
more hostile so it’s difﬁ  cult for the 
cancer to grow, he said. 
“Essentially, it acts in an un-
precedented way,” he said.
Jose Trevino, a UF assistant 
professor of surgery and fellow re-
searcher, said the new drug also differs in the way it affects pa-
tients. 
The current methods of treat-
ment for pancreatic cancer, in-
cluding chemotherapy, can be 
toxic for patients. When tested on 
animals, the new compound treats 
the cancer without the toxicity as-
sociated with traditional methods.
While the initial testing of the 
drug focused on ﬁ  ghting pancre-
atic cancer, the researchers are beginning to evaluate its effective-
ness on other forms of cancer, so 
far with positive results, Luesch 
said. 
The next step is getting FDA 
approval for human use, Luesch 
said. The team is hoping the drug 
will pass clinical trials soon. 
“We hope to add [the drug] to 
the arsenal of treatments for pan-
creatic cancer and other cancers,” 
he said. Water compound inspires UF drug for pancreatic cancer  
Luesch
Editorial
ColumnPolitical dirt washes up 
in red tide
College needs a re-orientation toward meaning
We all know the stereotype of the old 
person who lives in the past. As far 
as stereotypes go, though, there is 
truth in this one. Age causes people 
to reﬂ  ect more because there is sim-
ply more to look at in the past than in the fu-
ture when you’re old. Though I am only 21, my 
collegiate old age has impacted me in the same 
way. I’m a senior this year. The conveyor belt is 
implacably moving me and thousands of others 
forward and out the door. Hence, this is why I 
like to reminisce.
The thing I ﬁ  nd myself thinking about the most, along 
with the missed opportunities and mistakes I’ve made, 
is what these years have actually amounted to. In other 
words, what did my time in higher education mean? To 
answer this question, though, you have to answer a deeper, 
more philosophical question, namely: What constitutes a 
meaningful college education? It is this question I wish to 
address today.
American universities have increasingly answered the 
questions above with career readiness, speciﬁ  cally in the 
STEM ﬁ  eld. It is no secret that universities value a chemical 
engineer more than a classical studies major. Universities 
seem most interested today in preparing students for the job 
market. Conversely, college students tend to see themselves 
as employees-in-training, here to learn the requisite skills 
and gain the requisite experience for success in a speciﬁ  c 
ﬁ  eld.
This accounts for the infamy of the “What is the Good 
Life” course.  Most of the criticisms I have heard directed 
at that class’s existence center on the premise that it is su-
perﬂ  uous and actually inimical to what most students are 
in college for. Why talk about the nature of existence when 
there is code to be learned, chemistry courses to pass, busi-
ness connections to be made?
In my view, though, a business connection is worthless 
if you don’t know why you’re on this earth. Whether What 
is the Good Life helps us to understand life’s purpose is 
not the point. The point is that it forces us to contemplate our humanity. It makes us think about more 
than getting a good job. It makes us weigh the 
possibility that good jobs might not equal good, 
meaningful lives. Kudos to UF for mandating it.
Some consider these classes and discussions 
to be a waste. I say they are exactly what college 
is for, and why college is useful. If all they can do 
is make you a better employee, then what sepa-
rates them from a trade school? Both are commit-
ted to teaching their students speciﬁ  c job skills, 
such as accounting or mechanics; neither think 
an accountant or mechanic needs to know much about 
Plato or Tolstoy.
I am not advocating for everyone to study humanities. 
That would be hurtful to those who simply are not inter-
ested. Engineering and ﬁ  nance are perfectly legitimate and 
meaningful ﬁ  elds to dedicate one’s life to. We need good 
engineers and good investment bankers.
I am advocating, however, for colleges to care less about 
job preparedness and more about human preparedness. For 
we are not simply economic machines who need to learn 
how to be good employees, we are human beings who need 
to learn what being human means.
What would this type of college look like? I’m not en-
tirely sure. But I venture to guess that this type of college 
would not justify its existence through metrics. It would not 
brag to prospective students about the high percentage of 
graduates who ﬁ  nd jobs, or a graduate’s average starting 
salary. That is not how they would sell themselves because 
that is not how they would see themselves.
Rather, this type of college would tell prospective stu-
dents that they should apply if they want to receive an en-
riching, nuanced and balanced education, heavy on human 
experience, light on job preparedness. This college would 
tell stories, not sell numbers. I imagine this type of college 
would make this pitch: Come here if you want to graduate 
a better human being.
If only I had another four years.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Mondays.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
The destructive algal bloom that continues to ravage Flor-
ida’s coast has shown us that if Florida Gov. Rick Scott 
won’t work to save our environment, we must elect new 
leaders who will. As the university with the closest ties 
to the research, it’s our duty to educate Florida about the 
need for political action to prevent future destruction from algal 
blooms known as red tide.
UF researchers have teamed up with the Florida Board of Ed-
ucation, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
and several Florida cities in a partnership called the Florida Sea 
Grant. Among other things, the partnership has researched the 
red tide in depth. The more we examine the toxic algal blooms 
killing ﬁ  sh and ruining Floridian coastlines, the more we come 
to know the problem is out of control, and Scott’s administration 
could be doing more to stop it.
Red tide blooms are caused by a plant-like organism that natu-
rally lives along Florida’s coast, according to Florida Sea Grant. 
It grows rapidly from time to time in events called ‘blooms,’ and 
these blooms, also known as ‘red tide’ because of the organism’s 
color, have been occurring since before humans settled Florida’s 
coast. The organisms also produce toxins that kill marine life. But 
although they are natural, red tides can be worsened by nutrients 
and fertilizers humans introduce into the environment from ag-
riculture.
Heavy rainfall, like that from Hurricane Irma or other tropical 
storms, can wash nutrients out of the soil and into lakes, estu-
aries and rivers that all ﬂ  ow into the waters off Florida’s west 
coast. Our agricultural industry, especially sugar production, is 
partly responsible for adding excess nutrients into the watershed. 
Combined with a bump of just a few degrees in temperature, it’s 
a recipe for a toxic bloom that has killed scores of wildlife.
At least 90 sea turtles washed up and were stranded on the 
beach. A whale shark, a manatee and hundreds of seabirds from 
pelicans to cormorants have sickened or died. Pictures of Florida 
bays, harbors and marinas reveal carpets of dead ﬁ  sh ﬂ  oating at 
the surface, packed so tightly the water isn’t visible. After dying 
en masse, the decomposing marine life provides additional nutri-
ents that further fuel the red tide. As long as the months are hot, 
the tide will likely continue.
According to the Florida Sea Grant, the algal blooms will be-
come more intense and more toxic with rising temperatures. So 
why should we take action against red tide? For starters, Florida’s 
tourism industry relies on beaches — 18.6 million tourists visit 
them each year. According to William B. Stronge, a professor of 
economics at Florida Atlantic University, 450,000 jobs were cre-
ated by Florida beaches in 2012 alone. 
But right when we should be doing more than ever to pre-
vent red tides and algal blooms, Scott has done little to address 
the looming crisis. He has rolled back regulations on septic tank 
inspections, even though leaky septic tanks are thought to be a 
contributing factor in keeping algae blooms going, like “pouring 
gasoline on a ﬁ  re,” according to the Tampa Bay Times. Scott has 
been inactive in regulating sugar cane farming and its nutrient-
rich runoff into Lake Okeechobee, which concerns environmen-
talists most. The sugar cane industry is directly contributing to 
the destruction of Florida’s environment, but it should come as 
no surprise that Scott isn’t stopping the pollution — he’s taken 
over $600,000 in campaign donations from sugar interests.
Florida residents should recognize that climate change and al-
gal blooms are threats to their health and to their pocketbooks. 
Our economy depends on having clean, attractive beaches. The 
next Florida governor should step up and act on red tide and 
climate change as Scott steps down. Florida cannot afford further 
delay on either issue.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORScott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7 The eastern United States is 
currently at the height of the 
Atlantic hurricane season, 
and as I write this, Hurri-
cane Florence is battering 
the Carolinas with heavy rain. Flor-
ence, plus Hurricane Irma, which 
hit Florida a little over a year ago, 
are a stark reminder that a pow-
erful storm can strike at any time 
and that everyone, from the county 
disaster official to the average Joe 
or Jane, must be prepared when it 
happens.
First, let’s look at what Alachua 
County has planned in the event of 
a hurricane. According to the web-
site for the Alachua County Depart-
ment of Emergency Management, 
the county offers various services 
to aid in disaster preparation, in-
cluding updates on various haz-
ards and weather conditions in the 
area, instructions on how to make 
a hurricane kit and hurricane plan 
and training and certification for Community Emergency Response 
Teams, which are organized groups 
of citizens who provide “vital ser-
vices” in the event of a disaster 
where the regular fire and rescue 
teams cannot respond in time.
Here at UF, the university has 
put out a brochure with both in-
structions on how to prepare and 
information on what services 
would be available to students in 
the event of a disaster, including 
a hurricane. According to the bro-
chure, shelters will be available 
for students around campus, but 
those who decide to stay in their 
residence hall are advised to fol-
low all instructions from housing 
staff. Food service will be open for 
residence halls with food service 
units, and those without will have 
food provided if the disaster lasts 
more than 24 hours. Although, the 
brochure also says that residents 
“should have their own non-per-
ishable food on hand for the first 72 hours of the emergency.” The 
university also advises both on-
campus and off-campus students to 
have renters insurance.
However, while the university 
and local government can provide 
valuable services, hurricane prepa-
ration is ultimately in your hands, 
and the best way to prep for a 
hurricane is to do your own work 
ahead of time. 
So, what can you do to prepare 
for a hurricane, whether you’re on- 
or off-campus? A good first step 
would be to put together a hur-
ricane kit. A hurricane kit, more generally known as a disaster kit or 
an emergency kit, is a selection of 
items a person or group of people 
will need in the event of a disaster 
if services like electricity and wa-
ter are down. According to Ready.
gov, a disaster kit should include 
items such as: plenty of water (ide-
ally a gallon per person per day), 
at least a three-day supply of non-
perishable food, a battery-powered 
radio (for weather alerts from local 
media), flashlights, a first-aid kit, 
extra batteries and a manual can 
opener.
In addition to having supplies, 
you also need a plan. Before the 
disaster strikes, you should have 
a plan for events such as: what to 
do if you need to evacuate, how to 
get in touch with friends and fam-
ily, how to reach out for help in an 
emergency and what to do if you 
lose utilities such as water or elec-
tricity. Once the hurricane starts, 
you should hunker down wherever you are, as it would be unsafe to 
go outside. If the winds pick up, 
you should stay away from doors 
and windows, and hide in an inte-
rior room such as a closet. Lastly, 
look out for one another. Before the 
disaster, help friends, family and 
neighbors put together a hurricane 
supply kit if they do not already 
have one. During the hurricane, 
keep in contact with loved ones 
through whatever means are avail-
able to ensure they remain safe. 
After the disaster, check in with 
neighbors to make sure they’re al-
right. And above all else, listen to 
local media and local officials, who 
can advise you of weather condi-
tions and how to best keep safe. 
Do all this, and you’ll be in the 
best position possible to weather 
another Florence or Irma.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history 
junior. His column appears on 
Mondays.Florence was a warning: Gators must prepare for hurricanes by making kitsColumn
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
James Baldwin once stated, “I love 
America more than any other country 
in this world, and, exactly for this rea-
son, I insist on the right to criticize her 
perpetually.” His frustration with the 
United States was borne out of the dream it 
sold being inconsistent with the reality that 
he experienced in New York.
His experience wasn’t unique to the top-
ic or his time period. Frustration over the 
dream of a utopian society not correlating 
with a grim reality doesn’t escape earnest 
reflection in 2018, nor UF. In my experi-
ence in particular, I saw UF as an unful-
filled promise to people of color from the 
moment I arrived.
The promise of UF, complete with pro-
fessional photographs of students and 
carefully manicured statements highlight-
ing the importance of diversity, sells the 
idea of a campus dedicated to equity in 
practice. In a few respects, they lived up 
to that promise. In 2017, students of color 
protested to keep two historically signifi-
cant cultural houses, and the university eventually acquiesced to their 
demands.
However, in my time at UF 
I have seen more instances of 
students of color facing intimi-
dation and, sometimes, putting  
their physical safety in danger to 
justify their humanity. In 2017, 
Richard Spencer’s speaking en-
gagement on campus put stu-
dents of color in a difficult posi-
tion of choosing between protesting or not. 
In 2017, students of color also experienced 
intimidation with cultural decorations be-
ing torn down from dorm rooms, nooses 
left in classrooms and signs at Walker Hall 
being pulled from the ground.
As much as I would like to attribute this 
to isolated incidents, UF has also been com-
plicit in this systemically. As of 2017, 14 
percent of buildings on campus are named 
after individuals who in some way upheld 
discrimination or bigotry. The orange and 
blue loses a little luster when I hear, “if 
you’re not a Gator, then you’re Gator bait,” being aware of both the racial-
ized history of the phrase and the 
fact that George Zimmerman last 
week threatened Beyonce and 
Jay-Z with the same imagery. 
The number of black students at-
tending UF has dwindled for over 
a decade with the university not 
offering the results it promised 
to improve those numbers since 
my freshman year. By the time 
events transpired at graduation, it felt like 
another extension of the visceral treatment 
students of color, myself included, have 
experienced since my arrival in 2015.
However, I still believe in UF’s capacity 
to change. It is only a matter of who ought 
to lead it.
Efforts that have resulted in systemic 
change have almost always come from stu-
dents and concerned citizens in Gainesville, 
who care about how the university’s deci-
sions affect them. During the protests to 
distinguish the Institute of Black Culture 
and Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, called La Casita, last year, women of color 
were integral in ensuring that future Gators 
will be able to enjoy the comforts of their 
culture when they’re in Gainesville. While 
it’s toxic to put the burden exclusively on 
women of color, we ought to do more to 
empower forward thinking women of col-
or into positions of leadership. I believe 
in a UF that does everything in its power 
to exceed the standard of reaching out to 
high school students in impoverished com-
munities in rural towns and large cities. 
Finally, as impressive it is to be ranked 
eighth best public college and university in 
the country, I hope UF can one day be as 
vocal about its efforts to elevate graduate 
and professional scholars of color to new 
heights too.
We need UF to change. Now, it’s more 
urgent than ever. 
Oliver Telusma is a UF alumnus and 
was rushed off the stage at a graduation 
ceremony in May, after which the university 
was criticized for its treatment of graduating 
people of color.UF can change its troubled racial legacy, but it needs the right leadership
Oliver T elusma
opinions@alligator.org
Guest columnBy Lily Strickland
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Pascal’s Coffeehouse is serving the 
same coffee but with a new look. 
Pascal’s, a coffee shop and Christian 
study center at 112 NW 16th St., hosted 
a grand reopening event Friday night to 
showcase the repairs that were made from donations and a grant program, said Laura 
Lynch, a 59-year-old Gainesville resident 
and director of development of Christian 
studies at Pascal’s.
Pascal’s was undergoing renovations  
for the past 15 months, but in May the 
shop fully closed for the summer to repair 
the bathrooms, replace rotten wood, paint 
the building, replace carpeting, add a bar table for students to study on the balcony 
and make a larger parking lot, Lynch said. 
The coffeehouse reopened Aug. 20.
Before renovations, the bathrooms had 
an odor and the source of the smell wasn’t 
found until the wall was taken down, but 
Lynch couldn’t remember what the origin 
was. The landscape was also redone, and 
space for bicycles and scooters were added. 
Private donors raised $105,000, and 
a grant from the Community Redevelop-
ment Agency’s façade program brought 
in another $20,000, which helped pay for 
the renovations on the 27-year-old house, 
Lynch said. In total, repairs cost $125,000.
“I’m very excited and glad to accom-
plish the work we raised to be able to have 
the extra money,” Lynch said.
No more than $800 was spent putting 
the reopening event together. About 50 
people came. Guests were provided free 
food, and they sampled brands of drip cof-
fee from Bold Bean and Ceremony coffee 
roasters. 
Standing up in front of the event crowd, 
Richard Horner, the executive director of 
the Christian study house, made a speech 
thanking everyone for their hard work in 
the renovation process.
“I’m thrilled and delighted to have 
them done and pleased with the outcome,” 
Horner said.
Kate Smith, a 34-year-old Gainesville 
resident and board member of the UF Col-
lege of Pharmacy’s study center, said she 
comes to the coffeehouse several times a 
week to do her work. She said the renova-tions will bring in more people. 
“It’s amazing,” Smith said. “It makes it 
more welcoming and it increases the num-
ber of people to study here.”8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
Pascal’s Coffeehouse reopens following summer repairs
SHE SOLD OUT OF HER FIRST 
500 BAGS IN TWO MONTHS. 
By Sydney Schultheis
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After UF implemented a clear-bag 
policy for football games in 2016, some 
students were left scrambling for a new 
purse. 
Clarity Handbags, a clear-bag 
company created by Julia Renner, a 
21-year-old UF public relations senior, 
provides affordable bags that work in 
venues with a clear-bag policy. 
UF implemented the clear-bag pol-
icy to enhance gameday safety, limit-
ing fans to bags that show the contents 
inside.
Renner’s company launched this 
August and sold out of the first 500 
bags in just two months, she said.
The idea for the business came 
when she was driving seven and a half 
hours from Charlotte, North Carolina, 
back to Gainesville her junior year, 
Renner said.
She and her father came up with the 
company after talking about her game-
day attire. Renner wanted a bag she 
and her mother could bring to games. 
After looking at options for clear bags, 
there weren’t many to pick from, she 
said.
“I wasn’t going to carry a Ziploc 
bag,” she said.  
It took over a year of product proto-types and refinements to create a bag 
she felt met her requirements, Renner 
said.  
The bags are made from vegan 
leather and lightweight plastic. The 
business offers four styles, with each 
bag costing up to $50. As a student, she 
she wanted her bags to be accessible 
to other students, which is why her 
handbags are cheaper than others on 
the market, she said. Her products are 
available on her website, Amazon and 
in boutiques across the country.  
Renner has ordered 3,000 more 
bags, and she said she is excited to ex-
pand her brand. She said her bags have 
been bought from the Florida Keys to 
Los Angeles, but she would still like to 
grow the business online. 
As her profits grow, she wants to 
continue developing new products.
After graduation, Renner said she 
wants to keep up the business. She’s 
also looking to partner with a nonprofit 
organization to provide clean water to 
those in need.
“Clear bags, clear water,” she said. 
When Clarity Handbags customer 
Caroline Buchanan received her bag, 
she found a  handwritten note inside 
the package. The 21-year-old UF soil 
and water science senior said she’s 
never received a thank-you note from a 
company she’s purchased from online. 
“It made me feel like I wasn’t just 
any old client, but I was Caroline,” Bu-
chanan said. UF student launches business to help with clear bag policy
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Roxy and Stella style bags from Clarity Handbags are on display on the online shop for 
clear bags. The site offers four styles for around $50 a bag. 
The Midtown coffeehouse was closed during summer.
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Gabriela Rivera, a 21-year-old UF health 
education and behavior senior, makes a 
beverage at Pascal’s Coffeehouse’s open 
house Friday evening. Rivera works as a 
barista. 
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
On Friday evening, Pascal’s Coffeehouse at the Christian Study Center celebrates 
the completion of their renovation projects with an open house.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
REITZ UNION
Barber Shop
Walkins Welcome
352-379-4686INTERVIEW
Quality haircuts 
for men and 
women for 
Career
Showcase!
Monday - Friday 
8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday
9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
By The Associated Press
Florence’s strong winds may 
be dropping, but heavy rain and 
ﬂ  oodwaters are bringing wet mis-
ery to much of North and South 
Carolina. 
Here are snapshots of people 
struggling to cope in the after-
math of the powerful storm that 
made landfall as a hurricane on 
Friday:
Hoping it doesn’t get worse
Police helped Debbie Coving-
ton’s elderly parents leave their 
home in a low-lying neighborhood 
of Cheraw, South Carolina, early Sunday and shelter at Covington’s 
house on higher ground next door.
Several backyards were ﬂ  ooded 
by afternoon, swollen with rain-
water that was running downhill. 
Soaking wet and without shoes, 
Covington was nervously watch-
ing the muddy water rushing 
nearby, wondering if they needed 
to seek shelter elsewhere. She had 
just run an errand and had some 
trouble returning home.
“I was driving the truck and 
everywhere I went, I couldn’t get 
here,” she said. “One way some 
trees were down. Another was 
blocked by water.”
Still, Covington said she 
planned to wait a little longer be-fore evacuating.
Around the corner from Cov-
ington’s house, a vacant lot was 
underwater with two heavy back-
hoes used in construction and a 
truck submerged to the tops of 
their tracks and tires. A portable 
toilet bobbed in the water, leaning 
at an angle.
Samantha Graham’s house sat 
on higher ground nearby, but still 
had water seep into her basement 
and soak the carpet.
“It’s a lot of water,” Graham 
said as she walked her dog and 
looked at the ﬂ  ooded yards at the 
bottom of the hill. “Hopefully it 
doesn’t cross the road more than 
it already has.”‘Soon I’ll be going back 
across the street’
Three straight days of rain— 
sometimes pausing, but some-
times pouring — brought ﬂ  ood-
waters Sunday to the doorsteps 
of Mildred Smith and her niece, 
Jovanaka Smith, who live across 
the street from each other in the 
town of Bennettsville in northeast-
ern South Carolina.
First, Mildred Smith ﬂ  ed her 
own home, wading across Talon 
Drive through the muddy water 
as she leaned on her grandson for 
support.
“I almost drowned myself leav-
ing my house,” she said. “It was 
more than knee deep.”Then the water kept rising and 
reached the top step to Jovanaka 
Smith’s front porch. Finally a 
knock came at the door. 
A crew of ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters wearing 
rubber waders were going door-
to-door, encouraging residents to 
leave. Finally, both women agreed 
to go.
They didn’t evacuate far. The 
women were left on dry ground at 
relative’s home two doors down. 
From there, they watched and 
waited for the water to recede.
“The rain has ceased,” said Mil-
dred Smith. “So I ﬁ  gure soon I’ll 
be going back across the street.”North, South Carolina cope with 
wet misery left by Florence
AP Photo / Gerry Broome
U.S. Coast Guard Petty Ofﬁ  cer Second Class Don T antanella paddles the boat through shallow water 
as he patrols a neighborhood inundated with water in Lumberton, N.C., Sunday, Sept. 16, 2018, in the 
aftermath of Hurricane Florence.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Meet the author
A New York Times bestselling author Lauren Groff signs a book at the 
Alachua County Library District Headquarters Branch Sunday. She 
spoke about her new book “Florida” and answered audience questions.  
THE LAND IS IN HAWTHORNE NEAR THE 
PUTNAM COUNTY LINE.
By Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Alachua County residents will have about 600 
new acres to explore thanks to a $1 million pur-
chase made by the county.
The Alachua County Commission bought a 
597-acre piece of land in Hawthorne, near the 
Putnam County line, on Tuesday for about $1.3 
million, said Sandra Vardaman, the land conser-
vation program supervisor for Alachua County’s 
Parks and Conservation Lands Program. The pur-
pose of the land will primarily be for preservation 
but will also include amenities that the public can 
enjoy.
“It has some of the nicest grounds covered, 
and it’s just a really pretty site,” Vardaman said. 
“I think it’s going to make an area that will be 
a wonderful amenity for people to just wander 
around in the woods.” 
About 67 percent of the project is being funded 
by the Wild Spaces & Public Places tax, an ini-tiative passed by voters in 2008 that protects and 
improves recreational spaces. The Alachua Con-
servation Trust, a nonprofit that works to protect 
natural and historic resources, will cover the re-
maining 33 percent, said the county’s spokesper-
son Mark Sexton.
The preserve includes about 175 acres of wet-
lands and will likely have a nature trail and bench-
es for people to enjoy the land. It will take about 
two years to complete the project, Vardaman said.
Now that the contract is signed, the county will 
go to the site and look for any signs of contami-
nation, she said. The county will then establish 
a management plan for the property and for the 
County Commission to approve. This will include 
the types of amenities that this property will fea-
ture, Vardaman said. 
Jozee Coyne, a 19-year-old UF psychology 
junior, thinks the project is important because it 
helps conserve areas for future generations to en-
joy. 
“There is constantly construction going on ev-
erywhere, and I feel like we’re losing land to de-
velopment, so having people that care about the 
land enough to want to preserve it is amazing,” 
Coyne said.Alachua County spends $1.3 million on new nature preserve
Courtesy to The Alligator
The 597-acre piece of land in Hawthorne  includes about 175 acres of wetlands.
The preservation encompasses almost 600 acres and is located on the Putnam 
County line near Lochloosa Lake, said Sandra Vardaman, the land conservation 
program supervisor for the county’s Parks and Conservation Lands Program.
THE MONEY WILL BE 
USED FOR PROJECTS 
THAT MAY FOCUS ON 
THE EYES.
By Gabrielle Seminara
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF professor and his two-
person team of researchers won 
a $1.2 million award for restor-
ing vision.
William Hauswirth, a UF 
professor of ophthalmology, 
won a share of the 2018 António 
Champalimaud Vision Award 
on Tuesday for his research on Leber congenital amaurosis, a 
disease that causes blindness 
due to the absence of a gene in 
the patient’s retinas. Hauswirth 
developed a treatment that sur-
gically implants a virus into the 
eyes to deliver the missing gene.
“It was an evolution,” he 
said. “It went full circle from a 
fun idea, and 30 years later here 
we are.”
The award was split with 
two other teams of researchers 
at the University of Pennsylva-
nia and the University College 
London. Hauswirth’s share val-
ued at about $165,000. 
John Flannery, a professor 
of optometry and vision sci-ence at the University of Califor-
nia Berkeley, knew Hauswirth 
from his time as a professor at 
UF. He said Hauswirth was one 
of the first people to start the 
concept of using a virus, and 
Hauswirth’s innovative thinking 
helped him excel.
“He made a combination of 
several methods that had never 
been used in that combination 
before,” he said. “It takes a tre-
mendous amount of creativity.”
Flannery said Hauswirth’s 
insightful thinking will help him 
get to the next step in helping 
people.
“Hauswirth has been on a 
long and difficult path,” he said. Eyes on the prize: UF professor wins 
share of $1.2 million research award
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
With only a fine, white line be-
tween Jacob Wall and a 4,000-pound 
car, biking through Gainesville is 
his worst nightmare. 
The UF statistics and theatre ju-
nior said too many drivers aren’t 
aware of basic laws protecting peo-
ple like him, who bike every day.
“There should be better paths to 
separate bikers from drivers who 
should know how to drive and 
don’t,” the 20-year-old said.
Seeing a need to improve safety, 
the Florida Department of Transpor-
tation, the city of Gainesville and 
UF are working together on the Bi-
cycle-Pedestrian Safety Project with 
a $1 million grant, according to a 
Federal Highway Administration 
press release. 
The federal transportation agen-
cy announced Sept. 7 that it award-
ed the department a joint state and 
local grant to test pedestrian and 
bicyclist safety alert systems, ac-
cording to a city of Gainesville press 
release. Combined with other state 
funding, the total amount of the 
project is about $2.4 million.
The city will provide access to its 
traffic signals and related systems to 
UF, which will use the information 
for traffic alerts, city spokesperson 
Chip Skinner wrote in an email.
Real-time traffic information will 
be sent to people by text or in a 
phone app, he said. Alerts will let 
pedestrians and bicyclists know 
when signals are changing, when 
lanes or roads are closed or how long they have to get through a 
green light, which they can check 
while stopped at red lights, he said.
“This will help safety by alerting 
people when things are changing 
and make them more aware of their 
surroundings,” Skinner said.
UF is in charge of possibly creat-
ing apps and other systems for test-
ing, Skinner said.
These same messages will also 
be communicated with vehicles 
through technology installed along 
specific roads like University Av-
enue and 13th Street, he said. The 
areas were chosen based on pedes-
trian counts and frequency of use 
by UF students.
The transportation department 
will manage the money and safety 
project itself, Skinner said.
A 2017 study by the department 
of transportation found 28 hot spots 
for bicycle-involved crashes in the 
state. Four of those locations were 
in Gainesville, including near the 
intersections of West University Av-
enue and Northwest 13th Street and 
Southwest 34th Avenue and Archer 
Road. Each site averaged six crash-
es between 2011 and 2014.
For Wall, the alert system isn’t 
something he would use, although 
he said it could be useful for peo-
ple new to Gainesville who are still 
learning the best bike routes.
“It’s a good idea, but I’d rather 
they focus on lane and road infra-
structure,” Wall said. “I’d also like 
more safety education for drivers 
and bikers.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMillion-dollar grant to 
promote cyclist and 
pedestrian safety
The grant was announced Sept. 7.
THE FIELD AND FISH 
GLOBAL MARKETING 
MANAGER WILL 
SPEAK ABOUT SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students can learn what 
it’s like trying to run an ethi-
cal company when Patagonia 
comes for a visit. 
Chris Gaggia, the global mar-
keting manager for field and 
fish from Patagonia will speak 
to students at 6 p.m. Tuesday in 
Pugh Hall, said Shelby Taylor, 
the communications director 
for the Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service and Leadership.
Patagonia is a California-
based brand that sells sustain-
able clothing, according to its 
website. The event, “Corporate 
Conscience: Bold Stands from the Patagonia Brand,” would 
get audience members to en-
gage in a talk about social re-
sponsibility in businesses, Tay-
lor said. 
“Companies are seeing more 
avenues for making change 
using the brand that they’ve 
built,” Taylor said. “Patagonia 
is, I think, one of the first to 
have ever done that.” 
The program will cost $515 
to host, Taylor said. Gaggia is 
not being paid to appear.
The Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service, UF Elizabeth B. 
& William F. Business Ethics 
Center, UF College of Journal-
ism and Communications and 
UF Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences will help put 
on the event, Taylor said.
The program will be a way 
for students to have a conver-
sation with Gaggia, said the 
moderator Cynthia Barnett, an 
environmental fellow at the 
Bob Graham Center for Public Service and Leadership and an 
environmental journalist at the 
UF College of Journalism and 
Communications.
The company has always 
tried to improve the environ-
ment while remaining popular 
and profitable, Barnett said. In 
the past, Patagonia has donated 
all Black Friday profits to envi-
ronmental causes.
“The company lives this,” 
Barnett said. 
Brian Trupo, a 20-year-old 
UF business administration ju-
nior, likes the Patagonia brand 
because he’s a vegan with a 
passion for the environment. 
“I really want to work for 
a company that either cares 
about the environment or cares 
about sustainability,” Trupo 
said.  “Whether it’s a real estate 
company or just a general busi -
ness.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgPatagonia is coming to campus10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
Bankruptcy Public Auction
Thurs, Sept 27, 2018 at 10:00 A.M.
Kevin Bynum Farms, LLC. and
Black Rhino Hurricane Products, LLC.
Location: 3411 Industrial 31 Street Fort 
Pierce, FL 34946
2009 Chevrolet Silverado 2500HD LT1 
Extended Cab 4WD, 2013 Chevrolet 
Silverado 3500HD LTZ Crew Cab 4WD, 
(2) 2011 TIMP Grain Trailers and 2007 
Trailer World Gooseneck Trailer, 2005 GMC 
Savana G2500 Extended Cargo Van, 2006 
GMC Savana G2500 Extended Cargo Van 
3D
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: 09/26 by appt. only and day of sale 
9-10A.M. 10%-13% BP.
Bankruptcy Case No.
18-18080-EPK &  No. 18-19918-EPK
To register: $100 refundable cash depost 
and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS
info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin     9-17-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $1260/mo.   352-359-1508    
9-24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Make extra money at home per week
completing online/phone surveys at
collegeopportunity.click.      9-18-18-3-14
NEED EXTRA CASH?
Get PAID to play with apps online!
Sign up now! 
GETONLINEJOBSFORSTUDENTS.COM    
9-21-18-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
Licensed Massage Therapist
Luis Roldan • Hablo español 
939-630-6024 • Lic#MA89848      9-17-2--15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBig Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
Swim Lesson Instructors
Need transportation
Weekdays 3-6pm with option of 2x/week
Weekends Sat 9-12 Sun 2-5
Call Jill at (352) 335-0518     9-17-18-5-14
How to make an
Extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student
Go to: www.studentopportunity.services     
9-19-18-5-14
Need Student for yard work, cleaning,
errands, etc.
Part time. $10+ per hour. 
See www.Gator2018.com for more info.    
9-24-5-14
Hiring PT staff to work with girls ages 5-14 
in an after school setting. Must be available 
M-F. Apply online at www.girlsplace.net. 
Contact lynn@girlsplace.net with questions    
9-19-18-3-14.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Learn how to make
an extra $400/wk
testing apps as a student at:
www.collegeopportunity.club         9-17-2-14
Learn how to make extra money at home per 
week completing online and phone surveys. 
Go to collegeopportunity.click.     9-24-18-5-
14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Learn how to make an
extra $400/wk doing surveys
as a student at: www.paidcollegesurveys.com   
9-19-18-3-20
Get Paid To Test Apps! College students
can make up to $400/wk
testing apps at: www.testappsforcash.com     
9-19-18-3-20GET PAID FAST!  $750- 3,000/Wk
To Start Is Possible.
 No Previous Exp Req'd.
http://leads-4-consistent-cash-flow.faith    
9-21-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.55 GALLON TOP FIN FISH AQUARIUM
BRAND NEW. in box never opened.
$130. YOU CAN'T BEAT IT!
Call 352-327-5978                  9-21-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.  
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Potato chips 
source
5 __ bean
9 Rick’s 
“Casablanca” 
love
13 “Aww!”
14 Spring bloom
15 Les __-Unis
16 Neighbor of 
Yemen
17 Large-scale 
departure
19 Island setting for 
Melville’s “Omoo”
21 Court order to 
testify
22 Mindless 
memorization
24 Farm sound
25 Blue expanse, on 
a clear day
26 Cost of a car, 
in most family 
budgets
31 1860s White 
House nickname
32 Thought
33 Traffic light color
37 Gardener’s bane
39 Quick taste
41 Produced
42 American flag 
feature
45 At hand
48 Buddhist school
49 Edmund Hillary’s 
conquest
52 Fermented quaff
55 Slugger’s stat
56 Get up
57 Removing from 
the text
60 1971 New York 
prison riot site
64 Region including 
Egypt, Israel, etc.
66 “__ be fine”: “No 
prob”
67 Sad verse
68 Spell-checker 
discovery
69 Not virtual
70 __ a one
71 The “Y” in “YTD”
72 TV award, and 
a homophonic 
hint to the four 
longest puzzle 
answers
DOWN
1 Loch Ness local
2 Adidas rival3 Home of the 
NBA’s Jazz
4 Robert of “Dirty 
Grandpa”
5 Restricted in 
number, as an 
edition
6 Nest egg 
acronym
7 Hit’s opposite
8 Take for granted
9 “Was __ hard on 
you?”
10 Stows cargo
11 Caused some 
nose-pinching
12 Evaluate, as 
metal
15 Bring to light
18 Traditional black 
piano key wood
20 Singer Amos
23 Old flames
26 Big mouths
27 Help rob the 
bank
28 Taunt from the 
bleachers
29 Emulate Degas
30 “Slippery” tree
34 Do nothing
35 Wordsworth 
works
36 Attended, with “to”38 Reduce in 
brightness
40 __ pressure
43 Rotund
44 Jazzman Blake
46 Pilot
47 Take ten
50 Distance 
between bases, 
in feet
51 Go to bed
52 Commercial 
writers53 Bizet opera 
priestess
54 Tribal leader
58 Avant-garde
59 Motown’s Marvin
61 Receipt detail
62 Linguine 
seafood sauce 
morsel
63 One on your 
side
65 Daycation 
destination
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/17/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 17, 2018
ACROSS
1 Ones going 
downhill fast
11 Opulent
15 They always get 
underfoot
16 Biblical 
preposition
17 Pop music 
feature
18 Wolverine, for 
one
19 “Westworld” 
airer
20 ’70s-’80s self-
improvement 
course
21 Notre Dame’s 
river
22 Legendary 
chanteuse
26 Max.
28 Equivalents of 
pairs of FGs
29 Somewhat out 
of place, as hair
31 __ dish
33 Type of 
medicine
35 1969 retail 
clothing debut
38 Second film with 
Craig as Bond
40 “Counting 
Sheep” 
purchases
41 Monthly reading
42 Pampers, with 
“on”
44 More stingy
45 “Avatar” actress 
Saldana
47 Attorney’s 
letters
48 Origin abbr.
49 Pointed
51 Small city?
54 Base figs.
57 Scheme
58 Left in the dust
62 Hang
63 Shoe with a 
rope sole
64 Contributes
65 Film with cues
DOWN
1 Jedi foes
2 Round handle
3 Hot4 Fly quickly
5 Midge __, 
co-organizer 
of the Live Aid 
benefit concert
6 AOL alternative
7 German’s 
neighbor
8 “__ Comin’”: 
Laura Nyro 
song
9 Gather one’s 
strength
10 Retired flier
11 Opulent
12 Brass
13 Orchestra pit aid
14 Brushes up on
21 Westernmost 
of the Virgin 
Islands
23 Digs
24 Per prior mention
25 Some 
ultrasound 
images
27 “Well, as I  
recall ... ”
29 Grimace
30 Skeptical, as a 
view32 Cave
33 Command ctrs.
34 Small part
36 Maker of Swift 
laptops
37 Each
39 Sibs, uncs, etc.
43 Suppress
45 1997 Grammy 
Lifetime 
Achievement 
awardee46 Quieted, in a 
way
50 Closes
52 Fit for harvesting
53 Boring
55 21-Down, e.g.
56 End of a mob?
58 Full collection
59 Loyola domain
60 OR principals
61 Peril in a Poe 
title
By Michael Ashley
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/15/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/15/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 15, 2018
1.  Party ____
1.  Reddish brown5.  “Runaway ____”
2.  Copy6.  Not right 
3.  North ____7.  Act properly 
4.  Movie dogLAAINM
UUANRBDBIER
SMSAI
TTAIEMI
AACEIMRHEVBAE
ISEASLANSWERS: 1A-Animal  5A-Bride  6A-Amiss  7A-Behave
1D-Auburn  2D-Imitate  3D-America  4D-Lassie  B-Siberia9-17-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This makes up about 
77 percent of Russia. 
BONUS1. Baltimore’s Zach Britton set an 
American League record in 2017 by 
converting 60 consecutive save oppor -
tunities. Who had held the A.L. mark?
2. Which two teammates on the 1986 
New York Mets’ World Series winner 
also were members on the New York 
Yankees team that went on to win the 
1996 World Series?
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that the University of Hawaii 
football team won a bowl game?
4. In the franchise history of the Los 
Angeles Clippers, name the two players 
who surpassed 10,000 career points.
5. Who was the only NHL player 
in the 2017-18 season who played at 
least 1,500 regular-season minutes at 
age 40 or older?
6. Name the Olympic athlete who 
has won the most career medals in 
women’s speedskating.
7. Sei Young Kim set an LPGA tour -
nament record in 2018 by shooting a 
31-under 257. Who had she been tied 
with at the old record of 27-under par 
for a tournament?
Answers
1. Tom Gordon of the Boston Red Sox 
(1998-99), with 54 consecutive saves.
2. Dwight Gooden and Darryl 
Strawberry.
3. It was 2006.
4. Randy Smith (12,735 points) and 
Blake Griffin (10,863).
5. Boston’s Zdeno Chara.
6. Ireen Wust of the Netherlands, 
with 11 (2006-2018).
7. Annika Sorenstam.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 17, 2018King Features Weekly Service18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF lacrosse player 
Shayna Pirreca earned a spot 
on the U.S. Women’s National 
T eam for its Oct. 6 game 
against James Madison.Men’s tennis players receive preseason honors
Four UF men’s tennis players made appearances on the preseason ITA rank-
ings. Junior Johannes Ingildsen (11) and sophomores Oliver Crawford 
(20), Duarte Vale (57) and Andy Andrade (100) all earned top-100 national 
singles rankings. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
rival in Game 3 of the season. But coach Dan Mullen will 
need his team to show that same effort in its ﬁ  rst road test of 
the season at Tennessee to prove that Saturday’s production 
wasn’t simply an anomaly.
“I wanna see more consistency of performance you know 
from us,” Mullen said after the win. “I see positives. I’ve seen 
us take positive steps every single week so far this season. 
And I like that out of our guys.”
Colorado State repeatedly made mistakes as the game 
dragged on. Those masked some areas that Florida has to ad-
dress before heading to Knoxville.
The Gators got some decent blocking from their tight ends, 
primarily out of Kemore Gamble on the Scarlett touchdown 
run. But outside of that, tight ends were not much of a factor 
and haven’t been for most of the season.
UF tight ends also have at least one drop in all three games 
the Gators have played this season. 
Redshirt senior R.J. Raymond dropped one in consecutive 
games against Charleston Southern and Kentucky. Redshirt 
senior C’yontai Lewis couldn’t make a back shoulder catch 
that would have put six on the board after an early forced 
turnover by the defense. It was excellent coverage on the play 
by the Rams’ defender, but the ball hit the veteran tight end 
in his hands.
Lack of help from the tight ends didn’t have any bearing 
on the outcome of Saturday’s game, though, especially due to 
the work of the Gators’ special teams. 
But Florida will face a talented Vols defensive line that will 
test the Gators’ physicality in ways that the Rams couldn’t.
“We’re going to go into a pretty hostile environment,” 
Mullen said. “I know this is a rivalry game, and so it’s going 
to be a tough deal and we got to have great mental discipline 
and mental focus.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Florida’s theme heading into Saturday: physicality
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Freshman running back Dameon Pierce scored on a 68-yard touchdown run on his third carry of the game. Florida 
ﬁ  nished with 222 yards rushing on 29 attempts. 
Jake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Sure, a win is a win.
But how the Florida Gators 
got there during Saturday’s 
48-10 win over Colorado State 
wasn’t pretty. It was riddled 
with mistakes galore. It wasn’t 
perfect by any means of the 
word, and there’s a reason for 
that.
Before I dive into this col-
umn, let me get one thing 
straight. This is not a bashing-Feleipe-
Franks piece like my colleague Chris 
O’Brien wrote. It’s not a Mullen-is-over-
rated piece either. It’s an honest outlook 
of a game in which the Gators should have 
won by a lot more than they did. 
I never thought I’d write something like 
this after UF won by 38 points, but here 
we are anyway.This game showed that 
Florida needs to change some-
thing about its offense, and 
fast.
Just take a look at the ﬁ  rst 
quarter. The most telling stat 
was that Franks had more in-
terceptions (one) than com-
pletions (he went 0-for-6). Or 
how about the fact that Franks 
had more rushing yards (20) 
and runs (5) than every UF running back 
combined? Florida wasn’t utilizing its full 
offense, which resulted in a quick three-
and-out on the opening drive. 
If it wasn’t for the special teams, the 
Gators might not have had any points in 
the ﬁ  rst quarter.
A fumble recovery on a bobbled Colo-One thing from UF’s win over CSU: 
Something needs to change oﬀ  ensivelyVOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The No. 11 Florida volleyball team re-
turned home after a four-match road trip 
to Arizona and Tallahassee to play three 
matches in the Honda of Gainesville Gator 
Invitational. 
The Gators (9-3) swept the tourna-
ment, beating Jacksonville and FIU in a 
doubleheader on Friday and defeating 
Army on Saturday. 
Here are some things we learned from 
the successful weekend that extended the 
Gators’ winning streak to ﬁ  ve matches:
Florida’s front line is dominant
The season has been up and down, but 
the defense in UF’s front row remains au-
thoritative in the ﬁ  rst part of the season.That front row totaled 32 blocks and 
suppressed opponents all weekend. 
Senior middle blocker Taelor Kellum 
led her team in blocks in all three match-
es. Her 18 total blocks, along with her 20 
kills on only 30 swings, made her one of 
the stars of the weekend.
“As indicated by when we don’t block 
well, the opponents hit for high percent-
ages,” coach Mary Wise said after Satur-
day’s match. “It has to be something we 
have to continue to work on.”
The Gators will be a tough team to 
beat if the front-row defense remains this 
consistent and continues to improve of-
fensively.
That offensive improvement will rely 
on junior middle blocker Rachael Kramer, 
who has begun to get more involved since What we learned after the 
Gainesville Gator Invitational
Jake 
Dreilinger
 @DreilingerJake
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16WOMEN’S GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
UF’s women’s golf team wrapped up its 
weekend at the Mary Fossum Invitational in 
East Lansing, Michigan, with a third-place 
finish. 
Florida entered the day in a tie for sec-
ond with Georgia but fell to third on Sunday, 
three strokes behind second-place Michigan 
State and five strokes behind first-place Vir-
ginia.
The Gators did, however, place four golf-
ers within the top 25. 
Junior Sierra Brooks (+1) continued her 
ascent up the individual leaderboard after a 
slow start to her tournament on Friday. She 
moved up 11 spots with a 71 and finished in 
a tie for 11th. 
The junior was upstaged by teammates 
Marta Perez and Clara Manzalini this week-
end. 
Perez (E) finished in a tie for sixth place 
after being consistent throughout the entire 
tournament. She scored a 73 on Sunday, her 
worst score of the tournament, but her posi-
tion on the leaderboard did not change. 
One of the golfers that Perez was tied 
with for sixth place was freshman Manzalini. 
Manzalini (E) was a big mover on the lead-
erboard for the Gators on Sunday, rising 10 places with her 71 on the day. 
Sophomore Addie Baggarly started the 
tournament by hitting most any shot she 
wanted. She led with a 4-under but cooled off 
in her next two rounds. Her round on Sun-
day included a double bogey, a bogey and a 
birdie to end 3-over, which placed her in a 
tie for 17th. 
Lauren Waidner’s tournament was seem-
ingly over as soon as it began when she card-
ed an 8-over with her first round. Waidner 
(+9) still salvaged her tournament over the 
next two days with a 72 and a 73. She fin-
ished in a tie for 33rd — the lowest on the 
team — but her 13-place improvement on 
Sunday was the team’s biggest jump.
This weekend should be a boost for Flori-
da as it prepares for the Windy City Classic in 
Evanston, Illinois, from Oct. 1-2. The Gators 
are looking to build off a successful start to 
the year that has included a team win, an 
individual win by Brooks, and another finish 
in the top three.
Freshman Jenny Kim competed as an in-
dividual this weekend and finished in a tie 
for 55th place. She scored an 80 in her first 
round, like Waidner, but her two 75s on her 
last two rounds kept her tournament from 
becoming a total disaster. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell1@alligator.orgGators finish third at Mary Fossum Invitational
Chris O’Brien / Alligator Staff
Junior Marta Perez finished in a tie for sixth overall by posting an even par. 
SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer 
The net behind Vanderbilt goal-
keeper Taiana Tolleson gently 
swished. The interlacing nylon in 
front of Florida’s offense hadn’t so 
much as shivered in its previous 677 minutes and 14 seconds. 
The crowd at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium that was anything but 
gentle as the Gators’ scoreless 
streak of six games came to an end
The Commodores knocked off 
the Gators 2-1 at home despite the relief-inducing goal from midfield-
er Lais Araujo. It was Vanderbilt’s 
first victory over UF since 1997. 
Although UF’s scoreless streak has 
come to an end, the team’s four-
game losing streak continues. The 
team will look to end that streak when they face off against Ken-
tucky in Lexington this Thursday.
“Nobody’s happy,” coach 
Becky Burleigh said. “Everybody 
is pretty frustrated, disappointed, 
angry.”
The first half looked promising 
for the Gators. In the 10th minute, 
UF’s Deanne Rose had a break-
away and faced Vanderbilt’s first-
half goalie Lauren Demarchi one-
on-one with a wide open window. 
The team’s leading scorer from last 
year couldn’t get it in the net, how-
ever, and Demarchi blocked what 
would be Florida’s best chance in 
the first half.
Vanderbilt answered big in 
the 13th minute. After three con-
secutive shots from the Gators, the 
Commodores’ Kaylann Boyd took 
a shot from 30 yards out. It hit the 
near post and bounced in, putting 
Vanderbilt up 1-0 and giving Boyd 
her fifth goal on the season.
Florida had another chance 
when midfielder Mayra Pelayo 
took a shot in the box in the 17th 
minute, but the shot came from a 
tough angle at the side of the goal 
and the ball bounced harmlessly 
off a defender. UF led 7-2 in shots 
at the end of the first half but was 
still left scoreless and down a goal 
to the Commodores.
The second half saw the Gators 
continue their offensive attack. UF 
came close to ending its scoreless 
streak early when Araujo took a 
free kick from just outside the box in the 47th minute, but her curl-
ing shot ricocheted loudly off the 
crossbar. Florida would take a few 
more shots — midfielder Sarah 
Troccoli took two and Rose sailed 
one far above the goal — but the 
moment the Gators had been chas-
ing occured in the 78th minute 
when Araujo found the back of 
the net, squaring the score at one 
apiece. 
Vanderbilt, however, wasn’t in-
clined to let them celebrate.
Midfielder Paola Ellis knocked 
in a shot from the UF 6-yard box 
following a Vanderbilt corner kick. 
Gators fans aggressively insisted 
that Ellis had been offside. The refs 
disagreed. The goal put Vanderbilt 
ahead 2-1 in the 88th minute and 
the Commodores hung on until the 
game ended. UF lost the match de-
spite leading the shot count 12-6.
After the loss, Burleigh insisted 
that while the team is frustrated, 
it isn’t going to dwell on the nega-
tives.
“We have more season left,” 
she said. “We have to get past this 
and be productive.”
Defender Georgia Eaton-Collins 
echoed her statement and asserted 
that the team is still confident de-
spite the heartbreaker.
“Moving forward, we have a 
few goals in us,” she said. “Next 
game, we’re going to win.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgUF’s scoreless streak ends, but the losing streak is alive and well
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Midfielder Lais Araujo knocked home the Gators’ first goal in six games in the second half against 
Vanderbilt. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
her slow start to the season.
Kramer saw a resurgence in Arizona last 
weekend after she started the season hit-
ting a dreadful .093 hitting percentage. The 
6-foot-8 middle blocker continued to play 
well at the Gator Invitational, hitting 16 kills on an efficient .593 hitting percentage. 
Expect the duo of Kramer and Kellum, 
as well as rotational players like middle 
blocker Darrielle King and right-side hitter 
Haley Warner, to be key as the team enters 
SEC play on Friday against Ole Miss. 
Paige Hammons is to be feared
Sophomore outside hitter Paige Ham-mons, much like Kramer, did not begin the 
season lighting up the stat sheet after she 
hit just a .064 hitting percentage through 
the first five matches. 
But the Louisville, Kentucky, native 
slowly improved with every match and im-
pressed in the Gator Invitational. 
Hammons hit 25 kills on a .463 hitting 
percentage and dug 20 balls with eight blocks over the weekend. 
Hammons still has not crossed 10 kills 
on the season but continues to show a 
well-balanced playstyle that can benefit 
her team as it enters conference play.
Depth will be pivotal entering con-
ference play
Wise raved about the team’s depth at 
the beginning of the season and empha-
sized how much it would come into play 
as the season went along. 
Florida fans got an eyeful of what that 
depth could do last weekend. 
Six Gators registered five or more kills 
in Saturday’s match against Army, includ-
ing redshirt sophomore outside hitter Mia 
Sokolowski, who had 11.
Sokolowski has only started in three 
matches but has been a big piece to Flori-
da’s offense, logging 35 kills on the season.
Freshman setter Marlie Monserez, sis-
ter of fifth-year setter Allie Monserez, also 
showed promise when the Gators ran a 6-2 
rotation over the weekend. 
Monserez has only started four matches 
and rotates behind her sister, but she has 
still tallied 179 assists and three service 
aces in 2018. 
Depth players like Sokolowski and Mon-
serez, along with others like Warner and 
6-foot-6 freshman middle blocker Lauren 
Dooley, are expected to be a significant 
strength for the team as every match be-
comes more and more important.
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Outside hitter Paige Hammons collected 25 kills this weekend
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker Rachael Kramer (left) and outside hitter Mia Sokolowski (right) figure to be prominent players heading foward for 
the Gators. Kramer racked up 16 kills during the Gator Invitational. Sokolowski has 35 kills this season in a reserve role.  
rado State punt put Florida 
roughly 10 yards from the 
end zone. UF ended up with 
a field goal.
To their credit, the Gators 
played better from that mo-
ment. Franks found his re-
ceivers down the field, end-
ing the game going 8-for-15 
for 119 yards and two touch-
downs, mostly in garbage 
time after UF took a com-
manding lead. Florida’s run-
ners started moving the ball 
more, capped by a 30-yard 
rushing touchdown from 
Jordan Scarlett in the second 
quarter.
Let’s not forget this is 
Colorado State though. The 
Gators should be doing 
this. They should be up big 
against a team like the Rams.
Florida will not repli-
cate this as easily when it 
gets into the bulk of its SEC 
schedule. In fact, if it plays 
this way, UF will struggle to 
get wins in the SEC. 
Something needs to 
change with the offense. 
I’m not saying it needs to be a change in quarterbacks. 
Franks was fine when he 
was given time to make his 
passes and didn’t just run 
with the ball on every play.
I’m not saying it needs 
to be a change in Florida’s 
playbook.
What I am saying is the 
Gators need to find a way to 
get the ball to its playmak-
ers on both the running and 
receiving end. Let Lamical 
Perine, Dameon Pierce or 
Scarlett run rampant on op-
posing defenses. Let Franks 
stay in the pocket and throw 
to UF’s offensive weapons 
in Tyrie Cleveland, Van Jef-
ferson, Kadarius Toney and 
Trevon Grimes, just to name 
a few. 
Let the Gators run the of-
fense it needs to run. That’s 
the way Florida will have a 
successful season.
At least we saw those 
mistakes early, so UF can 
correct them down the road.
Jake Dreilinger is the assis-
tant sports editor at the Alliga-
tor. Contact him at jdreilinger@
alligator.org and follow him on 
Twitter @DreilingerJake.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Quarterback Feleipe Franks started 0-for-6 with an interception Saturday
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Feleipe Franks ended the game 8-for-15 for 119 yards and two touchdowns against Colorado 
State on Saturday. The redshirt sophomore has nine touchdowns this season, matching his total from 2017.
