We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
SCARLETT, THREE OTHERS 
REINSTATED
Four of the UF football players involved in last 
season’s credit card fraud scandal have been cleared in all team activities, pg. 13A body was found at Biverns Arm lake
His death was ruled an accident, police said, pg. 5
Check out The Avenue:
Read about the local group that will perform at Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival, pg. 8VOLUME 112 ISSUE 49
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Jenny Boylan carried a bucket of fake 
blood and water on Turlington Plaza at 9 a.m. Tuesday.
Boylan, 30, a UF political science doctor-
ate student, helped organize “Are You Seeing Red?,” a “bleed-in” protest to raise awareness for accessible menstrual products on campus. She used the blood to paint the back of about two dozen students’ pants.
An unexpected period can disrupt a stu-
dent’s day and distract her if she does not have access to a pad or tampon, Boylan said. 
“If you’re disgusted with our bloody pants, 
then maybe you should rethink whether or not this is important for everybody or if ev-erybody would use it,” she said. “I think you all collectively beneﬁ  t from me not bleeding 
in your seat.”
Sophia Ahmed, 20, and a UF material sci-
ence and engineering sophomore, started 
planning after a Student Government Senate committee voted against a code revision to fund an initiative that would provide men-strual products on campus on Jan. 15. 
For more coverage on this topic, see accom-
panying story. 
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgBy Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
More than a dozen students showed up 
at Tuesday’s senate meeting to speak against Student Government’s initial decision to deny funding for free menstrual products on cam-pus.
But before they had a chance to talk, Sen-
ate President Ian Green announced free prod-ucts would be available in the GatorWell of-ﬁ  ce in the J. Wayne Reitz Union beginning in February. The audience applauded.
At the Budget and Appropriations Commit-
tee meeting last week, nine committee mem-bers debated funding the Gators Matter, Pe-
riod. initiative for 20 minutes before voting it 
down unanimously. Committee members said  funding would only beneﬁ  t half of the student body, while the codes specify that funds as-sist everyone. 
“This is a process, and this ﬁ  rst implemen-
tation of funding for menstrual products in the Reitz Union is not the end,” said Sen. Em-ily Dunson, the committee chairwoman.
Rebecca Kravitz, president of Women’s 
Student Association, denounced Senate for Students held a 
protest before 
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff WriterFunding for free menstrual products on campus approved
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff 
About 24 students stained their pants with fake blood in the Are You Seeing 
Red?, a “bleed-in” protest to raise awareness for accessible menstrual products on campus Tuesday. The red paint symbolized how an unexpected period can disrupt a student’s day.
GatorW ell will 
ofer products in February
SEE SENATE,  PAGE 5
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Sey Hee Park, a double Gator, 
was integral to the College of Medi-
cine, colleagues said.
Park, who 
served as an ambassa-dor and led 
tours of the 
college, was remembered by about 100 peers, friends 
and family 
members in the University Audito-
rium on Monday night, more than two weeks after he died. The Al-
ligator could not conﬁ  rm his cause of death.
The 28-year-old was in his sec-
ond year of a three-year-residency program with the department of 
community health and family med-icine when he unexpectedly died, said Peter Carek, the chair of the  
Department of Community Health 
and Family Medicine.
He was the type of person 
who made instant friends, Carek said.  
“Though it was a sad event, 
tonight was about celebrating (Park’s) life and his impact on a wide range of people,” he said. “He never knew a stranger. His overall 
warmth and caring for everyone 
was extraordinary.”
George Eldayrie, a chief resi-dent of the program Park worked in, said Park made time — with a hectic medical residency schedule 
— to be with friends and enjoy 
good food. 
Eldayrie remembered Park’s 
car, which he said was covered in 
bumper stickers from Park’s favor-
ite local restaurant Satchel’s Pizza. 
“He did everything to make peo-
ple smile and would do anything to make people happy,” Eldayrie said. “He is an irreplaceable friend.”
Park graduated from UF with a 
bachelor of science in microbiology and cell science in 2012 and a med-ical degree in 2016.  He was work-
ing for his residency at UF Health 
Shands Hospital. 
Liz Harlan, a third-year medical student, said Park once helped her through a difﬁ  cult time after fail-ing an important exam. She didn’t 
know what to do after seeing the  
bad grade and questioned her aca-demic path.
“Everyone told me to call Sey,” 
Harlan said.
Harlan said Park spoke to her 
about overcoming his own aca-demic struggles in medical school and gave her the encouragement that has kept her in the medical 
program to this day. She, and other 
speakers at the memorial, shared how Park always had a knack for helping others when they needed 
it most. 
Samuel Dickmann, an assistant 
professor at the College of Medi-cine, held back tears as he recalled 
a time when he found Park waiting for him in the parking lot outside 
their work with a cup of coffee and 
a congratulations on being a father. 
Park was kind and also intelli-
gent, said Ki Park, his sister and a 
UF assistant professor of medicine. 
His name means “enlightenment to the world,” she said.
Ki Park said her brother was 
always polite and once thanked a nurse, through tears, when she 
gave him an injection.
“Sey will provide joy and com-
fort to those in heaven and, know-
ing Sey, probably tech. support 
too,” she said.
Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
Friends, family remember UF alumnus for kindness
Park
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
HIGH  65° LOW  37°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Study Abroad Fair today 
The UF International Center 
will host the Spring Study 
Abroad Fair today from 10 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. on the Reitz Union North Lawn. For more informa-tion, stop by the Hub, located 
at 1765 Stadium Road, in Suite 
170 or visit online at abroad.ufic.ufl.edu.
Free Citizenship Classes 
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship class-es from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. every Thursday starting this 
week until March 29 at the 
Millhopper Library Branch, lo-cated at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawo-
mensleague.org.
The UF Social Justice Summit: 
For the Gator Good
UF will host a Social Justice 
Summit with a focus on ally-
ship on Friday and Saturday. Keynote speakers include Dr. Zulema Valdez and Tim Wise. Breakout sessions, UF 
Panel and Community Panel 
will round out the Summit. “Voices from the March,” an original student-written play 
about the Women’s March 
on Washington, will close the Summit. Open to all with an interest in Social Justice.  For more information and to reg-ister: education.ufl.edu/so-cialjusticesummit.
Fulbright Lecture Series
As part of the Fulbright Lecture Series, Maya Stanfield-Mazzi will talk about indigenous tex-tiles in colonial Latin America 
at 1 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 31 
at the UF International Center. Stanfield-Mazzi is a UF asso-ciate professor of art history, specializing in art of colonial 
Latin America. She earned her 
Ph.D. from the University of California and conducted her dissertation research in Peru 
with the help of a Fulbright-
Hays Fellowship. This first 2018 Fulbright lecture entitled “Indigenous Textiles in the Colonial Latin American Home: 
Luxury, Lineage and Leisure” 
is a free event and open to the public. Refreshments will be served.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ raceRegistration is now open for LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ Five Points of Life 
Race Weekend on Saturday, Feb. 17 and Sunday, Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. Both days 
will include food, free massag-
es and music. There will be free coffee and pastelitos from Mia Apa Café from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Sunday. All proceeds go to the 
Five Points of Life Foundation, 
which educates and raises awareness of the five ways to share life with others through the donation of blood, aphere-sis, marrow, cord blood, organ 
and tissue.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: 
In an article published Jan. 17, an article titled “GPD: FGCU 
student pulls out knife in a 
fight at midtown” incorrectly reported that Jose Javier Navas Heredia was arrested after al-legedly cutting off a bouncer’s 
thumb. Navas Heredia was ar-
rested for allegedly cutting the tip of the bouncer's thumb.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 49
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez de Sotomayor,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,
  Dan Basalone, Jill Chabot
  , Katie Marshall, Grace Kenny,  
                                                                                                  Carly McCullough, Sabrina Conza              
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, January 24, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:       To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
UF Police Department Chief Linda 
Stump-Kurnick has been honored as a 
“Champion for Change” by The Nation -
al Center for Spectator Sports Safety and 
Security. The NCS4 recently presented 
Stump with its first annual Champion for 
Change award for her successful efforts 
to expand security efforts at UF . Specifi -
cally the award commends her for initiat-
ing security changes across UF since July 
2003 to maintain safety on campus, and 
for implementing the clear bag policy for 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. She was also 
honored for overseeing implementation 
of required background screenings for event personnel at all major events and enhanced perimeter protection to assure 
full police and emergency vehicle access.Faculty and staff are invited to bring their 
lunch to the HR Building, 903 West Uni -
versity Ave., at noon for a one hour presen -
tation on a range of wellness topics by UF 
experts. To register and learn more, visit 
mytraining.hr.ufl.edu, log in and search for 
Wellness Wednesdays.
Want to watch at your desk? Email hrs-well-
ness@ufl.edu to sign up for a live stream.
Feb. 7 Coping with 
Chronic Pain: Strat-
egies to Improve 
Quality of Life  
Lori Waxenbert, 
Ph.D., ABPP , Clini -
cal Professor, Depart -
ment of Clinical and 
Health Psychology
How can a psychologist help someone liv-
ing with chronic pain? We explore answers 
and several strategies to manage chronic 
pain, including relaxation and mindful -
ness, activity pacing, thought challenging, 
acceptance and value-based living.The event takes place over the course of two days, 
with approximately 300 employers in atten-
dance. Different types of companies attend each 
day based on hiring needs.
The CRC is undergoing a multimillion-dollar 
renovation project that will enhance all of its 
services, including those helping students pre-
pare for the fall and spring showcases. “We’ll 
have more space to offer these services, meaning 
we can bring in and prepare more students to 
attend the event,” said Erica Coste, associate di-
rector of industry relations.
Learn more at: crc.ufl.edu/showcase.
      – Sloan Savage 
This abbreviated article is part of a journalism 
writing lab class project from the College of Jour-
nalism and Communications. Other pieces from 
the project will be posted online later this spring.
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONST wo days each semester, students at the  
University of Florida get to present their tal -
ents and aspirations at what is billed as the 
largest university-sponsored career fair in the  
Southeast. 
Whether seeking an internship, job or net-
working opportunities, the Career Showcase 
provides students the chance to meet and 
speak with hundreds of employers about  
their futures. 
Distance and Continuing Education is host-
ing the first annual Inspiring Women Leaders 
Conference (IWL) Mar. 8-9 at the UF Hilton Conference Center. Conference registration is 
now open online at reg.conferences.dce.ufl.edu/
WLC/Register and includes engaging presenta-
tions, panel discussions, interactive workshops 
and social networking opportunities. The early 
registration deadline ends Feb. 1, so make sure 
to register in advance to secure a spot at the 
conference. Student tickets are available at a 
discounted rate.
During this two-day event, topics such as how 
to delegate effectively; how to recognize bias; 
how to take calculated risks; and how to com -
municate with confidence, will be showcased 
through the Leadership, Professional and Busi-
ness tracks.Are You 
Ready? Career 
Showcase  
Jan. 30–31
The practice of making New Year’s resolutions 
dates back thousands of years to the Babylo -
nians. And the practice of quickly breaking 
them dates back nearly as long. RecSports 
Helps Bring 
Adventure to 
New Year’s 
ResolutionsGet Inspired, 
EmpoweredUFPD Chief 
Named a 
Champion 
for ChangeWellness 
Wednesdays
New UF photographer and videographer Brianne Lehan captured this shot of the iconic Century 
Tower as she explores the beauty of her new workplace.Photo of the Week
If your 2018 resolution involves being more ac -
tive, having more fun and embracing adventure, 
UF RecSports has you covered.  Want to explore 
the outdoors in a group setting? The Center for 
Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) 
T rips, led by trained trip leaders, usually take 
place on weekends. From yoga retreats and local 
trail hikes to ski adventures and international ex -
peditions, CORE T rips takes you to new heights. 
RecSports offers a grant program that provides 
up to $2,000 per academic year. The CORE 
Grant hopes to eliminate financial barriers for 
students. This spring, CORE will award sever -
al grants, in addition to trip rental gear waivers. 
Applications are due Mar. 18. 
Visit recsports.ufl.edu to learn more.The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmVISITORS MUST WEAR AN 
EAR-LOOP MASK.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Health Shands Hospital said 400 pa-
tients have tested positive for inﬂ  uenza since 
Jan. 1.
Dr. Nicole Iovine, a UF epidemiologist, 
who specializes in infectious diseases, said the hospital saw an unusually high number of cases this ﬂ  u season, which runs from Oc-
tober to February. Because someone infected 
with the ﬂ  u can spread the virus 24 hours before noticing symptoms, it’s hard to pre-
vent, she said.
“It’s a tricky virus,” Iovine said. “If you 
look to your left and you look to your right, 
any one of those people could be incubating and spreading the ﬂ  u.”
She said that, unlike the common cold, 
the symptoms of the ﬂ  u are immediate, and people can often remember when they start-ed feeling sick. Symptoms include coughing, sneezing, headache, body aches, fever, nau-sea, vomiting or diarrhea, Iovine said.
Shands started restricting the number of 
visitors to two per patient and requiring visi-tors to wear an ear-loop mask while in pa-tient units Tuesday, Iovine said. Shands also 
restricted children under 12 from visiting 
adult patients and anyone under 18 from vis-
iting pediatric patients, Rossana Passaniti, a UF Health spokesperson, wrote in an email.
Iovine said she strongly recommended 
everyone, even those who have already been infected with the ﬂ  u this year, to receive the ﬂ  u shot, as they can still be infected by a dif-ferent strain of the virus. 
“I strongly encourage those who have not 
been vaccinated to get vaccinated,” Iovine said.
@Lewis__Robert.
rlewis@alligator.orgShands Hospital sets restrictions to prevent spread of ﬂ  u
HOW TO KEEP FROM GETTING 
SICK DURING FLU SEASON:
•  Wash your hands with soap and wa-
ter, and use alcohol-based hand gels
•  Use a mask to prevent infection 
• If you’re in critical condition and 
have underlying serious conditions, seek care at an E.R. 
•  If you’re seeking care from a health 
care provider, ask for a mask upon ar-rival to prevent the spread of infectionWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Organizers still plan to hold a pi-
rate-themed protest Friday afternoon 
against Congressman Ted Yoho’s cam-paign contributors despite receiving a cease and desist letter Jan. 17.  
An attorney with Crime Prevention 
Security Systems, which is owned by two Yoho ﬁ  nancial supports, sent the letter. It accused the organizers, Alach-ua County Labor Coalition, of slander-ing the company, said lead organizer Jeremiah Tattersall. When the security company’s ofﬁ  ce closes at about 4:30 p.m., protesters plan to come in pirate 
costumes and march out front. 
About 50 people have said they will 
attend, according to a Facebook page, 
and organizers planned for protest-ers to hold signs that were handmade last Thursday and sing lyrics such as “Yoho, Yoho, no health care for me” to the tune of “Yo Ho (A Pirate’s Life for Me).”“Congressman Yoho is an eco-
nomic pirate, plundering the working class, sending millions to Davy Jones’s 
Locker, things along those lines,” Tat-
tersall said. “Once we started on (this pirate theme), we were like, ‘He really is like a pirate.’”
The coalition said Yoho is prioritiz-
ing his donors over his constituents. Security company owners John A. Pas-tore, Jr. and Randi Elrad spent $10,000 on Yoho’s campaigns since he was ﬁ  rst 
elected, making them one of the larg-
est contributors in Alachua County, Tattersall said.
The coalition hosted a similar pro-
test in July of Exactech, which donated to Yoho, and 50 protesters attended, Tattersall said.
“(Donors) have more access to 
Congressman Yoho than we do,” he 
said. “He listens to them because they 
give him the most money.”
Tattersall said Yoho should hold 
more in-person town hall meetings to listen to the electorate who doesn’t do-nate to him. His last one was in April, according to Alligator archives. 
The town hall was important be-
cause Yoho needs to know what his 
constituents think, Tattersall said.
Crime Prevention Security Systems 
said it has never donated to Yoho and 
emphasized the donations it has given to other local charities. Bobby McAfee, the company’s marketing director, wrote in an email that the company expects the protest will be peaceful and said the group had the “right to have 
fun and play dress-up.”
McAfee said the company wouldn’t 
comment on what slanderous remarks 
the coalition made.
“We ﬁ  nd it unfortunate that this 
labor organization, which claims to support workers, would aim to slander a local family-owned and -operated business that employs over 100 hard-
working members of our community,” 
McAfee wrote in an email. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgYoho protesters to dress up and 
sing despite cease and desist letter 
THE DEATH WAS 
ACCIDENTAL, 
POLICE SAID.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police recov-
ered the body of a 58-year-old 
man Sunday in Bivens Arm 
lake.
Richard Niblack’s body 
was found in the water west 
of Southwest 13th Street at 
about 3:50 p.m., Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias, a GPD spokesperson, 
wrote in an email. His death 
was ruled accidental by po-
lice while the actual cause 
of death is still under inves-
tigation. Foul play is not sus-
pected.
Abigail Lance, who lives 
on the lake across from where 
Niblack was found, said she and friends were outside Sun-
day afternoon watching peli-cans on the lake when a man and a woman in a green canoe rowed up to the group. They stopped in front of them, ask-ing if they had seen a man in a boat, she said.
Lance told them she hadn’t 
and watched the two paddle away. When the pair reached the other side, she said she heard screaming in the dis-
tance.
Police arrived, and Lance 
said she saw a body recov-
ered from a blue boat.
Patrol units, members of 
the Forensic Crime Unit and Joint Aviation Unit assisted in the search and recovery, To-bias said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgBody recovered in 
Bivens Arm lake
the committee’s decision and said 
the requested funding, $3,000, would not have cost students more.
“This government funds a myriad 
of services that do not beneﬁ  t close to 50 percent of the population,” she said. “This proposal is about more than just menstrual products — it is about equal opportunity.”
Kravitz also questioned whether 
SG ofﬁ  cials only reached out to her because of public backlash.
Green said students showing up 
to Senate can make a difference at the university. 
I encourage students to continue 
to vocalize their opinion and to work with Student Government”
All but two of the students who 
spoke were in favor of funding. One student, Kevin Lemos, called the funding anti-American.
“I’d like to condemn these com-
munists who intend to forcefully hike up student prices in order to redistribute student’s capital for the sake of medical expenses,” Lemos said. 
Sen. Branden Pearson (Inspire, 
Lakeside) and Sen. Dunson (Impact, District A) spoke at the end of the meeting about their plan to provide free products in UF buildings by April 2018 with Facilities Services funding, according to Alligator archives. 
Along with the GatorWell prod-
ucts, Senators mentioned free prod-ucts at the Field and Fork Pantry, though some students criticized it as a limited option.
At the meeting, the Senate also 
passed four resolutions. One bill pro-vided $5,100 to Young Americans for Freedom, a conservative group, to help bring conservative speaker and author Dinesh D’Souza. 
A second resolution revised Sen-
ate rules to ensure meetings are livestreamed. Before the resolution was passed, Sen. Ben Lima (Inspire, District D) had been livestream-ing the meetings from his Facebook page.
The ﬁ  nal resolutions supported 
Governor Rick Scott’s proposal to provide tuition for the families of fallen ﬁ  rst responders and recog-nized the importance of Temporary Protected Status, which is being can-celed by President Donald Trump. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
One student said it was anti-American
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff 
Amol Jethwani, a 21-year-old UF history junior, addresses the UF Student Government Senate in the Senate Chambers inside the Reitz Union on Tuesday night. After the maximum time of ﬁ  ve minutes was yielded to him by other members of the public that were signed up to speak, Jethwani spoke out in support of free menstrual products in bathrooms across campus.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinionsEditorial
You’re going to read the story about the shooting in 
Kentucky and perhaps feel a pang of sadness. Later, you’ll learn the names of the two 15-year-olds killed today —  maybe even get to know their families for a second. 
But then you’ll close the story and go back to looking at 
a Buzzfeed video to learn how to make the cookies you’ll never bake. Oh look, this one shows a no-bake recipe.
We digressed. It’s not entirely your fault, dear reader. 
We’ve become desensitized to the headlines and stories the same way we’ve become desensitized to government inepti-tude. The government shutdown was an example of that. 
Do you realize how simple it is to get distracted by pe-
ripheral topics and ideas? It’s easier to move on to the next 
story, the next photo or the next day. 
But the families of those killed and injured at Marshall 
County High School don’t get to do that. From now on there 
will be an empty bed in two Kentucky homes, two less gifts to give on Christmas and memories that no longer have the chance to be made. 
The families who lose loved ones don’t get to digress. 
They’re going to remember the last moments with their child and replay everything they could’ve done differently. 
According to a website that tracks mass shootings, 427 
took place in 2017, leaving at least 586 dead in their wake. We’ve just begun 2018, and including Tuesday’s shooting, there have been at least 20 mass shootings — 32 victims. 
Each day the count goes up. But you don’t care. Unless, of course, it happens close to home. How many of 
you felt the Orlando Pulse shooting that left 49 people dead was personal? It’s only a two-hour drive from Gainesville. It could have been us.  
But the story of the children who are dead and the 17 
who were injured will stay with the mothers who have to send their children to school in the town they call home. 
When the next school shooting comes, maybe you’ll 
breathe a sigh of grief. It was bound to happen again, you’ll tell yourself, but at least it wasn’t at your school — in your city. You’ll tell yourself there’s nothing you can do. And you’ll keep scrolling through your feed.
Unless you do care. 
Dear readers: Prove us wrong and show the people of 
Benton, Kentucky, that you care by sharing this editorial. 
Stop watching the Tasty video and forward this to your leg-islators, lobbyists and those who can legislate change.
Demand them to care. This isn’t political argument. It doesn’t matter if you 
have the Second Amendment of the United States Constitu-tion taped to your wall, or if you don’t believe it should ex-ist; the tragedy must stop. No one wants to see these head-
lines. No governor wants to hold a press conference on this.
Whether it’s gun control, better background checks or 
restrictions on the types of guns and ammunition available 
for sale, you need to be advocating for these changes. Call your local, state and national representatives. Be a cham-pion of access to mental health services in your community. 
Demand someone to care. Events like Kentucky shouldn’t 
make us complacent. They should make us angry.  You probably don’t 
care about the kids 
killed today.
Column
Don’t let age define how you live your life
On Sunday, actress Nicole Kidman gave 
a poignant acceptance speech at the 
Screen Actors Guild Awards about the 
crumbling age barriers of Hollywood. “How wonderful it is that our careers 
can go beyond 40 years old ... 20 years ago, we were pretty washed up by this stage in our lives,” the 50-year-old said.
She’s right — we live in an era where happi-
ness, success and beauty are no longer limited by age, and dialogue surrounding the realities of getting 
older has never been more alive. In fact, Allure editor-
in-chief Michelle Lee recently announced the magazine’s resolution to stop using the term “anti-aging” in an at-
tempt to make the aging process sound less like a condi-
tion and more like the natural process that it is.
From teenage entrepreneurs who are building their 
own empires before age 20, to adults in their 50s and 60s starting encore careers, often referred to as “second acts,” it’s no secret that people of both older and younger 
generations are shattering expectations and stereotypes of 
what it means to be a certain age.
 But just as Glinda from “Wicked” claimed that black 
was the new pink, it seems as though there’s always a new decade that’s “the age” or “the new phase of life” to be reckoned with, so to speak. Twenty-somethings have 
been described by some psychologists as living in their 
“defining decade,” which means the experiences humans have in their 20s will set the stage for, or define, the rest 
of their lives.
College students are typically referred to as adults, or 
at least in the beginning of the adult stage, but interest-ingly enough, some researchers are now saying that the 
early-to-mid-20s are technically still part of the adolescent stage. In a recent study published in the child and ado-
lescent health journal The Lancet, researcher and author 
Susan Sawyer explained that adolescence — the period between childhood and adulthood — should no longer range from ages 10 to 19, but should instead extend through age 24.
Sawyer explained in her article that socio-
cultural and biological factors have prolonged this in-between phase of life. Today’s 20-to 
24-year-olds are likely still in school and wait-
ing longer to get married and have children, making their lives fit more so into the mold of 
adolescence than pure adulthood.
So, what does this mean for today’s not-
kids-but-not-quite-adults?
These new definitions of adolescence and adulthood 
that are adapted for a modern generation of 20-some-
things should empower youth to embrace their ideas of 
success and happiness on their own terms. Amid vibrant 
discussions on aging and the course of life, it’s only fit-ting that young people — and all people — no longer feel 
boxed in by typical expectations of what they should or 
should not be doing or focusing on in a certain time of their life.
As a participant of the apparent defining decade my-
self, I find it’s often easy to get caught in the glamour of simply referring to myself as a 20-something. While 
wanting to make the most of the present and near future 
is exciting, the truth is that happiness and success can stem from and be experienced in different phases of life.
And even as social scientists, parents, children and 
students of all generations continue to redefine the mean-ings of different life phases, when it comes to the number 
of years we have to our name, many people may still 
want what they can’t have.
We may not always believe the saying, “age is but a 
number,” and we can’t turn back the clock, but we can embrace the fact that the most important decade is the one we’re in now.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
focuses on human behavior and sociology.
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINTDarcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
The 2018 Grammy Awards:
Check out our predictions (Pg. 9)Flipturn wins Destination Okeechobee contest: 
The local band will perform Friday (Pg. 8)By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
Legendary Los Angeles-based 
bluesman The Reverend Shawn 
Amos will play alongside local band The Shakedown this Sunday, using their music to transform High Dive 
into a 1960s Chicago blues club.
The North Central Florida Blues 
Society, which has been booking 
blues shows at High Dive since 2011, said it strives to bring national and international touring acts to Gainesville so that the community can see the quality of blues shows that one would experience in Chi-
cago, Memphis or New Orleans.
Rob Richardson, the vice presi-
dent of the society, said it booked 
Amos because he was a unique per-former.
“Amos is heavily inﬂ  uenced by 
classic blues performers such as Ju-nior Wells and Muddy Waters and Memphis Minnie, but he doesn’t 
treat that music like a museum 
piece,” Richardson said. “He knows that the blues is a living, breathing thing that touches people’s souls, so he includes modern musical technol-ogy and approaches along with it.”
According to a press release, 
Amos has developed a large follow-ing. His previous album, “The Rev-
erend Shawn Amos Loves You,” hit 
No. 2 on Roots Music Report’s Con-temporary Blues Album Chart.
Richardson said they were ex-
pecting a large turnout from the Gainesville blues community.
“I do know that those that do 
show up will be entertained,” Rich-ardson said. “The Reverend Shawn 
Amos is a fantastic performer, and 
I have been hearing a lot of excite-ment in the community about the show.”
Amos will be releasing his next 
album in February. The project is heavily inspired by the freedom songs of the civil rights movement.
In order to shed light on the many 
blues performers that Gainesville has to offer, the society gives a chance for local bands to play alongside the national touring acts they bring in.
“It helps them grow as perform-
ers and helps promote them,” Rich-ardson said. “We have a number of very talented bands in the area, so there’s never an issue ﬁ  nding a qual-ity act to include.”
The Shakedown, composed of 
Michelle Banﬁ  eld, Frank Bougher, Keith Ladd, Sean Crowley and Ran-dy Hensley, is a new Gainesville 
band that will debut Sunday.
“Michelle is most well-known 
for singing in her previous band, 
Fast Lane, an incredible funk band, but she can sing the blues as well,” Richardson said. “When we had Zora Young, the princess of Chicago blues, at the High Dive earlier last year, she knew about Michelle and 
called her up to sing with her. Mi-
chelle is a very soulful singer with a lot of passion and power.”
Michelle Banﬁ  eld, the lead vo-
calist of The Shakedown, said she originally knew very little about the blues, but the society took her un-der its wing by inviting her to sing in its ﬁ  rst annual “Women in Blues” 
showcase.
“The more I listened and learned, 
the more I loved the blues, the more 
it spoke to me and moved me in a way that no other music had,” Ban-ﬁ  eld said. “It feels like home to me, like where I truly belong musically.”Banﬁ  eld describes The Shake-
down as a blues band with heavy rock and soul inﬂ  uences, as many 
of their songs are tried and true 
old blues songs that have been re-vamped and updated by contempo-rary blues artists. She added that The Shakedown is “extremely excited about the band’s potential.”
Inﬂ  uenced by the unapologetic 
voices of blues women such as Koko Taylor, Danielle Nicole and Susan 
Tedeschi, Banﬁ  eld said she is in-
spired by women who sing not just from the heart but deep down from the guts.
“I call myself an ‘ugly singer,’ 
and by that I mean I am not trying to be cute or perfect on stage,” Banﬁ  eld said. “I am going to scream, sweat and contort to birth the song that ﬁ  lls 
my soul, and I want you, I need you, 
to feel it. Sometimes it ain’t pretty, but if it moves you, I did my job.”
As a fan of the Reverend Shawn 
Amos, Banﬁ  eld said the band feels privileged to open for him at the ﬁ  rst society concert of the year.
“I am most looking forward to 
playing for people that have never 
seen us before. Our set is 45 minutes 
long, but I think it will give people a real ﬂ  avor for what we do,” Ban-ﬁ  eld said. “They will deﬁ  nitely not be bored. I intend to ‘leave it on the stage,’ as they say. I’m going to be singing like I need rent money!”
To prepare for the show, the 
band is playing carefully selected-
songs that are representative of who 
they are in a nutshell, including one new song that Banﬁ  eld said she re-ally loves.
“People that are truly singing 
and playing the blues are survivors, myself included. They have been through some stuff, and the scars 
make us strong and the music gives 
us hope,” Bainﬁ  eld said. “I love be-ing able to belt out a song, knowing that somewhere within it is my own experience that helps me connect to the song and helps the audience connect to me as a human being just like them.”
The Reverend Shawn Amos and 
The Shakedown will play at High Dive on Sunday from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. General Admission is $15, North Central Florida Blues Society members get in for $8 and students and veterans with ID get in for $5. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
The  show is the second stop on The Reverend’s 2018 tour.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer
Sit back and dive deep into America’s rich 
musical history Monday night at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts.
“Take Me To The River,” a celebration of 
Memphis’ ever-evolving music scene, is set to perform Jan. 29 at 7:30 p.m. as part of its na-tionwide tour, according to a press release.
Tickets can be purchased online at https://
performingarts.uﬂ  .edu/events/take-me-to-the-river-live/. Ticket prices vary depending on 
seating, but students can buy tickets for $10, 
as well as attend the free ﬁ  lm screening of the documentary the same day in the Squitieri Stu-dio at the Phillips Center from 1 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Based on Martin Shore’s award-winning 
documentary “Take Me To The River,” the live performance unites legendary Memphis musi-cians across generations on stage to recreate the evolution from blues to modern-day hip-hop.
“The initial vision was to really tell Ameri-
cans where their music came from and how 
it inﬂ  uences and inspired the world’s popular 
music,” Shore said. “That story really hadn’t been told properly.”
One way they did this, he said, was by pair-
ing legacy musicians with the stars of today to create new music.
This includes multiple generations of Mis-
sissippi Delta artists, from Grammy winners William Bell, Bobby Rush and Don Bryant to younger artists, Frayser Boy and Al Kapone.
Shore said the rhythm and blues, soul and 
rock of the ’60s fused a foundation that is still enduring today.
He added that the genres also created a 
sense of community and inclusivity, which is more important now than ever.
“It was all about what you had to offer, not about what the color of your skin was,” Shore said. “Whether you were male or female, or whether you were 70 or 10.”
Shore said the mission for “Take Me To The 
River” is to ultimately recreate this same feel-
ing within the community.
“We’re all inclusive, that’s the way it was 
back in the ’60s when they were creating the 
music,” he said.
Shore said that today, people should be re-
minded to counter negativity with positivity and to just continue talking to each other.
“We are better together,” he said. “We are 
better including.”
Monique Blanchard, a UF alumna, is ex-
cited to attend the upcoming event.
Blanchard, 33, lived in Memphis after grad-
uation and thoroughly enjoyed the city’s music events and open mic nights.    
She said Memphis had a huge hip-hop com-
munity that she missed after moving back to Gainesville.“The hip-hop community here is very, very 
small,” Blanchard said. “Almost nothing.”
She said that, in general, she sees more 
rock, indie rock and punk rock in Gainesville, so she is excited to see a hip-hop presence here.
“I just think it’s something that is growing 
and growing,” Blanchard said. “And it needs to be explored and studied.”
Ariel Williams, a 29-year-old Gainesville 
resident, is attending the event to try some-thing new.
“I was just curious and interested to see,” 
Williams said. “This year, I’m focusing more on just kind of looking around and seeing what’s in Gainesville as opposed to just, you know, just letting certain things pass me by.”
Born and raised in Gainesville, Williams 
said she believes in being open to meeting new people and experiencing new things within the community.
“I’m all about building your tribe, building 
your local community,” Williams said. The Reverend Shawn Amos to perform at High Dive
‘Take Me To The River’ to Perform at Phillips Center 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Earlier in the month, local indie group 
and Swamp Records ﬂ  agship artist Flip-
turn claimed the Destination Okeechobee 
Round One top spot, securing their place 
on the south Florida festival lineup and among artists on the rise.
Flipturn is a ﬁ  ve-member band that 
originated out of Ferdinand Beach, Florida. Classmates Dillon Basse, Madeline Jar-man, Tristan Duncan and Adrian Walker ﬁ  rst joined forces to perform for their high school’s baccalaureate ceremony. When 
they realized the potential the group had, 
they brought Taylor Allen on board, and Flipturn was born.
With a sound settled on the edge of the 
indie rock spectrum, Flipturn released its ﬁ  rst extended play, “Heavy Colors,” on iTunes last year. Despite being their ﬁ  rst major release, “Heavy Colors” features ﬁ  ve tracks that show the natural talent and 
rhythm the group shares. Standout songs 
like “Vanilla” hint at the potential of the band’s future.
That future may not be so far away. 
Flipturn is preparing for the release of their next EP. While no release date has been set, the group is conﬁ  dent that the sopho-more release will reﬂ  ect the musical matu-rity that time has built in the group.
“The more we’ve written and the more 
that we’ve just grown together as people and as friends, we see how we ﬁ  t together musically,” Allen said. “We kind of know the direction we want to be headed and that reﬂ  ects in the music we make.”
Jarman described the tracks on the new 
EP as a story of growing up and ﬁ  nding yourself, as well as an appreciation of 
where and who they came from.
“Almost every song on the EP is about learning, growing up and kind of talking 
about how we’re still young, but we’re still 
learning,” Basse said.
While working on the EP, Flipturn has 
not done as many live performances as usu-
al. However, the group will be performing at The Atlantic on Friday night alongside Arrows in Action, The Forum and Babyblu. 
The show presents an opportunity to get a 
sneak peek at new music from Flipturn. Al-len said the group will be sampling tracks from their upcoming release.
Doors open for the show at 9 p.m. Tick-
ets are available at showclix.com for $8 in advance or $12 on the day of the show.
Flipturn entered the Destination 
Okeechobee contest through Gainesville la-
bel Swamp Records to compete with nearly 
3,000 bands for a spot on the Okeechobee Music and Arts Festival lineup. Online vot-ing allowed them to earn their place on the roster below names like Halsey, Bassnec-
tar, Arcade Fire and Snoop Dogg. The festi-
val will take place from March 1 to 4 at the 600-acre Sunshine Grove in Okeechobee, Florida.
Allen described joining the Okeechobee 
lineup as “surreal.” The waves of support the group saw through social media and the online voting process are keeping Flip-turn both grateful and humble.
“You know, we’re playing, but they’re 
the ones that got us there,” Basse said.
While the members of Flipturn prepare 
to perform alongside some of their musical 
idols, Basse said he’s using the Destination 
Okeechobee experience to remind him that they earned their right to be there.
“We’re not going to be a bunch of, like, 
fangirls,” Basse said. “We’re going to say, 
‘We belong here,’ you know? This isn’t the 
top. This isn’t the peak. This is only the beginning.”Flipturn wins Okeechobee fest spot ahead of Friday’s show
MUSIC
Cassandra Kuhn / Courtesy to the Alligator
(From left) Adrian Walker, Dillon Basse, Madeline Jarman, Tristan Duncan 
and T aylor Allen make up the ﬁ  ve-member band Flipturn. 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Alex Watson Tremellen
Avenue Contributor
Sunday night’s 24th annual 
Screen Actors Guild Awards had a 
lot of firsts. The SAG awards have always adhered to a “no host” pol-icy, but this year’s ceremony made 
an exception with its first-ever host, 
Kristen Bell.
This year’s awards focused on the 
#MeToo and Time’s Up movements. As a nod to these movements, the show featured all-female presenters.
The awards kicked off with the 
traditional “I’m an Actor” speeches in which an actor explains why he 
or she became an actor. But this 
year’s opening featured only female speeches from Allison Janney of “I, Tonya,” Tracee Ellis Ross of “Black-ish,” Millie Bobby Brown of “Strang-er Things” and host Kristen Bell.
The first award of the night was presented by Maya Rudolph and Kristen Bell for outstanding perfor-mance by a male actor in a comedy 
series. The category was easily the 
most awkward of the night as Aziz Ansari was not present despite be-ing nominated. When Ansari’s name was read aloud, no applause could be heard from the audience. Ansari was nominated for his performance in “Master of None” but did not at-tend the ceremony following recent 
sexual harassment allegations. In-
stead, William H. Macey won for his role in “Shameless” but is now in hot water for his backstage comment: “It’s hard to be a man these days.”
On the other hand, James Fran-
co was in attendance despite mul-tiple sexual misconduct allegations. Nominated in the outstanding per-
formance by a male actor in a lead-
ing role category for “The Disaster Artist,” Franco attended after be-ing a no-show at the Critics Choice Awards a week earlier. In the end, Franco lost to Gary Oldman, who 
became emotional while accepting 
his award for portraying Winston Churchill in “Darkest Hour.”
Julia Louis Dreyfus made history 
with her win for “Veep,” becoming the most decorated recipient in SAG awards history with nine awards. The “Veep” star was not present, as she recently finished chemotherapy 
following a breast cancer diagnosis 
in September. “Veep” also scored the comedy series ensemble win for the first time after losing to Netflix’s “Orange is the New Black” cast three years in a row. The following cat-egory, outstanding performance by a female actor in a supporting role, went to Allison Janney for her per-
formance in “I, Tonya.” 
Nicole Kidman and Alexander 
Skarsgard won for their roles in HBO’s “Big Little Lies.” Kidman and 
Skarsgard had their first SAG wins, which was long overdue for Kidman, 
who has been nominated 10 times. 
Kidman delivered a powerful accep-tance speech where she  brought up the topic of ageism in Hollywood, highlighting “how wonderful it is that [women’s] careers today can go beyond 40 years old.”  
The biggest winner of the night 
was the cast of “Three Billboards 
Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” which 
swept its four categories. Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell both won in their respective categories, best performance by a lead actress and supporting actor. Rockwell had his first SAG win and thanked the women in the room who are “try-ing to make things better.” Later in 
the night, Rockwell had his second 
SAG win as the film won in the final category presented, outstanding per-formance by a cast. 
The other big winner of the night 
was the cast of “This Is Us” with the 
upset win in the outstanding perfor-
mance by an ensemble in a drama series category. Many expected “Stranger Things” or “Handmaid’s Tale” to take home the prize. Sterling K. Brown once again made history by becoming the first black actor to win in the outstanding performance by a male actor in a drama category. 
With this SAG win, Brown continues 
to break barriers after being the first black actor to win a Golden Globe for best actor in a drama TV series for his role as Randall Pearson in the NBC drama. Toward the end of the broadcast, Morgan Freeman accept-ed the Lifetime Achievement Award, the union’s highest honor.
For more awards celebrating film, 
the 90th Academy Awards will take place on March 4.
Women take over the stage at Sunday’s SAG Awards 
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
We’re a few short days away from one 
of music’s biggest events: the 60th Grammy Awards. Airing Sunday at 7:30 p.m., the show will celebrate records from across genres in 2017. In honor of the event, here are a few pre-
dictions.
Record of the Year: JAY-Z — “The Story 
of O.J.”
Record of the year is consistently hard to 
predict, and this year is no different. JAY-Z 
and Kendrick Lamar go toe-to-toe at the end of the day, with Lamar snapping at a breakneck speed on “HUMBLE.” and JAY-Z going slow and steady on “The Story of O.J.” Although the power of both records is palpable, the racial message that JAY-Z makes with “The Story of 
O.J.” is one that will send shivers down your 
spine, especially when taking the samples of Nina Simone’s “Four Women” and the contro-versial music video into consideration.
Album of the Year: Kendrick Lamar — 
“DAMN.”
Although Kendrick Lamar may lose by a 
hair for record of the year, “DAMN.” leapt into the spotlight throughout 2017. The competi-
tion is fierce with Lorde, Bruno Mars, JAY-Z 
and Childish Gambino in the mix, but Lamar’s complex lyricism combined with an in-your-face flow and clean production style takes “DAMN.” a step above the rest. Many would argue that 2017 was the year of Lamar, with Vice, Vince Staples and a host of other publica-
tions and artists dubbing him the best rapper 
alive. That idea will no doubt shine through this weekend.
Song of the Year: Christopher Brody 
Brown, James Fauntleroy, Philip Law-rence, Bruno Mars and more  — “That’s What I Like” 
Although Bruno Mars appears on a stagger-
ing six categories this year, song of the year 
is where he and his songwriters will shine. 
“That’s What I Like” was arguably the catchi-est and most easy-going track of 2017, and it was something that music fans of any kind could get behind. Considering the fact that this category judges on songwriting alone, this lyri-cally smooth track will take the win.
Best New Artist: KhalidThe best new artist category boasts a pow-
erhouse group this year with Alessia Cara, Khalid, Lil Uzi Vert, Julia Michaels and SZA all earning a spot. Although each made waves in 2017 — Alessia Cara’s feature on Zedd’s “Stay” and Lil Uzi Vert’s iconic “XO TOUR Llif3” are two examples — 19-year-old R&B artist Khalid edges out the rest. Between his smooth-as-silk 
debut album “American Teen,” star-studded 
collaborations with artists like Marshmello and Calvin Harris and his headlining spots at festi-vals across the U.S., Khalid lands on top.
Our predictions for the 60th annual Grammy Awards
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Another Saturday night with-
out a date?
Read The Alligator.
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-31-18-6-14
ATTENTION:Looking for a dependable, caring caregiver to care for my daughter and help her with daily activites & personal care. Female only please.  Call Marilyn at 352-339-2798    1-26-4-14
Experienced Musicians Wanted
- Keys and Guitar - Musicians needed to 
play Sundays at local church. Will be
paid for their time based on experience
and skill. Call (352) 371-9646. Address:
7003 NW 39th Ave, Gainesville, FL.
2-2-18-5-14
ATTENTION STUDENTS, RECENTGRADS, PILOTS, ASTRONAUTS, ANDEFFICIENT INDIVIDUALSResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-5-108-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. MYTHOLOGY: What was the 
name of the chariot-driving Greek sun 
god?
2. MOVIES: What was the first mov-
ie that Elvis Presley appeared in?
3. LITERATURE: Which Russian 
author wrote the novella “Notes from Underground” in the 19th century?
4. GEOGRAPHY: In what mountain 
range is Mount Everest located?
5. HISTORY: When was the Wom-
an’s Peace Party organized in the Unit-ed States?
6. MUSIC: What famous singer/
songwriter won the Pulitzer Prize for 
Literature in 2016?
7. U.S. PRESIDENT: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-secutive terms?
8. ANATOMY: What is the largest 
internal organ in the human body?
9. GOVERNMENT: What was the 
first capital city of the United States?
10. AD SLOGANS: What popular 
drink was advertised as “pure as sun-light” in 1927?
Answers
1. Helios2. “Love Me Tender”3. Fyodor Dostoyevsky4. Himalayas
5. 1915, in response to World War I
6. Bob Dylan7. Grover Cleveland, 22nd and 24th 
president
8. Liver9. Philadelphia10. Coca-Cola
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 22, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORING
PhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day. 
1.  Formed 
1.  Stylish 5.  Pointed 
2.  Farmer’s ____6.  Registered ____
3.  Support, authorize 7.  Plot, maneuver 
4.  American ____PSDHEA
ZNSYZAMDAEI
UNSER
MNLCAAA
NSEEDROHMESEC
ESHECEANSWERS: 1A-Shaped  5A-Aimed  6A-Nurse  7A-Scheme
1D-Snazzy  2D-Almanac  3D-Endorse  4D-Cheese  B-Chimpanzee1-24-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are two species of ____.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Filet mignon
source
5 __ price
11 Ran together
15 Actress Paquin of
Netflix’s “Alias
Grace”
16 Tremble
17 Slick
18 Team first
managed by
Casey Stengel
19 Volcanic
archipelago state
20 Eyelid bump
21 Fast clip around
the racetrack
24 Internet
subdivision
25 Feathered layer
26 USPS assignment
29 Eagerly took in
30 Flutist of Greek
myth
33 Romanov rulers
35 Classic shoe
polish brand
39 Surmounting40 Fast clip from the
pitcher’s mound
45 “Field of Dreams”
setting
46 Lowered the
grade of
47 Take potshots49 Simple survey
answer
50 Poetry Muse
55 Own, to Burns56 Craven of horror59 Mental haze60 Fast clip down
the slopes
65 “Toodles!”
67 Evening get-
together
68 One-named
Deco artist
69 Curved paths70 There for the __:
easy to get
71 Plug-in vehicle,
briefly
72 Chinese toy73 Comes down
hard?
74 Dines
DOWN
1 Greek letter
whose lowercase
indicateswavelength2 Developer’s unit
3 Early enough4 Bahamian capital
5 Pale as a ghost
6 __-Pei: wrinkly
dog
7 Fuzzy fruit
8 “Ghostbusters”
director Reitman
9 Secretariat
utterance?
10 Complaint11 Anjou kin12 Intelligentsia13 English cathedral
town
14 Easter egg dip
22 A bit buzzed
23 Aardvark snack
27 Bouncy gait
28 Best Game or
Best Play
30 Christmas candle
scent
31 Fit to be tied32 Super stars?34 Plant pouch36 Put out of sight37 “I’m game”38 Newcastle Brown
brew
40 Wolfgang Puck
creation
41 New Rochelle
college42 Twice-baked
bread
43 Hit with a laser
44 “Awake and
Sing!” playwright
48 Farm mom51 “Slumdog
Millionaire”
money
52 Brief summary
53 Line dance step
54 Military
instructions57 Bridge seats
58 Scandinavian
toast
59 Surfboard
stabilizers
61 Got up
62 “Just do it” 
brand
63 Niagara Falls
source
64 Penny65 Ballplayer’s hat
66 Choler
By Roland Huget©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/24/1801/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Daily bread?
5 Convenient bag
9 Flower that’s a
Buddhist symbolof purity
14 Unattributed, as
a quote: Abbr.
15 Prof.’s employer
16 Stupefy
17 Checkout line
unit
18 Actress Russo
19 Words to live by
20 1666
conflagration that
destroyed St.Paul’s Cathedral
23 Military abbr. on
a Beatles album
24 NYC subway line
25 Pup squeak
28 Raphael fresco
depicting Greek
philosophers,
with “The”
33 “__-ching!”
34 Venison source35 Sunny feeling36 Seventh-day
activity, in theBible
38 __ Gone: gunk-
cleaning product
40 Repeated Doris
Day song word
41 Gave the slip44 Indian bread47 At this moment48 Gypsum used for
casts
51 Subj. for
immigrants
52 Color gradation
53 Coastal inlet54 Pope60 Complete chaos63 Each64 Rapper whose
name sounds likea drink
65 Plato’s
marketplace
66 Fodder storage
tower
67 Not this
68 Wooden peg69 Informal
greetings
70 “Star Wars” guru
DOWN
1 Many a Dickens
child2 Prefix with social
3 Suffix with party
4 Catch in a net5 Sports injury on
an artificialsurface
6 First-year law
student
7 Former Yankee
slugger Martinez
8 Should it arise
that
9 De Niro’s
“Raging Bull” role
10 Arabian
Peninsula nation
11 Payroll deduction12 Action film
weapon
13 College yr.
division
21 Prayer opener
22 Sketch
25 Native of Sana’a
26 Emcees’ duties
27 “Horsefeathers!”28 Beachcomber’s
finds
29 Like some Friday
work attire
30 Meet portion, or
portion of meat
31 Maine college
town32 Store posting:
Abbr.
33 Parisian pancake37 NFL six-pointers
39 Dolt
42 Virtuous
43 Latin god
45 At just the right
time
46 Innocent soul49 Go over again
50 Uncommon 
thing54 Droning lecture,
e.g.
55 Freckled boy of
old TV
56 Roly-__
57 Eight, in 
Ecuador
58 Renaissance
faire quaff
59 Jazzy James60 “I’ve been __!”61 Back in time62 Pledge
By Michael Dewey
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/23/1801/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, January 23, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sportsFor Larry Nassar, a former doctor 
for Michigan State University and USA 
Gymnastics, there is no punishment 
cruel enough.
Nassar pleaded guilty to possess-
ing roughly 37,000 images of child pornography, including videos of 
himself molesting girls in his home, 
and is accused of sexually abusing over 100 young girls under the guise of his medical treatments.
His earliest known assault occurred in 1992 
while he was earning his medical degree at MSU. His crimes span two decades and countless victims who finally have a voice during his sentencing 
hearings.
But in the case against Michigan State athlet-
ics, there is one punishment befitting its admin-
istration’s lapse in judgement: the death penalty. Across the board.
Burn the entire damned thing 
down. 
In an email sent out on Monday, 
Michigan State President Lou Anna Simon reassured those affiliated with the university. She mentioned the 
support the victims have from herself 
and MSU. Great. She also outlined a $10-million trust that will benefit the victims and their family members in 
need of counseling. Well done!
However, there’s one thing her email does not 
contain: personal or institutional accountability. 
You see, when it comes to supporting victims, 
people in power will only go as far as they’re obli-gated in order to save face.
Florida men's tennis coach 
Bryan Shelton wants his players to improve their on-court composure following mistakes committed in Monday's win over UCF, pg. 14 Beal, Horford named to NBA All-Star Game
Former Florida basketball players Bradley Beal and Al Horford were se-
lected as reserves for next month's NBA All-Star Game. Horford will make his fifth appearance in the game, while Beal is a first-time selection.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The last time Florida and South Car-
olina faced off, the Gamecocks earned 
a Final Four berth over the Gators in 
Madison Square Garden.
The stakes won’t be that high to-
night at 7 in the O’Connell Center, but 
No. 20 UF (14-5, 6-1 SEC) will still 
have a chance to knock off the team that put an end to its 2016-17 season and maintain control of first place in the SEC standings.
The Gators were also listed in the 
AP Top 25 for the first time since Dec. 11 when they were ranked No. 22.
In its Elite Eight loss to the Game-cocks last season, Florida squandered a seven-point halftime lead, missing all 14 of its three-point attempts after the 
break as South Carolina outmuscled 
the John Egbunu-less Gators when it mattered most.
The 6-foot-11, 265-pound Egbunu 
tore his ACL during a 114-95 win 
against Auburn on Feb. 14. He, along 
with other frontcourt players Isaiah Stokes and Chase Johnson, have each missed all or most of this season with injuries, forcing the Gators to use 
smaller lineups through their first 20 
games.
While all three have been cleared Florida hosts South Carolina 
tonight in Elite Eight rematch
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Burn it all down: The case against Lou 
Anna Simon and Michigan State athleticsMorgan Meets the Eye / OpinionFOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
The credit card fraud saga 
involving nine Florida football 
players last season appears to 
be coming to a close.
Running back Jordan Scar-
lett, receiver Rick Wells and 
linebackers James Houston IV and Ventrell Miller have been reinstated to all team activities 
starting Wednesday morning.
The four players were sus-
pended indefinitely, along with 
five teammates, last August af-ter they allegedly used stolen 
credit card information to pur-
chase electronics at an on-cam-
pus bookstore. Sworn complaint affidavits also accused several players of using the stolen funds 
to pay for rent, parking citations 
and fast food deliveries.
A fifth player involved in the 
case, defensive lineman Keivon-
nis Davis, is still enrolled at UF 
and is rehabbing from serious 
injuries he suffered in a scooter 
accident last fall.
The remaining four players 
— receiver Antonio Callaway, offensive lineman Kadeem Tel-fort and defensive linemen Jor-dan Smith and Richerd Desir-Jones — have all reportedly left the program.
Callaway, the Gators’ lead-ing receiver in 2016, declared for the NFL Draft in December, while Desir-Jones transferred to Coffeyville Community College in Kansas. Telfort and Smith in-tend to transfer as well.
Of the four players reinstat-
ed, only one has appeared in a game for UF.
Scarlett, a junior from Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida, has made 22 career appearances with the Gators, registering 1,070 rushing 
yards and seven touchdowns. 
His 179 carries, 889 rushing 
yards and six touchdowns in 2016 were all team highs.
Wells redshirted during his 
freshman year in 2016, while 
Houston IV and Miller were 
both true freshmen last season.
Florida began its offseason 
conditioning program on Jan. 
16, led by first-year coach Dan 
Mullen.
Mullen reportedly worked 
with UF athletic director Scott 
Stricklin to come to a resolution 
on the suspensions.
"All of our players under-
stand the standards and expec-
tations we have of them to be members of the Florida football program," Mullen said in a pre-pared statement.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgGators reinstate Scarlett, three other suspended players
Alligator File Photo
Florida running back Jordan Scarlett (25) and three teammates have been cleared to participate in team activities, putting an end to the indefinite suspensions they received last fall for alleged credit card fraud.
Morgan McMullen
@MorganMcMuffin14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
MEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
The Gators had already 
clinched the match. A crowd of 
over 350 fans had dwindled down to just a handful. In its home open-er against UCF on Monday night, Florida was just about ready to re-turn to the locker room victorious. 
But junior McClain Kessler was 
still battling for a third-set win on the No. 6 singles court.
If you hadn’t known UF held 
a 5-1 lead over UCF, you might 
have thought it was tied 3-3 and 
Kessler was playing with the match on the line. He celebrat-
ed pivotal points with raucous 
cheers. His teammates supported 
him passionately, watching from 
the adjacent court. The team’s en-thusiasm never died.
Kessler beat freshman Mikhail 
Sokolovskiy 4-6, 6-2, 6-1 in just under two hours of play, securing 
the Gators’ 6-1 victory over the Knights.
Coach Bryan Shelton recog-
nized his team’s energy as a de-
ﬁ  ning quality of this year’s squad.
“We have guys that are just 
loving being here, playing here, competing here,” he said.
But playing to the crowd is a 
balance. And some players might have found themselves on the wrong side of that balance.
“It hurt us a little bit (Monday) 
because we had guys run out of gas,” Shelton said. “I think they were trying to win it all in one point.”
Shelton was referring to fresh-
man Duarte Vale, who fell in a third set tiebreaker to freshman Alan Rubio. 
Vale was crucial to securing 
the doubles point earlier in the 
match, winning with Kessler on 
the No. 2 doubles court. The duo drew excitement from the crowd and Vale continued to pump up the home fans throughout his sin-gles match. 
After coming back to win the 
ﬁ  rst set, however, Vale struggled to string enough points together to close it out.
“I think he ended up fatiguing 
himself,” Shelton said of Vale. “He was so amped up with the 
crowd.”
Florida plans to use its ﬁ  rst 
experience playing in front of 
an excited home atmosphere to 
learn and improve for its upcom-
ing matches at the ITA Kick-Off Weekend on Saturday and Sunday in Gainesville.
Shelton also wants to see his 
team be more aggresive on the court, stating his players improve their positioning and stand closer to the baseline.
“We’ll take a look at what we 
did (Monday) and continue to get better,” he said.
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.org  Shelton looking for players to control on-court emotions
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Bryan Shelton said his players need to conserve their energy better 
following  Monday’s win over UCF. “We had guys run out of gas, ” he said.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
for non-contact action, the timetable for 
their return to the court is still uncer-tain. In their absence, center Kevarrius 
Hayes and forward Keith Stone have tak-
en near-sole responsibility for Florida’s frontcourt.
“Boy, have they gotten better since 
October, both of those guys,” Gators 
coach Mike White said.
Hayes and Stone have set career-highs 
in minutes per game, points per game 
and rebounds per game this year, receiv-
ing limited help from sophomore center 
Gorjok Gak (restricted by injuries) and redshirt freshman forward Dontay Bas-sett (just 4.4 minutes per game).
Florida’s frontcourt, accustomed to 
playing short-handed by now, will have to deal with South Carolina forward Chris Silva.
The 6-foot-9 Silva leads the Game-
cocks (12-7, 3-4 SEC) in scoring with 14.5 points per game and brings down a team-high 7.8 rebounds per game as well, which ranks third in the SEC be-hind Georgia’s Yante Maten and Texas 
A&M’s Tyler Davis.
“(Silva) is a monster,” White said. 
“He’s one of my favorite players to watch 
in college basketball.”
Silva has become South Carolina’s 
best player in his junior season, stepping out of reigning SEC Player of the Year Sindarius Thornwell’s shadow. Thorn-well, who has made a handful of starts 
with the Los Angeles Clippers as a rookie 
this year, scored 26 points against Florida in the Elite Eight.
The Gators expect a physical 40 min-
utes from the Gamecocks, a team that is known for its aggressive play.
“South Carolina, obviously, has our 
guys’ utmost respect… How stiﬂ  ing their defense is and how aggressive they are 
on the glass,” White said. “Our guys un-
derstand it’s difﬁ  cult against these guys, as it was against Kentucky, to even get a clean look.
“We can’t allow anything easy.”
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org BASKETBALL,  from pg. 13
GRAND OPENING
SATURDAY 01.27.18
FOR 4 HOURS ONLY get up to 20% off the entire store!SALE starts 1:00pm - 5:00pm1029 W. UNIVERSITY AVE.
 @CLIMAXSMOKESHOPGAINESVILLEFREE FOOD AND PRIZES! 
FLASH SALES ALL DAY 
LONG ON CERTAIN ITEMS!
(352) 872-5161
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida big men Kevarrius Hayes and Keith Stone (above) have stepped up in the absence 
of injured teammates. "Boy, have they gotten better since October, " coach Mike White said. 
After laying out in the email how 
important it is to support the women 
who were molested, Simon went on 
to say that lawyers are mounting defenses from civil suits against the university. She also writes that the 
university sent a letter to the Michi-
gan Attorney General saying, “…the evidence will show that no MSU of-ﬁ  cial believed that Nassar committed 
sexual abuse prior to newspaper re-
ports in the summer of 2016.”
That statement is either ignorant or misleading, depending on Simon’s motives. Nassar’s victims informed at least 14 MSU ofﬁ  cials — athletic 
trainers, coaches and a university 
police detective — on multiple oc-casions throughout the years of his assaults. According to The Detroit News, two separate incidents were 
reported by MSU athletes involv-
ing Nassar in 2014. Notice of both reached Simon.
If Simon, MSU’s Board of Trust-
ees or the NCAA really cared about stopping future cases of sexual as-sault from authority ﬁ  gures, there’s only one option: kill all MSU athlet-ics.
What other choice is there to pro-
vide an example that this s--- will not 
be tolerated? What incentive is there 
for other universities to be proactive about the choices they make regard-ing who is left alone with young ath-letes?
Give current MSU scholarship 
athletes the opportunity to transfer elsewhere without a waiting peri-od. Buy out the coaches’ contracts. 
Pie-in-the-sky thinking, I know, but 
there’s a realistic way to go about this.
At the fourth day of sentencing in Nassar’s trial, three-time Olympic gold medalist Aly Raisman confront-ed the man who assaulted her during 
the 2012 London Olympic Games. 
While it’s a righteous, empower-
ing 13-minute takedown of Nassar 
himself, Raisman also lays blame at the feet of USA Gymnastics and 
the US Olympic Committee, both of 
which actively fought against inves-tigations of Nassar.
“False assurances from organiza-
tions are dangerous, especially when people want so badly to believe them,” Raisman said. “They make it easier to look away from the prob-lem.”
Apply those words to the assur-
ances issued by MSU, and you’ll see 
my point. Disband Michigan State 
athletics. Now. Fire Lou Anna Si-mon. Now.
There is no punishment beﬁ  tting 
Nassar. But there is a clear route to 
justice for what many college ath-
letes endured at the hands of MSU athletics.
Morgan McMullen is the online 
sports editor at the Alligator. Con-
tact him at mmcmullen@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 13White: "W e can't allow anything 
easy" against Gamecocks16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 2018
GATORS IN THE NFL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
For most of Sunday afternoon, it 
looked like former Florida football 
player Dante Fowler Jr. would get a chance to play in the Super Bowl.
His underdog Jacksonville Jaguars, 
with a coach who had never been to the playoffs prior to this season and a quarterback who had never even won more than ﬁ  ve NFL games in a calen-dar year, marched into a cold, hostile environment in Foxborough and out-played the mighty New England Patri-ots for the ﬁ  rst three quarters.
Fowler Jr. was a key factor in Jack-
sonville’s early success. The former Ray Graves Award winner — given annually to UF’s most valuable player — sacked Tom Brady twice in the ﬁ  rst half, both times on third down. His ﬁ  rst sack held New England to a ﬁ  eld goal and his second forced the Patriots to punt.
However, as they so often do, the 
Patriots stormed back in the fourth quarter, scoring 14 unanswered points and punching their ticket to another Super Bowl. Despite the loss, the fu-ture looks bright for Jacksonville, and Fowler Jr. ﬁ  gures to play a big role go-ing forward after recording 10 sacks this year in the regular season and playoffs combined.
Former Gators played a much qui-
eter role in the NFC Championship Game. Trey Burton, who was signed by Philadelphia as an undrafted free agent in 2014, notched his ﬁ  rst career postseason reception in the Eagles’ dismantling of the Vikings. Burton has had a breakout season with ﬁ  ve touchdown receptions and should see 
signiﬁ  cant playing time against New 
England.
Burton expressed his jubilation 
after the game, tweeting, “PHILA-DELPHIA WE ARE GOING TO THE SUPER BOWL!!!!!” The tweet quickly went viral, and as of press time has over 4,000 retweets and almost 18,000 favorites.
At least one former Gator is guaran-
teed to get a Super Bowl ring. Joining Burton on Philadelphia’s roster is cor-nerback Jaylen Watkins, who hasn’t seen much playing time this year. For New England, UF is represented by running back Mike Gillislee, who scored ﬁ  ve touchdowns in the regular season but has been inactive in the postseason with a knee injury. This is the 16th consecutive year Florida has 
had a former player in the Super Bowl.
There were also a couple notable 
developments last week involving for-
mer Gators players who are now NFL coaches.
Despite leading the franchise to its 
ﬁ  rst playoff win in 14 years and re-ceiving a vote of conﬁ  dence from the team’s owner just a week prior, coach 
Mike Mularkey was ﬁ  red by the Ten-
nessee Titans on Jan. 15. Mularkey played for Florida in the early 1980s, and had been the Titans’ coach for two and a half seasons.
Elsewhere, former Gators quar-
terback Brian Schottenheimer was named offensive coordinator of the Seattle Seahawks.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org 
Fowler Jr. records two sacks; Burton, Watkins, Gillislee Super-Bowl bound 
The Associated Press
Former Florida football player and current Eagles tight end 
Trey Burton is one of three Gators heading to Super Bowl LII.
