INSIDE
The Gators released their official depth chart on Monday, but there 
were a couple of notable tossups. Most notably, the kicker spot is still 
vacant.  
ONLINE
Listen to the alligatorSports podcast on Spotify and Apple Podcasts.  
SPECIALISTS
TOWNSEND
 RAYMOND
POWELLTHE 
The Gators had arguably their most popular special teams unit in recent memory last season. 
Now a ragtag group of familiar names and young phenoms are out to claim their own spot in   
the hearts of Florida fans. Who are these new heroes, and how could UF use them this year?By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
DEEP IN THE SWAMP-
LANDS OF GAINESVILLE, A 
NEW, SPECIAL TEAM GATH-
ERS ITS FORCES…
Every meal Florida’s foot-
ball team eats is meticulously 
accounted for. Calories are 
measured down to the last 
bite, and it all corresponds to 
the team’s new strength and 
conditioning program.
Team meals also include 
a ritual. One group eats first 
every time: the starting punt 
team.
Coach Dan Mullen said 
it’s his mission to make every 
player on UF’s roster aware 
of the importance of special 
teams. 
He said he thinks it’s getting 
through to his players. During 
spring practices, Mullen would 
often race up and down the 
field with the punt coverage units. Players say he’s heav-
ily involved in special teams 
meetings, nearly to the point 
that he runs them himself.
Mullen also made a point 
that few (if any) Florida coach-
es have before.
“You’ve got a guy that’s a 
linebacker that’s trying to learn 
how to be a linebacker in our 
defense,” he said. “They’re 
thinking about being a line-
backer because they were re-
cruited as a linebacker. I guess 
if you look at the roster, it says 
linebacker. It doesn’t say left 
guard on punt. But the left 
guard on punt is more impor-
tant than the linebacker posi-
tion for us to win games.”
Mullen went on to say a 
good day on special teams can 
make up for a subpar day on 
either offense or defense. He 
said a team could win with 
two out of the three, but that 
special teams absolutely had to 
be great.“(It’s) just a mindset of the 
coaching staff, the mindset of 
the program is we want to be 
a great special teams team,” 
Mullen said. “If you look at our 
plan to win, what it takes, win-
ning special teams is a huge 
aspect of it.”
The Kickers
“ED-DY! ED-DY! ED-DY!”
The familiar chorus of the 
student section at the Swamp 
during UF field goals has been 
put into retirement. Now the 
crowd will get a chance to sing 
out…
Well, definitely someone 
different. Former Florida kick-
er Eddy Pineiro has been in 
Oakland during the Raiders’ 
training camp and preseason. 
He has been rooming with 
fellow UF graduate Johnny 
Townsend, another face fresh 
in the minds of Gators fans.ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
THE SPECIALISTS: The Gators had arguably the most popular special teams 
unit in recent memory last season. Now a group of familiar 
names and young phenoms are out to claim their own spot 
in the hearts of Florida fans.
Alligator File Photo
T ommy T ownsend (left) and R.J. Raymond (right) celebrate with the Gator band and fans after the team’s Orange and Blue scrimmage on April 14. Both T ownsend and 
Raymond managed to win starting spots on UF’s punt team for the season opener against Charleston Southern on Saturday at 7:30 p.m.Alligator File Photo
Kicker Jorge Powell could be the favorite to win the Gators’ starting kicker job.
SEE SPECIALISTS,  PAGE 17Florida lost a pair of special teams 
legends. How will UF replace them? We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Read yourselves, Gator fans.
After going 3-5 as a starter in 2017, Feleipe Franks is returning 
as UF’s quarterback,  pg. 13SNL comedian pokes fun at Gainesville
Chris Redd talks about his childhood, UF’s obession with gators 
and crazy Uber experiences, pg. 4
Cookiegazm shuts its doors
Local business permenately closes, pg. 3FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 5
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE BANDS WILL BE PAID $98,000 
COMBINED.
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Heather Sundar has been listening to 
Young the Giant since her freshman year of 
high school. 
Now, the 20-year-old UF information sys-
tems junior gets to see the band for the ﬁ  rst time next week.
Alternative rock bands Young the Giant 
and Joywave will perform a free concert at 7 
p.m. Sept. 7 on Flavet Field, Student Govern-
ment Productions Chairman, Andrew Kelly, 
wrote in an email. The bands will perform 
for UF Student Government Production’s 
“Rock-The-Vote” concert, which strives to 
encourage students to register to vote. 
Sundar saw the event on Facebook and 
immediately told her roommate to come with her, she said.
“I was hyped. We’re so excited,” she said.
The headliner, Young the Giant, will be 
paid $78,000, while Joywave will be paid 
$20,000, from student activity fees.
UF External Affairs and Chomp the Vote 
are co-sponsoring the show, Kelly said. Gates 
for the concert open to the public at 6 p.m. 
The group chose Young The Giant and 
Joywave to continue its tradition of hosting 
a rock show in the Fall, Kelly said. The All-American Rejects performed in November 
2016, according to Alligator archives.
Sundar said Young the Giant is just an-
other blast from her past.
“Last time they invited All-American Re-
jects, which was a childhood favorite,” she 
said. “The fact that they keep catering spe-
ciﬁ  cally to me is really cool.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgYoung the Giant and Joywave to perform free concert at UFFLORIDA DROPPED FROM NO. 10 
TO NO. 48 IN THE COUNTRY IN 
ART FUNDING.
Bailey LeFever
Alligator Staff Writer
Days before the Gainesville Orches-
tra’s annual spring concert, Greg Johnson 
opened his email. Inside, a message from 
the state shocked the orchestra president. The orchestra’s state funding was gone.
Johnson still prepared himself for the 
show. 
He stood in front of the crowd of hun-
dreds before the music began. He told the 
audience and musicians that they wouldn’t 
see a dime of the $25,000 that had — up un-
til this year — been allotted annually. They 
gasped. 
State funding to arts programs in Ala-
chua County fell from 46 percent of what’s requested to just six percent, blindsiding lo-
cal cultural organizations and forcing them 
to ﬁ  nd other ways to exit the year ﬁ  nan-
cially sound, according to Judy Skinner, a 
Dance Alive National Ballet grant writer. 
Other counties statewide saw this drastic 
decrease, too. Florida experienced one of 
the largest drops in the country’s state fund-
ing to the arts this ﬁ  scal year: from No. 10  
to No. 48. 
“I nearly died,” Skinner said. “Up until a week before, no one in the arts had any 
inclination that this was going to happen.”
Dance Alive National Ballet is dependent 
on state grants to make up about $78,000 
of its more than $700,000 budget, Skinner 
said. It was awarded $5,233. 
The company isn’t the only local cultur-
al organization to feel the burden of these 
cuts, she explained. Fifteen Gainesville or-
ganizations collectively qualiﬁ  ed for $1.27 
million of state funding. They got $76,610, 
she said.
The cuts to the arts don’t make ﬁ  scal 
sense because it is a driver of tourism, Skin-
ner said. 
“It would be wonderful if our state would 
recognize the value of who and what we are 
to the state,” Skinner said.
The arts cut went to funding school 
safety after the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School, State Sena-
tor Keith Perry (R-Gainesville) said. A $400 
million plan passed by the legislature pro-
vides for additional school resource ofﬁ  cers, 
mental health counselors and other security 
measures.
The money was well spent, Perry says, 
but the brunt of the impact shouldn’t have 
been pushed on the arts.
“I thought we should have found places 
to spread the pain around,” he said.
For the next ﬁ  scal year, Perry hopes to 
bring the state back into the top 10 funders 
of the arts. He started meeting with donors 
to ﬁ  nd ways to allocate more money. Perry 
himself donated from his company, Perry 
Rooﬁ  ng Contractors.  
Despite the drop in resources, the 
Gainesville Orchestra continues to play. 
After ﬁ  rst discovering that it wouldn’t 
receive state money, the orchestra got a 
second email from the state offering $2,500. 
Despite the paperwork — at least 50 pages 
worth — Johnson said he will do what he 
can to secure that small amount.Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Pero like: Inspiration from speakers at UF Hispanic-Latinx Student Assembly
Alexia Yau, a 19-year-old UF natural resource conservation junior, cheers as Julissa Calderon, a Buzzfeed video producer 
and the keynote speaker at the UF Hispanic-Latinx Student Assembly, concludes her presentation.
‘I nearly died’: Gainesville art programs see devastating cuts in fundingFEATURE FRIDAY
SEE HIPP,  PAGE3T oday’s Weather VOLUME 113 ISSUE 3
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday 
and Friday, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Alain Harb, aharb@alligator.orgNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Copy EditorsDesk Editors
Assistant Sports Editor2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
HIGH  90° LOW  74°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 5
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-
4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous is 
a fellowship of men and women 
who have a desire to recover 
from their eating disorders. 
If you can relate to feelings of 
guilt about eating, are at times 
unable to start or stop eating 
even when you really want to or 
if you feel disgusted or power-
less over your eating habits, this 
group may be for you. There is 
no one “too sick” or “not sick enough” to attend. Men and 
women of all ages are wel-
come. For times, locations and 
more information, please email 
GainesvilleEDA@gmail.com or 
text/call 954-319-6365. You can 
also visit 4EDA.org for more in-
formation. 
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of jour-
nalists advancing diversity in 
the workplace. With member-
ship, students get access to 
networking opportunities and connections to top editors in na-
tional media organizations, as 
well as scholarships and men-
torships. It is not just limited to 
journalism majors. For more in-
formation, email Alexandria Ng 
at alexandriang@ufl.edu. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 27 thru 
Friday August 31
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Lily Cardone was trying to call 
in her typical order of peanut but -
ter cookies from Cookiegazm with 
her roommates Wednesday night 
but couldn’t reach anyone. 
The 20-year-old UF criminology 
senior feared the worst. 
Twenty minutes later, when she 
logged onto Facebook, she realized 
her nightmare had come true after 
the late-night cookie delivery com -
pany announced they would per -
manently close after four years of business.
“Me and my roommates are all 
very upset,” Cardone said. “We all 
reacted kind of the same way; a lot 
of shock and a lot of tears.”
Cookiegazm’s sudden closing 
came from various issues, includ -
ing a lack of profits, a price con -
scious student population and 
competition with Midnight Cook -
ies, another late-night cookie de -
livery business, said 21-year-old 
Daniel Gavrilin, the Cookiegazm 
general manager and a UF tourism, 
events and recreation management 
senior. There’s no plan to reopen, but 
it’s always a possibility, Gavrilin 
said. He said the store’s closing 
should be used as a lesson to oth -
ers on the importance of running a 
business strategically.
Gavrilin, who worked at the 
store for four years, said he was 
upset, but not distraught, over the 
decision to close its doors.
“I was kind of bummed out be -
cause I had a really, really good 
job, and it was the way I supported 
myself,” Gavrilin said.
Cookiegazm was founded in 
2015 by two UF students who baked cookies in their apartment 
to earn extra cash, according to Al -
ligator archives. Gavrilin said there 
were nearly 30 people on payroll 
at the time of closing, all of who 
he said have now found alternative 
jobs. 
UF electrical engineering junior 
20-year-old Cali Holber said she 
isn’t too upset over the closing, as 
she preferred to purchase her cook -
ies elsewhere.
“I feel like most people aren’t 
going to be too upset because most 
people go to Midnight Cookies,” 
Holber said. “They’re cheaper, and I don’t have that much money to 
begin with anyways.”
Cookiegazm announced in May 
it would be closed during Summer, 
Gavrilin said. It was decided the it 
wasn’t worth the effort to have the 
operation running during the 2018-
2019 school year.
“People love it but the costs 
were simply too high,” said Gavri -
lin. “It was founded and ran by 
UF students and it was for UF stu -
dents.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgCookiegazm permanently closed, no plan to reopen soon
Johnson says he hopes to make up the 
difference through increased ticket sales 
and fundraising.
“When all is said and done, we’re go -
ing to be OK,” he said.
The orchestra has sold more than 50 
percent of its November performance 
seats. In addition, four of the last five 
concerts have sold out, he said.
Part of the orchestra’s success has 
also lied in its refusal to expect a certain 
amount of funding.
“We’ve been fortunate in that we 
haven’t relied heavily on grants because 
we know we can’t,” Johnson said.
Unlike the orchestra, downtown 
Gainesville’s The Hippodrome State The -
atre cannot make up the difference with 
increased ticket sales or prices, said Jes -
sica Hurov, its managing director.
“We don’t want to pass on this to 
our customers,” Hurov said. “We are ex -
tremely committed to making the arts as 
accessible to as many people as we can.”
The theatre plans to make up some of 
the difference through fundraisers, col -
laborations with UF and donations. 
Supporters have posted their concerns 
on the theatre’s Facebook page: “How 
can they do this?” and “This is so dev -
astating.” Local restaurants started hosting ben -
efit nights to support the Hippodrome, 
Hurov said.
The Paramount Grill now holds “Hipp 
Tuesdays,” where 10 percent of each 
bill on Tuesdays throughout the year 
will go toward the Hippodrome’s defi -
cit.          
With possible layoffs looming, the the -
atre’s atmosphere has changed. Jordan 
Sison, a 21-year-old UF acting senior who 
is performing in “The Wolves” at the Hip -
podrome, said she’s trying not to think of 
the negatives. Instead, she’s hopeful. 
“People want to make a difference and 
a change,” she said.
The theatre provides value beyond 
weekend entertainment, she said. It 
serves as an educational center of the 
community, serving dually as a place for 
young actors to earn points needed to 
be recognized by the acting community 
and middle schoolers to be introduced 
to theatre.
“Theatre brings people together and 
educates people and teaches people how 
to be empathetic toward others,” she 
said. “To cut something that’s so educa -
tional and important in people’s lives is 
a travesty.”
@blefever10
blefever@alligator.orgHIPP,  from pg. 1State slashed arts funding, affecting Gainesville art programs
Courtsey to The Alligator
Jordan Sis on, a 21-year-old UF acting senior, performs in her senior thesis performace, 
“The Wolves, ” at the Hippodrome Theatre. 
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
THE COMEDIAN WAS 
PAID $12,000 FOR HIS 
PERFORMANCE.
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Chris Redd posed one of life’s 
most pressing questions to about 
500 UF students.
“Do you ever sneeze and fart 
at the same time?”The Saturday Night Live 
cast member took to the stage 
Wednesday night in the Reitz 
Union’s Rion Ballroom to discuss 
everything from President Donald 
Trump’s “Space Force” to meet-
ing Mormons in Utah. 
The hour-and-a-half long com-
edy show was free for students 
and sponsored by the Reitz Pro-
gramming Board. Redd was paid 
$12,000 for the performance, ac-
cording to Alligator archives. Redd was quick to poke fun at 
audience members, asking them 
questions about the Gainesville 
area and the city’s fascination 
with gators. 
“Do y’all have gangs or just 
gators here?” he asked.
Redd also divulged some of 
his fondest childhood memories, 
most of them containing cocaine 
addicts, unbeknownst to him.
“I didn’t know they were 
crackheads at ﬁ  rst; I thought they were just fun people,” he said.
Redd also touched on his expe-
rience taking an Uber while high 
from marijuana. 
An odd Uber driver offered him 
candy while driving him home 
one night and Redd hesitantly  
agreed to the offer. Redd said the 
driver proceeded to hand him an 
unwrapped tootsie roll, which he 
“immediately slapped out of the 
driver’s hand” because he was 
“raised to not accept candy that looks like dookie.”
Emma Nabbie, a UF astrophys-
ics freshman, said she was happy 
to watch Redd perform live, af-
ter seeing him on SNL numerous 
times.  
“I watch him a lot on SNL and 
I wanted to check him out,” Nab-
bie said. “Everything was really 
funny.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSNL comedian to UF: ‘Do y’all have gangs or just gators?’ THE NEW VEHICLES WILL 
REDUCE GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS IN THE 
ENVIRONMENT.
Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Three new electric buses will 
take Gainesville streets by 2019.
The Regional Transit System 
was awarded $3 million by the 
Federal Transit Administration 
grant for improvements including 
an electric bus and charging sta-tion. The funding was announced 
Aug. 24.
Other additions include new 
PA announcements,  a system to 
allow paying from mobile phones, 
a security camera upgrade, 15 
automated passenger counters 
and bus radio equipment, RTS 
spokesperson Chip Skinner said.
WiFi will also be added to a 
handful of buses as a pilot proj-
ect, Skinner said.
Last year, RTS was awarded 
a grant of $1 million to purchase 
two other electric buses and a 
charging station. Another alloca-tion of $2 million was also award-
ed this year.
These donations allow for RTS 
to have a total of $5 million in do-
nations to have three electric bus-
es and two charging stations. The 
buses haven’t been purchased by 
the city yet, Skinner said.
The electric buses are called 
“Low-No” vehicles due to the 
low amount, or lack of, emission 
gases. Skinner said these buses are 
important to have in the commu-
nity because they’ll decrease the 
greenhouse gases in the environ-
ment.“Public transportation really 
beneﬁ  ts the environment because 
we have less smog and smog pre-
cursors coming out of the vehi-
cles,” Skinner said.
Skinner hopes the public trans-
portation system will continue to 
receive funding over the next 10 
years to improve the environment 
and RTS itself.
Gainesville is one of three bus 
systems in Florida to receive this 
grant, alongside Broward County 
and the Pinellas-Suncoast Transit 
Authority.
Daniel Vinkus, an 18-year-old UF mechanical engineering fresh-
man, said he’s pleased with RTS 
becoming more environmentally 
conscious.
Vinkus said he uses the bus 
at least twice a day, so as long 
as the system remains running 
during the transition, he doesn’t 
mind the “Low-No” buses being 
put to use.
“As a student, I don’t pay the 
bus fare,” he said, “so as long as 
that doesn’t change I’m ﬁ  ne with 
it.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgRTS gets $3M federal grant for one electric bus, WiFiFRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man wanted by Gainesville 
Police in regards to a shooting two 
weeks ago was arrested Wednes-
day with a sandwich bag of crack 
cocaine in his front pants pocket, 
police said.
Matthew  
Quion Antonio 
Lindsey, 26, 
of Gainesville, 
is accused of 
shooting into 
an apartment 
with ﬁ  ve people 
inside on South-
east 26th Street, according to the 
arrest report. No one was injured. 
A man, who was playing video 
games in the living room, heard 
someone banging on the front 
door and opened the door to ﬁ  nd 
Lindsey holding a handgun, the 
report said.The man told police Lindsey 
was yelling for his ex-girlfriend to 
give him his car back. 
Lindsey shot a round into the 
door after it was closed on him, 
the report said. The bullet almost 
hit three people sleeping inside.
Witnesses told ofﬁ  cers Lindsey 
was the shooter. Police found he 
had eight past felony convictions, 
the report said.
Two weeks later, an ofﬁ  cer 
stopped Lindsey on Northeast 
Eighth Avenue and found the 
drugs in his front pants pocket, the 
report said.
Lindsey was charged with at-
tempted murder, shooting into a 
building, possessing a weapon as 
a felon and possessing cocaine 
and drug paraphernalia. 
Lindsey is being held in Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of a 
$704,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Man shot at home, 
possessed cocaineAshley Lazarski
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers say a smartphone can be 
hacked by something as easy as plugging it into 
a charger. 
Data on smartphones can be accessed by 
hackers through USB cables, like phone char-
gers, researchers at UF’s Florida Institute for 
Cybersecurity Research discovered. The 11-per-
son team conducted research on 14 smart-
phones from six vendors, including Apple and 
Android phones, to see how hacking occurs 
and how to prevent it, said Grant Hernandez, a 
25-year-old fourth-year UF computer engineer-
ing Ph.D. student. 
Hackers send commands to phones to do 
almost anything they want, even if a phone is 
locked, to access emails, pictures and contacts, 
control screens or reprogram phones, said Jo-
seph Choi, a fourth-year UF computer science 
graduate student and researcher.
Installing security patches and backing up 
pictures, contacts and documents can help pro-
tect smartphones. If users think their phones 
have been hacked, they should perform a fac-
tory reset, Choi, 24, said. 
Most of the team’s funding comes from the 
National Science Foundation. UF is the only university currently working on this research 
project, Choi said. 
The idea for the research came from sixth-
year UF computer and information science and 
engineering doctoral student Dave Tian’s 2017 
summer internship at Samsung in California, 
he said. In 2016, Samsung learned that three 
hacking commands could be sent through 
phone chargers and other USB cables. Tian, 34, 
said he wanted to extend this research to oth-
er brands and explore what other commands 
could be transferred. 
At least 3,500 commands are transferable 
from a USB, Tian said. Smartphone hacking can 
happen virtually anywhere.  
Sometimes, it’s clear a phone has been 
hacked, like when pictures are deleted, but 
many commands aren’t as visible, Tian said. 
People may not realize their information has 
been compromised.
Older phones are more vulnerable to hack-
ing, but new models are also at risk. To pro-
tect smartphone data, it’s recommended not 
to charge phones with random charging ports, 
Tian said. 
“We joke that the best way to prevent hack-
ing is to never charge your phone and to just 
keep buying new ones,” Tian said.What the hack: UF research reveals 
smartphones can be hacked via USB 
ONL Y 33 STUDENTS 
INTERVIEWED. 
Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Both Student Government par-
ties saw a large drop in students in-
terviewing to run for a Senate seat 
compared to last year.
A total of 33 students interview 
ed to run with either Impact Party 
or Inspire Party for Senate seats 
based on residential locations for 
the ﬁ  rst day of interviews Thurs-
day, according to the Supervisor 
of Elections Henry Fair. Interviews 
will continue 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. today 
and Tuesday.
Only 14 interviewed with In-
spire Party and 19 with Impact 
Party, which were the only politi-
cal organizations interviewing. No 
independent candidates registered.  
The total is a drop from the 139 
— 96 for Impact and 43 for Inspire 
— who showed to the ﬁ  rst day of senate-canadidate selection inter-
views in Fall 2017, according to Al-
ligator archives.
The Challenge Party, which 
was launched last Spring after for-
mer Senate President pro-tempore 
Janae Moodie resigned and disaf-
ﬁ  liated from Impact Party, was no-
where in sight. 
Wayne Selogy, the former Chal-
lenge Party campaign manager, 
said the party didn’t register be-
cause Inspire Party “has picked up 
the mantel that we started.”
A platform of “inclusivity, ac-
countability and transparency” 
brought Matthew Diaz, a 20-year-
old UF political science junior, to 
interview with Inspire Party as a 
District D candidate. The party has 
strong values that align with his 
own, he said. 
“I think that talking to different 
clubs around campus and making 
sure we as a party have a presence 
in all these different places and 
with diverse people is really impor-tant,” Diaz said.
Shaan Patel, an 18-year-old 
UF ﬁ  nance freshman, said he ﬁ  rst 
heard about Impact Party this sum-
mer and wants to run as an Inﬁ  nity 
Hall senator. 
During his interview, Patel said 
he and Impact Party members 
talked about the problems students 
have with ﬁ  nding parking. He said 
that the discussion showed how 
knowledgeable the party is on is-
sues that students care about. 
“The change is for the stu-
dents,” Patel said. “It helps the life-
style of the students here.”  
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgThe ﬁ  rst day of SG interviews commence
Fall 2018
Impact: 14
Inspire: 19Spring 2018
Challenge: 1
Impact: 8
Inspire: 32Fall 2017
Impact: 96 
Inspire: 43THE REITZ UNION WILL BE 
AN EARL Y VOTING LOCATION 
DURING HOMECOMING 
WEEKEND. 
Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
The Reitz Union is preparing for an 
unknown number of early voters to walk 
through its doors in November.
In a joint meeting Thursday, UF and 
the Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-
tions ofﬁ  ce discussed getting the Reitz 
ready for early voting for the general elec-
tion, starting Oct. 22 and ﬁ  nishing Nov. 3.
The student union was designated as an 
early voting location on Aug. 17, according 
to Alligator archives. 
October is one of the busiest months for 
the Reitz, senior director of the Reitz Myra 
Morgan said at the meeting. The student 
union averages 10,000 reservations a year 
and is booked nearly two years in advance.
“I think a lot of people in Gainesville 
don’t understand how busy this facility is,” Morgan said. 
With limited space available, room G50 
in the Reitz will be the ofﬁ  cial early voting 
location.
The space was chosen because other 
rooms inside the student union won’t be va-
cant the entire week, Morgan said. 
Parking has also been taken into consid-
eration. Twenty spaces in the Reitz parking 
lot will be made available for polling, UF’s 
Assistant Vice President of Community Re-
lations Susan Crowley said. 
Ofﬁ  cials are unsure exactly how many 
people will come out to early voting in the 
Reitz, said TJ Pyche, the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections spokesperson. The 
need for more parking spaces will depend on 
this number.
“We will continue to work with the 
university administration during the early 
voting period to ensure that the parking 
is able to adequately serve voters,” Pyche 
said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgReitz Union plans for early 
general election voting 
First day registration counts
Lindsey
Editorial
Column
FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORIt was a typical day for me on Facebook not 
too long ago. I look at deserving posts and 
give them “love” reacts in order to make 
Facebook’s heartless algorithm realize 
whatever post I’m looking at is a good one 
and deserves more love.
As if heralded by some exasperated ofﬁ  cer in 
a GroupMe, or perhaps just by sheer discipline, I 
started seeing lots of Facebook posts by my friends 
in our Women’s Student Association (WSA) over 
the course of several days, promoting their wel-
come assembly. Speaker announcement post? 
That gets a “love” react. A proﬁ  le picture frame? Smash that 
“love” react! Sharing the event for a second time now—look 
under your chair! It’s a “love” react!
Half of the WSA probably thinks I’m a weird dude, but 
that’s not what this is about — it’s about things said by other 
Student Government dudes that somehow lacked mention 
of the WSA’s assembly and the Disability Resource Center’s 
(DRC) assembly.
Let me explain. This starts with our Student Body Presi-
dent Ian Green’s welcome back letter, speciﬁ  cally the part 
that talks about the welcome assemblies: “There are some 
big welcome assemblies coming up, I encourage everyone to 
attend,” he wrote, before listing off the the assemblies for 
the Hispanic Student Association, Black Student Union, Asian 
American Student Union and Pride Student Union.
So I read it, then re-read it. I do that thing where I scrunch 
my eyes since I’m not amused; where are the WSA and DRC 
in that list?
The DRC hadn’t released the event page for its assembly at 
the time of the letter’s publication, so I can understand why 
speciﬁ  cs may not have been mentioned. This will actually be 
the ﬁ  rst ever DRC assembly, but I think that’s an even stron-
ger reason to mention it. We had the opportunity to promote 
one of our overlooked communities, but no, our SG president 
chose not to. We could have acknowledged that the assembly 
exists, but nope, we neglected to.
But for the WSA, the decision to exclude them from the list 
was even more perplexing. This is a large assembly that has been going on for years, alongside all the other 
ones. They’re an established organization and 
exclusion could have deﬁ  nitely been seen as a 
snub since every other established assembly was 
mentioned. So, does the Student Body President 
not encourage people to attend the WSA’s assem-
bly? It’s unclear.
The Student Body vice president mentioned a 
couple of the welcome assemblies at Tuesday’s 
Senate meeting but didn’t mention the WSA or 
the DRC either (though I’ll admit, his was more 
of a casual list).
I’m sure this has nothing to do with the fact that the presi-
dent, vice president and treasurer positions have all been 
ﬁ  lled by men for the last two years (a move that has drawn 
criticism, given the demographics of our campus), but it feels 
ﬁ  tting to mention it here anyhow.
In any event, the Women’s Welcome Assembly will take 
place in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Sept. 4 at 6:30 
p.m., with doors opening at 6 p.m. Speakers include Assistant 
Director of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs Diana Moreno, 
Gator Dad (President) Kent Fuchs, Director of the Intimate 
Partner Violence Assistance Clinic (IPVAC) at the University 
of Florida Levin College of Law Teresa Drake and faculty Eng-
lish professor Dr. Debra Walker King. There will also be mu-
sical and dance performances, plus free food!
The Disability Advocacy Assembly will take place in the 
Cypress Hall Gathering Room from 6 to 8 p.m. on Sept. 6. 
The purpose is to “celebrate disability identity and will high-
light student groups related to disability at UF” such as the 
Ambassadors for Disability Awareness and the Delta Alpha 
Pi honor society (for high-achieving students with disabili-
ties). Ms. Wheelchair Florida 2018, Shevaughn Barnes, will 
perform a song in sign language and UF Doctorate of Physi-
cal Therapy student Erin Waterman will deliver the keynote 
speech. There will also be refreshments.
Give these assemblies some love.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Mur-
phree Area Senator. His column appears on Fridays. Assemblies for WSA and DRC well worth your while 
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s a lovely, overcast afternoon in Gainesville. The sun beats 
away fruitlessly at the clouds that shield the Earth from a tropi-
cal inferno. Floridian humidity fogs your glasses as you step off 
the bus. You stroll toward the heart of campus with a textbook 
cradled in one arm and your Instagram feed clutched in the 
opposite hand. You, shining monument to the millennial spirit, 
are the Statue of Liberty of twenty-somethings everywhere — 
the shining beacon of social media savvy. You ﬂ  oat along the 
sidewalk still glistening from this morning’s rain. Headed to 
Library West, you pass through Turlington Plaza.
A ghostly, pale ﬁ  gure stands stock-still in the center of 
the otherwise empty, red-bricked patio. He raises his arm to-
wardsyou as you approach; in his outstretched hand is a small 
pamphlet. On its face, written in whispy white letters, a head-
line reads:
Darts and Laurels
Happy Friday, everyone. It is our distinct pleasure 
to provide you with some entertainment on your 
morning bus ride, or wherever or however you con-
sume our news. Let’s talk about the serious matters 
ﬁ  rst, and end on something uplifting.
Today marks the 345th day since Hurricane Maria made 
landfall in Puerto Rico. The death toll, measuring number of 
people that died as a result of the hurricane, has been recent-
ly updated. It now sits ofﬁ  cially at 2,975. We wish we could 
award some large, cosmic dart to weather, hurricanes, and 
natural disasters. But we can’t. What we can command is our 
response to crises. We can control how much money we al-
locate to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 
We could have controlled how much aid was sent to Puerto 
Rico after the hurricane. We could have taken it more seri-
ously. We could have done more to obviate the need for this 
long list of “could haves.”
A laurel is bestowed to those who did everything they 
could to help Puerto Rico when it needed help most, whether 
you were hands-on or donated money.
Words fail to express how many darts are aimed at those 
who brushed off Puerto Rico’s struggles — especially those 
who failed to act when the power to intervene was at their 
ﬁ  ngertips. Their inaction resulted in needless deaths. 
In other news, Andrew Gillum is now the Democratic nomi-
nee for the 2018 Florida gubernatorial election. His campaign 
was unorthodox. He spent money on highway billboards in-
stead of TV advertisements. He had a far smaller political war 
chest than his opponents and never had the same access to 
donors. For his resourcefulness, a laurel.
Remember that TV commercial where Ron DeSantis (Gil-
lum’s Republican opponent) tried to get his infant daughter to 
say “make America great again”? Yeah. Dart.
We reserve the right to award further darts and laurels in 
this race, as one candidate or another is sure to put his foot 
squarely in his mouth. We’re just going to keep these in our 
back pocket. Already, DeSantis has already made comments 
that some called “dog whistle racism,” saying that a Gillum 
governorship would “monkey things up.” 
The Justice Department made a statement of interest in a 
case between Asian American students and Harvard Univer-
sity, claiming racially driven admissions practices are harmful.
A dart to the Justice Department for trying to say that col-
leges do not have a right to weigh admissions decisions with 
race. Afﬁ  rmative action is vital to ensuring a student body is 
representative of the country’s or state’s population, and de-
pends on race-based admissions.
But this suit is inspiring for the mere fact that racial top-
ics are being discussed productively in court. While it would 
be easy to feel discouraged, to feel that racism or bigotry is 
an unsolvable problem, the discussions we’re having about it 
now suggest we can resolve these issues fairly. Everyone can 
go home with a laurel for that.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
If I walk to my car when it’s dark out, I 
always tuck my sharpest key between my 
pointer and middle ﬁ  ngers.
When I get to my car, I immediately lock 
the doors once I’m inside.
If I go running on my favorite trail by my-
self, I text at least three friends and tell them 
to keep an eye on my location through the 
Find My Friends app.
When I’m on the trail, I only leave one 
headphone in. I leave my other ear unoccu-
pied.
As a woman, I know these are precautions 
I have to take if I want to stay safe. As a wom-
an, I  know I live in a society where women 
aren’t safe and I know I exist in a culture 
where violence against women is the norm.
For me, the murder of Mollie Tibbetts was 
particularly painful to learn about.
In mid-July, Tibbetts went for a run and 
never came back. She ran the same route she 
always did and wore the same clothes she always did. The only difference 
between the run she took on July 
18, and every run she had taken 
up to that point, was this time she 
rejected a stranger’s advances and 
harassments.
When 24-year-old Cristhian Ba-
hena Rivera began to run behind 
and alongside Tibbets, she threat-
ened to call the police if he didn’t 
leave her alone. When she tried to run away, 
he chased her down. It’s understood that this 
is when he abducted and killed her.
When I read Tibbetts’ story, I saw myself. 
She was a college student in her early 20s. 
She was an avid runner. She was a creature of 
habit who ran the same route every evening. 
She even had dark brown hair, just like I do. 
Are these similarities particularly unique? No. 
But that is what scared me most. I saw myself 
in Mollie Tibbetts, and it's likely millions of 
other women did, too.After news of her murder broke, 
I didn’t run outside for a while. I 
succumbed to the repetitive, de-
pressing rhythm of an indoor 
treadmill. I hated it, but at least I 
felt safe.
Violence against women is an 
epidemic in this country. One in 
ﬁ  ve women in the U.S. has been 
raped in their lifetime. 19.3 million 
women have been stalked. 72 percent of all 
murder-suicides involve an intimate partner 
and 94 percent of these murder-suicide vic-
tims are female.
If we want to change these statistics, we 
need to change our culture. We need to ed-
ucate men and boys to respect women and 
their bodies starting from a young age. They 
need to grow up believing that women are 
their equals, not objects to abuse and objec-
tify.
Mollie Tibbetts was murdered because her attacker believed he was owed her body — 
that he, as a man, had a right to her body. 
This twisted mindset is something that exists 
below the surface of so many narratives in 
our culture.
This narrative is perpetuated when male 
characters on a TV show high-ﬁ  ve after one 
hooks up with a “hot girl.” It’s reinforced 
when fraternity boys clap as a girl walks down 
the stairs of the house in the early morning. 
It’s normalized when men target drunk wom-
en, knowing they’ll be “easy to get with.”
If we want to see an end to violence against 
women, we need to put an end to this culture. 
Men are not owed women, and they are not 
owed their bodies.
It’s time to change the narrative. It’s time 
to respect women, and it’s time to let them 
run.
Abigail Miller is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Fridays.Mollie Tibbets' story calls us to end the culture of violence toward womenColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgThe year is 2018, yet a cer-
tain subset of professors still 
cling to the notion that the per-
sonal pronoun “they” or “them” 
can only be plural. I’ve heard 
of an instance where a student 
suffered point deductions for 
using the singular “they” in 
their writing. These grammar 
“purists” ﬁ  nd themselves in 
good, authoritative company: 
Purdue OWL and the APA style guide both 
proscribe use of the singular “they.” As a 
writer lacking sufﬁ  cient tact, allow me to 
make my point clear: These professors are 
dull-witted and severely lacking the high 
ground.
No doubt, these arbiters of language 
would scoff at Chaucer and spit on Shake-
speare. They might argue that these men 
were better suited for poetry, and poetry 
does not have to follow any grammatical 
rules. Our professors examine prose writ-
ers, such as Jane Austen or Daniel Defoe, 
both of which are within the canon, and 
make use of the singular “they” pronoun. 
But looking to Austen or Defoe for linguis-
tic “correctness” could be classiﬁ  ed as a 
fallacious argument to authority. Though 
these literary giants have used the singular 
“they,” that doesn’t mean your professors 
are right.
However, to say that was fallacious, you 
would need to believe English comes from 
some outside source, or is a policeable com-
modity. It is obviously neither. English is 
a mass of words given to us by Germans 
and Frenchmen who killed each other until 
they talked differently. The only meaning it 
has is what we give it, and the only gram-
matical rules are ones we adhere to. So, 
how can such pedantry be afﬁ  rmed when 
Darren LaScotte’s 2016 study on the sub-
ject showed over 68 percent of participants 
using the singular “they” when gender was 
unknown? For a counterpoint, one might 
note Jurgen Gerner’s study, which found 
informal use at 72 percent but only 19 per-cent of participants felt the singular 
“they” to be appropriate, formally.
There is, of course, a perfectly 
ridiculous reason for this: Gerner’s 
study is from 1970, and these pro-
fessors come from the time the ge-
neric “he” was standard when refer-
ring to a person or position without 
a gender. While “they” comes to the 
singular use in the 14th century, it 
is Ann Fisher in 1745 who writes 
in her book "A New Grammar" to only use 
“he” as an indeﬁ  nite singular pronoun rath-
er than they. This is where our haunting 
relics ﬁ  nd the rule they so love. 
Undoubtedly, however, professors 
would prescribe the use of “he or she” 
without a second thought. But it’s not that 
simple, as those same grammarians reject-
ed that default, reactionary, simplistic “he/
she” construction as too clumsy. But, most 
importantly, this upholds the gender binary 
and ignores persons who don’t identify as 
male or female. Some persons aren’t he 
or she, and that’s valid.  The reason why 
I don’t present this as the only argument 
in favor of the singular “they” is so it can’t 
be rejected as merely sentimental, without 
regard for grammar. Even at our university, 
there are many people who are not sensi-
tive to others.
It’s not your job to educate anyone. I un-
derstand that. But professors are supposed 
to educate, and some are abusing this privi-
lege. If a math professor stated 2+2=5 in 
their class, everyone would ﬂ  ee during add/
drop, so why is it different for any other 
professor? If you encounter this in the class-
room, please call them out on their bull---
-. This could make the difference between 
comfort and an invalidated experience for 
some fellow students. Not everyone’s body 
reﬂ  ects their gender, and “they” is a power-
ful guard against assumption.
Levi Cooper is a UF English senior. His col-
umn normally appears on Wednesdays.'They' in the singular is good 
grammar and better for genderColumn
Levi Cooper
opinions@alligator.orgDoctors on television are 
portrayed as heroes. That’s 
not to say they can’t be in 
real life, but as a patient who 
has seen dozens of doctors in 
hopes of ﬁ  nding an answer 
and feeling better, I’m jaded. 
In my story, more often than 
not, they’re the antagonist 
rather than the helpful ﬁ  gure 
I need.
Medicine is often seen as the pinnacle 
of advancements, technology and hope. 
Yet, in practice, this is not always the 
case. Again and again, I have been met 
with dead ends; A doctor doesn’t see rea-
son to treat me. They don’t treat my type 
of pain. I have to see a different doctor 
for my issue. They won’t listen to my 
complaints and go after something else. 
It’s automatically a mental health thing.
Part of it, I think, is ego. How could 
I possibly know my body better than 
a medical professional? Why should I 
question them? Many of my doctors take 
issues as black and white. If one test 
says no, there is no possibility I have the 
issue.
Except, months down the line, some-
thing comes to fruition: I’m not crazy. 
Something was wrong. In one case, it 
took four doctors. The ﬁ  rst three said 
no. The fourth, my hero, ﬁ  nally looked 
closer and listened to my pain and de-
scriptions. As I was describing my issue, 
she said she could tell I haven’t been lis-
tened to before.
Another issue is time. Doctors have 
crowded waiting rooms, which leaves 
limited time to spend with patients. 
When a case is complex, I sense it’s eas-
ier to just blame the issue already in my 
medical chart or blame mental health is-
sues. Other times, I’m simply bounced 
from doctor to doctor. Amid referrals and 
confusion, precious time is lost. I spend 
more time waiting for an appointment 
than seeing the doctor I need. It can usu-ally be weeks, if not months, 
and still, there’s no guarantee 
any progress will be made. 
I can see where things are 
dropped. I can read my medi-
cal chart and see what the 
doctor decided to document. I 
can see how long it took for a 
referral to be made.
I’m at a point where I feel 
distrust for the medical ﬁ  eld. 
It shouldn’t be this way. I feel as though 
doctors sometimes forget I am more than 
a medical chart. Care is often cold and 
impersonal. Doctors don’t explain the 
process, leaving patients without a medi-
cal degree drowning in jargon and symp-
tomatology that they don’t understand.
Medicine itself is advanced. Once a 
problem is identiﬁ  ed, progressive medi-
cines, surgeries and other treatments can 
work toward managing an issue. How-
ever, like in hospitals, care is becoming 
increasingly robotic. Amid debates about 
healthcare itself, schooling, costs, pa-
tient distrust, doctor burnout and more, I 
think sometimes the humanity of health-
care goes overlooked. Patients need doc-
tors who listen. An attentive doctor can 
be the literal difference between life and 
death. Emotionally detached doctors can 
lead to depressed patients. A patient’s 
outlook is dependent on their doctors. If 
the doctors are detached and not helpful, 
patients lose hope.
Care, at this point, seems objective. 
However, it should be subjective. To me, 
true progressive care lies in seeing the 
idiosyncrasies of a patient. At this point, 
healthcare is commercialized. The sys-
tem proﬁ  ts based on people being sick. 
Doctors get paid for taking on more pa-
tients, but true care suffers.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Fridays.Diagnosis and treatment is more 
primitive than you thinkColumn
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
THE RESEARCHER 
PICKED OUT MAKEUP AT 
SEPHORA.
Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
UF researchers have been using 
makeup to alter the color patterns 
of certain spiders to see how it af-
fects their mating or hunting behav-
iors.
Lisa Taylor, a 39-year-old UF 
assistant research scientist, has 
always expressed an interest in 
color and art. It wasn’t until she 
took an animal behavior class and 
a spider biology class at the same 
time, however, that she said she 
realized there was a colorful family 
of animals that hadn’t been studied 
much.
Jumping spiders became her fo-
cus in 2005. Nine years later, Taylor 
came to UF and started researching 
how the spiders interacted with 
color.
Certain male spiders are like 
peacocks: colorful, loud and danc-
ing for the attention of a female. 
The colors of male jumping spiders 
vary across more than 6,000 spe-
cies. Some have bright red faces or 
bold black and white stripes, while 
others have green legs.
The purpose is to look like an 
appealing mate instead of an ap-
petizing meal for the cannibalistic 
females, she said.
“It’s an unusual balance of in-
formation the male has to send,” 
Taylor said. “We think the males are kind of exploiting females by 
putting these bright colors on their 
faces in order to tap into the female 
psychology and take advantage of 
the fact that the females don’t like 
eating those things.”
Color patterns, like red or black 
and white stripes, can often signal 
that a prey is toxic to eat.
To ﬁ  gure out how important the 
colors are, Taylor and her team of 
about 10 people decided to change 
the colors with makeup, which is 
non-toxic and can be applied deli-
cately.
Taylor said she started going 
into Sephora with little cardboard 
cards to sample the makeup and 
bring it back to the lab to measure 
the properties.
“I got a lot of weird looks,” Tay-
lor said. “Sometimes, I’d tell them 
what I’m doing if I’m looking for a 
particular color. Usually, they’re re-
ally interested.”
Taylor used black liquid eyeliner 
in some cases to cover up patterns 
on jumping spiders’ faces. She 
discovered a foundation powder 
would cover green legs.
With at least one species, cover-
ing up the color with black eyeliner 
increased the chances the female 
would attack the male, Taylor said. 
In general, they found female jump-
ing spiders pay attention to color 
differently depending on the light-
ing.
“We had a realization that these 
spiders have sophisticated cogni-
tive abilities,” she said. “Jumping 
spiders are tiny animals with tiny 
brains, but they make complex de-cisions.”
For the past two years, Michael 
Vickers, a graduate research assis-
tant working on the team, has been 
experimenting with the idea that 
jumping spiders respond to mul-
tiple signals.
“You can focus on colors as the 
main signal, however, there’s other 
things that are going on. There’s 
always questions that we can ask from this major question of colors 
as signals,” Vickers, 39, said.
In experiments, they would cre-
ate an odor from chemically defen-
dant bugs, which are toxic to eat, 
and add that to the male spiders 
with red patterns. He said the fe-
males were less likely to attack 
males when the odor was added 
and in some cases, they’d even start 
to avoid the color red.“They can learn color when an-
other stimulus is added. Jumping 
spiders have one of the best eye 
sights of all arthropods,” Vickers 
said.
jcurbelo@alligator.org
@jesscurbeloEyeliner on spiders: UF researchers experiment with color
Courtesy to The Alligator
The team researched various species of jumping spiders, including the Habronattus pyrrithrix pictured 
here. Jumping spiders include over 6,000 species.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Sara Drussell 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
To Allison O’Kell, researching 
diabetes hits close to home. 
O’Kell, a UF College of Vet-
erinary Medicine clinical assistant 
professor, said her grandmother 
has Type I diabetes. O’Kell re-
ceived a ﬁ  ve-year research grant 
worth about $730,000 to study the causes of diabetes in dogs, which 
she hopes can apply to humans as 
well, she said.
The grant, the Mentored Clinical 
Scientist Research Career Develop-
ment Award, was given to O’Kell in 
June, she said.
The research hopes to ﬁ  nd bet-
ter ways to treat the disease for 
both humans and their pets. 
She uses blood and urine sam-ples from diabetic and non-diabetic 
dogs to try to ﬁ  nd differences at a 
molecular level. She said she has 
found some molecules that are po-
tentially promising as biomarkers, 
but it’s too soon to draw any con-
clusions.   
Successfully identifying bio-
markers in blood, which predict 
the presence of diabetes, would 
allow veterinarians to test early instead of waiting for visible symp-
toms to appear, O’Kell said. 
While O’Kell’s research is spe-
ciﬁ  c to dogs, she is also working 
with Mark Atkinson and Clive 
Wasserfall from the UF Diabetes 
Institute to ﬁ  nd applications to re-
search on human diabetes. 
The collaboration between the 
UF College of Veterinary Medicine 
and the UF Diabetes Institute is fundamental to the research be-
cause they can assist each other, 
said Wasserfall, an assistant in 
pathology at the UF Diabetes Insti-
tute.
“The ﬁ  ndings are that dog dia-
betes, in some ways, is similar to 
human diabetes and other ways 
different,” Wasserfall said. “ I think 
both can learn from each other.”  UF researcher awarded grant to study causes of diabetes in dogs
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
BuzzFeed’s “Pero Like” Julissa Calderon, a 2011 UF alumna, spoke about how she 
managed to build a successful career despite obstacles she faces as an Afro-LatinaJessie White / Alligator Staff
UF President Kent Fuchs welcomed all in attendance at the Hispanic-Latinx Student 
Assembly, which took place at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom Wednesday night. UF alumnus BuzzFeed producer discusses being LatinxBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Surplus Vehicles & Equipment Auction
Walton County: Saturday,
September 15, 2018
Registration: 8:00AM; Start: 9:30AM
Location: Walton County Fairgrounds 790 N 
9th St, Defuniak Springs, Florida 32433
Preview: Friday, September 14, 9AM-3:30PM
For details, visit:
www.auctionsinternational.com
or call: 800-536-1401, Ext. 110       8-31-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
DONATE YOUR CAR - 877-654-3662
FAST FREE TOWING -24hr Response -
Maximum Tax Deduction - 
UNITED BREAST CANCER FDN:
Providing Breast Cancer Information & 
Support Programs       8-31-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or 
investing money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsFRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Part-time office assistant for law office. 
Wed. & Thurs - Noon to 5:00 p.m. Answer 
phones; take information from potential 
clients; schedule appointments; run er -
rands. Reliable transportation necessary. 
Proficiency in Microsoft Word required. 
Email Resume with salary requirements to 
receptionist@millerelderlawfirm.com.     9-7-
18-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Yardwork/some light housecleaning. Student, 
P/T a few hrs/wk. Wanted by retired UF grad. 
Close to UF, all equipment furn. $10-12/hr 
depending on exp/effectiveness. Reply w/ 
sched/ short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com     
9-7-5-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     9-14-18-
6-14
Learn how to
Make an extra $400/wk
testing apps as a student at:
www.collegeopporturnity.club     9-7-18-3-14
Part-time church secretary needed week -
day afternoons: back up to receptionist on 
phones and interacting with visitors. Looking 
for proficiency in Microsoft Suite, ACS and 
social media updates.    Email resume to 
sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.     9-10-18-4-14
Learn how to
make an extra $300 - $400 per week
doing surveys.
Go to: http://collegecashoffers.club     9-12-
18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.     8-31-1-15
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
P/T and F/T front desk positions in Gainesville 
dental office. Day and evening hours avail -
able. $14 and up, depending on experience. 
Answer phones, submit insurance claims, 
interact with patients. Email resume to gden -
taljob@gmail.com    8-31-18-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
NOW HIRING for FALL '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-5-18-6-14
Make $400 a week 
completing Surveys. Get Paid Immediately! 
Best Surveys from the brands you love! Go 
to collegejobs.team     8-31-18-5-14
NCF Public Charter School is a local drop -
out recovery high school in Gainesville. The 
school is located minutes from the UF & SFC 
campuses on NW 13th Street. Tutors are 
needed in math and are needed M-F from 
8:00 to 1:00. Tutor scheduling can be flex -
ible. $12 per hour. Call 352-379-2902    8-31-
18-5-14
Make up to $500 weekly
with this simple method. 
www.extracollegecash.club 
JOIN THE CLUB!                  8-31-18-5-14
MAKE MONEY FROM YOUR DORM 
ROOM!! Email grassed24@gmail.com for 
details     9-5-18-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.     8-31-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Quiet and easy to care for: 
Female Diamond Dove
with cage $10. Can deliver.
Contact nancyivey3@gmail.com    8-2-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
1.  Elliptical 
1.  Seer5.  Radiant
2.  Bedtime song6.  Coral reef
3.  ____ Beach7.  “____ Pizza”
4.  ____ breadBONOGL
LEORCAAOWLG
OLTAL
ULALBYL
WTRPONESCIMTY
GLIACRANSWERS: 1A-Oblong  5A-Aglow  6A-Atoll  7A-Mystic
1D-Oracle  2D-Lullaby  3D-Newport  4D-Garlic  B-Colin Powell8-31-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ grew up in NYC and graduated from the City 
College of New York with a bachelor’s degree in geology.
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Summer
refreshers
5 Hot tub features
9 Welcomed to
one’s home
14 Anti-fur-farming
org.
15 Taking care of
business
16 Split to get
together?
17 Blub needing
replacement
20 GM navigation
system
21 Maiden name
indicator
22 Parcel of land
23 Chi follower
24 Dashbaord
warning
27 Father of the
Edomites
29 Not well done
30 Scratched (out)
31 Eggnog spice
34 __ Park, Colo.
36 Prolbems caused
by nails, maybe
38 Cheering loudly
40 Tangles
44 First name in
stunt cycling
45 No longer exists
47 “I Am __”: Jenner
reality show
48 Resutl of lengthy
nonuse, maybe
52 “Appropriate for
all children” rating
53 The Vitamin
Shoppe
alternative
54 Santa __ winds
55 “Faust” dramatist
57 Suggestions in a
text message ...
and what 17-,
24-, 36-, and 
48-Across may
require, literally
and figuratively?
61 Evoking the past
62 Popped stopper
63 Fingerprint,
perhaps
64 Disdain
65 Pard’s ride
66 Didn’t go badDOWN
1 Msg. for a squad
car
2 Portia of “Arrested
Development”
3 James Bond or
George Orwell
4 Nordstrom
competitor
5 Whale of a guy?
6 Import/export
port
7 Aunt in Madrid
8 Smashed
9 Launcher of
many ships?
10 Foreman rival
11 Resembling a
dingo
12 They might offer
57-Across
13 Earned
18 And so on: Abbr.
19 Ogling ones
23 Bench press
muscle
25 Tweets, snaps,
pics, etc.
26 Passes with
mediocrity
28 Prepare to fly, as
a flag
32 Like33 Legendary
Yankees closer,
familiarly
35 Kamala Harris,
e.g.: Abbr.
37 5 and 10, e.g.
38 Street in
Manhattan’s
Alphabet City
39 Laugh at, say
41 Filthy dwelling
42 Add zip to43 Filthy dwelling
44 Mystery awards
46 Symbol of
stiffness
49 Brunch sizzler
50 Ice in a pub
51 Thus far
56 Clock sound
58 NHL legend
Bobby
59 Outback hopper
60 Game-match link
By Ross Trudeau
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/31/1808/31/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 31, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Sickly
complexion
7 Eugene of
“American Pie”
movies
11 Grand Canyon
hrs.
14 Current unit
15 Finnish telecom
giant
16 Something to slip
on?
17 Fabricated
“Murphy Brown”
star?
19 Omega-3 source
20 Ongoing
21 It can get you
down
23 Fabricated
“Help!” star?
26 Scents
27 Coalition creators
28 Olympians using
boards
30 Often-injured
knee ligament,
for short
31 Illinois River city
33 Clergy ... and
four answers in
this puzzle?
41 Fragrant blooms
42 MLB scoreboard
letters
43 Metallic sounds
45 Like some
relations
49 Language
student’s
challenge
50 Fabricated “Girls”
star?
52 Knocks their
socks off
54 Soccer star
Messi
55 Whichever
56 Fabricated 
“La La Land”
star?
61 Urban center?
62 “Your game”
63 Paradise
64 Old union
member: Abbr.
65 Sicilian volcano
66 Studio dweller
DOWN
1 __-Man
2 Q&A session on
Reddit
3 Clinic worker:
Abbr.4 Eastern
Mediterranean
region
5 Expert in futures?
6 Mix again
7 Frequent
Mastroianni 
co-star
8 Ticker tape,
briefly?
9 Goes (for)
10 Grammy-winning
satirical artist Al
11 Magnet for a
narcissist
12 Searches high
and low
13 Winter temp
range
15 Campbell of
“House of Cards”
18 Storage spots
22 Noble objective
23 Checkers move
24 Whenever
25 City whose state’s
postal code is
half its name
28 “Shoulda thought
of that!”
29 Slight reaction?
31 One-striper: Abbr.
32 “The X-Files”
subjects
34 Thinks ahead35 Something to 
slip on
36 Large deer
37 Allied gp. since
1948
38 “Are you out __?”
39 Drunken noodles
cuisine
40 Nautical wheel
43 Duplicates
44 Billy McBride on
“Goliath,” e.g.
45 Smooch in a lift46 Prove successful
47 Carol beginning
48 Rat out
49 Clinic supply
50 Writer Mario
Vargas __
51 A, to Merkel
53 __ liquor
57 “Round __ 
virgin ... ”
58 Pub initials
59 Diarist Anaïs
60 Noir pistol
By Lewis Rothlein
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/30/1808/30/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 30, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
Alberta Gator celebrated her 
34th birthday on Thursday. alligatorSports has a podcast and special guests are on 
the way!
Search "alligatorSports" in either Apple Podcasts or Spotify to listen to our week-
ly ramblings on all things UF sports. Hosted by Justin Ahlum and Chris O'Brien.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Florida no longer has a ques-
tion mark at the starting quarter-
back position.
The Gators released their 
depth chart for the 2018 season 
on Monday afternoon, which 
had redshirt sophomore Feleipe 
Franks listed as the starter ahead 
of redshirt sophomore Kyle Trask 
and freshman Emory Jones.
It seemed to be a tug-of-war 
between Franks and Trask for the 
starting job through much of fall 
camp. Both quarterbacks showed 
promising ﬂ  ashes here and there, 
which made it a tough decision 
for head coach Dan Mullen and 
quarterbacks coach Brian John-
son. 
But it was Franks’ intangibles - 
his physicality, size, arm strength 
and ability to extend plays - that 
gave him the edge over Trask, ac-
cording to Mullen.
“He’s got a strong arm. He can 
do some different things, make 
throws that a lot of people can’t 
just on pure talent. I think he’s 
got very good athletic ability,” 
Mullen said about Franks. “He’s 
got good size to be a physical 
player. He’s not worried, he’s not 
nervous about being a physical 
player. He’s got some toughness 
that way.” 
Franks played in all 11 games 
— starting in eight of them — 
and threw for 1,438 yards with 
nine touchdowns and eight in-terceptions last season. That in-
cluded his 63-yard game-winning 
Hail Mary to wide receiver Tyrie 
Cleveland against Tennessee.While Trask showed in camp 
that he was making the neces-
sary improvements to get a grasp 
of the offense, the Gators needed someone who would give them 
the best opportunity to win right 
away. The 6-foot-6, 240-pound Feleipe Franks speaks out after winning starting  spot
Alligator File Photo
Quarterback Feleipe Franks spoke with media following practice on Tuesday. 
The dawn of the Dan Mullen era lies on 
the horizon as the Florida Gators prepare for 
the ﬁ  rst game under their new head coach, 
Charleston Southern at home on Saturday 
evening. 
After 2017’s 4-7 debacle, UF will see a lot 
of positive changes on both sides of the foot-
ball. So, allow me to predict a couple.
UF ﬁ  nishes top-3 in rushing in SEC
The Gators have newfound depth at tail-
back with the return of senior Jordan Scarlett 
from suspension and sophomore Malik Davis 
from an ACL tear.
Davis, who led Florida in rushing last year 
before getting injured against South Carolina, 
will be a great compliment to Scarlett, a more 
powerful back that led the UF backﬁ  eld in 
2016. 
Pair them with junior Lamical Perine, who 
led the Gators with eight touchdowns last 
campaign, and you have an elite committee 
that few SEC teams can match, mostly be-
cause a lot of the conference’s top running backs left for the NFL. 
Georgia lost the top two cogs in its SEC-
leading ground game, Sony Michel and Nick 
Chubb, to the New England Patriots and the 
Cleveland Browns, respectively. Auburn saw 
Kerryon Johnson forgo his senior season 
only to get picked by the Detroit Lions. LSU’s 
Derrius Guice also left early only to tear his 
ACL before the Washington Redskins’ season 
opener. 
Even though Alabama lost a work horse 
in Bo Scarbrough, it still retained 1,000-yard 
rusher Damien Harris, while Mississippi State 
is bringing a 1,000-yard back of its own, Aeris 
Williams. 
My crystal ball tells me Mississippi State 
will lead the SEC in rushing, while Alabama 
and Florida will slot in at second and third. 
Jachai Polite ﬁ  nishes with All-SEC honorsBold predictions for Mullen’s ﬁ  rst yearMark My Words / OpinionsBy Alligator Staff
Sports boys and sports girls, it is time. 
After months of waiting, weeks of 
anticipation and countless articles full of 
speculation, we’re proud to report that 
the season is upon us. 
A handful of teams have already be-
gun their schedules. The UCF Knights 
began their title defense with a thrash-
ing of UConn and serious analysts had 
Hawaii in their College Football Playoff 
bracket after last weekend. 
One thing you may not be anticipat-
ing is the return of the weekly alliga-
torSports Picks Column, and for good 
reason. These are terrible. Really, really 
awful takes. 
Eight Gators writers will pick eight 
games — some relevant, some not as 
much — against the spread and see who 
comes out on top.
Before we meet our competitors for 
this season, writers Mark Stine and Ala-
nis Thames will debate the highly an-
ticipated matchup between Navy and 
Hawaii.
Navy (-10.5) will win because…
The triple option. 
It’s one of the most difﬁ  cult offens-
es to prepare for, and even though the 
Rainbow Warriors have probably dedi-
cated this past week to prepare for the 
triple option with its scout team, there’s 
no way to emulate Navy’s speed and ﬂ  u-
idity. 
Hawaii ranked 111th against the run 
(210.2 yards per game) and 106th in 
scoring offense (33.9 points per game) in 
2017. Those are not positive numbers for 
third-year coach Nick Rolovich, who will 
face the nation’s No. 2 rushing attack 
from a year ago (351.8 yards per game). 
The Midshipmen also return their 
leading rusher, senior quarterback 
Zach Abey, who averaged 117.8 yards 
per game and scored 19 rushing touch-
downs a season ago. Abey’s primary 
running back, junior Malcolm Perry also 
racked up 11 touchdowns in 2017, aver-
aging 8.6 yards per carry. 
Abey and Perry will only get bet-
ter as they’re spending another season 
under one of the masters of the option 
offense, Ken Niumatalolo, who’s mak-
ing his homecoming. Niumatalolo quar-PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7:30 p.m., Sat. 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network/850 
AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE  15
Mark Stine
@mstinejrSEE FRANKS,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
VOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
After splitting its first two match-
es last weekend in the VERT Chal-
lenge, the No. 4 Florida volleyball 
team enters the Bubly Invitational 
with its third top-ten matchup of 
the season against No. 7 USC today 
in the O’Connell Center at 7 p.m. 
The team will then face Louisville 
on Saturday and UCF on Sunday.
The Second Trojan War 
The Gators start the three-match 
invitational with a rematch of the 
emotional, five-set win over the 
Trojans in the 2017 season to ad-
vance to the final four in the NCAA 
tournament. 
In 2018, both teams will face off 
with lots of confidence.
USC (3-0) opened its regular 
season with three wins over North-
ern Iowa and Creighton, as well as 
UF’s conference rival, Kentucky. 
In those matches, the Trojans 
were led by the offensive ability of 
the outside hitting duo of sopho-
more Brooke Botkin and junior 
Khalia Lanier. 
Two Birds, One Stone
Botkin and Lanier combined 
for exactly 100 kills over the three 
matches played, including a 45-
kill performance from the pair in 
the five-set win over Creighton on 
Aug. 25. 
Florida (1-1) will look to coun-ter this with junior middle blocker 
Rachael Kramer and her solid de-
fense in front of the net, something 
that the team did not see in the loss 
against Texas on Saturday. 
In that loss, Kramer failed to 
meet the high expectations on the 
defensive end after she recorded 
only four block assists and allowed 
Longhorns’ freshman middle 
blocker Brionne Butler to record 
nine kills on just 14 swings. 
Coach Mary Wise indicated that 
this was something to work on.
“A big thing we learned against 
Texas was what it was like to play 
without Rhamat Alhassan,” Wise 
said. “Someone like Brionne Butler 
could just jump over our blocks, 
even with our size.”
In 2017, Alhassan registered 195 
blocks and averaged a nation-lead-
ing 1.70 blocks per set. Even with 
Kramer’s disappointing start to the 
season, the team is still hopeful 
that she can fill the hole Alhassan 
left. 
Wise also talked about redshirt 
sophomore Mia Sokolowski and 
her ability to play outside hitting 
positions on both the left and right 
side of the court. Wise noted that 
she hopes to get her more touches 
this weekend.
Other individual matchups will 
be crucial for Florida against this 
well-rounded USC team. 
Power vs. Patience
A highly anticipated battle will be freshman outside hitter Thay-
er Hall and her powerful offense 
against senior libero Victoria Gar-
rick’s defense in the back row for 
the Trojans.
Hall, who won SEC Freshman 
of the Week on the back of her 41 
kills in the two matches last week-
end, will be tested by one of the 
best liberoes in the country.Garrick has anchored her team’s 
defense so far this season, leading 
her team in digs in two of the three 
matches and tallied 23 digs against 
Creighton. However, the coaching 
staff for the Gators remains con-
fident in Hall and the rest of the 
team to penetrate that defense.
“We know a whole lot more 
about our team,” Wise said. “Noth-ing we could do in practice could 
replicate what we saw against [Ne-
braska and Texas] …We are excit-
ed for this weekend.”
Dylan Rudolph is a sports writer. 
Follow him on Twitter @dyrudolph 
and contact him at drudolph@alli-
gator.org.Florida begins Bubly Invitational with USC rematch
Alligator File Photo
Middle blocker Rachael Kramer had just four block assists in UF’s match against T exas on Saturday.
SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
With zero goals in its last two games, 
Florida’s soccer team has been hit with a 
major offensive lull. With the No. 2 team 
in the nation heading to Gainesville on to-
day, the Gators (2-2) will have to play to 
their full potential if they’re going to end 
their scoring drought against the Bruins 
(2-0). Here are a few of the big storylines 
for UCLA that UF will have to be ready 
for when it hosts the Bruins at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium.
The absence of their stars
Just as UF’s Deanne Rose has been 
called to international duty with the Ca-
nadian National Team, the Bruins face the 
same problem with two of their star play-
ers, forward Hailie Mace and Jessie Flem-
ing.
Mace, a California native, joins the U.S. 
squad in preparation for its international 
friendlies against Chile. She’s currently 
locked in a three-way tie for UCLA’s lead-
ing scorer, finding the back of the net in the 
final five seconds of the Bruins first match 
of the year against Long Beach State. Mace 
was first-team All-American last year, 
notching 15 goals and 33 points, and with 
her offensive game—which UCLA’s head 
coach Amanda Cromwell put as “causing 
havoc” in a release—absent from the pitch 
on tonight, the Gators should have a bit more breathing room defensively as they 
attempt to repair their uninspired offensive 
play.
Fleming will be joining UF’s Rose on 
the pitch when the Canadian National 
Team faces off against Brazil, and while 
she has yet to get on the board offensively 
this season, her presence on the Bruins is 
undeniable. Also a first-team All-American 
in 2017, Fleming put up eight assists and 
twenty points, good for third on the team 
and scored three game winning goals.With both Mace and Fleming absent, UF 
won’t have to worry about defending their 
fearsome presence on the pitch; however, 
the team may find its scoring woes con-
tinuing thanks to the keeper in the Bruins’ 
net.
The Great Wall of Los Angeles
The Gators will be tasked with facing off 
against a talented keeper in Teagan Micah, 
last week’s Pac-12 Goalkeeper of the Week. 
Micah made five saves in the Bruins’ 2-1 victory over Penn State, and she sits at fifth 
all time for UCLA in saves and career shut-
outs with 161 and 19, respectively.
Freshman Cassidy Lindley leads the 
team with five total points (one goal, three 
assists) and both Sammie Betters and Mad-
ison Alexander have scored two goals: the 
team will likely look to them to recapture 
their magic from UF’s first two games, 
magic they’ll need with Micah in net for 
UCLA.
Know Your Enemy
Despite UCLA’s success, Florida hasn’t 
been focusing on these strengths and 
weaknesses in practice; while it has dis-
cussed the Bruins and their tendencies in 
practice, the Gators are devoting most of 
their attention to themselves.
“We’re just trying to handle ourselves 
right now,” UF redshirt junior midfielder 
Parker Roberts said. “We have things we 
need to fix, and if we play how we play 
then that will take care of itself.”
Midfielder Sarah Troccoli echoed a simi-
lar sentiment.
“They’re a great team, and they always 
have been,” she said of UCLA. “I think 
we’re more focused on ourselves. We’re 
just trying to figure out what we need to 
do right now.”
Florida will square off against UCLA at 
7 p.m. 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgWhat to expect from UCLA in UF’s fourth match of season
Alligator File Photo
Midfielder Sammie Betters is tied for the team lead with two goals.  
FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Franks fit the bill.
Mullen made it clear that all three quar-
terbacks are far from the finished product 
at this point.
However, he said he doesn’t plan on 
making the QB situation a back-and-forth 
affair, and he’ll move forward with Franks 
throughout the season.
“It came down to just watching what 
Feleipe can do within the offense right now, 
where they’re all at in their development 
stages,” Mullen said. “He gives us the best 
chance to win.”
Whether Franks has improved his ability 
to make reads and get rid of the football — 
two aspects he struggled with a year ago — 
remains to be seen.
But he does seem to have command of 
the offense as well as chemistry with his 
teammates.
“Ever since we got the new coaching 
staff he’s stepped up a lot as a vocal leader,” 
sophomore offensive tackle Jawaan Taylor 
said of Franks, “and we’ve all rallied around 
him and just trusting in what he does.”
Franks told reporters after Tuesday’s 
practice that his ability to be vocal has come 
with his trust in the things he does well.
“I’m pretty confident. I can run the ball. 
I can throw the ball. It doesn’t really matter 
to me,” he said.
Franks will get the opportunity to per-
form better than the 3-5 record he compiled 
as a starter last season, but he says he’s 
not interested in rebuking his doubters this 
year. 
“I don’t have anything to prove to any-
body, it’s just going out there and build 
the confidence back up for the team so we 
can win,” Franks said. “That’s what it’s all 
about: winning.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFRANKS,  from pg. 13Franks 'pretty 
confident 'FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
It has been 29 years since the 
Florida Gators lost a home-opener, 
and this year should be no differ-
ent.
When Charleston Southern 
comes to Gainesville for a 7:30 
p.m. showdown in the Swamp on 
Saturday, it will realistically be a 
showcase game where the team 
can show the changes it has made 
over the past year. After all, the 
Gators are 39-point favorites.
Even with the big lead, there are 
still many storylines to follow be-
fore Florida takes the field to open 
the 2018 season.
How much has Feleipe Franks 
changed since last year?
UF coach Dan Mullen an-
nounced on Monday that incum-bent quarterback Feleipe Franks 
will be the starter for the Charles-
ton Southern game, and most like-
ly in the SEC-opener against Ken-
tucky next week as well.
“A lot of it we felt Feleipe and 
some of the ability to extend plays 
right now will give us the best op-
portunity to win games,” Mullen 
said. 
Anyone who watched the 
Gators last season might not agree.
Franks played in all 11 games 
and started in eight, but was pulled 
in a few in favor of Luke Del Rio 
and Malik Zaire. Injuries to both 
quarterbacks put Franks back in 
a prominent role. He threw nine 
touchdowns on the year, but 
matched that with eight intercep-
tions.
It’s a new year and a new 
coach, so the troubles that plagued 
the Gators might be over. We’ll just have to wait till Saturday.
“I have a lot of ways to go grow-
ing as a player, growing as a quar-
terback,” Franks said. “But I think 
coach Mullen and coach Johnson 
are doing a good job of moving that 
along a little quicker than what I 
was doing myself, so it’s going 
good.”
How will Mullen fare in his 
first game in a semi-different en-
vironment?
To say semi-different is a bit of 
a stretch.
Mullen was the offensive coor-
dinator at Florida during the Urban 
Meyer (2005-2010) years in which 
the Gators won two national titles.
But he was never running the 
team. That is, until now.
Inheriting a team with players 
that aren’t his, Mullen and his team 
will look to make a strong showing against Charleston Southern. Luck-
ily for him, the Buccaneers are a 
familiar opponent. Mullen played 
against them last year in the sea-
son-opener when he was the head 
coach of Mississippi State.
“Interesting deal getting to play 
Charleston Southern,” he said. 
“Second year in a row opening up 
with them for me, as a staff, not 
the team here but for our coach-
ing staff. So it’s a different, it’s a 
unique deal.”
Florida coaches are 19-7 in their 
season debuts, and with the Gators 
riding a 28-game home-opener 
winning streak, expect Mullen to 
add to those numbers.
Who will replace Eddy Pin-
eiro?
The real question is “Who are 
Gators fans going to chant for on 
fourth downs?”With Pineiro in Oakland af-
ter signing with the Raiders, the 
Gators were left with a huge void 
at kicker. Two people are fighting 
for it, and we mostly likely won’t 
know who won that battle until the 
opening kickoff.
The first one vying for the spot 
is redshirt-senior Jorge Powell, 
who was in the starting role in 
2015 and played in four games be-
fore a season-ending injury took 
him out. He’s been in the back-up 
role ever since.
The next is freshman Evan 
McPherson. He was ranked as 
the No. 1 kicker of the 2018 class 
according to both Rivals and 
247sports.
According to the latest depth 
chart, both are tied for the lead.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgThree storylines to follow when UF opens its regular season
A lot of fans must see Jachai Polite start-
ing over CeCe Jefferson at the BUCK posi-
tion of Florida’s defense and think, “Good 
for Polite, but when CeCe’s back to 100 per-
cent, he’ll be starting again.”
I’m going to dismiss that notion, because 
Polite is going to have a breakout 2018. 
Coaches, Mullen included, have been 
impressed by Polite’s effort. He’s the player 
that won the distinction as UF’s “juice guy” 
most frequently in fall camp, the title given to the defensive player that comes to prac-
tice with the most energy. 
Defensive tackle Tedarrell Slaton called 
Polite a future first-round pick in the NFL 
Draft. 
“He has the best close out of anybody on 
this team,” Salton said.” He’s really quick 
on his feet, light, and he can run from any 
side of the field, he’s going to chase the 
ball.”
Slaton also said Jefferson would agree 
about Polite’s close-out speed, and he cited 
a time in practice where the quarterback rolled out to the opposite side of the field 
as Polite, but the junior still ran the passer 
down to record a sack. 
Look for defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham to utilize Polite’s quickness and 
Slaton’s power by using stunt packages to 
disguise blitzes. They’ll be a deadly combi-
nation on UF’s defensive line. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 13terbacked the ‘Bows to their first 
major bowl game in 1989, the 
Aloha Bowl against Michigan 
State.
It’ll be a productive day run-
ning the football in a comfortable 
setting for the Navy head coach. 
-- Mark Stine
Hawaii (+10.5) will win 
because…
Hawaii is still riding the upset 
wave after a 43-34 road win over 
Colorado State in last week’s sea-
son opener.
The Rainbow Warriors’ next 
victim? A Navy team that finished 
2-4 in true road games last season 
and one that Hawaii has beaten 
two out of the teams’ three meet-
ings.
The Rainbow Warriors will 
likely stick to the run-and-shoot 
offense that helped them pile on 
617 total yards and score on six 
of their first seven possessions 
last week. 
And even though quarterback 
Cole McDonald will make just his 
second career start on Saturday, 
he was really, really good against 
Colorado State. The sophomore 
recorded five touchdowns (three passing, two running) and went 
26-of-37 for 418 yards, which was 
the most passing yards by a Ha-
waii quarterback in his first start. 
He should thrive against the 
Midshipmen, who finished ninth 
in the AAC in defense efficiency 
against the pass last year. 
Hawaii will also get a lift on 
defense with the return of leading 
tackler Jahlani Tavai, who missed 
the opener due to suspension.
Winning the defensive plays 
will be vital against the Midship-
men’s triple option offense, and 
Tavai will help cause disruption 
at the line of scrimmage.
Sure, Navy’s offense will be a 
test. But expect coach Nick Ro-
lovich’s updated run-and-shoot to 
get the upset and have us scratch-
ing our heads at Hawaii for one 
more week.
-- Alanis Thames
Now, onto the picks!
First up is sports editor Mor-
gan “I bless the rains down in Af-
rica” McMullen, who has found 
at least 578 iterations of the popu-
lar song by Toto since he heard 
it for the first time at a Gators 
baseball game. We get it Morgan, 
it’s an amazing song. But playing 
a $1 piano version of it doesn’t 
make it any better. Second is the Alligator’s own 
Jake “I only like the bad New 
York sports franchises” Dreil-
inger. Jake may try and convince 
you he can pick college football, 
put his favorite teams are the 
Jets, the Mets AND the Knicks. 
Hey Jake, you’re not fooling any-
one. I’d say just have your grand-
mother pick the games for you, 
but I’m sure she shares the same 
allegiances. 
Next is staff writer Mark “Old 
man trapped in a 20-something’s 
body” Stine. A receding hairline 
and a love for classic rock and 
whiskey definitely betray the 
truth. We know this is a Benja-
min Button-style problem, sir. 
You have our sympathies.
After Mark is staff writer Ala-
nis “Senior by credits” Thames. 
This is honestly a tough one be-
cause not a bad word could ever 
be said our Alanis. But for what 
it’s worth, she hates the nomen-
clature. So take THAT!
Coming in fifth is the Orlando 
Sentinel’s Edgar “Why can’t we 
get the sources we want” Thomp-
son, who’d rather be playing 
golf then talking to some of the 
players provided on media days. 
Edgar, you concur with UF defen-
sive coordinator Todd Grantham 
that the only fun hobbies to have 
are fishing or golfing, you just 
chose the opposite from him. Next is the Gainesville Sun’s 
Graham “Expert Uber driver” 
Hall, who decided to leave the 
field of sports journalism and be-
come an Uber driver after taking 
one to Dan Mullen’s press confer-
ence on Monday. It’s 2018 man, 
you gotta do what you gotta do 
to get by. Just don’t expect us to 
leave you five stars … or a tip. 
Following Graham is Ga-
torCountry's Nick “I can eat a 
64-ounce steak” de la Torre, who 
claims he ate a porterhouse so 
big it could feed a small village 
of needy children. However, it 
seems you fell from the graces of 
eating massive prime cuts to the 
pizza contest at the CiCi’s all-you-
can-eat buffet. What happened, 
Nick?
Last is the AP’s Mark “I like 
to intimidate alligatorSports writ-
ers” Long. Our own Chris O’Brien 
filled in for some baseball and 
football coverage over the sum-
mer and got rubbed the wrong 
way by Long’s… ummm… we’ll 
call it a strong personality. He can 
be a bit abrasive, to say the least. 
Quit making our writers uncom-
fortable, sir. 
See back of paper to find out who 
picked whom. PICKS,  from pg. 13Hawaii posted 617 yards of offense last week16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.
GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The NCAA Divi-
sion I Men’s Golf 
Committee an-
nounced Thursday 
afternoon that Flori-
da men’s golf coach 
J.C. Deacon has 
been issued a public 
reprimand for his 
actions at the 2018 NCAA Division I 
Men’s Golf National Championships 
in Stillwater, Oklahoma, on May 28. 
The reprimand stemmed from an 
incident at the scoring area during 
the tournament. In an attempt to de-
fend one of his players, Deacon un-
leashed a ﬁ  ery diatribe that the com-
mittee found to be unprofessional 
and escalatory.
“The committee actively encour-
ages coaches and student-athletes to 
display good sportsmanship through-
out the season and during the cham-pionship,” Brad Hurlbut, chair of the 
Division I Men’s Golf Committee and 
deputy director of athletics at Sacred 
Heart, said in a statement. “The com-
mittee does not believe that coach 
Deacon’s behavior at this year’s 
championships belongs in the game 
of golf.”
In response, the UAA issued this 
statement, per Golfweek:
“The UAA is aware of the situa-
tion, which arose out of coach Dea-
con’s passionate defense of a Florida 
player. Coach Deacon has been very 
proactive throughout the process and 
has reached out and apologized to the 
appropriate people. We are now look-
ing forward to our upcoming season.”
The Gators ﬁ  nished four strokes 
outside of the top 15 and were elimi-
nated from the tournament, ending 
their season. Their 2018-19 season 
begins on Sept. 7 with the Carpet 
Capital Collegiate in Dalton, Georgia. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell1@uﬂ  .edu Men’s golf coach issued 
public reprimand
Deacon
alligatorSports meme of the weekFRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
FLORIDA offense vs. CHARLESTON SO. defense
Nick
BuchananCFeleipe 
FranksQBJordan 
ScarlettRB
Jonathan 
GloverDE
Jonathan 
SlatonCB
Jarrod 
StanleyCB
Jahid 
BeamonNT
J.D. 
SosebeeWILLSolomon 
Brown BUCK
Edward 
KingMIKE
Craig 
JohnsonSAM
Brandon 
RowlandS
Shadarius 
HopkinsSTyler
JordanLG
Martez
IveyLT
Tyrie
ClevelandWR
Fred
JohnsonRG
Jawaan
T aylorRT
Van 
JeffersonWR
FLORIDA defense vs. CHARLESTON SO. offense
Joe
GoldC
London
JohnsonQB
Ronnie
HarrisRBBrackin
SmithLTZack
EvansLG
Stephen
HaralambisRG
Gage
BostwickRT
Qua-Von
ScottTEVosean
JosephMLB
Jachai
PoliteBUCK
Elijah
ConliffeNT
T edarrell
SlatonDT
Marco
WilsonCBChauncey
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR David
ReeseMLBJeawon
T aylorS
Donovan
StinerS
Kameron
BrownWR
T errence
WilsonRBSaire
DavisWRJabari
ZunigaDE
C.J.
HendersonCBJohnny 
RobinsonDTC’yontai
LewisTE
Josh 
HammondWR“(Johnny) actually got to room 
with Eddy for camp, so he’s been 
with him the past 15 weeks in a 
hotel,” said Tommy Townsend, 
Johnny’s younger brother and 
starting UF punter. “I’m surprised 
they haven’t chopped each other’s 
heads off. But they’re closer. I’m 
not really too worried about ei-
ther of them. They both have their 
heads screwed on.”
New bonds and friendships 
have been built in the wake of Pi-
neiro’s and the elder Townsend’s 
departures. Long hours at the 
Gators’ indoor practice facility — 
clearly separated from the rest of 
the team performing drills outside 
— have developed relationships in 
the forge of isolation. 
***
Nobody knows who UF’s start-
ing placekicker will be as of Thurs-
day night. Last week Mullen said 
he wanted to see how each kicker 
reacted under pressure the closer it 
got to game day.
“They haven’t been in this situ-
ation where they’re expected to 
go kick on a Saturday, he said. “I 
mean, that could be something that 
gets decided as we run out of the 
tunnel… All of a sudden, you go 
in there and you get into pre-game 
warmups and one guy freaks out.”
The Gators landed Evan McPher-
son — the top kicking prospect in 
the nation according to 247Sports 
— in Mullen’s first recruiting class. 
McPherson originally commit-
ted to Mullen while he was still at 
Mississippi State on April 8, 2017. 
A few months later on Nov. 26, 
Mullen agreed to sign with Florida 
as its 27th head football coach. 
Mullen offered McPherson a schol-
arship the very same day. On Dec. 
8, he took his first and only official 
visit to Gainesville. Two days later, 
he decommitted from MSU and 
pledged to sign with the Gators.
They also have a seasoned vet-
eran waiting in the wings in red-
shirt senior Jorge Powell. He was 
the only Gator kicker to make a 
field goal during the spring game 
on his lone attempt from 45 yards 
out. To him, the budding friend-
ship between the two kickers has 
a similar feel to it as the one from 
last season.
“(McPherson) reminds me a lit-
tle bit of myself my freshman year,” 
Powell said. “Definitely very simi-
lar to how me and Eddy worked. 
Me and Evan have been compet-
ing a lot in practice and stuff, and 
it just gets you better if you have 
someone that can compete with 
you. It makes you go harder.”
The Punt Team
Tommy Townsend has the 
pedigree. He has a firm grip on the 
starting punting job in an age of 
uncertainty in Gators football.
Tommy Townsend also has be-lief in the staff’s renewed emphasis 
on special teams.
“This year, coach Mullen really 
is making it a statement to be on 
special teams,” Townsend said, 
“so everyone has this new urge to 
want to be on special teams, which 
is good.”
Townsend said he wasn’t quite 
satisfied with how his camp has 
gone, but it’s hard to argue with 
with his results in the spring game. 
He averaged 45.5 yards per punt 
and boomed a 55-yarder from his 
25-yard line to the opponents’ 20.
***
Mullen said he wants starter-
caliber athletes on punt teams. He 
thought it was funny that other 
coaches would put reserves and 
backups in during punt coverage.
“I ask coaches all the time. I’ll 
say ‘Hey, I don’t think this guy’s 
good enough to start on special 
teams and you’re gonna start them 
on offense or defense?’” he said. 
“‘What are you seeing?’”
One of the members of the now-
coveted punt coverage team could 
be redshirt senior R.J. Raymond. 
He’s currently the backup to start-
ing tight end C’yontai Lewis. Ray-
mond was surprised by Mullen 
with a scholarship offer after prac-
tice on Aug. 20.
“That was just a huge weight off 
my shoulders and it let me know 
that everybody around here is ap-
preciating the work and the time 
that I’ve put into this,” Raymond 
said. “It was awesome.”
Mullen praised him for working 
toward whatever his team needed 
him to do. Raymond has been used 
as a linebacker, defensive lineman, 
fullback and tight end. He said he 
called his mom right when he got 
to the locker room that night to 
share the good news.
“She was actually with my dad 
and my grandma,” Raymond said. 
“And so she put her on speaker 
phone and they were all jumping 
up and down screaming and yell-
ing and super excited. It was pretty 
cool.”
***
Redshirt junior Nick Villano 
was awarded a scholarship the 
same night as Raymond. The 
6-foot-3, 290-pound offensive line-
man hasn’t appeared in a game 
during his time as a Gator. That 
could change this weekend as the 
Wellington, Florida, native is said 
to be a starting member of the punt 
coverage team, according to Mul-
len.
“They’re both starting on punt 
team and that makes them the elite 
of the elite on the team,” Mullen 
said. “They’re the best of the best if 
you’re gonna be on the punt team.”
Villano was equally stunned 
when his name was called after 
Raymond’s.
“I was kind of in shock,” Villano said. “It was a good feeling. Words 
really can’t describe the feeling.”
Villano is listed as third on the 
depth chart at the starting center 
position. But that hasn’t stopped 
him from seeing what his coaches 
see.
“It’s a good feeling just to have 
a coaching staff that actually be-
lieves in you,” he said. “It’s awe-
some.”
The Long Snapper
One of the few members on the 
special teams unit with extensive 
experience is Ryan Farr. The se-
nior from Henderson, Nevada, has 
started at long snapper every game 
of his Gators career.
Don’t know who Ryan Farr is? 
Don’t sweat it too much. He re-
cently went undercover as a UF 
supporter during Fan Day and got autographs from some of his team-
mates.
Few recognized him.
“I know all the guys, but they 
all know I mess around,” Farr said. 
“I was just kind of keeping my 
head low and just having some fun 
with it. You gotta have a little bit of 
fun during camp, especially my last 
time around.”
Farr will be responsible for 
getting the ball to Townsend this 
season. He said the competition be-
tween the new specialists has been 
worthy of the recent memory of 
two Gators mainstays.
“Obviously huge shoes to fill 
with Johnny and Eddy being 
gone,” he said. “Just working with 
them was incredible. But the new 
guys coming in, we have Jorge and 
Evan kicking, and they both have 
had a great competition throughout camp. Even Jorge has been going 
over there punting and he’s been 
hitting some bombs.”
The punter has been set. Mullen 
said he believes he has a starting 
punt coverage unit. All the hype 
over quarterback competitions and 
transfer standouts and a new de-
fense has overshadowed the spe-
cial teams battles still raging.
But the battles are worth fight-
ing. Mullen said he thinks as much. 
As has Powell and Townsend and 
Raymond and Villano and Farr.
“I think we will be set with spe-
cialists this year. Obviously, mas-
sive shoes to fill, but I think they 
will be all right.”
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgSPECIALISTS,  from pg. 17Kicker still undecided4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2018FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
Today:
Soccer vs. UCLA @ 7:00 PM
Volleyball vs. Southern California @ 7:00 PM
Saturday:
Volleyball vs. Louisville @ 5:00 PM
Football vs. Charleston Southern @ 7:30 PM
Sunday:
Volleyball vs UCF @ 3:30 PM
Soccer Vs. Southern California @ 6:00 PMTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTSPICKS
C.S. @ UF (-39.5)
OREGON ST. @ OHIO ST. (-38.5)
OLE MISS @ TEXAS TECH (-2.5)
MICHIGAN @ NOTRE DAME (-1)
BYU @ ARIZONA (-11.5)
MTSU @ VANDY (-3)
WASHINGTON @ AUBURN (-2)
NAVY @ HAWAII (+10.5)Morgan
UF
UFOhio St.
Ohio St.Ole Miss
Ole MissND
NDAZ
AZVandy
MTSUAU
AUNavy
NavyMark L.Jake
UF
UFOhio St.
Ohio St.Ole Miss
TTND
UMAZ
AZMTSU
VandyAU
AUNavy
HawaiiEdgarMark S.
UF
UFOhio St.
Ohio St.TT
Ole MissND
NDAZ
AZVandy
VandyAU
AUNavy
NavyGrahamAlanis
UF
UFOhio St.
Ohio St.Ole Miss
Ole MissUM
UMBYU
BYUVandy
VandyAU
WAHawaii
NavyNick