We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Q&A: We sit down with a GPD oﬃ   cer
Ofﬁ  cer Dontonya Smith works with young adults with aspira-
tions of joining up with law enforcement, pg. 3
City Commission discusses alternative IDs
Commissioners talked about a new form of ID for those without 
them. The meeting then turned to accusations of racism, pg. 10Should Urban Meyer be in the Ring 
of Honor?
alligatorSports columnist Chris O’Brien 
believes the three-time championship-winning 
coach deserves a spot, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 104
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Cesar Evans glanced at the silent 
auction bid sheet in front of his light 
red and blue painted mannequin ti-
tled “Indivisible.”
Paint smears and lines forming 
abstract symbols and shapes started 
from the neck, wrapped around the 
torso and curved down the legs. In-
spiration for his pieces came from 
his love of painting robots and de-
sire to portray human emotions and 
predicaments.
He was surprised to see three bids 
on his mannequin rise to $70 only 
minutes after the auction began.
Saturday marked the inaugural 
“Artists Supporting Pride — Rain-
bow Spirits,” where local artists like 
Evans transformed 25 Macy’s man-
nequins, called Rainbow Spirits, into 
artwork. It was hosted by the Pride 
Community Center.
More than 100 Gainesville com-
munity members attended, and all 
but three mannequins sold, event 
co-organizer Tom Miller said.
The actual amount raised for the 
Pride Community Center will not be 
known until Tuesday, but Miller said 
at least a couple thousand dollars 
were raised. The money will help 
fund the center’s health programs 
and Oct. 20 Pride parade downtown.
“It was just such a good feeling 
(seeing) a good-spirited community 
coming together,” Miller said. “Ev-
erybody came just ready to be pow-
erful.”
The art show displayed full-body 
mannequins around the room’s pe-
rimeter with smaller ones hanging 
on the wall. Some had only painted ‘Artists Supporting Pride — Rainbow Spirits’  
Auction raises thousands of dollars for Pride events
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff
Painted mannequins were displayed in the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida as part of the “Rainbow Spirits” art 
installation on Saturday evening. The event aimed to raise money for Pride 2018.
SEE RAINBOW,  PAGE 4
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Senate is set to vote on a resolu-
tion for “Recognizing the Need for Contin-
ued Efforts to Optimize 24/7 Access to Study 
Spaces and Libraries on Campus.” 
The vote will take place at the Senate’s meeting tonight even as there is no 24/7 li-
brary on campus to optimize.
At the last Senate meeting, Student Body 
President Ian Green said he had been working 
with the Dean of University Libraries Judith 
Russell to potentially make changes to Library 
West’s overnight hours. They discussed ex-
tending the hours to 2 a.m.But the hours will not be extended, said 
Patrick Reakes, senior associate dean of 
scholarly resources and services of George A. 
Smathers Libraries. 
Starting this fall, hours for Library West 
will be 8 a.m. to 1 a.m. Monday through 
Thursday and 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Friday, 
Reakes said. On weekends, it will be open 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday and 10 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
Sunday.
Extending the weekday closing time would 
require the creation of another part-time posi-
tion, Reakes said.
“And we were like, ‘With the cost of do-
ing that, hell, we might as well do 24 hours,’” 24/7 library debate continues with Student Gov’t resolution
SEE LIBRARY,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 104
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. TUESDAY through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the writ-
ten consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published TUESDAY, Wednesday 
and Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic 
terms The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
HIGH  91° LOW  74°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Study abroad info session
There will be an information ses-
sion Wednesday at 3 p.m. in Bryan 
Hall, Room 130 highlighting the 
UF in Beijing, Dublin, London, Ma-
drid, Paris and Rome study abroad 
programs. Programs are offered 
every semester. All UF students 
and majors are welcome. RSVP on 
Facebook at the Study Abroad Ses-
sion - July 25 event page. Contact 
Lucy DiLeo at 352-273-0151 if un-
able to attend the session.
FDOT to host public meeting to 
discuss changes to SR 26 in 
Newberry
The Florida Department of Trans-
portation (FDOT) will host a public 
information meeting Thursday 
night to discuss proposed changes 
to State Road 26 (West New-
berry Road) in Newberry. FDOT is 
considering a pair of alternatives 
to reduce future congestion on 
State Road 26 through Newberry, 
between the Gilchrist County line 
and County Road 26A (Newberry 
Lane). The proposals could include 
changes to both State Road 26 and 
Northwest First Avenue, which 
is one block north of State Road 
26. Currently, State Road 26 and 
Northwest First Street allow trafﬁ  c 
to travel in both the eastbound 
and westbound directions. FDOT 
is seeking feedback from local 
residents on the proposed projects. 
The meeting will take place from 
4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at the City 
of Newberry Municipal Building, 
located at 25440 W. Newberry 
Road. Staff will be available to dis-cuss the projects and informational 
boards, maps and handouts will be 
available. The meeting will have 
an open house format followed by 
a formal comment period. More 
information about the proposed 
project can be found at nﬂ  roads.
com/WestNewberryRoad.
Gear up GatorNights on Friday
GatorNights will host a “Dooms-
day Escape Room” in the Reitz 
Union, Room 2325 from 8 p.m. to 
midnight. Challenge your friends 
to a game of laser tag or enter the 
archery competition in the Reitz 
Union Rion Ballroom. Refuel at 
the s’mores bar or stick around 
for nachos at midnight munchies. 
This week’s ﬁ  lm, “A Quiet Place,” 
will have screenings at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. Participants can create 
their own suncatcher or design a 
tiki can cooler in the Arts & Crafts 
Center from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
GatorNights is free for UF students 
with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz 
Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. At-
tendees must be current students 
to participate and are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest to 
the event.
Grand opening celebration of 
Library Partnership and 
Neighborhood Resource 
Center
Alachua County Library District in-
vites the community to the Grand 
Opening Celebration of its Library 
Partnership and Neighborhood 
Resource Center on Aug. 11 at 10 
a.m. at 912 NE 16th Ave. Everyone 
is invited to meet the staff and enjoy refreshments while learning 
more about the many library and 
community services available for 
all ages. The 10,000 square foot 
building features a large commu-
nity meeting room, study rooms, a 
quiet reading room, a vibrant teen 
space and a children’s area with 
a Snuggle Up Center designed for 
innovative programming, com-
puter and literacy classes, MAKER-
space opportunities and essential 
social services. Ownership of this 
property ensures proper building 
maintenance and management 
with the same quality and efﬁ  cien-
cy standards as our other libraries. 
For additional information, please 
visit the Library District’s eBranch 
at aclib.us or contact Nickie Kortus 
at nkortus@aclib.us or call 352-
334-3909.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? Send 
an email with "What's Happen-
ing" in the subject line to editor@
alligator.org. To request publica-
tion in the next day's newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 
p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events and 
keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted "What's 
Happening" submissions may not 
appear in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 104
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
When she was about 13, Gainesville Police 
Officer Dontonya Smith joined the Police Ex-
plorers as a part of Post 917, the local section 
in Gainesville. About 32 years later, the Florida 
Association of Police Explorers named her the 
2018 “Explorer Advisor of the Year.”
The Police Explorers is a program offered 
for young adults from when they enter high 
school until they’re 20 years old. Members 
meet weekly, learn about different aspects 
of law enforcement and help GPD officers at 
events.
I met with Smith at the Oscar B. Lewis Cen-
ter, where the Explorers meet, to talk about her 
background with the program and her recent 
accomplishment.
Q: Tell me how you felt winning “Ex-
plorer Advisor of the Year.”
A: Shocked. (laughs) I don’t really like the 
spotlight, so it’s almost uncomfortable for me 
but I’m one of those people. I love to work, but 
I’m kind of that behind-the-scenes worker. I’m 
grateful that someone took knowledge to what 
I do, but it’s still kind of — I think there’s a lot 
of people involved in what I do, so I think it 
stands out for a bunch of us.
Q: How did you win the award? Did you 
apply or were you nominated?
A: My lieutenant put me in. He’s now re-
tired. Lt. (Steve) Weaver retired in the begin-
ning of June, but before he left, he put me in 
for this award.
Q: And when did you find out?
A: They gave me the award and thanked 
me at the end of the year conference that we 
did at the end of June (pauses) or beginning 
of July (laughs) — somewhere in there. I’ve 
been traveling a lot. My days are all running together.
Q: So, how long have you been working 
with the Explorers?
A: I have been at GPD since 2000, so 18 
years now, and I’ve been working with the 
Explorers since around 2012. Well, I take that 
back. I worked with them some before then, 
but I’ve been their adviser since 2012.
Q: How was the growth in becoming an 
adviser for the Explorers and working with 
them for the past six years?
A: It was my goal. Everybody has their 
goals when they become cops. Some people: “I 
just want to be K-9. I want to be a detective.” 
I actually like working with youth, so that was 
my goal: to work and to be an Explorer adviser.
I was an Explorer for GPD, so I’ve come through the ranks of Explorer all the way to 
police officer. I was kind of like, “That’s what 
I want to do. I want to go back and help kids 
the way those guys helped me.” I wanted to 
give back.
Q: How old were you when you joined 
the Explorers?
A: Wow, 13 or 14. So, I’ve been working in 
law enforcement since like 13 or 14. You can 
start now at 14, but back then, we were a little 
younger when we started. 
To make it even funnier, Chief (Tony) 
Jones — who is now the chief of police — was 
my Explorer advisor when I was an Explorer. 
So literally, he’s known me since I was 13. 
(laughs) That’s how far back we go. I call him 
my GPD daddy because he’s known me longer than a lot of folks have.
Q: What inspired you to join the Explor-
ers when you were so young?
A: Because I thought I wanted to be the po-
lice, and I really like exploring because it gives 
you an idea. You get to see what all the police 
do, and you get to decide. I’ve had some kids 
that become Explorers, and then they decide, 
“Oh, yeah, this isn’t what I want to do.”
But, it does give you every facet of law en-
forcement. We have meetings every week, and 
every week I bring in different people, too. I 
bring in other agencies so that they can see it’s 
not just GPD. I’ll also do military because it’s 
also a paramilitary group. I have the military 
come talk to them about what they offer. So, 
the kids can see a little bit of everything.
I love the fact that back then, I kind of, “Oh 
maybe I want to be the police. Let me see.” 
And sure enough, I did. I came back to be the 
police.
Q: What was it about the experience that 
kind of pushed you forward into this career?
A: It was such a family unit, and that’s the 
one thing I love about my crew now and I try 
to keep it that way. I always say these are my 
kids, and I always tell the parents, “When I 
have your child, it’s like they’re mine.”
When you become law enforcement, it’s 
like you’re one big family so they get to see 
how that’s like even as an Explorer. That’s the 
part I love the most. But it was that way when 
I was an Explorer. Like I said, I called Chief 
Jones my GPD daddy, and Lonnie Scott was 
a captain when he retired. I called him Uncle 
Lonnie because these guys were like older 
when I was an Explorer, and that’s what I re-
member them like: my uncle and my fake dad. 
That’s what it was like.
This interview has been edited for length. To 
read the full version, visit alligator.org. Q&A: GPD Officer Dontonya Smith and the Police Explorers
Courtesy of Dontonya Smith
Officer Dontonya Smith (center) displays her “Explorer Adviser of the Year” award.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
torsos and some only a waist and 
legs.
Each mannequin had a silent 
auction sheet in front of it with 
a place for bidders to write their 
name and a dollar amount. The 
minimum bid was $50.
Pamphlets including photos of 
each mannequin alongside their 
artist’s biography were available 
for a $10 donation, which went to 
shampoo, laundry detergent and 
toiletries for Gainesville residents 
with HIV/AIDS.The center’s volunteers served 
food, wine and beer while artists 
mingled with friends, family and 
community members. Janet Krews, 
creator of “JET - Janet’s Evil 
Twin,” stood out beside her man-
nequin with silver sparkly lipstick 
and rainbow colored hair-pieces.
“She’s got a bunch of nooks and 
crannies,” Krews said laughingly 
about her Rainbow Spirit.
Krews transformed the stomach 
into a door with lights and knick-
knacks inside, and a small wire 
bird cage with a red heart inside 
popped out of the chest. Small 
army men clung to her legs, thighs and hips.
Evans, who had two pieces at 
the silent auction, said he felt hon-
ored to be asked to participate.
“I think what really inspires me 
is seeing so many different artists 
have different interpretations with 
the same basic form,” Evans said 
about ﬁ  nally seeing the pieces re-
vealed. “I feel like it’s the perfect 
metaphor for what the art show is 
about. We’re all human, but we’re 
all so different.” 
     See more photos from this event 
on page 8. 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgRAINBOW,  from pg. 1Auctions for each piece started at $50By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Staff Writer
The Road to Change tour is stopping by 
Gainesville this Thursday, revitalizing the 
debate for gun reform, school safety and the 
student-voter movement.
The event is being organized by Jovanna 
Liuzzo, an Eastside High School senior. It 
will feature three simultaneous protests at 
the district ofﬁ  ces of Rep. Ted Yoho, Sen. 
Keith Perry and Rep. Chuck Clemons from 
11 a.m. to noon. Liuzzo will be a panel mem-
ber and is ﬂ  ying home from Europe the night 
before to participate.Andrew Garﬁ  eld, president of Never 
Again Florida, the UF chapter of the #Nev-
erAgain movement, is a co-organizer of the 
event with Liuzzo.
“My favorite part of these protests is see-
ing how creative people get with their post-
ers,” Garﬁ  eld said.
There is no expected turnout count for the 
protests, and everyone is invited to partici-
pate.
Clemons, who will not be in town Thurs-
day, said his ofﬁ  ce is aware of the planned 
protest and will be open for its normal busi-
ness hours.
Staz Guntek, a representative from Sen. Perry’s ofﬁ  ce, said Perry has “expressed in-
terest” in being present for the protest, but 
there are no ofﬁ  cial plans yet.
Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce did not answer requests for 
comment before The Alligator’s deadline.
The event will continue with a series of 
speeches, a panel discussion and Q&A op-
portunities from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the 
Gainesville Woman’s Club.
The last hour is unscheduled so attendees 
may register to vote, meet the speakers and 
eat.
“This is going to be a fantastic event for 
our city,” Liuzzo said.
Other conﬁ  rmed speakers and panel members are:
Robert Schentrup, father of Carmen 
Schentrup, a victim of the Parkland massacre
Liz Stout, a survivor of the Parkland mas-
sacre
Aagneya Singh Banerjee, an 11-year-old 
who previously organized a walkout at his 
school, Joseph Williams Elementary School
Andrew Garﬁ  eld, Julia Cordover and 
Zachariah Xu of Never Again Florida
Garﬁ  eld said around 800 people are ex-
pected to attend the evening event, though 
he and Liuzzo have prepared to host more 
than 1,000 if community turnout is higher.‘Road to Change’ brings gun debate, voter awareness to Gainesville
Reakes said.
Student positions and two 
temporary full-time positions 
were already cut because Li-
brary West will no longer be 
24/7, Reakes said.
Funding for the libraries 
comes from state appropria-
tions, Reakes said. That money 
then passes through the Ofﬁ  ce 
of the Provost.
But overnight hours are 
funded differently.
Historically, Student Govern-ment covered the cost of fund-
ing a library overnight, Reakes 
said. Last year, the Ofﬁ  ce of the 
Provost covered the bill while 
studies on usage were conduct-
ed.
When the provost took on 
funding the overnight hours, he 
never indicated that the funding 
would continue past the initial 
assessment period, Reakes said.
“It’s like everybody else on 
campus,” Reakes said. “We just 
don’t have the money to do it.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgLIBRARY,  from pg. 1Jobs already cut downBy Jacob Kovach
Alligator Staff Writer
Late night gym-goers may have 
to turn elsewhere after a reduction 
in nighttime hours at Southwest 
Recreation Center and Student Rec-
reation & Fitness Center. 
David Bowles, senior director for 
Recreation and Health Promotion 
Services, said the UF Department 
of Recreational Sports reduced its 
weekday closing hour from 1 a.m. 
to midnight. This took effect during 
the Summer A semester.
Bowles, who has served in the 
position for 15 years, said data 
taken from the 2016-2017 academic 
year was a large part of the decision. 
Numbers were collected from facil-
ity turnstiles and in-person gym use 
assessments.
“It is not cost-effective (to stay 
open), and it does not provide ser-
vice to enough students to make it 
worthwhile to stay open,” Bowles 
said.
Lauren Est, a 20-year-old psy-
chology junior, needs that hour. Her 
“inverted schedule” to put herself 
through college involves working at 
least two nights per week at Salty 
Dog Saloon until 3 a.m. or 4 a.m., 
attending morning classes, sleep-
ing all day and beginning the cycle 
anew. 
Est said paying rent and out-of-
state tuition play a large part in hav-
ing to work, especially at such odd hours. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely going to be harder 
to use facilities that are supposedly 
given to me by my tuition,” Est said. 
“That’s what’s most personal to 
me.”
She said she was unaware of the 
change during Summer A as she 
was out of town. She was concerned 
about her future workout routine.
“Not being able to use those fa-
cilities based off of my schedule, es-
pecially with most gyms nowadays 
being 24 hours, I deﬁ  nitely feel like 
it’s not as inclusive, in a way, ﬁ  nan-
cially speaking,” Est said.
Bowles said that the decision 
comes down to numbers. By trim-
ming the hour, the department 
saves $14, 251 per year for the de-
partment’s budget of $6,886,565. 
Most costs could be attributed to 
paying student employees, most of 
whom work part-time and many of 
whom make minimum wage.
“Of the 700-plus recreational 
sports students employed, there are 
approximately 250 of those that are 
working minimum wage who are di-
rectly impacted,” Bowles said, “and 
then it... forces a certain number of 
the other employees’ pay to have to 
increase.”
Employees like lifeguards, train-
ers and group ﬁ  tness instructors 
may be paid more based on certiﬁ  -
cations or skills.
Bowles said when trafﬁ  c data 
was collected, an average of 23.8 people entered Student Rec after 
midnight.
Gina Porrazzo, a 19-year-old 
business administration sophomore, 
said she works out late at night to 
avoid long lines for weights and 
machines during the daytime. She 
added that while the gym can be 
sparsely populated during the mid-
night hours on some days, other 
days see more trafﬁ  c.
“There have been nights where 
I’d go in the weight room – it 
would be, like, 12:30 (a.m.) – and 
I couldn’t even ﬁ  nd a weight rack,” 
Porrazzo said.
Porrazzo said that in such cases, 
there would be “a solid 100” people 
using the gym’s facilities. Spikes in 
trafﬁ  c, she said, could be attributed 
to the fact that many people go in 
pairs or occasionally groups.
Bowles said the decision was 
made by the organization’s board 
of directors, which is mainly com-
prised of students. He also consulted 
with former Student Body President 
Smith Meyers and current President 
Ian Green when the decision was 
being discussed.
Bowles added that if increased 
trafﬁ  c in the Fall suggested that the 
department reopen facilities during 
the cut hour, it would certainly be 
looked into.
“We’re always evaluating that 
data and trying to make sure that 
we are good stewards of students’ 
fee money,” Bowles said.Southwest Rec, Student Rec & Fitness Center cut hours
Jacob Kovach / Alligator Staff
Gina Porrazzo, 19, works out at Southwest Recreation Center around 
midnight. She said she likes the shorter waits for machines and amenities. 
TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of threatening a 
guest and bothering other customers 
at a Chili’s Grill & Bar was arrested 
Sunday by Gainesville Police.
Claudio Zuniga-Enrico, 22, was 
charged with carry-
ing a concealed fire-
arm, possession of a 
controlled substance 
and disorderly con-
duct in an establish-
ment.
On Sunday 
around 4 p.m., Zuni-
ga-Enrico was allegedly seen staring 
down the victim by a customer and 
the victim at the Chili’s Grill & Bar at 
3530 SW Archer Road, according to 
the arrest report. The victim said that 
Zuniga-Enrico went out of his way to 
try to get to him and the customer at 
least eight times when they were try-
ing to eat.
Zuniga-Enrico spat on the floor 
next to him while he walked by and 
called him a “p----” and asked if he 
wanted to fight, according to the re-
port. The customer told Zuniga-Enrico 
that he had a gun.
The customer and the victim said 
Zuniga-Enrico deliberately pulled 
up his shirt during one of the times 
he walked by, according to the re-
port. The victim reportedly saw the 
black handle of what looked liked a 
black pistol tucked in Zuniga-Enrico’s 
pants.
A waitress, who was waiting tables 
in the area where Zuniga-Enrico was 
sitting, said she saw him bump into 
occupied tables which bothered cus-
tomers, according to the report. She 
also remembers him walking up the aisle with a knife.
When police arrived, she and other 
waitresses told them about Zuniga-
Enrico’s erratic behavior, according 
to the report. Both the customer who 
was dining with the victim and a wait-
ress told officers they saw Zuniga-En-
rico with a red/orange handled knife 
in his hand. The waitress also pointed 
out the car she thought Zuniga-Enrico 
walked to when he left the restaurant.
Officers went to the vehicle and de-
tained Zuniga-Enrico after he hesitat-
ed to comply to their commands and 
reached toward his crotch, according 
to the report. When they asked him if 
he had any weapons, he said he had 
none. Officers found a red/orange 
handled knife from his front right 
pocket.
When officers asked him several 
times if he had any other weapons in-
side the car, Zuniga-Enrico spontane-
ously said he did not bring a weapon 
inside the restaurant, according to 
the report. He also said the victim 
approached him and threatened him 
over a dispute about Zuniga-Enrico’s 
girlfriend. No one at the scene saw the 
victim go to Zuniga-Enrico.
Officers then found a black semi-
automatic pistol from the glove com-
partment when they were given per-
mission to search the car, according 
to the report. After finding the pistol, 
Zuniga-Enrico said he had a concealed 
weapons permit but not inside his 
wallet. A records check showed he did 
not have one. Half a gram of cocaine 
was found inside of Zuniga-Enrico’s 
wallet.
Zuniga-Enrico remains at Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $12,000 bond. 
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgBy Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
A trapped man was res-
cued from the O’Connell Cen-
ter on Thursday.
Gainesville Fire Rescue 
and University Police got an 
emergency call around 2:58 
a.m. about a man who was injured and trapped after try-
ing to climb on the roof of the 
O’Connell Center, according 
to a GFR media release.
When authorities arrived 
to the scene, they found a 
man trapped about 20 feet off 
the floor and unable to get 
down safely because of an in-
jury, according to the release.The rescue team got the 
man to the ground and into 
an ambulance in under 16 
minutes, according to the re-
lease.
The incident is still under 
investigation by UPD.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgGPD: Man threatened customers 
at Chili’s with knife, gun
Man injured while climbing O’Dome Zuniga-Enrico
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man Thursday 
afternoon for having 20 fraudulent credit cards.
Jamaan Howard, a 36-year-
old resident of Cincinnati, 
Ohio, was a passenger in the 
car a GPD officer stopped at 
about 5 p.m. The officer con-
ducted the traffic stop outside 
of Gainesville at the 374-south-
bound mile marker of Inter-
state 75, according to the arrest 
report.
The officer approached the van from the pas-
senger side and spoke to the driver through the 
front window to tell him why they were stopped. 
The car allegedly had an illegal window tint, and 
the tag was improperly displayed.
While standing at the window, the officer 
reportedly smelled burnt marijuana. He had all 
of the occupants, including Howard, get out of 
the car after the driver told him the people in the 
backseat were smoking.
The officer searched Howard and allegedly 
found a total of 17 credit cards inside of How-
ard’s front pants pocket and wallet. Sixteen of the 
cards didn’t have a number printed or stamped 
onto them. They also didn’t have a person’s 
name or an expiration date.According to the arrest report, only one legiti-
mate card, which did belong to Howard, had a 
card number, an expiration date and his name.
While searching the car, the officer also found 
a black laptop bag with a computer, a re-encoder 
and four more cards. The additional cards report-
edly didn’t have a name, number or expiration 
date either.
A burnt marijuana cigarette was also allegedly 
found in the backseat where Howard was sitting.
According to the arrest report, people who 
commit this type of crime typically take a card 
and wipe all of the information off the face of it. 
They then stamp or print their own name and 
new information to make it easier to use the 
fraudulent cards at a business.
Using law enforcement resources, the officer 
read the information on the magnetic stripes of 
the cards and confirmed they were fraudulent. 
Some of the card information reportedly indicat-
ed a Visa account when the face of the card said 
Mastercard.
The officer found a total of 20 fraudulent cred-
it cards, and GPD charged Howard for trafficking 
in counterfeit credit cards and being in posses-
sion of a re-encoder to defraud, according to the 
report.
Howard remains in Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $200,000 bail.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgOhio man charged with trafficking fraudulent 
credit cards, possessing re-encoder
Howard
Editorial
ColumnElection prep: Part 2
I’m apparently a 20-year-old geriatric
I’ve had dozens of doctor’s appointments 
this summer.
My medical chart classiﬁ  es me as 
someone with high-risk medication us-
age.
The people at my pharmacy know my 
name.
I have more than ﬁ  ve diagnoses, and they 
keep coming.
I appear out of place in specialists’ waiting 
rooms and in society.
Expectations for my peer group don’t align with the 
lifestyle I live or want to live.
When I’m not in class, doing extracurricular assign-
ments or studying, I’m at the doctor or recuperating 
with heat pads and ice packs in bed. I’ve never been 
out to Midtown or even a football game yet because I’m 
scared about my health and accommodations. An out-
ing can cost me a semester if I’m not careful. Pushing 
myself doesn’t make me better. It can leave me in the 
hospital. But I keep doing it anyway because I want to 
be with friends, gain experience in my major and be a 
part of the UF community.
It’s hard to balance society’s expectations with how I 
live. What is even harder is how I balance my own ex-
pectations and goals with where I’m at. I’m constantly 
at odds. Even in doctor’s ofﬁ  ces, I’m misunderstood. 
I’m accused of lying or am not taken seriously. “You’re 
too young to have these problems,” isn’t an uncommon 
message from doctors. No kidding.
Wishing or wondering won’t make my circumstances 
change. Pushing onward has a silver lining. I’m learn-
ing to ﬁ  nd my voice, be an advocate and reason with 
professionals. It’s given me a different kind of strength 
amid my physical weakness. I hate pity. I just want un-
derstanding, especially in health care. If there’s any-thing my life has shown me, it’s that there 
is a health care gap. There’s specialized care 
for older patients but not for young ones with 
similar issues. That’s a problem.
Worse than feeling alone and in pain is go-
ing to get help and being refused or unheard.
This is a widespread problem. I’ve had to 
wait months for a diagnosis. I’m still waiting 
for solutions to other problems. That could 
take years. Worse than ﬁ  ghting to live “nor-
mally” is ﬁ  ghting to be heard and waiting, feeling sick 
and knowing something is off but jumping from doctor 
to doctor until someone ﬁ  nally listens. Then it’s waiting 
for test results. Then it’s becoming your own doctor. 
It’s turning to Google and scanning medical research 
and asking for, or demanding, tests. It’s researching at-
home treatments.
There’s pediatric treatment, adult treatment and el-
derly treatment. I’m in-between. I understand what’s 
happening to me. I know how to explain it. However, 
I’m not taken seriously. I usually need an older adult 
with me to even be considered. 
As a teen and now a young adult, I am in a different 
period of life with different truths. I am trying to deal 
with schooling and taking steps to give myself the future 
I want. I’m not fully dependent on my parents, but I’m 
also not established in a career or with my own house-
hold. Now I’m trying to ﬁ  gure out how to navigate sick 
life while also trying to be a college student. I’m not a 
young kid, but I’m also not exactly a full-ﬂ  edged adult.
Being a college town with a renowned hospital teach-
ing the next generation of doctors, I feel like Gainesville 
can be a great place to work on adapting care for young 
teens and adults with specialized care needs. 
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her col-
umn comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
We’re chugging right along with our four-part series 
on the upcoming primary election Aug. 28. Alachua 
County residents have until July 30 to register or 
change party afﬁ  liations in order to vote for candidates 
in their party. 
Today, we’ll be looking at the candidates for U.S. Senator, the 
Eighth Judicial Circuit Court Judge in Group 8 and the Alachua 
County Commission. Please note these editorials are not an en-
dorsement of any candidate.
U.S. Senator
Sen. Marco Rubio’s seat is safe for now. He isn’t up for reelec-
tion until 2022. That leaves one spot left for a hotly contested 
campaign ahead.
Sen. Bill Nelson is the incumbent everyone else will try to 
knock off. He’s the only Democrat in the race. He voted against a 
constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage in 2006 and 
ﬁ  led a bill last year to reduce student loan interest rates.
Nelson’s likely opponent in the general election is current Re-
publican Gov. Rick Scott. Scott wants to propose giving line-item 
veto powers to the executive branch and an implementation of 
senatorial term limits, according to his campaign website.
The other Republican on the senate ticket for the primary is 
Roque “Rocky” De La Fuente, a former Democratic presidential 
candidate. De La Fuente is also running for senate in multiple 
other states this year. He supports the Affordable Care Act, com-
monly known as Obamacare, and opposes jailing non-violent 
criminals, according to his campaign website.
There are ﬁ  ve write-in candidates who have qualiﬁ  ed to be 
put on the ballot: Lateresa Jones, Howard Knepper, Michael 
Levinson, Charles Tolbert and David Weeks.
Circuit 8, Group 8 Judge
Three candidates — all without party afﬁ  liation — are up for 
judgeship in Alachua County’s circuit court: David Robertson, Ju-
lie Waldman and Gloria Walker. The position is being vacated by 
a retiring judge. If a candidate does not garner 51 percent of the 
vote, the top two candidates will advance to the general election.
Robertson is the chief counsel for the Florida Department of 
Transportation. He sports endorsements from ﬁ  ve county sher-
iffs, according to his campaign website.
Waldman serves as an administrator for the Agency for Per-
sons with Disabilities and has more than 25 years of legal experi-
ence, according to her campaign website.
Walker is a 2002 graduate of the UF Levin College of Law and 
has been the managing attorney at Three Rivers Legal Service 
since 2013. She helped represent 90 of the 142 low-income fami-
lies in the Kennedy Homes lawsuit after the apartment complex 
caught ﬁ  re in 2003.
Alachua County Commissioner (District 2)
Five candidates — two Democrats, a Libertarian, an Indepen-
dent and a write-in — are running to ﬁ  ll the impending vacancy 
of current Commissioner Lee Pinkoson.
Marihelen Wheeler and Randy Wells are running as Demo-
crats. Wheeler is a retired middle school teacher and a member 
of the Alachua County Labor Coalition. Wells is a director at the 
nonproﬁ  t Florida Community Design Center.
Greg Caudill is running as a Libertarian. Caudill is a U.S. Army 
veteran and supports funding charter schools, according to his 
campaign website.
Scott Costello, the Independent candidate, is the founder of 
Advantage Publishing Inc. He supports expanding Alachua’s 
public transportation infrastructure, according to his campaign 
website.
Ward Scott, the write-in candidate, is a retired teacher and 
hosts a local conservative radio show. He was the interim city 
manager of Archer in 2009.
We at The Alligator urge you to learn more about these and all 
other candidates for local, state and national ofﬁ  ce before head-
ing to the polls in August and November. Florida residents can 
register to vote at registertovoteﬂ  orida.gov.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
You have been staring 
blankly at your com-
puter screen for about 
an hour. You have made 
coffee, gone to the bath-
room, tried to study, but it just 
isn’t happening. Maybe you 
checked social media once or 
twice. Sound familiar? That’s 
normal human behavior, and 
the lack of productivity for most 
of the day is surprisingly common. If you 
feel like you often spend too much time 
doing too little work, idling or just won-
dering how to get started, pick your most 
productive hours to work. One thing is for 
certain, you won’t be productive for a ma-
jority of the day if you don’t plan out your 
day carefully.
The average American works 8.8 hours 
per day. Studies have shown we are not 
productive for many of those hours. One 
study done in the U.K. polled almost 2,000 
workers who confessed all their time-
wasting habits. They admitted, on aver-
age, to only feeling productive for two 
hours and 53 minutes out of the eight-
hour workday. Respondents said the big-
gest culprits of time wasting were check-
ing the news online at more than an hour 
per day, checking social media for more 
than 40 minutes and talking to cowork-
ers about non-work-related things for an-
other 40 minutes. We search for new jobs 
at our current jobs for nearly a half-hour 
each day. Still more time was eaten up by 
things like texting, making tea and coffee. 
While we may be distracted for only a few 
minutes at a time, those minutes add up 
quickly to hours.
Longer work hours are associated with 
decreased productivity. In fact, the eight-
hour workday, reduced from between 10 
and 16 hours which was standard since 
the Industrial Revolution, was instituted 
by Henry Ford in the 1920s precisely be-cause it made workers more 
productive. Greece is the coun-
try with the longest work hours 
among developed countries, ac-
cording to the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and De-
velopment (OECD), but hourly 
pay isn’t correspondingly lower 
with lower productivity. This, 
in combination with other fac-
tors, makes many Greek ﬁ  rms 
uncompetitive, per the OECD Observer.
Unproductive work hours, on a mass 
scale, cripple the economies of whole 
countries.
Chip Heath, a professor at Stanford 
Graduate School of Business along with 
his brother Dan, have written the most au-
thoritative book on how to reign in your 
brain, called “Switch: How to Change 
Things When Change Is Hard.” They rec-
ommend we get our emotions under con-
trol before we try to execute logical tasks. 
The Heaths liken our brain to a lopsided 
system, a powerful elephant (our emotion-
al brain) and its rider (our logical brain). 
Part of understanding productivity is un-
derstanding that the elephant can only be 
controlled for so long before it disobeys 
the rider. That’s why we have to choose 
to work during times when our emotions 
lend themselves to it. If you feel most pro-
ductive and least distracted at 3 a.m., get 
most of your studying done then. Don’t try 
to study after a long day at work without a 
break or after an exhausting meeting.
It’s normal to check Twitter at your 
desk. Remember, increasing your pro-
ductivity is more about ﬁ  nding the bright 
spots when you can concentrate and de-
fending those like your ﬁ  rstborn, than 
about swearing off social media.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF politi-
cal science junior. His column comes out 
Tuesday and Thursday.What do Kylie Jenner 
and President Don-
ald Trump have in 
common? It’s not 
just the fact that they 
both get spray tans, they both 
were born into wealth and ex-
panded that wealth into bil-
lions, and they both are part of 
the most powerful families in 
the country. Jenner is a part of the Kar-
dashian clan who seem to turn everything 
they touch into gold. Trump was born into 
a wealthy real estate developer and prof-
ited by literally putting the family name 
on stuff in gold.
Jenner recently was named by Forbes 
as the youngest self-made billionaire in 
history. Like the president, she too has 
faced skepticism over whether she is re-
ally self-made. Forbes has difﬁ  culty deﬁ  n-
ing what self-made means. For their an-
nual “Self-made Superstars,” they have a 
ranking system from No. 1 to No. 10. Ten 
is represented by someone like Oprah who 
was born into poverty and faced extreme 
life struggles. One is represented by some-
one who inherited their wealth and has 
not done anything to grow it. Sitting at a 
ranking of ﬁ  ve is our very own country’s 
leader. This ranking denotes someone 
who inherited a small- or medium-sized 
business and grew it into a billion-dollar 
fortune.
It’s difﬁ  cult to deﬁ  ne what constitutes 
as starting with nothing. Most people start 
with something, even if it’s just a college 
education from their parents. Still, it’s 
easier to turn a small loan of a million dol-
lars into a billion than to turn student loan 
debt into a livable income.
Jenner and Trump can’t be blamed for 
what they were born with. What they did with their privilege is redeem-
ing, but it doesn’t make them 
geniuses.
The Kardashians all collec-
tively respond to claims that 
they have no talent, arguing 
they have done a lot for peo-
ple with supposedly no talent. 
While true, this doesn’t dis-
prove that literally anyone else 
in their position could have mustered the 
same amount of success given the same 
conditions, especially when the added 
value of their family names alone is worth 
thousands. Trump has evaluated his name 
alone as a brand worth millions.
Trump beneﬁ  ted from his wealth dur-
ing his campaign, using it as evidence of 
his capability. Countless supporters ig-
nored his controversial language, choos-
ing to believe in his ability to stimulate 
the economy based on his ability to bol-
ster his own bank account.
I think Trump and Jenner are both suc-
cessful results of their environment rather 
than of their own merit. Neither are peo-
ple who I would consider business savvy 
or even standardly intelligent. This is not 
to say that both aren’t wildly entertaining 
and likeable (to a particular demograph-
ic).
It’s unwise to uphold people like this 
in society as idols. They aren’t in posi-
tions that can be mimicked. We only talk 
about them because we’re fascinated, not 
because we’re inspired. As someone who 
wasn’t born into wealth, who has horri-
ble luck with lotteries, I think I’ll stick to 
Oprah’s advice. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday and 
Thursday. Drop the act: You don’t work at work Kylie Jenner has something in 
common with Donald TrumpColumn Column
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
‘Rainbow Spirits’ shine, raise money at Pride Community Center  
Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Avenue Staff
Janet Krews, 53, poses with her mannequin during the 
“Rainbow Spirits” event at the Pride Community Center 
of North Central Florida. Patti Tuttle (left), 62, and Christy Horsburgh (right), 56, examine a Rainbow Spirit designed by T om Miller.A trio of mannequins repurposed for the “Rainbow Spirits” event are displayed on the wall of the Pride 
Community Center of North Central Florida.Painted mannequins were displayed in the Pride Community 
Center of North Central Florida as part of the “Rainbow Spirits” 
art installation on Saturday evening. The event aimed to raise 
money for Pride 2018.TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
T op Left: George Blake, 51, Susan Blake, 47, Karen Harbaugh, 49, and Tim 
Kurkjohn, 40, enjoy drinks together at Cypress & Grove Brewing Company 
during their “Food Truck Rally Kickoff. ”
Left: Dan Hardin, 52, lines up a shot during a game of pool at Cypress & Grove 
Brewery Company during their “Food Truck Rally Kickoff. ” The event featured 
food, music, games and beer.
Above: Cilantro T acos crew member Zach Scott, 17, (right) stands back-to-back 
with another crew member during the “Food Truck Rally Kickoff” at Cypress & 
Grove Brewing Company.
Food truck rally raises money for UF Campaign for Charities
Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Avenue Staff10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
On Thursday, Gainesville Mayor 
Lauren Poe and the City Commis-
sion discussed a possible commu-
nity ID program that could pro-
vide the homeless, ex-prisoners, 
immigrants and refugees in the 
Gainesville community with a valid 
alternative to state IDs.
Poe said President Donald 
Trump’s administration’s immigra-
tion policies are a growing concern 
for the Gainesville community. Poe 
is in the beginning stages of dis-
cussing the program with other city 
ofﬁ  cials and community members 
and determining how and where 
the IDs could be accepted.
“I have and will continue to be-
lieve that it is one of our primary 
responsibilities — to make sure 
that everybody in our community 
feels safe, feels welcomed and feels 
like they can fully utilize all the as-
sets of our community,” he said. 
“One barrier to doing that at times is lack of access to valid state ID.”
Gia Del Pino, organizer for 
Mothers Without Borders, is a com-
munity advocate for a plan called 
the Faith Action ID program, which 
began with Greensboro, North Car-
olina, law enforcement.
The ID is not a driver’s license 
and could not be used to vote or re-
ceive any government welfare ben-
eﬁ  ts, Del Pino said. Faith Action 
IDs could be used to open bank 
accounts, access public libraries 
and to show residency in the com-
munity.
“This can help people stay out 
of jail simply for not having a valid 
form of ID,” she said. “Many times 
when you need to go to the doc-
tor, you need to show a valid form 
of ID, and they’re very strict about 
that. This ID would help bridge 
that gap.”
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos said in the meeting he wor-
ries this program could indirectly 
give the Trump administration 
access to public records for un-documented immigrants. Poe said 
a possible solution is to “get every 
gringo in the world to show up on 
day one and get our IDs.”
The commission largely sup-
ported the idea, but Gainesville 
resident Debbie Martinez said she 
did not understand Poe’s comment 
about “gringos,” and a second 
Gainesville resident Nathan Skop 
said the program would be against 
U.S. local policies.
Poe clariﬁ  ed his comment by 
saying, “Get all of the white people 
who usually enjoy a lot of privi-
lege, and not a lot of scrutiny, to go 
sign up for these IDs so it dilutes 
the pool of people who might be 
under scrutiny by the Trump ad-
ministration.”
Skop said Poe asking commu-
nity members to sign up for the 
IDs and saying some residents are 
privileged is racist. He demanded a 
public apology before taking his 
seat. Poe did not apologize.
“This is yet another example 
of the disrespectful behavior from the mayor and City Commission 
toward the citizens of Gainesville 
and GRU customers,” Skop said. 
“As an elected ofﬁ  cial, it is hard 
to believe that Mayor Poe made 
such an insensitive, derogatory 
and inappropriate comment during 
a public meeting. Mayor Poe owes 
the citizens of Gainesville a public apology.”
Poe defended his use of the 
word.
“I did not use a derogatory 
term. I made fun of myself,” Poe 
said. “It’s called self-deprecating 
humor.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgCity commissioners discuss possible community ID program
Courtesy of the Gainesville City Commission 
Gainesville resident Nathan Skop (left) accused Mayor Lauren Poe 
of racism during a City Commission meeting on Thursday. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Roommate wanted, students only! Half mile 
to campus and on the bus route. Private 1 
bed/bath in a 2/2.5 townhouse with W/D. 
Brand new everything, just remodeled floor -
ing, kitchen with stainless and granite, brand 
new bathrooms, freshly painted and more. 
$800/ month includes all utilities and internet, 
cable, HOA. Please call 321-243-0916 for all 
other details.    7-24-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS.  Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1600/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $950/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
7-31-5-2
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR INSECT 
REPELLENT RESEARCH STUDY AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
UF IRB#201700763
We are seeking volunteers for participation in 
a study of insect repellents and how they will 
prevent bites from mosquitoes in a field set -
ting. Participants must be between the ages of 
18 and 55. The study will take up to 6 visits to 
complete (compensation is provided per visit). 
If you would like to participate or you would 
like more information please contact the study 
director Emma N.I. Weeks Ph.D., Phone 352-
273-3954, email: eniweeks@ufl.edu     7-26-
18-3-14
PART-TIME
● yard work ● cleaning ● chores ● errands, 
etc. 6 - 12 hours per week.
$10 / hr + tip.
Apply at:  www.Gator2018.com         8-7-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
DISH WASHERS NEEDED!
Join our team, new restaurant
opening in Celebration Pointe
$8.50/hr with opportunities for advancement 
for hard working individuals
Reasonable work load and hours, breaks 
provided. 
Please contact tevins72@gmail.com
or midicigville@gmail.com if interested
7-31-18-5-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatest
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Learn how you can make an extra
$300-$1000+ weekly as a college student. 
Go to: www.alexwaytofreedom.com    8-2-
18-4-20
LEARN HOW to make an extra
$450 per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.studentsurvey.club    8-2-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ACROSS
1 River through
Kazakhstan
5 Brewpub orders
10 Upper limbs
14 Expose
15 Blue shades
16 Chess piece that
can’t move
diagonally
17 Big stars often
have big ones
18 Apply, as liniment
19 Apple from Japan
20 *Opposes in an
election
23 Wordless “okay”
24 Put gas into
25 Assistance
27 Shabbily dressed
30 High behind a
cold front, e.g.
34 Pan-fry
35 Boy band *N__
37 Ill-fated Genesis
son
38 Point
39 *Welcome news
for potential
borrowers
42 Tokyo-born Yoko
43 River near the
Royal
Shakespeare
Theatre
45 Hockey legend
Gordie
46 “It’s __-see!”:
rave review
48 Tile type
50 Sudden bursts
51 “Real Sports with
Bryant Gumbel”
network
52 Simpson trial
witness Kato
55 Report card no.
57 Trapped by
mundanity ...
and hint to the
answers to
starred clues
62 Take a break
64 Ladybug food
65 Apple discard
66 Opera solo
67 Yankees’
manager Aaron
68 Olympics sled
69 Fiddle (with)
70 Kisses and
cuddles, in British
slang
71 Former spousesDOWN
1 App that
arranges a lift but
not a Lyft
2 Pasta sauce
brand
3 Elvis __ Presley
4 Phrase on a
heart-healthy
food label
5 Flat-bottomed
boats
6 __ sign: =
7 Jazz great Blake
8 Weather-related
Native American
ceremony
9 Nine-digit IDs
10 Boxer’s sound
11 *Brit’s traffic
circle
12 Magic charm
13 Icy road risk
21 Hole-making tool
22 __ Heels: UNC
team
26 “__ little 
teapot ... ”
27 Soul singer
Hayes
28 Easily duped
29 *“Word on the
street is ... ”
31 Post-op area32 Get a feeling
33 Schedule
openings
35 Order lots of
36 Source of pliable
wood
40 Sushi tuna
41 Easy putt
44 Slap cuffs on
47 Slap cuffs on
49 Jun. and Jul.
50 Microscope
inserts53 “Bless you”
prompter
54 Just making, with
“out”
55 Court great Steffi
56 Ecuador
neighbor
58 Bar bills
59 Gravy thickener
60 Encourage
61 Shirts from
concerts
63 Toon devil
By Jeff Eddings
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/24/1807/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Looking to start
something new,
maybe
6 Syria’s 
Bashar al-__
11 Ed. promoters
15 Combined
16 Some Strads
17 Minor overhead?
18 Torch fuel?
21 Refreshing drinks
22 Georgetown
athlete
23 Is not wrong?
24 Rest, in a way
25 Tragedy involving
a Milne
character?
29 Things to hang
onto
31 Suffer
32 Can opener
33 Reserved
34 Noble title
36 Sylvia of jazz
37 Drawing by
Buffalo Bill?
41 Spit spots, for
short
44 Smidge
45 “In what way?”
49 Greek cross
50 Decline
51 Amp transporters
53 Spectator sport
aboard a UFO?
57 Whale group
58 Fix, as a toy
59 A pop
60 Gulf Canada
alternative
61 “No comment!” ...
and a hint to four
puzzle answers
65 Facility
66 1951 Reagan 
co-star
67 Cell terminal
68 Slightly
69 Burden-bearing
beasts
70 Supported, as a
weak ankle
DOWN
1 Major requests
2 Losing purposely
3 Floral brew
4 Son of Seth
5 Dict. offering6 Ones bringing
blessings?
7 “Later!”
8 “McSorley’s Bar”
artist
9 From A to Z
10 Handy initials
11 Star __
12 Fundamental
doctrine of
Christianity
13 Together
14 Down
19 Superhero with a
hammer
20 Spike __: railroad
worker’s tool
25 More than fix up
26 Take the plunge
27 Dump
28 “Conan” channel
30 Snaps
34 No. from a
builder
35 Sometimes
called, for short
36 Booted, say
38 Lifebuoy
competitor
39 Classic Yankee
nickname
40 Chuck alternative41 “Incidentally,” in
texts
42 It’s often a high
chair
43 Granada greeting
46 Top secret store?
47 Coast
48 Diffused through
a membrane
50 Ophthalmologist’s
concern
51 Right-hand pages52 Second emperor
after Nero
54 Backed up
55 Bright signs
56 First-aid kit item
60 Sicilian tourist
attraction
61 Field
62 Finance deg.
63 Sister of the moon
goddess Selene
64 Thick
By Bruce Haight
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/20/1807/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 20, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Written dissertation 
1.  In that direction 5.  Complain 
2.  Gourmet 6.  Say
3.  Sluggishness 7.  Get back
4.  Surpass TSISHE
ADROTWINWEH
RETUT
PRUEEIC
REAITINGRANEI
URNUOTANSWERS: 1A-Thesis  5A-Whine  6A-Utter  7A-Regain
1D-Toward  2D-Epicure  3D-Inertia  4D-Outrun  B-Eisenhower7-24-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
BONUSCLUE: In 1950, ____ accepted the position of 
first Supreme Allied Commander of the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).1. In 2017, Edinson V olquez tossed 
the sixth no-hitter in Miami Marlins 
history. Name three of the first five to 
do it.
2. What was the highest batting 
average legendary St. Louis Cardinals 
pitcher Bob Gibson had during any 
one season?
3. Name the coach of the San Diego 
State football team the first time it won 
11 games in a season as a Division I 
program in 1969. (Hint: He went on to 
become a well-known NFL coach.)
4. Who is the all-time blocked shots 
leader for the Oklahoma City Thunder?
5. Carey Price set a Montreal Can -
adiens franchise record in 2018 for 
most career games in goal. Who had 
held the mark?
6. In how many decades did Rich-
ard Petty win at least one of his seven 
NASCAR Cup season championships?
7. Caroline Wozniacki set a record 
in 2018 with the longest span between 
times holding the No. 1 spot in the 
WTA rankings (six years). Who had 
held the mark?
Answers
1. Al Leiter, Kevin Brown, A.J. Bur -
nett, Anibal Sanchez and Henderson 
Alvarez.
2. Gibson hit .303 in the 1970 season.
3. Don Coryell.
4. Serge Ibaka, with 1,300 blocked 
shots (2009-16).
5. Jacques Plante was in goal for 556 
games for Montreal (1952-63).
6. Petty won it twice in the 1960s 
and five times in the 1970s.
7. Serena Williams went five-plus 
years between No. 1 appearances.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
July 23, 2018King Features Weekly Service
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 21 EntertainmentJunior linebacker David Reese 
was named to the Butkus 
Award Watch List Monday. 
The honor is given to the top 
linebacker in college football.UF WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TO FACE TEXAS TECH
The Gators will take on the Red Raiders in the 2018 Big 12/SEC Challenge 
on Dec. 2.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
SWIM
The Associated Press
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) 
— Ryan Lochte posted a photo for 
the world to see, and the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency noticed.
It got him suspended — again.
The longtime U.S. swimming 
star has been banned from compe-
tition until July 2019, which means 
the 12-time Olympic medalist can-
not compete as planned in the na-
tional championships that start this 
week in California. Lochte will also 
be ineligible for other top meets, 
including the Pan Paciﬁ  c Cham-
pionships later this year and next 
year’s world championships.
“This is devastating,” Lochte 
said.
He did not take a banned sub-
stance. But he got an intravenous 
injection of vitamins in May — and 
since it exceeded 100 milliliters, 
no matter what was involved, 
he broke anti-doping rules. The 
14-month ban, retroactive to May 
24 and announced Monday by 
USADA, is his second in less than 
two years following his 10-month 
suspension for his behavior dur-
ing a drunken incident that created 
widespread scorn at the 2016 Rio 
de Janeiro Olympics .
“A rule is a rule and I accept 
that there is a technical violation,” 
Lochte said. “I am hopeful other 
athletes will learn from my mistake 
and be mindful of this rule, as well 
as others.”Lochte said he took the IV be-
cause both his wife and his son 
were ill and had recently visited 
hospitals, and that he didn’t want 
to get sick as well. He said the IV 
contained B-12 and other vitamins 
that could be purchased at any 
pharmacy.
He and his wife both got IV in-
fusions in Gainesville, Florida, he 
said, to bolster their immune sys-
tems.
“I’ve been swimming my whole 
life and I’ve been monitored by 
USADA for my entire competitive 
career,” Lochte said. “I have nev-
er taken a prohibited substance. I 
have never attempted to gain any 
advantage over my competition 
by putting anything illegal in my 
body. I would never do that.”
In Brazil, he there were ques-
tions about his version of what 
happened.
This time, he revealed what 
happened — obviously unaware of 
the ramiﬁ  cations it would bring.
Lochte’s violation came to light 
when he posted the photo of him 
getting the IV on his social media 
accounts. That triggered the USA-
DA investigation, one that Lochte 
“fully cooperated” with according 
to U.S. ofﬁ  cials.
“Lochte received an intravenous 
infusion of permitted substances 
at an infusion clinic,” the USADA 
announcement of the suspension 
said. Under most circumstances, 
athletes cannot receive IVs un-less related to a hospitalization or 
when allowed under the terms of 
a USADA-approved exemption — 
and Lochte fell into neither of those 
categories.
Suspensions for use of an IV are 
extremely rare: The USADA data-base shows only two other athletes 
being sanctioned for using such a 
method, one of them getting a six-
month suspension and the other 
a 14-month ban, just like Lochte. 
That same database shows that be-
fore Monday, no other U.S. swim-mer in the last 10 years, for any 
reason including actual positive 
tests, had been suspended for more 
than one year by USADA.
This week could have been a 
signiﬁ  cant step forward for Lochte,  Lochte banned until July 2019 for illegal IV injection
SEE SWIM,  PAGE 16The Associated Press
Former Florida swimmer Ryan Lochte was banned by the US Anti-Doping Agency for taking an IV of 
vitamins in May. Lochte broke anti-doping rules by using an injection larger than 100 milliliters. 
Recently, Tim Tebow was named to the 
Gators Football Ring of Honor, the high-
est achievement that a player or coach at 
the university can reach. For one to merit 
consideration for induction into the Ring of 
Honor, the individual must be ﬁ  ve years re-
moved from UF and must be in good stand-
ing with the institution.
Furthermore, it has to meet a certain cri-teria listed by the university, some of which 
reads,
“Coaches with UF National Champion-
ships” or “Coaches with at least three UF 
SEC Championships.”
If inducted into the Ring of Honor, the 
person receives his name on a giant plaque 
at the top of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Interestingly enough, one name is miss-
ing from the Ring, and he’s the greatest UF 
football coach ever.
Not Steve Spurrier, not Doug Dickey, not 
Ray Graves, but Urban Meyer.
Now listen, I love Steve Spurrier. He’s the 
Head Ball Coach, the one that brought UF its 
ﬁ  rst title, and he made football fun for the 
Gators. I think he’s the second-best coach in 
school history, and I don’t think the margin 
between him and third place is even close.But this isn’t about ole Steve.
This is about Urban.
How can you have Steve Spurrier in the 
Ring and not Meyer? Let’s do a comparison 
of the two legends.
Let’s start with championships. Advan-
tage, Meyer. He had two at Florida and has 
three overall in his career of 17 seasons. 
Spurrier, in 26 years, only won one title. 
Next, BCS Bowl or College Football Play-
off wins. Again, advantage Meyer with a 
whopping eight wins over Spurrier’s total of 
ﬁ  ve.
I mean, Meyer took Utah to a 12-0 record 
and a Fiesta Bowl win in 2004. Utah! The 
Utes! Utah is not supposed to be winning 
BCS bowl games, yet they did under Meyer 
in just his second season… with Alex Smith, 
who honestly wasn’t really all that spectacu-lar until Meyer showed up.
Prior to Florida, Spurrier never experi-
enced such a degree of success.
He was indeed a legend once he stepped 
on that famed Gainesville campus, though. 
The 1996 title win was one of the greatest 
teams UF has ever put together. Yet, it can't 
touch the teams of 2006 and 2008 (especial-
ly 2008). That’s not to take anything away 
from the ‘96 roster, the ‘08 roster was simply 
one of the greatest football teams ever as-
sembled.
If you look back to 1996, the only ﬁ  ve 
names that really pop off the page are Danny 
Wuerffel, Fred Taylor, Ike Hilliard, Jevon 
Kearse and Jeff Mitchell.
But let’s look at the 2008 team. Just look-
ing through the players that wore numbers It’s time to induct UF’s best football coach of all time into the Ring of HonorO'B-Wan Kenobi / Opinion
Chris O'Brien
Twitter: @THEChrisOB
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
AWARDS
Alligator Staff Report
A trio of freshmen – corners 
Marco Wilson, CJ Henderson and 
running back Malik Davis – stood 
out in UF football team’s 4-7 cam-
paign last season. 
However, they weren’t the 
only first-year Gators that had to 
mature early in their UF careers. 
Transfers Wil Dalton, Jalen Hud-
son and freshman Hannah Adams 
also made significant contributions 
to their teams and were nominated 
alongside the football freshmen for 
the alligatorSports Newcomer of 
the Year award. 
Sports writers Andrew Huang, 
Evan Lepak, Mark Stine, Brendan 
Farrell and Chris O’Brien debate 
their picks for 2017-18’s best new 
athlete. 
Andrew: Technically, shooting 
guard Jalen Hudson has been 
with the Gators 
men’s basketball 
team since 2016. 
After under-
whelming fresh-
man and sopho-
more seasons at 
Virginia Tech, 
Hudson decided 
that the Hokies’ coaching staff and 
playing style weren’t good fits for 
him. 
The 6-foot-6 guard then decided 
to join Florida coach Mike White’s 
roster but had to sit out the 2016-
17 season per NCAA transfer rules 
and boy, was it worth the wait.
He was extremely productive 
and was frequently UF’s best play-
er on the court in his first season 
wearing the Orange and Blue. Hud-
son was so consistent that he won 
SEC Player of the Week three times 
– first in November, then in Janu-
ary and last in March.
He led the Gators in scoring 
with 15.5 points per game, includ-
ing eight 20-point games. He also 
sank a team-high 78 three pointers 
at an impressive rate of 40.4 per-
cent. Overall, he shot over 45 per-
cent from the floor, good for eighth 
in the SEC. 
Hudson was also third on the 
team with 20 blocks, the most of 
any UF guard. While he wasn’t 
efficient from the free throw line 
(just 66.2 percent) he still led the 
Gators in both makes and attempts 
by a wide margin. And this is all 
despite coming off the bench in 15 
of Florida’s 34 games.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Evan: The freshman tandem of 
Marco Wilson and CJ Hender-
son burst onto the scene early and 
often for the Florida football team 
last season, providing a bright spot 
to an otherwise forgettable 2017 
season.
Wilson, a Fort Lauderdale na-
tive, came to UF as a highly rated 4-star defesnive 
back and was 
thrown into fire 
early due to lack 
of depth.
He would go 
on to start all 11 
games at cor-
ner, compiling 
34 tackles and 
a team-high 10 
pass breakups.
The ris-
ing sophomore 
played well 
enough to catch 
the eye of the SEC 
coaches as well, earning himself a 
spot on the Coaches’ Freshman 
All-SEC Team.
Much like his freshman team-
mate, CJ Henderson found himself 
playing very early on in the 2017 
season.
The Miami, Florida, native be-
came a household name quickly 
last September when he picked 
off then-Michigan quarterback 
Wilton Speight and returned it 41 
yards into the endzone. He’d gar-
ner another pick-six two weeks 
later against Tennessee, solidify-
ing himself as a key member of the 
secondary.
Henderson went on to play in 
all 11 games in 2017, including five 
starts.
The 6-foot-1, 186 pound, ball-
hawk tallied four interceptions 
during his freshman campaign, 
good enough for third in the SEC 
and tying Duke Dawson for most 
on the team.
With Dawson graduated and 
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson mov-
ing back to safety, both Henderson 
and Wilson will look to build upon 
the invaluable experience they re-
ceived last season to anchor Flori-
da’s young secondary in 2018.
@evanmplepakkk 
elepak@alligator.org
Mark: One of the hallmarks of 
a freshman athlete are the mental 
mistakes made due to inexperience 
at the college 
level. What made 
last season so 
special for UF’s 
first-year second 
baseman Han-
nah Adams was 
the lack of mis-
takes she made. 
Florida coach Tim Walton bold-
ly chose the Hoschton, Georgia, 
native to be the starting second 
baseman, moving senior infielder 
Nicole DeWitt over to third. Adams 
started all 67 games at second for 
the Gators and was the only UF in-
fielder not to register an error. She 
also finished second on the team 
with 93 assisted outs. 
Adams was a reliable offensive 
player as well. She achieved a sol-
id .276 batting average and a .402 
on-base percentage despite bounc-ing around the batting order, and 
she finished third on the team in 
hits (53) and fourth on the team 
in walks (40). Adams was also 
second on the team with 15 multi-
game hits, only trailing SEC Player 
of the Year Amanda Lorenz (21). 
She also started the first five 
games of the season as the team’s 
lead-off batter and got a hit in four 
of those games. 
On May 31, Adams led off the 
fifth inning for the Gators in their 
opening round matchup against 
Georgia in the Women’s College 
World Series. She pummelled a 
2-2 offering from UGA pitcher Ky-
lie Bass for her third home rof the 
season, sparking a three-run rally 
that led to the mercy-rule of the 
Bulldogs, 11-3. 
With the loss of DeWitt and first 
baseman Kayli Kvistad to gradua-
tion - two of the first four hitters 
in UF’s offensive lineup - Florida 
will have a lot to replace in its 
infield and batting order. Adams 
will bring much needed stability to 
both of those areas of need. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Brendan: Since we’re counting 
transfers as newcomers, I’m going 
with Wil Dalton as my Newcomer 
of the Year. The Columbia State 
Community College product was 
one of the best pure power-hitters 
in the country last season, hitting 
the 11th-most home runs in the na-
tion (and second-most in the SEC) with 19.
In 70 games, 
Dalton had a .262 
batting average, 
60 RBIs (second-
most in the SEC) 
and a slugging 
percentage of 
.542. He was 
named a semifi-
nalist for the Dick Howser Trophy 
and earned Second Team All-SEC 
honors.
Along with teammates JJ 
Schwarz and Jonathan India, Dal-
ton helped form one of the most 
formidable trios in college base-
ball. 
In just one year, the former 
29th-round pick went from an un-
known playing in the junior col-
lege ranks to being an integral part 
to one of the best programs in the 
country.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
Chris: I’m not even going to lie, 
I struggled on this pick. UF had a 
great athletic season, but not a lot 
of freshman really, truly showed 
out. 
With all the respect to lacrosse’s 
Shannon Kavana-
gh, who was an 
absolute BEAST 
last year, run-
ning back Malik 
Davis was like 
a 100-watt LED 
light-up glove in the fictional town from Spongebob 
called Rock Bottom - like a torch in 
advanced darkness.
Before his season-ending in-
jury against Georgia, he totaled 
526 yards on 79 carries (6.66 yards 
per carry), finishing second on the 
team in yards per carry. For com-
parison, the team rushing leader 
(running back Lamical Perine) 
played four more games and had 
136 attempts, yet only netted 36 
more rushing yards.
Against Vanderbilt, he and 
Perine absolutely obliterated the 
Commodores as the rushing attack 
carried UF to a win. The freshman 
led the way with 124 yards rushing 
as the two combined for five touch-
downs, the last a 39-yard scamper 
by Davis. 
Davis also had the fourth-high-
est yards after contact average last 
season for returning running backs.
Every time he touched the ball 
it seemed like he took it for a big 
carry, always sparking the team. 
In the face of a very, very hopeless 
season, he was hope for next year.
Hopefully for Gator fans, Davis 
sees a full recovery from his torn 
ACL. Even so, he’s going to have to 
battle several other teammates for 
carries, but he’s capable.
Simply put, Davis was the best 
back on the team in 2017. With the 
absence of suspended Jordan Scar-
lett, he stepped up when the Gators 
needed him to.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgalligatorSports Awards: Newcomer of the Year
Alligator File Photo
As a junior-transfer in his first year at UF, guard Jalen Hudson (left) led the Gators in scoring with 15.5 
points per game. He was named SEC Player of the Week three times in 2017-18.  
Hudson
Wilson
Henderson
Adams
Dalton
Davis
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenuewho was entered in four events at 
the U.S. championships at Irvine, 
California and was preparing to 
compete in what would have been 
his biggest competition since the 
Rio Games. Lochte said that he and 
three other U.S. Olympic swimmers 
there were robbed at gunpoint at a 
gas station, a story that quickly un-
raveled.
The investigation in Brazil is 
continuing, and Lochte said it’s 
“concerning” to him that a court there recently decided that he 
could still face prosecution for ﬁ  l-
ing a false report.
Lochte was not only suspended 
10 months for that debacle, but 
also forfeited $100,000 in Olym-
pic medal bonus money and was 
banned from competing in last 
year’s national and world champi-
onships.
And now, he’s back in hot wa-
ter. USADA agreed to start the 
14-month clock on May 24, the 
day that he posted the photo that 
no longer can be found on his In-stagram page. He reiterated Mon-
day that he wants to compete in 
the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, though 
those hopes would seem to be in at 
least some doubt now.
“I should know better,” Lochte 
said.
Lochte spent much of his ca-
reer portraying a party-boy image, 
while his wildly successful exploits 
in the pool — six Olympic golds, 36 
world championship gold medals, 
no fewer than four world records 
— were always overshadowed by 
28-time Olympic medalist and 23-time Olympic champion Michael 
Phelps.
After Rio, Lochte was dropped 
by at least four major sponsors 
including Speedo USA and Ralph 
Lauren, though he has added some 
endorsement deals since. He was 
also apparently targeted by two 
men wearing t-shirts bearing an an-
ti-Lochte message rushed the stage 
while he was competing on ABC’s 
“Dancing with the Stars.”
Lochte returned to competition 
last year, most notably winning the 
200-meter individual medley at the U.S. Open. He also has become a 
father and a husband since Rio — 
he married former Playboy model 
Kayla Rae Reid in January, seven 
months after their son was born.
Lochte will turn 36 during the 
Tokyo Games. He won Olympic 
gold in 2004, 2008, 2012 and 2016, 
and if he found a way to win anoth-
er in Tokyo he would be the oldest 
Olympic swimming champion.
“I have goals that I want to ac-
complish in 2020,” Lochte said. “If 
anything this is going to add more 
fuel to my ﬁ  re.” SWIM,  from pg. 14The Aquatics World Championships will be held in July 2019 one through ﬁ  ve and you have four players that 
you should instantly recognize: Percy Harvin, 
Jeff Demps, Chris Rainey, Joe Haden. 
But let’s keep going because we can. Jaye 
Howard, Cornelius Ingram, Carlos Dunlap, 
Will Hill, Riley Cooper, CAM NEWTON, Major 
Wright, Brandon James (who, might I add, is 
the greatest returner in UF history), Janoris Jen-
kins, Brandon Spikes, the Pouncey twins and 
Marcus Gilbert all were on that team at once. 
Even Aaron Hernandez, as dreadful as his story 
is, had an illustrious college career.
Oh yeah, there was this other guy. He goes 
by the name of Tim Tebow if you haven't heard 
of him. He was pretty good. He won a Heisman 
and a Maxwell Award or two.
That 2008 team was just downright nasty, 
and if it lined up against the 1996 boys, it would 
be a bloodbath in favor of ‘08. Again, all love to 
the ‘96 team, an incredibly fun team to watch, 
but 2008 wins by the eye test.
Finally, the most telling reason that Meyer is 
a better coach is longevity. Meyer has mastered 
how to play today’s college football style - the 
spread offense. Spurrier’s Fun ‘n’ Gun offense is similar to the spread, but different enough 
to where he hasn’t had overwhelming success 
since he ended his failed NFL stint.
In his 10-and-a-half seasons with South Caro-
lina (2005-15), Spurrier went 86-49 (44-40 SEC), 
never made a BCS bowl game (didn’t coach dur-
ing CFP era) and never won a conference title.
For comparison, since leaving Florida and 
eventually joining Ohio State, Meyer is 73-8 
(47-3 Big Ten), has made a BCS bowl or a CFP 
game every single season, won a national title 
and has been to the Big Ten conference title ev-
ery single year.
Yes, Meyer left UF under bad circumstances 
- there’s a reason they call him “Urban Liar” in 
Gainesville. 
But enough time has gone by. Instead of hat-
ing Meyer for the way he left, let’s instead re-
spect him and appreciate him for what he is: the 
greatest Florida football coach of all time. He 
brought you two titles, Gator fans.
It’s time to forgive Urban Meyer.
It’s time to induct him into the Ring of Hon-
or.
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer. You can fol-
low him on Twitter @THEChrisOB and contact 
him at cobrien@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Meyer has won three NCAA titles
Alligator File Photo
Former Florida football coach Urban Meyer has yet to be named to the Gator 
Football Ring of Honor. Should he already be in?
