We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Tastebuds titilated at Taste of Greater Gainesville
Four charities beneﬁ  ted from a night of culinary art, pg. 3
UF Health set to open epilepsy center
The new center wants to help patients with memory loss, stress 
management, pg. 4UF baseball plays into the night for 
regional
The Gators faced off against Florida Atlantic twice 
on Monday after several rain delays over the 
weekend, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 92
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Carly Rogers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Graduate students may write a 40-
page paper for a thesis, but UF alumna 
Ariel Bowman sculpted and painted pre-
historic animals for a museum exhibit.
The Florida Museum of Natural Histo-
ry exhibit features the creatures among 
18th-century Rococo-style furniture in-
cluding a bathtub and a piano. Bowman 
created the exhibit to complete her mas-
ter’s in ceramics from the UF College of 
the Arts.
The 18th century was just before 
humanity had discovered fossils that 
“changed our view of time and where 
we ﬁ  t into nature as a species” during 
that era, Bowman said.
“I enjoy the impossibility and absur-
dity of extinct animals interacting with 
human history,” she said. “The com-
parison points out the brevity of time 
that humans have occupied compared to how long animals have been evolving.”
Each sculpture was created using 
separated clay pieces that were reassem-
bled using a mixture of clay and water. 
The seam lines were hidden and retex-
tured before being bisque ﬁ  red. After 
being ﬁ  red, the pieces were glazed and 
adorned with materials to look like bub-
bles and feathers, according to Bowman. 
All ﬁ  ve sculptures, including their 
decorative pedestals, were made by 
Bowman and can be separated and re-
constructed.
Artist renderings of prehistoric ani-
mals make it easier for visitors to visu-
alize and connect with the prehistoric 
world instead of simply relying on fos-
sils, said Tina Choe, exhibit developer at 
the Florida Museum.
Bowman developed the concept dur-
ing her three years of graduate study in 
ceramics and started the project in Au-Graduate student displays 
sculptures for senior thesisBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
An overnight search led to the arrest of a 
man who is allegedly involved in a child homi-
cide investigation Monday morning.
Carlton James Mathis, 
originally from Hall County, 
Georgia, is the suspect be-
lieved to be involved in the 
murder of a 6-month-old 
child, according to a report 
sent by Hall County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce.
Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce learned that Mathis, 
who also had a felony warrant from Georgia 
on unrelated burglary charges, was in Alachua 
County after receiving the report around 8:30 
p.m. Sunday.
Deputies couldn’t ﬁ  nd Mathis at the location 
provided but learned he may be in the Bronson 
area of Levy County. After Levy County Sher-
iff’s Department was told of Mathis’ potential 
location, an ACSO SWAT team went to Bronson 
at LCSD’s request.
Mathis was reportedly seen leaving a resi-
dence at Bronson Villas & Villages and getting 
into a red SUV at about 4:30 a.m. Monday. 
When SWAT personnel stopped the car, Mathis 
allegedly threatened the driver of the SUV with a handgun.
An ACSO SWAT operator shot Mathis in re-
sponse. Additional SWAT personnel immediate-
ly treated his wounds before taking Mathis to a 
hospital in the area, according to a press release. 
The other person in the car and another SWAT 
operator received minor injuries from glass and/
or shrapnel.
The investigation and search for Mathis 
originally involved deputies and detectives from 
ACSO, LCSD and the Florida Department of Law 
Enforcement.
Dothan Police Department from Alabama 
was also working on the investigation simulta-
neously, according to tweets from ACSO. DPD 
recovered the remains of the infant, which start-
ed the search for Mathis.
Mathis will be transported to Levy County 
Jail after being released from the hospital, ac-
cording to the ACSO press release. He is charged 
with aggravated assault and is being held for a 
felony warrant for unrelated burglary charges 
from Georgia as well as for the outcome of the 
homicide investigation.
The investigation into both the child’s case 
and the shooting is ongoing. Per ACSO policy, 
FDLE is looking into the shooting incident and 
the SWAT operator involved is on administra-
tive leave.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgACSO: Murder suspect arrested
Mathis
By Alana Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nearly two years ago, a ﬁ  re burnt down 
Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises at Satchel’s 
Pizza in an hour, taking the playground 
outside down in its ﬂ  ames. 
A grand reopening was held Friday to 
celebrate the rebuilding of Lightnin’ Salvage 
and a new playground built by UF students.
Inside, the now-concrete Lightnin’ Sal-
vage has a larger stage, air conditioning, a 
light system and an upstairs break room for 
employees. Outside, there is a playground 
designed and built by seven students from 
the School of Architecture at UF.
The students mostly used repurposed 
items and different types of wood to ﬁ  t the 
restaurant’s theme.
“We used slide lenses from projectors, 
spray painted PVC pipe and reused pieces 
of the playground that survived the ﬁ  re,” 
said Elizabeth Cronin, co-instructor for the 
Summer Design/Build Studio at UF.
A red, metal train and an orange dome 
were sandblasted and repainted to make a 
reappearance. More elements for the play-
ground are in the works.
Owner Satchel Raye said, “They are 
still working on a tunnel and an interac-
tive space where you can play some instru-ments and things.”
The students don’t have a deadline for 
the ﬁ  nal touches, but Raye said he will 
complete anything they don’t.
Francisca Ordonez’s daughter jumped 
from tree trunk to tree trunk in the play-
ground during the reopening.
“She’s been coming here since she was 
3, and now she’s 8,” said Ordonez, a lab 
manager at UF. “We’ve been here through 
the whole transition.”
The architecture students have worked 
the project since May 28 and ﬁ  nished it 30 
minutes before the grand reopening. Cronin 
said much of the project was redesigned on 
site when they realized some things didn’t 
work as planned.
Some students were given college credit 
for the project while others were volun-
teers. Raye treated them to pizza for their 
efforts.
Raye paid for the building materials. He 
said the students got a lot of experience out 
of the project.
“It is really good for the students not to 
just design things on paper but to get out 
and see how to put it together,” he said. “I 
mean, I don’t even think they knew how to 
use a post hole digger, and they did a lot of 
digging posts.”UF students design, build new playground at Satchel’s Pizza
Alana Wilson / Alligator Contributor
Children play on new tree stumps next to a repurposed orange dome that survived a ﬁ  re 
at Satchel’s Pizza almost two years ago. 
SEE WONDEROUS,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 92
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Call for community art 
The Alachua County Arts Council 
invites artists or artist teams to 
submit their proposals for public 
art installations planned for the 
Alachua County Office of the 
Public Defender’s new build-
ing, located at 151 SW Second 
Ave. This permanent installa-
tion will include two potential 
sites located at the exterior space 
near the entrance to the facility 
or located in the public lobby. 
After review of all submissions, 
the committee will refer three 
to five artists or artist teams to 
the Alachua County Board of 
County Commissioners for final 
selection. Artists or artist teams 
can apply for one or both instal-
lations. The deadline for the Call 
to Artists submissions is June 
13 at 2 p.m. The packet can be 
picked up at the Alachua County 
Division of Purchasing office, lo-
cated at 12 SE First St., on the 
third floor.
Business workshop 
A workshop focusing on the fac-
tors that help browsers become 
buyers, and buyers recommend 
you to others will take place 
June 16 from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
at the Hawthorne Branch of the 
Alachua County Public Library. 
The presenter is retired IT pro-
fessional Chuck Stewart. 
Make Music Day 
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department has joined forces 
with Hoggtowne Music to host 
the Make Music Day Gainesville 
celebration on Depot Park, lo-
cated at 200 SE Depot Ave., 
June 21 from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Gainesville will join more than 
800 cities in 120 countries for 
this event. Make Music Day is 
a worldwide celebration. Make 
Music Day Gainesville will host a 
large variety of instrumental jam 
sessions and bands throughout 
Depot Park. In addition to mul-
tiple stage areas, there will be 
drum circles, ukulele circles and 
microphones. For more informa-
tion on the event, contact Joe 
Dorsey of Hoggtowne Music at 
hoggtownemusic@gmail.com. 
UF physicians to train providers 
UF Health Jacksonville physi-
cians have received a grant to 
train community providers in 
South Florida on the best ways 
to recognize and treat signs of 
depression and suicide risk in 
children and teenagers. The 
grant was awarded by the na-tional American Academy of 
Pediatrics following the shoot-
ing at Parkland High School in 
February. The grant was award-
ed to the Florida Chapter of the 
American Academy of Pediatrics 
under the leadership of Madeline 
Joseph, M.D., a professor in 
the UF College of Medicine 
— Jacksonville’s department 
of emergency medicine; Elise 
Fallucco, M.D., an associate 
professor in the college’s depart-
ment of psychiatry and Alicia 
Adams, executive director of the 
Florida Chapter of the American 
Academy of Pediatrics Inc.
Landscaping projects to begin 
this week
A pair of Florida Department of 
Transportation (FDOT) projects 
are set to begin this week in 
Alachua County, weather per-
mitting. A landscape project on 
Southwest Archer Road will take 
place between Southwest 78th 
Street and Southwest 16th Street. 
Work will primarily be contained 
to the medians of Southwest 
Archer Road as crews remove 
and replace existing landscap-
ing. No lane closures are allowed 
from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday 
through Saturday. The project 
is expected to be completed this 
winter. The $5.1 million resur-
facing project will take place be-
tween the Columbia County line 
and Northwest 167th Boulevard 
in Alachua. A milling and pav-
ing project on U.S. Route 441 
through High Springs is expected 
to be completed spring 2019. 
Most of the road work on U.S. 
Route 441 will be completed 
during the day, and motorists 
should expect delays while con-
struction activities are taking 
place. However, lane closure 
restrictions are in place during 
peak travel times to reduce con-
gestion.
Mosquito spraying underway in 
Alachua County 
The City of Gainesville Mosquito 
Control Department has begun 
spraying within the city limits. 
Mosquito populations are being 
monitored daily, and some ar-
eas have populations that have 
increased significantly with the 
constant rain. Staff will be con-
ducting treatment in the areas 
where a large population of adult 
mosquitoes is seen through sur-
veillance methods and/or ser-
vice requests. Areas within mos-
quito control zones 1, 13 and 15 
have seen high populations of 
mosquitoes and were sprayed at 
the end of last week. Other areas 
will be sprayed as warranted.  Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
editor@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the 
after the above events and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. 
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Rights group says US-led coali-
tion destroyed Syrian city
BEIRUT — An international hu-
man rights group Tuesday ac-
cused the U.S. and its allies of 
showing little regard for civil-
ians’ lives while attacking the 
Syrian city that was once the de-
facto capital of the Islamic State 
extremist group, an allegation 
denied by the American military.
Amnesty International said the 
U.S.-led coalition’s 2017 assault 
on Raqqa killed hundreds of ci-
vilians and reduced sections of 
the city to rubble.
Researchers for Amnesty inter-
viewed more than 100 residents 
and visited 42 coalition targets in 
the city in a two-week period in 
February. They published their 
findings in a report titled “War 
of Annihilation,” in a reference 
to the language used by U.S. 
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis in 
the lead-up to the campaign.
“When so many civilians are 
killed in attack after attack, 
something is clearly wrong,” 
said Donatella Rovera, one of the 
researchers who visited the city.
U.S. Army Col. Sean Ryan, 
spokesman for the coalition, 
called the assertions “grossly in-
accurate.” He said the coalition 
and allied Syrian forces orga-
nized safe passages for residents 
to flee, but IS militants trapped 
them inside to use as human 
shields.
“When you have an enemy that 
uses noncombatants as collateral 
damage, it’s very difficult when 
you fight an enemy like that to 
completely avoid any casual-
ties,” Ryan said.HIGH  90° LOW  69°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 92
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneBy Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
Taste of Greater Gainesville 
held its ninth annual fundraising 
event in the Exactech Arena at the 
O’Connell Center on Sunday eve-
ning. Each year the event raises 
money for four nonproﬁ  t orga-
nizations helping children in the 
Gainesville area.
This year the beneﬁ  ting chari-
ties were the Child Advocacy Cen-
ter, PACE Center for Girls - Ala-
chua, Ronald McDonald House 
Charities of North Central Florida 
and Tyler’s Hope for a Dystonia Cure.
Sherry Houston, executive di-
rector of Ronald McDonald House 
Charities of North Central Florida, 
said it is an honor to work with 
the three other charities for the 
event.
“Rarely do you see four chari-
ties come together, and the collab-
oration is much more powerful,” 
Houston said. “Who doesn’t love 
to eat and drink and try different 
restaurants? The fellowship of 
people in Gainesville is powerful.”
The event featured tastings 
from 40 food vendors, an Iron 
Chef competition and a silent auc-tion to beneﬁ  t the four charities.
This is the ﬁ  rst time the event 
was held in the O’Connell Center.
Catherine Perkinson, event 
coordinator for Taste of Greater 
Gainesville, said moving the event 
from its previous location at the 
Hilton UF Conference Center Ho-
tel to the O’Connell Center was an 
improvement.
The size of the O’Connell Cen-
ter allowed for more people, more 
vendors and the space to do live 
video production of the Iron Chef 
competition, Perkinson said.
The Iron Chef competition is 
a highlight of the event for most guests, Perkinson said.
In the competition, three local 
chefs create an appetizer, entree 
and dessert plate using a secret 
ingredient. The winner earns the 
title of Gainesville Iron Chef. This 
year’s secret ingredient was citrus.
Scott Costello, owner of Advan-
tage Publishing Inc. and founder 
of Taste of Greater Gainesville, 
created the charity after attending 
many other charity events through 
his company.
“We attended over 200 events 
a year, and I started making lists 
of things I would do if I did an 
event,” Costello said. “Instead of trying to change existing organiza-
tions, I decided to create my own 
based on charities I cared about 
and the things I would enjoy do-
ing at events the most.”
Rick Staab, founder of Tyler’s 
Hope for a Dystonia Cure, said the 
awareness the event creates and 
the money it raises helps his orga-
nization to treat kids locally.
“It’s been really impactful on 
us,” Staab said. “It’s the largest 
thing that we beneﬁ  t from outside 
of our own events.”
@sloanasavage
ssavage@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Chef Nester Espartero of Volcanic Sushi + Sake celebrates his 
team’s Iron Chef victory at Taste of Greater Gainesville 2018.
Abby Gilkey, a member of the Stewart’s Catering team, hands a prepared plate to chef Jenny Dorsey 
for judging.  
 Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Alligator StaffTaste of Greater Gainesville dazzles with exotic food, drink
This was the ninth annual culinary-based fundraiser for charity4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.orgBy Anais Roache
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health Jacksonville is launching an epi-
lepsy wellness center to help patients with is-
sues such as memory loss, stress management 
and general clinical care.
Dr. Ramon Bautista, associate chair of neu-
rology at UF Health Jacksonville, said the de-
partment started the initiative about a decade 
ago and has focused on researching speciﬁ  c 
issues faced by a “neglected population” over the years.
“Starting something like this is going to help 
them improve their quality of life and be able to 
go about their daily lives knowing that some-
one is looking out for them,” Bautista said. 
Julianne May, a 26-year-old Gainesville 
resident who was diagnosed with epilepsy at 
16, thinks the center will be a great step in edu-
cating and providing support for people with 
epilepsy.
“Being that people with epilepsy are more 
susceptible to anxiety and depression, it be-comes a toxic situation,” May said. “But if 
you’re going to a wellness center that focuses 
on your mental health and needs, then you can 
avoid that toxic situation.”
The center has a starting fund of about 
$150,000 and is funded by several founda-
tions such as Florida Blue Foundation, Jessie 
Ball duPont Fund, Riverside Hospital Founda-
tion and the dean’s ofﬁ  ce at the UF College of 
Medicine - Jacksonville.
Bautista said he hopes the department will 
help with other challenges epilepsy patients face in the future such as sleep issues and em-
ployment. He also wants to provide more re-
sources for caretakers.
Patients will be enrolled in courses at the 
beginning of June.
“The plan is to grow this and not just be 
content with offering services for a couple of 
years or so,” said Bautista. “But to try to be 
better and streamline the services and make it 
more tuned to the needs of our patients.”UF Health Jacksonville launches epilepsy center this month
gust 2017, after researching 
and planning throughout the 
summer. 
The humpback whale and 
Columbian mammoth for the 
museum’s permanent ex-
hibits were also modeled by 
Bowman.
She has been invited to 
gallery exhibitions in Wash-
ington, Montana and Min-
nesota and plans to continue 
creating paleoart in her Dal-
las studio.
Paleoart is art that illus-
trates prehistoric life accord-
ing to the scientiﬁ  c evidence 
known at the time of the 
work’s creation. 
Bowman will propose the 
exhibit to art galleries and other natural history muse-
ums when the exhibit ends in 
mid-September.
“The work is unique in 
that it can relate to view-
ers in both of these spaces,” 
Bowman said. “I use science 
to create my sculptures, so 
they are able bridge the gap 
between art and science, ex-
isting in both worlds.”
For pictures and informa-
tion about the exhibit, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/ex-
hibits/wondrous/. For more 
information about Bowman 
and her work, visit her web-
site at arielbowman.com.WONDEROUS,  from pg. 1Bowman was invited 
to art galleries 
across the nation 
Carly Rodgers / Alligator Contributor
Haute Couture (High Fashion) includes a folding screen as a reference to changing and transformation through 
natural selection, according to an exhibit panel. The creature modeling the clothing is sivatherium, a prehistoric 
giraffe that existed in Africa and India ﬁ  ve million years ago.
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Man inhaled chemicals 
during police questioning
Gainesville Police arrested a man for inhaling a compressed 
gas duster and crashing into two vehicles while trying to get 
away from police.
David Yates, 33, was charged with inhal-
ing harmful chemicals and attempting to 
elude a police ofﬁ  cer.
A GPD ofﬁ  cer responded to a call about 
a man passed out behind the wheel of his 
car Sunday around 8:25 a.m., according to 
the report.
When the ofﬁ  cer arrived at 1627 NW 
10th Terrace, she saw Yates slumped over 
in the driver seat with a 10-ounce can of 
Waxford compressed gas duster, according to the report. The 
car was on and still in drive.
While trying to wake Yates, the ofﬁ  cer saw him lift his head 
slightly and deeply inhale from the can, according to the re-
port. Yates then slumped forward, his head landing on the car 
horn making it go off until he shifted his head.
The ofﬁ  cer went around to the other side of the car and 
saw the rear passenger window was cracked, according to the 
report. She yelled through the window for Yates to put the car 
in park and unlock it. Yates roused a little, so the ofﬁ  cer kept 
shouting and banging on the window.
The ofﬁ  cer went to the front passenger window and com-
manded him to unlock the car, according to the report. Yates 
allegedly looked straight at the ofﬁ  cer, deeply inhaled from the 
can, put his hand on the steering wheel and sped away. As 
soon as he put his hand on the wheel the ofﬁ  cer broke the 
window and yelled at him to stop.
Yates crossed the street and crashed into a vehicle, then 
drove through a yard and continued down the street before he 
crashed into another vehicle, according to the report. Yates’ car 
was disabled because of the second crash and the ofﬁ  cer was 
able to take him into custody.
After being read his Miranda Rights, Yates said he did see 
the ofﬁ  cer and knew that she was law enforcement. He said he 
sped off because he “panicked.”
Yates remained in the Alachua County Jail on Sunday and 
Monday in lieu of a $45,000 bond.
- Devoun CetouteWoman arrested on 
charge of aggravated 
battery
High Springs Police arrested a woman 
Friday afternoon for allegedly trying to 
stab a man for mowing her neighbor’s 
lawn.
Witnesses reportedly saw Willie Rose, 
a 63-year-old resident of High Springs, 
charge at the victim with a large kitchen 
knife while the victim was on a lawn 
mower. According to the HSPD report, 
the victim was mowing the grass at a wit-
ness’s house on Northwest 179th Place.
Rose was allegedly close enough to 
try and stab him, but she failed because 
the victim jumped off the mower to avoid 
being stabbed, witnesses said.
According to the report, the victim 
stated that if he hadn’t jumped away, 
Rose “would have got (him), would have 
stabbed (him).”
HSPD received the armed disturbance 
call at 4:43 p.m. When ofﬁ  cers arrived, 
they found Rose sitting on a lawn chair. 
The knife was also on the chair and was 
about 12 inches long.
While investigating, Rose told ofﬁ  cers 
she didn’t want the victim mowing the 
yard and came at him with a knife. She is 
reportedly known to have mental health 
complications.
According to the report, she was 
charged with attempted aggravated bat-
tery. Rose is being held at Alachua Coun-
ty Jail with her bond set at $5,000.
- Jessica CurbeloYates
Men accused of attempting to steal 
$5,000 worth of copper
Gainesville Police arrested two men accused of stealing from Morgan                
Brothers Supply and ﬂ  eeing from police.
Elvane Jean Pierre, 23, and Jarmal Miller, 29, were 
charged with burglary to an unoccupied structure, 
grand theft and possession of burglary tools. Jean 
Pierre was also charged with resisting an ofﬁ  cer with-
out violence, and Miller was also charged with grand 
theft auto and aggravated ﬂ  eeing from an ofﬁ  cer.
On Saturday around 7:29 p.m., Jean Pierre and 
Miller allegedly entered Morgan Brothers Supply at 
3310 N. Main St. by cutting a hole in a garage door, 
according to the report. They went inside the closed 
business and took about $5,000 in copper.
The suspects left the store in a white 2018 truck. 
The truck was reported as stolen, according to the re-
port.
A GPD ofﬁ  cer saw Miller driving the suspected ve-
hicle out of Morgan Brothers Supply, according to the 
report.
Another ofﬁ  cer attempted to stop the vehicle by 
turning on his lights and sirens at 3300 N. Main St., 
but Miller ignored them and continued down North 
Main Street, according to the report.
Miller continued to drive east on Northeast 28th Avenue and crashed 
into the yard of a home at 1018 NE 28th Ave., according to the report. It 
is estimated that he caused about $200 in property damage.
Jean Pierre ran from the crash and was caught, according to the re-
port. Law enforcement ofﬁ  cers made contact with him on 200 NE 31st 
Ave. Miller was arrested around 1000 NE 28th Ave.
Jean Pierre told law enforcement ofﬁ  cers that he did not know Miller, 
but he was going to get paid $500 to load copper into the truck, accord-
ing to the report. 
He said his birthday was in two days and he needed the money. He 
considered just walking off and not getting in the truck to leave the shop 
but chose to stay. 
Law enforcement ofﬁ  cers found bolt cutters, pliers, power tools and 
a sledgehammer.
Jean Pierre and Miller remained in the Alachua County Jail on Satur-
day and Sunday. Jean Pierre’s bail was set to $35,000 and Miller’s was 
set to $50,000.
- Devoun CetouteMiller
Jean Pierre
Editorial
ColumnAbout last week...
College is about learning to take care of yourself
College is hard. For some of us, it’s the 
ﬁ  rst time we’re away from home and 
juggling school and duties like cook-
ing, cleaning, going to the doctor and 
more. There’s no parent or guardian 
telling you that you’re going out too much, not 
sleeping enough or taking you to the doctor.
Books often come before yourself.
There’s those times of year when lecture 
halls are ﬁ  lled with a chorus of coughs and a 
symphony of sneezes. Are school days more 
important than sick days?
That’s what these lecture halls seem to show. This 
high-pressure society seems to tell us success is more im-
portant than health.
You can hear it in the way college students talk.
Who is running on the most caffeine? Who missed few-
er classes? Who pulled the most all-nighters? Who spent 
the longest in the library?
These are questions you can hear in the mumbles of 
students waiting for class to start or chatting in the library.
And it shows in the way colleges rank things, although 
UF also makes strides to take care of students with de-
stress events and a plethora of physical and mental health 
resources. But still, at any college, the focus is academia 
and not always the person behind an achievement. Col-
leges reward those with the most accolades or the highest 
GPAs, not the student who ﬁ  nds the balance between aca-
demics and practicing good care techniques.
Take me, for instance. Despite having a chronic medi-
cal condition, I put school over myself a lot.
Back in high school, I would go to school sick and ex-
hausted until it all caught up to me, and I was hospitalized 
four times in one year for weeks at a time.
The same is true in college where I fear missing an 
important lecture or not having time to do an assignment 
because I’m sick. Then my health faltered again. I missed a month of classes and now have a new diag-
nosis.
Syllabi don’t make it any easier to give 
yourself a break. Some professors include at-
tendance in your grades. In one of my classes, 
you could lose 20 points per absence. For me, 
it was almost like a scare tactic. Miss a class 
and lose part of your grade, or miss an impor-
tant doctor’s appointment and lose part of your 
health. I felt constantly at odds between classes 
and appointments. 
This is on top of the general work stress college stu-
dents already face. There are assignments to keep up with, 
resumes to build and futures to plan.
Between demanding classes and college activities, tak-
ing time for yourself is important.
Let’s change the way we talk about work. Encourage 
friends to take a study break or schedule time to take your-
self on an adventure beyond a walk to Marston Science 
Library or Library West.
When you’re sick, go to the doctor. Make time for sleep 
and relaxation. College is all about learning how to take 
care of yourself. Don’t sacriﬁ  ce yourself, your mental and 
physical health or time to have fun for one class.
Going to class is important. But it shouldn’t be at the 
cost of your health. Sometimes, it’s something you can 
never get back.
Visit the UF Student Health Care Center, the Counsel-
ing & Wellness Center or UF’s gyms. Take a walk in the 
beautiful nature of campus. Feed yourself at a dining hall, 
POD market or chain across campus.
College is costly. But, imagine the cost of the damage 
to your health.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
To paraphrase the great American poet Dorothy Parker, 
“I hate reporting. I love having reported.”
It’s a sentiment all journalists feel at some point in 
their careers. Doing legwork is hard. Getting people to 
comment on the record in the age of “fake news” is 
hard. Getting quality photos to go with your work is hard.
Reporting is hard. But it is essential to a functioning soci-
ety. Whether it’s national, local or hyperlocal, the impact of 
the press is a great responsibility not to be wasted on trivial 
matters.
The Alligator published an article Thursday entitled “UF 
horticulture chair resigns.” Since then we’ve received plenty of 
feedback from all sides of the story, which included allegations 
of domestic abuse. Former UF students, activists and other 
journalists got into a heated debate in the comment section of 
the online story. We disabled the comment section Monday 
morning.
Through it all, we’ve continued to work on the story. It was 
updated once the morning after it ran, and it is being updated 
again today. Future updates are in the works.
So why do we do this? Why is The Alligator stirring the pot 
by reporting on such a story?
Because the truth matters. Nitpicking every single detail 
and angle matters to us not just as journalists, but as people. 
If people cannot agree on a well-deﬁ  ned set of facts, then how 
do we even begin to understand the world?
A shared set of facts helps us all identify issues inﬁ  nitely 
better. Stories with facts have the power to sway public dia-
logue and enact change for the better.
There’s more to any story than just the initial 600-word 
article that pops up whenever you read it for the ﬁ  rst time. 
Hours of transcribing interviews, missed connections and 
other extenuating circumstances often lead to an unﬁ  nished 
product being put out before a worldwide audience. It’s not an 
ideal system, but it’s one that the news media operates under.
Through our work, we’ve uncovered details entirely unre-
lated to the original point of the story. We choose now to hold 
off on printing anything else regarding this subject outside of 
the aforementioned update until two conditions are met.
The ﬁ  rst condition is that our information has to be based 
on the best sources that we have at that time. The point of re-
porting a story is not to be ﬁ  rst, but rather to be right. Claims 
on all sides of the story remain unveriﬁ  ed, but we’re still 
working to either conﬁ  rm or deny them based on hard docu-
mentation.
The second condition is that it has to be relevant. There are 
plenty of avenues The Alligator has been afforded to wander. 
What it ultimately comes down to is what we want to convey. 
Pursuing every possible lead is neither feasible nor wise and 
can tear a story apart before it’s complete.
There are plenty of folks who would say The Alligator has 
an agenda in this or any other story we publish. We know 
an editorial won’t change minds on this issue, and we won’t 
change our reporting based on these opinions.
What we will do is report on stories that matter to the stu-
dents and residents of Gainesville. It’s thankless work. Good 
journalism rarely leaves all parties involved happy. The Al-
ligator somehow managed to tick off all parties. And we’re 
not sorry.
Reporting is hard. But we love having reported.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
This May, H&M has released their ﬁ  rst 
“modest” clothing collection, LTD. 
It comes just in time for the Muslim 
month of Ramadan, a holy time for 
Muslims around the world. H&M has 
not explicitly stated that cultural diversity is 
the target of the campaign, but they have said 
“we want to be diverse and inclusive to all the 
markets.”
H&M didn’t start this trend. The Modist is 
another store speciﬁ  cally focused on this style 
of dress. Brands that are traditionally considered non-
modest have recently curated modest collections. These 
include Dolce & Gabbana, Tommy Hilﬁ  ger, Mango and 
Macy’s. In 2017, London even got their ﬁ  rst modest fash-
ion week — sponsored by Modanisa, one of the largest 
brands in the modest industry. Modest fashion is a quick-
ly growing market around the world and includes wom-
en of all ethnicities and religions. Forbes estimated that in 
2015, modest fashion purchases were worth $44 billion, 
approximately 18 percent of the clothing industry. 
Modest-blogging inﬂ  uencers are popping up in great 
numbers all over YouTube and Instagram. Some are un-
impressed with H&M’s new attempt at inclusivity. Dina 
Torkia, a self-proclaimed modest fashion blogger, says “it 
looks just like regular H&M” and “whenever brands do 
this, it’s so heavily inspired by Muslim cultures around 
the world…we can already get that stuff.”
As brands enter this new territory, there are many 
questions that need to be answered. Because modesty is so subjective, brands are struggling with un-
derstanding what “modest” really means. Are 
modest customers looking for ethnic styles or 
modern ones? It’s unclear whether modest 
dressers appreciate brands catering to their 
needs or if they prefer not to feel further ex-
cluded to a small portion of the store. 
“We like what’s on the high street, it just 
needs a few adjustments, like a slightly longer 
sleeve, or not see-through top” says Torkia. 
A quick look at the LTD line suggests 
a failure on H&M’s part. Many of the pieces have low 
necklines, are made of revealing material or are not an-
kle-length. Companies attempting to cater to the modest 
demographic must consider whether they are truly look-
ing to serve the customer or just looking for good pub-
licity. H&M recently had an incident with a black child 
model wearing an offensive slogan tee that led to public 
outrage. Positive and intentional representation of diver-
sity is something they need. 
Regardless of whether H&M’s line was a success, 
there is something to be said for the attempt. Fashion 
is something that so many women enjoy, and they all 
deserve to be represented in the industry, especially if 
they are one of the biggest customers. Modest dressers, 
especially Muslim women, have demanded the attention 
of the biggest brands, and that is a win. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday. You might know 
this person: he 
or she has a few 
guns, strongly 
supports Second 
Amendment rights and 
distrusts the govern-
ment. Part of the reason 
they have so many guns 
is that the government 
cannot be trusted — 
you’ll need their armed 
support to combat an authoritar-
ian and tyrannical Washington 
one day. Two bumper stickers are 
neighbors on the rear of their for-
ward-thinking, fuel-efﬁ  cient Prius. 
One reads, “Support the Troops,” 
the other, “The right to bear arms 
is our only protection from gov-
ernment tyranny.” In this day and 
age, that job is better done by the 
First Amendment than the Second.
Let’s address the 800-pound go-
rilla in the room. Or should I say 
the 62-ton tank. The likelihood of 
a ragtag band of gun owners rout-
ing the U.S. military in small-arms 
combat is very small. The F-35, 
a combat aircraft you proudly 
support with tax dollars, has la-
ser-guided munitions. The laser 
pointer on your handgun does 
not stand a chance. The idea that 
gun owners could collectively or-
ganize and complete a revolution 
against an American government 
with malicious intent is not only 
misguided in its intention, it’s ig-
norant in fact. I saw another bum-
per sticker the other day I think 
speaks to the mistaken idea at the 
center of gun owners against tyr-
anny. It read “The Second Amend-
ment: the Original Homeland Se-
curity.” All of these gun-loving bumper stickers make 
bold claims about train-
ing your average AR-
15 owner. Times have 
changed. Weapons tech-
nology has evolved. The 
Second Amendment was 
written at a time when a 
militia, fewer in number 
but greater in spirit and 
conviction (and under 
the command of trained 
generals), bested the military of 
one of the most powerful empires.
The First Amendment is a big-
ger obstacle to tyranny than the 
Second — politics aside. Let’s talk 
military strategy. To wage an in-
surgency, the force fewer in num-
ber needs lots of people on their 
side. For that to happen, they need 
the crimes, usurpations and injus-
tices perpetrated by the govern-
ment to be displayed on the front 
page and on television screens. 
Having a gun isn’t as good as hav-
ing 30 or 40 well-informed people 
voting against the government you 
would have been shooting at. 
Before you take to the streets 
against a Bradley Fighting Vehicle, 
designed by your tax dollars to 
ﬁ  ght soft targets, like you would 
be, think about what you’re giv-
ing up for your gun. To vote for 
Second Amendment rights, while 
ignoring the constant glaring at-
tacks against the First in the cur-
rent political environment, is to ﬂ  y 
the ﬂ  ag of the tyranny we all vow 
to oppose.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF po-
litical science junior. His column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.Modest fashion is the next big thing The First Amendment 
protects against tyranny 
better than the SecondColumn Column
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
Chelsea T obias, No. 42, collides with an opponent during Saturday night’s roller 
derby between the Gainesville Roller Rebels and the Pensacola Roller Gurlz.Ashley Chow, known as “Slam Chowder” by her Gainesville Roller Rebels teammates, 
cracks a joke with an opponent between rounds of Gainesville’s 178-97 win. 
A Gainesville Roller Rebel puts on her game face before Saturday’s roller 
derby.  The Gainesville Roller Rebels are Alachua County and Gainesville’s 
first and only competitive women’s flat track roller derby league. Allison Klingmann, No. 76 for the Pensacola Roller Gurlz, blocks a Gainesville Roller Rebels  player.
Roller Rebels route regional rivals in rink rally
 Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Staff
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
Alachua County Library kicks oﬀ   summer
Right:  Kyla Dalton, 21, 
with the Royal for a Reason 
organization, dances with Z’nya 
Roberts, 9, and Amiria Roberts, 
6, during Sunday’s Summer 
Reader Palooza on Depot Park.  
This event encouraged children 
to continue reading through 
the summer while promoting 
upcoming activities with the 
Alachua County Library District.
Far Right: Gail Carr, 66, 
advertises for the Alachua 
County Library District’s 
Summer at the Library. Photos by Chris Day
Alligator StaffBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers only. 
Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ walk to 
UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. CAC/
heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 561-
822-7073, chaarlottekirk@outlook.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-6
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
● ● MARGIE'S SECOND THOUGHT ● ●
2210 NE 55th Blvd, Gville. 386-972-2556
10 am - 6 pm, 7 days a week
● Baby supplies & toys ● Appliances ● 
Furniture ● Clothes ● Linens ● Rugs, Etc.       
6-5-18-5-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches. Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
2/2 Corner Condo:
Move-in ready, washer/dryer incl.
Free internet.
10 min to UF. On bus route.
$850/mth. 352-872-3619      6-7-18-5-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave      4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
W/D included, fenced backyard, large
closets, close to shopping, midtown, buses    
Call 352-338-1000        6-7-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://collegeopportunity. fun         6-19-
18-5-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: http://collegeopportunities.club/     
6-19-18-5-18Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://www.collegeopportunity.fun/    
6-19-18-5-20
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
20
Astonishing Little-known opportunities 
for students to earn an extra income.
Go To www.ExtraStudentIncome.com    6-19-
18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Plunk down in
front of, as a
counter
6 1-BR listings
10 Ph.D. wannabe’s
obstacle
13 Heart chambers
14 Blue Ribbon beer
16 Short flight
17 Gym bar addition
19 In days of yore
20 Opposite of SSW
21 Seat of Allen
County, Kansas
22 Pricey watch
24 Fairness principle
for bandwidth
providers
28 Dodos
30 Lumber
31 “__ Baby”: “Hair”
song
32 Genie’s offering
33 Hoppy beer, for
short
36 Judicial fact
finder
41 Mo. port on the
Miss.
42 Mark Harmon TV
series
43 “Now!” in the ER
44 Ruler until 1917
45 iPad and Kindle
Fire
48 What a
crossword clue
typically starts
with
52 “I didn’t expect to
see you here”
53 Out of the wind
54 Itinerary word
57 Habitat of many
schools
58 Retail come-ons
... and what the
starts of the
longest Across
answers can be?
62 “Live __”: Taco
Bell slogan
63 Take off the TiVo
64 Lustrous furs
65 Poetic tribute
66 Mannerless one
67 Behold, of old
DOWN
1 Like lumber
2 Southern coast-
to-coast hwy.
3 Occurring every
third year
4 2008 bailout co.5 South Pacific
getaway
6 Orchard fruit
7 Micronesian
setting for the
10th season of
“Survivor”
8 Letters in an
incomplete
schedule
9 Retired flier,
briefly
10 Ex-U.N. head
Boutros-__
11 Thesaurus
compiler
12 Hobbyist’s glue
15 Resistance unit
equal to one
trillion of the
basic units
18 Musical quality
23 Yellowstone’s __
Faithful
25 Cabinet dept.
concerned with
nukes
26 Candy from Mars
27 Rights icon
Parks
28 Casual denials
29 “Su-r-r-r-re”
32 “Rushmore”
director
Anderson33 Play peacemaker
34 Bog fuel
35 “Fine” studies
37 Current, as
fashion
38 Frozen Four org.
39 Lass
40 5-Down or 
7-Down
44 Deadlock
45 Penn’s silent
partner
46 Perfectly, with “to”47 Backup squads
48 Pink drink, for
short
49 On the horizon
50 Temporary stage
51 Catcher at a
rodeo
55 Really gets to
56 Certain prof.’s
designation
59 Poetic planet
60 __ Paulo, Brazil
61 Yahtzee cube
By Samuel A. Donaldson
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/05/1806/05/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 5, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 *Tattoos
4 They churn out
dough
8 *Hypothetical
object that
absorbs all
incident
electromagnetic
radiation
13 Sign of summer
14 Ecologically
challenged Asian
sea
15 Ovine output
16 *Nonverbal
communication
18 Deepest, as
feelings
19 Realm
20 Op-ed takes
22 *Snoop
23 Outdoor gear
giant
25 Game that may
involve bumpers
27 With 44-Across,
classic 1956 film
... and why the
answers to
starred clues
aren’t quite
themselves?
33 Dose people?
35 Elite prep school
36 Dominica native
37 Abrades
painfully
39 Flay’s flipper
41 Furious
42 “Better Call __”
43 Foxy
44 See 27-Across
48 Chihuahua chow
49 The SEC’s
Tigers
50 *Bumper repair
site
54 First course in
German?
56 Thailand, once
60 Watch a
neighbor’s
pooch, say
62 *Star or nebula
64 Café
65 Ingrid, in
“Casablanca”
66 Tell’s apple
support
67 *Circadian
rhythm
68 Face
69 *Coveted
journalism
awardDOWN
1 Penne __ vodka
2 Caboose
3 Text alert, often
4 Nonpro sports
org.
5 “Fallen woman,”
in a Verdi title
6 Star followers
7 Take advantage
of a day off,
maybe
8 Bar
9 Ewe’s output
10 “__ Ben Adhem”
11 Mama with two
Papas
12 Pop’s Perry
15 Bearded bovine
17 Jake __, first
Congressman to
fly in space
21 Court
24 Hillary’s peak
26 Neighborhoods
27 “Don’t mess with
me”
28 Spread
29 Generous, as a
contract
30 Bind
31 Jack and Jill’s
Waterloo?
32 AuctionWeb,
since 1997
33 Little bit34 French bread
38 Pen with oink,
not ink
39 Anatomical pouch
40 Eye-rolling word
42 Cry after a
holdup
45 Awful
46 Pressure prefix
47 Ploy
50 What a crossword
is often
constructed on51 Mend
52 “Beetle Bailey”
hound
53 One 60-trillionth
of a min.
55 Brazilian hero
57 Clouseau’s rank:
Abbr.
58 Bug bite soother
59 Feathered 
mimic
61 Bug
63 Dye holder
By John Lampkin
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/01/1806/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, June 1, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1. In 2016, the Dodgers’ Julio Urias 
became the youngest postseason start-
ing pitcher (20 years, 68 days old) in 
major-league history. Who had been 
the youngest one?
2. David Cone, Pedro Martinez and 
David Wells all tossed a perfect nine 
innings in a major-league game. Who 
of the three had the most career regu-
lar-season victories?
3. Donnel Pumphrey of San Diego 
State set a new record in 2016 for 
most career rushing yards (6,405 
yards). Whose record did he break?
4. Who was the first athlete from the 
Dominican Republic to play in the 
NBA?
5. The Vegas Knights set a record in 
2017-18 for most regular-season road 
wins by an NHL expansion team (22). 
Which team had held the mark?
6. Which Major League Soccer 
teams have won back-to-back MLS 
Cup championships?
7. In 2018, Germany’s Kristina V ogel 
won her 11th women’s world cycling 
title. Who else has won 11 times?
Answers
1. Bret Saberhagen was 20 years, 
175 days old when he started in 1984.
2. Wells had 239 victories, Martinez 
219 and Cone 194.
3. Wisconsin’s Ron Dayne, who 
rushed for 6,397 yards (1996-99, 
when bowl statistics were not includ-
ed).
4. Tito Horford, with the Milwaukee 
Bucks in 1988.
5. The Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, 
with 19 road victories in the 1993-94 
season.
6. D.C. United (1996-97), Houston 
(2006-07) and the Los Angeles Gal-
axy (2011-12).
7. Australia’s Anna Meares.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 28, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 22 TicketsBy Chris O’Brien, Sports Writer
 
The Florida Gators played two games 
against the Florida Atlantic Owls Monday 
night. Perhaps Florida was distracted by 
the MLB draft Monday night, as it had 
three players go in the first round with 
third baseman Jonathan India and pitch-
ers Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar. Af-
ter it dropped the first matchup, UF played 
FAU for a spot in the Super Regionals:
Game 1
Errors and misplayed balls marred the 
third inning for the Gators as they went on 
to give up five runs to the Owls in a 7-4 
loss at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium in the 
Gainesville Regional.
In what was just a bizarre day, Florida 
was forced to be the visiting team on its 
own field because of a rule that stipulates 
a team cannot be on the away side for 
three-consecutive games. FAU had been 
the away team for the two games previous 
to the one with the Gators.
To add to the weirdness of the day, 
there was a lengthy weather delay prior 
to the start of the game. The game was 
supposed to begin at 1 p.m. but didn’t offi-
cially start until 5:45 p.m. The skies, how-
ever, didn’t rain or show signs of lightning 
until roughly 4 p.m.
Once the action finally started, UF 
starting pitcher and Jackson Kowar al-
lowed two singles to begin the third in-
ning before an error from right fielder Wil 
Dalton, where he misplayed a routine fly 
ball, loaded the bases.
FAU followed the error with back-to-
back singles to plate two runs.
A walk loaded the bases once again 
and another single notched two more RBIs 
for the Owls and the route was on at 5-0.
Interestingly, four of five singles in the 
inning were to the left side of the field 
between the shortstop and the third-base 
line. All five runs followed the same prin-
ciple.
Oddly enough, Kowar struck out the 
next three batters to end the inning.
Florida stole a couple runs back in the 
next half-inning though, when second 
baseman Blake Reese launched a two-run 
home run past the right field fence to cut 
the FAU lead to three.
The Owls got those two runs back in 
the bottom of the inning, however. A sin-
gle and a fielding error by UF shortstop 
Deacon Liput on an easy double-play ball 
put men on first and second before anoth-
er single eventually loaded the bases.
A sacrifice fly scored a run, and a wild 
pitch moved the runners over to second 
and third. A single to left field scored a run 
On Monday, UF named 
Anthony Nesty as the 
program's men's swimming 
and diving coach. Jeff Poppell 
was named head coach of the 
women's team.FAEDO'S PLAY IN FLORIDA STATE LEAGUE
Former Gators pitcher Alex Faedo has pitched in 10 games for the Lakeland 
Flying Tigers in the Florida State League. He's 1-4 but holds a decent 3.47 
ERA in A play. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
First Kevin Durant, now Bry-
an Colangelo?
If you haven’t heard, 
Philadelphia 76ers Presi-
dent of Basketball Opera-
tions Bryan Colangelo (and pos-
sibly his wife, Barbara Bottini) are 
the alleged operators of up to five 
different burner accounts on Twit-
ter that have posted things that are 
detrimental to the Sixers’ organi-
zation.We already saw 
this from Durant in 
September 2017. I 
wasn’t surprised to 
hear the story about 
his burner accounts. I 
knew after watching 
the second-best player 
in the world put in a 
basketball cheat code 
and join the NBA’s best team in 
the Golden State Warriors that he was willing to 
reveal to the world 
how weak he is and 
not care. So yes, it’s 
pathetic and petty 
that Durant felt the 
need to argue with 
critics on social me-
dia, but it’s an even 
worse look for Col-
angelo.
Most notably, there were nega-tive comments about Joel Embiid, 
a rising superstar and arguably 
the best player on the team. Two 
of the accounts allegedly linked 
to Colangelo said the 24-year-old 
center was "playng like a toddler 
having tantrums" and "acting like 
a tool." 
One of the account users also 
claimed  to know Colangelo per-
sonally and reffered to him as a The 76ers Twitter drama is really stupid and unnecessary Huang Story Short 
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
UF third baseman Jonathan India was drafted fifth overall by the Cincinnati Reds in the 2018 MLB Draft. Pitchers Brady Singer and 
Jackson Kowar were drafted in the first round as well, both by the Kansas City Royals. The Gators blah blah blah blah blah blah.
Gators drop Game 1, play second for Super RegionalsTUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
TRACK & FIELD
By Alanis Thames 
Sports Writer
History lies within the lanes of Hayward 
Field.
Constructed nearly a century ago, the 
site of this year’s NCAA Outdoor Champion-
ships boasts a legacy built in world records, 
national titles and some of the most memo-
rable races in the history of track and field. 
After almost 3,000 miles of travel, Flor-
ida track and field finds itself in the same 
historic stadium in Eugene, Oregon, where 
its men hoisted the National Championship 
trophy a year ago. 
The men’s team won the previous two 
NCAA Outdoor titles, and from June 6-9, 
they will attempt a three-peat at the re-
nowned track venue.
The UF women will look to earn their 
first NCAA Outdoors podium finish since 
taking fourth in 2014. The team came close 
last year, taking fifth and missing the po-dium by just one point.
But the Gators’ season has seen plenty 
of success, and they will try to cap off a 
2018 campaign that’s featured numerous 
national top-10 finishes and an SEC sweep.
The UF men enter NCAA Outdoors with 
a nation-leading 10 athletes who hold top-
eight individual performances. It’s also one 
of two programs in the country (Georgia) 
with at least seven athletes with top-eight 
marks and times in their respective events 
in both the men’s and women’s national 
rankings.
Senior jumper KeAndre Bates will be one 
of Florida’s 30 entrants to make an appear-
ance at Hayward Field. And he’ll be there to 
defend two national titles.
The El Paso, Texas, native is the reign-
ing national champion in the triple and long 
jump, and he’ll look to be the fourth man in 
history to sweep both horizontal jump titles 
at consecutive NCAA Outdoors.
“I would like the marks to show, but those are going to come with execution,” 
Bates said in a video posted to Twitter. “I 
just want to execute to the best of my ability 
so that I can be in a potential spot for those 
great things.”
Sophomore Grant Holloway will join 
Bates in the long jump competition, but he 
has a title of his own to defend.
As the reigning national champion in the 
110-meter hurdles, Holloway could become 
the fourth man in history to repeat as cham-
pion and just the second man to sweep in-
door and outdoor NCAA hurdles titles in 
consecutive seasons.
Junior Yanis David will see Hayward 
Field for the second-straight year as well. 
She’ll return to compete for the first outdoor 
horizontal jump title of her career. David 
ranks second nationally in the triple jump 
and third in the long jump. 
She will participate in both competitions 
alongside senior Darrielle McQueen.
Big points for the women could poten-tially come from junior quarter-miler Shar-
rika Barnett. The Orlando, Florida, native 
is coming off a fourth-place finish in the 
400-meter at NCAA Indoors in addition to 
an anchor split of 50.11 seconds that pro-
pelled the women to third place at the meet.
Florida also enters the meet as the only 
program with multiple competing hammer 
throwers. Junior Anders Eriksson (No. 3), 
freshman Thomas Mardal (No. 9) and red-
shirt junior AJ McFarland (No. 19) all rank 
in the national top 20. They are coming off 
an SEC Outdoors outing in which the trio 
scored 15 points behind Eriksson’s individ-
ual title.
“We got this momentum going. It kind 
of started at the NCAA Indoor meet,” coach 
Mike Holloway said in a release. “And 
there’s just a big focus with this group.”
@alanisthames 
athames@alligator.orgUF heads to Eugene for Outdoor National ChampionshipsSOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
Nothing said at Saturday night’s 
press conference indicated that the 
UF softball team was disappointed 
in how its season ended, but it was 
evident. 
You saw it in the tears welling 
up in the eyes of the players, and 
you heard it in the cracks of their 
voices and in the deep, unplanned 
breaths taken between phrases.
However, despite being elimi-
nated by Oklahoma at the Wom-
en’s College World Series for the 
second-straight season, the Florida 
Gators should have no shame in 
how they played in 2018.  
They won the SEC regular-sea-
son and tournament titles, exhib-
ited one of the nation’s most domi-
nant bullpens and sent off one of 
the program’s all-time great senior 
classes. And losing to a tough 
Oklahoma team during a lights-
out performance by senior pitcher 
Paige Parker is not a variable that 
UF could control. 
“I told my team after the game 
there’s not a whole lot you can do 
when you got a pitcher (throwing) 
strike one all day long,” coach Tim 
Walton said after the game. “I give 
her (Parker) all the credit. She did 
a wonderful job.”
Although it came up short in 
Oklahoma City, UF eased through 
its regular season with a 47-8 re-
cord and a 20-4 record in confer-
ence play. The closest SEC com-
petitor was Georgia, who finished 
four games back at 16-8. 
The effort lifted Florida to the 
first-overall seed in the conference 
tournament, where it navigated 
past powerhouse programs Ala-
bama, Tennessee and South Caro-
lina. It was the first time that se-
niors on the Gators’ roster - pitcher 
Aleshia Ocasio, catcher Janell 
Wheaton, third baseman Nicole 
DeWitt and first baseman Kayli Kvistad‒- conquered both the reg-
ular-season and tournament SEC 
championships.
However, the stand-out players 
for the Gators were juniors Aman-
da Lorenz and Kelly Barnhill. 
Both were named as finalists 
for the USA Softball Player of the 
Year award, while Lorenz won 
SEC Player of the Year honors, 
and Barnhill took the conference’s 
Pitcher of the Year award for the 
second-straight year. 
Lorenz finished the campaign 
with a team-leading .416 batting 
average and a .582 on-base per-
centage. She reached base safely in 
all 67 contests and led a team that 
set the NCAA single-season record 
for walks with 70. 
Barnhill had a 29-3 record with a microscopic 1.08 ERA. Oppo-
nents only hit .119 against the 
right-hander in 2018 and didn’t hit 
at all in seven games. She strung 
together complete-game no-hit-
ters against Iowa State on Feb. 
24, Georgia Southern on Feb. 25, 
Kentucky on March 9 and South 
Florida on March 21, including 
her first-career perfect game in the 
Gators’ 9-0 win over North Florida 
on Feb. 14.  
She and Ocasio combined for 
no-hitters against Baylor on March 
3 and again at the Gainesville Re-
gional against Bethune-Cookman 
on May 18. 
Yet, the senior pitcher had two 
hitless games of her own, which 
came against Florida International 
on March 28 and in regional play against Ohio State on May 20. 
She also combined with freshman 
Natalie Lugo to no-hit Hampton on 
March 30.
Wheaton and pitching coach 
Jennifer Rocha were the only two 
Gators to have a hand in all of 
the hitless performances. In her 
first season promoted to associate 
head coach, Rocha marshalled the 
Florida bullpen to 10 hitless perfor-
mances and a 1.43 ERA as a team. 
With Rocha calling the games 
pitch by pitch, and Lorenz and 
Barnhill returning for the Gators, 
the future is bright. Yet, the impor-
tance of their exiting senior class 
cannot be overlooked.
Ocasio, Wheaton, DeWitt and 
Kvistad were the last Florida play-
ers remaining from the 2015 Na-tional Championship roster. The 
experience they brought to the 
team goes beyond the wins and 
losses.
Ocasio was a utility player with 
almost unlimited versatility. She 
was comfortable at every position 
aside from catcher and played in 
the circle and in the outfield in 
2018. She also possessed an elec-
tric bat that knocked in 36 runs last 
season. 
“I’ll never play with an athlete 
like that ever again,” Lorenz said 
of Ocasio in Saturday’s press con-
ference. “She’s just a once-in-a-
lifetime kid that I’ve been around.”
Wheaton caught nearly every 
game for Florida this season. Her 
experience behind the plate and 
ability to frame pitches helped 
Barnhill strike out 300 batters two 
years in a row.
DeWitt and Kvistad were argu-
ably the biggest keys to the Florida 
offense. They were the heart of 
the lineup and batted directly after 
Lorenz. Next to each other in the 
2018 lineup, they combined for 20 
home runs and 101 RBIs. 
Both DeWitt and Ocasio will 
play professional ball in the Na-
tional Pro Fastpitch League next 
season after being drafted on April 
23. The Chicago Bandits took Oca-
sio 10th overall, and the USSSA 
Pride selected DeWitt with the 
17th pick. 
“It’s definitely been a journey,” 
Ocasio said. “To play with this se-
nior class and some of the great-
est athletes ‒- we have Amanda 
Lorenz and Kelly Barnhill, Player 
of the Year‒- it’s been amazing to 
learn from everybody and to just 
play alongside some of the people 
who are going to go down as some 
of the greatest players. 
“I’m going to remember it for-
ever, wearing this Gators uniform.”
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.org2018 Gators have a historic season despite falling short
Mark Stine / Alligator Staff
The entire Florida team celebrates after punching its ticket to the Women’s College World Series for 
the second-consecutive season. The Gators also won the SEC regular-season and tournament titles.
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenue"class act" on multiple occasions.
Yet, Embiid – who has a his-
tory of being injury prone but 
made it through most of the 
2017-18 season – has been as 
dominant on the court as any-
body when he’s healthy.
While he’s still working his 
way to full speed, playing just 
63 of 82 games this year and 
averaging 30.3 minutes per con-
test, it’s a much better sight for 
Philly fans than the 31 he played 
and 25.4 minutes he averaged in 
2016-17.
Embiid’s a transcendent tal-
ent with virtually no ceiling. He 
led Philadelphia in scoring, re-
bounds and blocks, all contribut-
ing to his place on the All-NBA 
and All-Defensive second teams 
this season. Obviously, he was 
instrumental in the Sixers’ 52-30 
regular season, the ﬁ  fth-best re-
cord in the league. The combined 
win total for the previous three 
seasons: 56. 
The addition of point guard 
Ben Simmons, the likely recipient of the 2018 Rookie of the Year, 
has Sixers fans excited about the 
future of their team built around 
its young talent.
Which is why it makes sense 
to attack his temmates on Twit-
ter, right? This is obviously not 
the right time to stir up conﬂ  ict.
Apparently the team has hired 
a law ﬁ  rm to sort out this mess, 
including his wife’s involvement 
with the burner accounts. If he 
is in any way linked to the ac-
counts, Colangelo won’t come 
back from this. His reputation 
will be ruined, and he’ll most 
likely be ﬁ  red.
Moral of the story: Don’t do 
stupid stuff on social media be-
cause the internet will always, 
always remember.
 
An article from ESPN.com 
contributed to this report.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports 
writer. Follow him on Twitter @
AndrewJHuang and contact him 
at ahuang@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Matt Rourke / The Associated Press
Philadephia 76ers President of Basketball Operations Bryan Colangelo and wife, Barbara Bottini, allegedly 
used up to ﬁ  ve Twitter accounts that made tweets critical of center Joel Embiid and other 76ers players.
before UF left ﬁ  elder Austin Lang-
worthy gunned the second runner 
down at the plate to end the frame. 
That left the score at 7-2.
Florida tacked on one more in 
the top of the ﬁ  fth when center 
ﬁ  elder Nick Horvath legged out an 
inﬁ  eld single to third base. He was 
moved over on a ﬁ  elder’s choice 
groundout from Liput and singled 
in by designated hitter Nelson Mal-donado to make it 7-3.
UF put forth one last-gasp effort 
in the top of the ninth when Li-
put bombed a homer off the video 
board in right ﬁ  eld. 
The Gators had plenty of chanc-
es in Game 1 but did not make the 
most of them, going 1 for 12 with 
runners in scoring position while 
stranding eight runners.
Game 2
UF was ﬁ  nally designated as the 
home team after two games of be-ing the away club in Gainesville.
The Gators went down early 
in the game when starting pitcher 
Jack Leftwich couldn’t ﬁ  nd the 
strike zone and walked three bat-
ters to load the bases in the top of 
the ﬁ  rst.
A single later and the Owls sud-
denly had the Gators on the ropes 
again, going up 2-0.
Leftwich limited the damage by 
striking out the side.
Florida stole a run back in the 
bottom of the third when it loaded the bases courtesy of a walk by 
catcher Jonah Girand, a double 
from Maldonado and a single from 
India.
Girand scored on India’s single, 
but that was all the Gators got in 
the frame as they stranded three 
runners.
In the bottom of the fourth, UF 
ﬁ  nally broke through.
A leadoff single from ﬁ  rst base-
man Brady Smith put a runner on 
ﬁ  rst, Horvath singled to left ﬁ  eld 
and Smith attempted to take third, where he was easily pegged out. On 
the next play, Girand hit a mam-
moth home run to deep left ﬁ  eld to 
give the Gators their ﬁ  rst lead of the 
day at 3-2.
The Florida crowd was ener-
gized from there and got consider-
ably louder following the inning.
In the next inning, India crushed 
a ball even farther than Girand’s, 
which doubled the lead to two runs.
You can read the rest of this story 
online at alligator.org/sportsBASEBALL,  from pg 14Three UF players taken in the MLB draft Monday night