We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Hold the ramen
A UF student published a cookbook with 101 recipes, so you too 
can impress your roommates, pg. 10
Former UF faculty sues university
He says his former boss sexually harassed him, pg. 4Gators put together complete game
Florida’s defense shined, and Feleipe Franks showed steady im-
provement in UF’s 13-6 win, pg. 14MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 17
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Mississippi State quarterback Nick 
Fitzgerald never saw Donovan Stiner 
coming.
No one saw him coming, to be fair, but 
just about every Gators fan has seen the 
play by now. 
Blitzing with a safety on 4th and 10 
on Florida’s own 45-yard line was risky. 
If Fitzgerald had caught sight of the UF 
safety running right toward him up the 
middle, a simple dodge to the side and 
a throw to the presumably open receiver 
downﬁ  eld could have been disastrous.
He didn’t, though. 
Fitzgerald saw Stiner but not until 
the MSU quarterback was already being 
knocked to the ground.
“If I’ve learned one thing through the 
years, it’s to shut my mouth in that situ-
ation,” Gators coach Dan Mullen said of 
the decision to call a safety blitz. “I’m just 
gonna shut my mouth. Todd (Grantham), 
I’m here if you need me.”
Stiner’s sack was the epitome of Flor-
ida’s defensive effort in its 13-6 win over 
Mississippi State in Starkville. Gators defense showing physicality, 
improvement Mullen wants to see
MISSISSIPPI STATE 6 FLORIDA 13
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Safety Donovan Stiner (13) sacked MSU quarterback Nick Fitzgerald (7) on the Bulldogs’ ﬁ  nal offensive play in Florida’s 13-6 
victory at Davis Wade Statidum in Starkville, Mississippi, Saturday. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
SOME STUDENTS CRIED. OTHERS 
WERE SCARED.  
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
The U.S. and UF stopped when Chris-
tine Blasey Ford took a stand. 
UF students and faculty sat in silence 
Thursday morning as they watched his-
tory unfold during the hearings of Supreme 
Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh with Ford, 
who accused Kavanaugh of sexually as-
saulting her in the 1980s when they were 
in high school. Kavanaugh testiﬁ  ed after 
Ford and denied the accusations.
Regardless of opinion, many in the uni-
versity community had a stance on the 
events in the historic hearing.
Rosana Resende’s initial reaction was 
to believe Ford as she watched the hearing on her tablet as her students took an exam. 
Ford’s experience is one that females 
are all too familiar with, said Resende, a 
UF lecturer and coordinator for the Center 
for Latin American Studies. 
“I believe the women who accused Bill 
Cosby,” she said. “I believe the women 
who accused Donald Trump. My default is 
to believe, and my default is not to deny.”
Students and faculty have discussed the 
hearings, Resende said. It’s a serious con-
versation the public needs to focus on.
“What I like to tell my students all the 
time is really the power is up to you to 
create the conversations on campus,” she 
said. “You guys have the ability to demand 
that those conversations are had.”
The hearing scared Maya Levkovitz, 
an 18-year-old UF linguistics freshman. 
“It sends the message to women ev-
erywhere that what happens to them isn’t UF reacts to Kavanaugh-Ford
SEE KAVANAUGH,  PAGE 3By Kyle Wood 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Julie A. Hill spotted her rival team’s 
equipment truck in the median of a tree-
lined highway. 
The Alabama fan was on the way to 
drop a friend off at the airport at about 
7:15 a.m. Sunday when she saw a Florida 
Gators truck pulled over on Interstate 20, 
east of the Cottondale, Alabama, exit. 
“The ﬁ  rst thing we thought because 
we’re ’Bama fans was that it was funny 
because it was a broken down Florida 
truck,” Hill said. “But we did want to be 
sure everyone was okay.”
The back of a UF equipment truck caught ﬁ  re after a ﬂ  at tire sent up sparks, 
said Steve McClain, a UF senior associate 
athletics director. The ﬁ  re scorched a hole 
in the truck and damaged football equip-
ment as it traveled about nine hours back 
to Gainesville from the Mississippi State 
University game in Starkville, Mississippi.
There was minimal damage to the 
equipment inside the truck, McClain said.
The equipment was transferred to another 
truck for the remainder of the drive back 
to Florida. The amount of the damages to 
the truck and equipment wasn’t immedi-
ately known because it will be evaluated 
today when it is expected to return to 
Gainesville.Fiery homecoming for the 
UF equipment truck 
SEE FIRE,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 17
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Madison Forbis 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Desk Editors
Copy Editors
Marlowe Starling, Paige Arneson,WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply Now for 2019-20 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. Students can file a 2019-
20 FAFSA as early as today. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the 2019-20 FAFSA results from 
the federal processor is Dec. 
15. Students are recommended 
to apply well before Dec. 15 to 
ensure the federal processor 
has time to analyze and send 
the results of the FAFSA to the 
UF Office for Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is awarded 
on a first-come, first-served ba-
sis, so apply as early as possible 
to be considered for the most 
aid. The 2019-20 FAFSA will also 
be available on a new phone app 
called myStudentAid.Authors@UF: Lillian Guerra
Professor Lillian Guerra of 
UF’s history department and 
the Center for Latin American 
Studies will discuss her book, 
“Heroes, Martyrs and Political 
Messiahs in Revolutionary 
Cuba, 1926-1958,” at 3 p.m. 
Wednesday in Smathers 
Library Room 100. Guerra 
draws on her years of research 
in newly opened archives and 
on personal interviews to shed 
light on the men and women of 
Cuba who participated in mass 
mobilization and civic activ-
ism to establish social move-
ments in their quest for social 
and racial justice and for more 
accountable leadership. This 
event is free and open to the 
public. Light refreshments will 
be served.Got something going on?
 Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper.  
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  88° LOW  72°
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, 
October 19. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at 
that time to read information regarding the application process. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held 
at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on 
Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must be present at 
that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking 
college or university students. Preference will be given to those 
who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
OCTOBER 3
STEPHEN C. O’CONNELL CENTER
EXACTECH ARENA
WITH THE
FLORIDA ROCK SYMPHONY
GET TICKETS AT TICKETMASTER.COM,
ALL TICKETMASTER OUTLETS OR THE UNIVERSITY BOX OFFICE
*Applies t o Price Level 3 & 4 Only . Ticket Limit: 8
For mor e inf o call 352-392-5500 or visit w ww.oconnellc enter.uu.edu
4UALL
  
ON TICKETMA STER.COM
OR USE OFFER C ODE:
*$5.00 OFF ADMISSION
AT THE UNIVERSITY BO X OFFICE
OCTOBER 3
worthy of being considered in one of the 
most important appointments this coun-
try has,” Levkovitz said. “It scares me that 
they’re not even willing to consider that, 
up until it became politically advantageous, 
the right wasn’t willing to consider the pos-
sibility that it was worth investigating what 
happened to Dr. Ford, and it terriﬁ  es me 
that that’s not the priority of this country 
anymore.”
Kavanaugh and Ford’s testimonies aren’t 
black and white for Alyssa Morford. 
The 18-year-old UF political science 
freshman said the hardest part of the hear-
ing is ﬁ  guring out who is telling the truth. “He does have what he needs to have 
to be a Supreme Court justice in sense of 
career standing, and it kind of sucks that 
he has to go through this, especially if the 
allegations are false against him,” Morford 
said.
Morford said she believes it’s vital for 
people to do research on political topics 
rather than taking a side. 
“There’s deﬁ  nitely an overall nega-
tive reaction to the hearing as a whole, no 
matter which direction you’re looking at it 
from,” Morford said.
Jadaya Hargraves was sitting in the UF 
Financial Affairs ofﬁ  ce when she began to 
cry. 
Hargraves, an 18-year-old UF political 
science freshman, broke down when she saw Ford’s testimony. 
“I have a lot of people in my life who 
have gone through situations like that,” 
Hargraves said. “Seeing how it impacts their 
social relationships and their self worth and 
the ways that they view themselves, it re-
ally is an important thing that should be 
discussed.”
Offensive remarks and jokes about 
Ford’s testimony were posted online, Har-
graves said. 
“The way that it’s being talked about in 
the media, I just feel is completely inappro-
priate and dismissive of people who have 
gone through those kinds of situations,” 
Hargraves said.
Kavanaugh should be held to a high 
standard because he’s being considered for a lifetime appointment with lasting conse-
quences, Daniel Ospina said.
“No sane person would go through all 
the media attention and public outlash 
without being certain of the validity of their 
claims,” Ospina, a UF second-year comput-
er science and nuclear engineering master’s 
student said.
A person nominated for such a seat 
should exemplify the qualities of the Su-
preme Court, such as integrity, impartiality 
and sound judgment, Ospina said. 
“Judge Kavanaugh has failed to exem-
plify these qualities during the hearing,” 
Ospina said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgKAVANAUGH,  from pg. 1Figuring out the truth 
in the testimonies. 
The now-burnt blue and or-
ange gear in the truck included 
helmets, pads and wristbands, 
among other items, said UF Foot-
ball Assistant Director Will Pan-
tages.
Pantages wrote in an email that no one was injured by the 
ﬁ  re and the equipment staff will 
be “ready to go equipment-wise” 
for the next home game against 
Louisiana State University, which 
is set to kick off at 3:30 p.m. Sat-
urday.
Hill, a professor at the Univer-
sity of Alabama School of Law, 
said no one was on the scene when she ﬁ  rst drove by, but 
when she drove by later at 9:30 
a.m. there were tow trucks mov-
ing the trailer in the median.
When she returned, she said 
the tow trucks were turning the 
trailer around back toward Tus-
caloosa.FIRE,  from pg. 1The damages weren’t readily known.
Win McNamee / AP
Christine Blasey Ford is sworn in before the Senate Judiciary 
Committee Sept. 27 in Washington.
Courtesy to The Alligator
A UF equipment truck caught ﬁ  re after a ﬂ  at tire sent up sparks Sunday morning while heading back to 
Gainesville after the Mississippi State University game. 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
HE’S CLAIMING DAMAGES IN 
EXCESS OF $15,000 
UF CONCLUDED THERE WAS NO 
SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
A former UF chief of the forensic psychiatry 
division ﬁ  led a lawsuit against the UF Board 
of Trustees alleging retaliation after reporting 
sexual harassment from one of his bosses. 
Joel Silberberg and his attorney Marie Mat-
tox ﬁ  led the lawsuit on Aug. 24. The lawsuit 
claims Silberberg was sexually harassed by Marika Brigham, the chief ﬁ  nancial ofﬁ  cer and 
an administrator for UF’s Department of Psy-
chiatry. Court records say Silberberg was re-
taliated against after reporting it.
Brigham “took an immediate dislike” to Sil-
berberg and didn’t offer him privileges other 
faculty had, according to srecords. 
When he tried to discuss this with Brigham, 
she engaged in “physical touching that was 
both hostile and unwelcome,” which included 
pinching Silberberg’s butt once, according to 
the complaint. 
Silberberg notiﬁ  ed Regina Bussing, the 
chair of the psychiatry department, on Jan. 20, 
2017 about two incidents of sexual harassment 
involving Brigham. Silberberg ﬁ  led a formal complaint of sexual harassment on Aug. 28, 
2017, according to court records. 
UF investigated and concluded there was 
no sexual harassment, according to the com-
plaint. 
Brigham could not be reached for comment. 
After Silberberg ﬁ  led the report, Bussing 
retaliated against Silberberg by ostracizing, 
marginalizing and denying him opportunities, 
according to the complaint. 
Silberberg was sent a notice of non-reap-
pointment on June 28, 2017. After this, he 
was excluded from “all clinical, teaching and 
administrative duties” and ordered to work re-
motely, according to the complaint. 
Mattox said Silberberg hasn’t been able to ﬁ  nd comparable alternative employment and 
is hoping a jury will award him suitable com-
pensation.
“He was devastated by his termination,” 
she said.
He has suffered wage losses, emotional 
distress and harm to his reputation, according 
to the complaint. Silberberg is claiming more 
than $15,000 of damages. 
Steve Orlando, a UF spokesperson, said UF 
denies Silberberg’s claims in the lawsuit and 
will vigorously defend against them. UF did 
not offer further comment because the litiga-
tion is pending. 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgFormer UF faculty ﬁ  les lawsuit against UF for sexual harassment THE NEW HOURS 
START TUESDAY. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students can still go out for 
drinks even when the Midtown 
bars are closed. 
Starting Tuesday morning 
past 1 a.m., Library West, along 
with its Starbucks Coffee, will 
open up for students 24/7, Stu-
dent Body President Ian Green 
wrote in an email.
Library ofﬁ  cials chose the re-
opening date because it allowed 
them time to make the necessary 
changes in operations and hire 
new staff, Green said. 
The $160,000 for the ﬁ  rst 
year of additional hours will 
come from Student Government 
reserve funds, Green said. The 
transfer was made on Sept. 18.
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost 
will then fund the library for an 
additional three years after the 
2018-2019 ﬁ  scal year. 
The around-the-clock hours 
will give Ariel Hadley, an 
18-year-old UF environmental 
science freshman, more time to 
study. 
“I always felt kind of rushed 
to beat the clock and ﬁ  nish my 
work before the library closes,” 
Hadley said.
Hadley never had access to the library when it was 24/7 be-
fore, in Spring 2018, even though 
she often ﬁ  nds herself study-
ing into the early hours of the 
morning, she said. The extended 
hours will give her more ﬂ  exibil-
ity to complete assignments. 
“I personally have a hard time 
falling asleep because my mind 
is always going at that time,” she 
said. 
The return of 24/7 hours 
will be helpful during exam 
weeks, said Carolina Casariego, 
a 22-year-old UF statistics senior. 
While the library wasn’t open, 
she’d spend the overnight hours 
studying in her room. 
“It’s nice to have Library 
West as a 24/7 library,” Casa-
riego said. “It ﬁ  ts more people 
and motivates you to stay longer 
and study.”  
The late hours aren’t useful 
for everyone, like Ryan Robin-
son, an 18-year old UF political 
science freshman who said he 
goes to bed early. 
Even though Robinson said 
he probably won’t put the hours 
to much use, he said he sees the 
value in extending them. 
“College kids, they never go 
to sleep anyway, so you might as 
well keep it open 24/7,” Robin-
son said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgLibrary West to 
begin 24/7 again  
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
Jason Haeseler remembers waiting 
in the hospital, hoping his daughter 
would be all right after surgery to ﬁ  x 
her congenital heart defect.
He and his wife could afford to 
help their child, but there were fami-
lies in the waiting room alongside him 
who couldn’t.
Less than a decade later, Haeseler 
stood in front of a room of about 70 
people and said his No. 1 priority if 
elected to the Florida House of Repre-
sentatives is to expand Medicaid.
The Alachua County League of 
Women Voters hosted the General 
Election Candidate forum Sunday at 
LifeSouth Community Blood Center 
on Newberry Road. 
County Commission District 2 
candidates Libertarian Gregory Cau-
dill, Independent Scott Costello, and 
Democrat Marihelen Wheeler, started 
off the forum.
Candidates were asked if they sup-
ported the half-cent sales tax, which 
would raise money for public schools, 
or the Children’s Trust, a board that 
oversees funding for children’s pro-
grams. While Costello and Wheeler 
support both, Caudill said he doesn’t 
support the Children’s Trust because 
of the wording. He said there are no 
clear goals and he doesn’t agree with 
how the board is set up.
“We’re taking money away from 
taxpayers and moving it to people who 
don’t answer to taxpayers,” he said.For the House of Representatives 
portion, only Democrat Jason Haesel-
er attended. His opponent, incumbent 
Republican Chuck Clemons, declined 
the invitation to participate, a modera-
tor for the forum said.
Aside from expanding Medicaid, 
Haeseler spoke to attendees about the 
importance of protecting the environ-
ment and public schools.
“Public education is the corner-
stone of democracy,” he said.
Although he believes scholarships 
to private schools had good inten-
tions, Haeseler said he doesn’t sup-
port the scholarships that take money 
away from public schools.
Following Haeseler, Independent 
Charles Goston spoke as a candidate 
for the Florida Senate District 8. His 
opponents had prior obligations and 
couldn’t attend, a moderator said.
Along with supporting efforts to 
protect Florida’s natural resources, 
Goston also supports regulating auto-
matic weapons, he said. 
Goston also plans to give state 
workers a raise, ﬁ  ght against Stand 
Your Ground laws and expand Med-
icaid. A couple of years ago, Goston 
lost his daughter to cancer. His family 
could afford treatment but not every-
one can, he said. 
“People shouldn’t die from lack of 
coverage,” Goston said. “We’re not all 
going to die from natural causes, but 
we should strive for that.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgNovember candidates talk 
conservation, future plans at forum
By Aaron Ritter 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Gainesville Fire Rescue ﬁ  reﬁ  ght-
ers won’t have to put in overtime 
anymore.
GFR received a $1.9 million 
grant from the federal government 
to aid the department’s growth, said 
Lt. Tracey Higdon, the president of 
the Gainesville Professional Fire-
ﬁ  ghters union.
Awarded to ﬁ  re departments 
that require ﬁ  nancial assistance to 
increase personnel, the Stafﬁ  ng for 
Adequate Fire and Emergency Re-sponse grant will help GFR add 17 
new ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters to its team as early 
as February, Higdon said.
GFR has been hard-pressed to 
respond to the growing number of 
calls in its jurisdiction, especially 
in the rapidly expanding southwest 
part of town, Higdon said. The ad-
dition of new staff will eliminate the 
need for overtime and make an ad-
ditional unit in the southwest pos-
sible.
“We feel like we should give that 
coverage and not rely on bringing in 
other agencies to help us,” Higdon 
said. “This will help us be more self 
-sufﬁ  cient.” The grant will also help to bol-
ster existing units. The National Fire 
Protection Agency recommends en-
gine units contain four people. Due 
to stafﬁ  ng restraints, GFR staffs 
some of its engines with three peo-
ple, Higdon said.
“It’s not just about how many 
ﬁ  retrucks you can put on a scene,” 
Higdon said.  “If you have one per-
son on 10 different ﬁ  retrucks you 
only get 10 different people on a 
scene. If you have four people on 
10 different ﬁ  re trucks, you get 40 
people on a scene.”
David Arreola, a city commis-
sioner for the district containing the southwest area west of 34th Street 
and south of Archer Road, said he’s 
aware of the growing demand for 
emergency personnel. The grant, 
however, will help change that.
“There has been a lag in terms of 
proper equipment, proper stafﬁ  ng 
and an engine from the city,” Arre-
ola said. “This has been the perfect 
opportunity.”
Although the grant will only di-
rectly fund new staff, it will stim-
ulate opportunities to purchase 
needed equipment, like a new quint 
engine, which is a truck with a lad-
der, for the southwest region of 
Gainesville, Arreola saidThe grant will not only equip 
GFR with the resources it needs to 
succeed now, but it will give the 
city the ﬁ  nancial freedom it needs to 
get set for the future, Arreola said.
“Now, we’re not kicking the can 
down the road anymore, we’re get-
ting it done,” Arreola said.
The increase in personnel will do 
nothing but beneﬁ  t the community, 
said Lt. Joe Walker, a 32-year-old 
county resident. This is especially 
true when it comes to increased 
coverage and better service.
“It’s going to make the entire city 
safer as a whole,” Walker said.Grant allows Gainesville Fire Rescue to expand staﬃ   ng County Commission District 2 candidates
Gregory Caudill
Protecting groundwater quality and supply - Encourage 
volunteer work and community service. 
Half-cent tax and Children’s Trust - Supports the half-
cent tax, not the Children’s Trust
Energy conservation  - Encourage existing voter eﬀ  orts 
in energy conservation, including solar power
Transportation  - Start working on transportation in-
frastructure
Criminal justice - Look at how people without means 
are treated and make sure bail isn’t too expensive. 
Scott Costello
Protecting groundwater quality and supply - Work with 
municipalities and boards to see where local springs 
can improve
Half-cent tax and Children’s Trust -Supports both ini-
tiatives
Energy conservation  - Try to ﬁ  nd opportunities to 
convert waste into energy and make solar power 
aﬀ  ordable.
Transportation  - Fixing roads is No. 1 priority
Criminal justice- Create more opportunities for jobs 
and technical training
Marihelen Wheeler
Protecting groundwater quality and supply - Educate 
children on the water resources Alachua County has 
and how to protect them.
Half-cent tax and Children’s Trust - Supports both ini-
tiatives
Energy conservation  - Make sure new housing, par-
ticularly aﬀ  ordable housing, is sustainable
Transportation  - Provide transportation for the el-
derly population and after-school kids
Criminal justice  - Expand vocational training, starting 
as early as middle schoolMONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
All Stories By Amanda Rosa   |   Alligator Staff Writer
Larry Lee Davis Jr. was a little late 
to have good manners.
The 38-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent apologized to a police ofﬁ  cer af-
ter he almost ran him over with a car 
early Saturday morning, according to 
an arrest report.
An ofﬁ  cer stopped Davis on South-
west First Street near Southwest First 
Avenue for not wearing a seatbelt. Da-vis told the ofﬁ  cer his license was sus-
pended, and police noticed pieces of 
marijuana on his leg, the report said. 
While the ofﬁ  cer was leaning in the 
car window, Davis accelerated and  
knocked the ofﬁ  cer over, who had to 
move away to avoid getting hit, ac-
cording to the report. 
Police chased after Davis in a patrol 
car with the sirens on, but he contin-ued to drive and refused to pull over 
for a mile, the report said. 
Davis got out of his car and ran 
away, but police caught up to him on 
the 1400 block of Southeast Fourth 
Street, police said. Police searched 
Davis’ car and found four baggies of 
cocaine on the ﬂ  oor. 
After he was arrested, Davis apolo-
gized for almost running the ofﬁ  cer over, the report said.
Davis is charged with aggravated 
battery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer, 
possessing cocaine, resisting an ofﬁ  cer 
without violence, ﬂ  eeing from an ofﬁ  -
cer and driving without a valid license.
He is held in the Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $35,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgSorry! Man apologizes to oﬃ   cer after almost running him over
Two of the three men 
suspected of breaking into 
a gun store and stealing 
13 guns early Thursday 
morning were arrested, 
deputies said.
Devito Alonzo Deshay 
Early, 19, of St. Augus-
tine, and Jaharold Davon-
ta Davis, 21, of Gainesville, were arrested 
Friday for burglarizing Big Daddy Guns, 
at 602 NW 75th St., according to Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest reports. The 
investigation is ongoing, deputies said. The 
third man’s full name is unavailable in the 
arrest reports.
Security camera footage caught three 
men, including Early and Davis, cover-
ing their faces and breaking into the store 
around 3 a.m. Thursday, the report said. The men cut two locks 
and smashed the glass front 
door to get inside, deputies 
said. They smashed two 
display cases and stole 13 
handguns.
Deputies went to Da-
vis’ home on the 6900 
block of Southwest Sixth 
Place, where they found three more guns 
and burglary tools.
Early is charged with grand theft of ﬁ  re-
arms and burglary. Davis is charged with 
grand theft of ﬁ  rearms, burglary and pos-
sessing weapons as a felon. 
Early and Davis are being held in the 
Alachua County Jail in lieu of $280,000 and 
$530,000, respectively. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgACSO: Two men arrested after 
Big Daddy Guns burglary
A man caused a stir at Grace Mar-
ketplace after he pulled a pocket 
knife on someone Friday afternoon, 
Gainesville Police said.
Robert Howard 
Davis III, 74, of 
Gainesville, was ac-
cused of threatening 
a man with a blade 
during an argument, 
according to an ar-
rest report.
The man told po-
lice Davis pulled pocket knife from 
his right front pocket and opened the 
blade. He pointed the knife at him 
and said, “I am going to cut you, n--
---.”
The man grabbed a broom to pro-
tect himself and told police Davis had 
pulled a knife on him in the past, the report said. The man feared for his 
life. 
Davis told police he pulled out the 
knife because he thought the man 
was threatening him and admitted he 
was going to kill him, the report said.
Multiple people told police they 
saw Davis threaten the man with the 
knife, police said. After Davis was 
read his Miranda rights, he told police 
he had the knife to kill snakes, but 
pulled it out Friday afternoon because 
he felt threatened.
Davis is charged with aggravated 
assault and is being held in the Ala-
chua County Jail in lieu of a $20,000 
bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Man pulls out blade and 
uses slur at Grace Marketplace
Davis
 Early
Davis
Davis
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnMONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOREditorial
Your voting power is like a sledgehammer. It’s a power-
ful tool for building, demolishing and shaping things, 
like the government. But when thrown around care-
lessly and without a second thought, it can cause per-
manent damage. Elections are in November, so we’re 
giving you advance notice on how to conduct your own make-
do investigations in lieu of the detailed research you should be 
doing on the candidates. We’re still a month out, so you have 
plenty of time. We urge you to take the ﬁ  ve or 10 minutes you 
need to Google the candidate you’re going to vote for. Take a 
critical look at their policies. Don’t let your gut lead you astray. 
Even if you only cram in a few Google searches, always vote 
with your head. Think of it like you do when you rush to com-
plete a last-minute assignment.
It might go something like this: You are assigned the task 
and procrastinate heavily. You ﬁ  nd yourself up at 3 a.m. 
Monday morning chugging coffee, rigorously Googling before 
a 9 a.m. due date. You use Sparknotes, Chegg or your crutch 
of choice to get a basic sense of the assignment. With your 
back against the wall, you manage to eke it out on time. You 
get a B+. You feel a profound sense of pride and wipe the 
sweat from your brow. Repeat until graduation. 
Can you take this same model and apply it to voting? Can 
you cast your ballot like you submit assignments at 11:58 
p.m., seconds from failure? Yes. It’s not ideal, and you 
should be giving yourself more time to look at the issues, 
but it works. It can be done. As long as you show up to the 
polls with a few minutes worth of research, you can make 
a meaningful difference. Sites like Ballotpedia.org are the 
Sparknotes of voting. Use them. They can give you a decent 
picture of the candidates and their positions on issues like 
the environment or education funding. A quick look at the 
Ballotpedia page for either Andrew Gillum or Ron DeSantis, 
who are candidates in the 2018 Florida gubernatorial race, 
will give you their brief biography, their political history and 
a synopsis of their platforms. As long as you are literate and 
have a spare 10 minutes, you can be an informed voter.
The candidates are relying on you to not do your home-
work. In the last Student Government elections, we cannot 
know how many students voted with nothing but someone 
else’s recommendation to go off of. We also cannot know 
whether the elections would have turned out differently had 
students researched the parties and their platforms. But we 
do know that a lot of students simply picked the party they 
heard was best and bubbled straight down along party lines. 
The same goes for presidential elections. We have a bright 
orange president to show for it.
If all you have to base your choice on is a trustworthy 
friend’s recommendation, try this next time you need to 
drive: Get your best friend to sit in the passenger seat, blind-
fold yourself and ask them for directions.
It doesn’t seem like a good idea because it isn’t. You don’t 
need to be a Formula One driver to know that you can’t drive 
without seeing. You can’t pass without studying. You can’t 
vote without researching.
We’d like to remind you that you don’t need 20/20 vi-
sion. You don’t need to interview the candidates. You just 
need enough to get by, even if its rushed and done on a 
cracked iPhone in line at the polling place. The worst thing 
you can do is forfeit your right to vote because you don’t feel 
informed. The only thing worse than a wrong vote is not to 
vote at all.One of the most challenging aspects of col-
lege life is time management. It may well be the 
toughest subject to learn. Responsibilities and 
opportunities and academics bombard us from 
all sides, ravaging our time as if it were a ﬂ  imsy 
bomb shelter. And this fact, that college life is 
stressful, is so well-known that stating it is ﬂ  irt-
ing with cliché.
Yet, I still think it is worth stating: College 
is stressful. And it is stressful because being a 
student is hardly enough. We are told from the 
beginning that a committed student is not the ideal student. 
Do not focus exclusively on your studies, we are told, but 
get involved, get internships, do research, lead a club, go to 
sporting events, etc. Employers want interesting, involved 
and busy people, not students who took naps on the Plaza.  
I mostly agree with these sentiments. College is more 
than studying. But the trade-off to being involved is hav-
ing smaller margins in our schedule: less time for study-
ing, pleasure reading, hiking, friends and countless more. 
If student life is a garden, our time is the soil in which our 
college experience grows. The more seeds you plant, the 
less nutrients there are to go around.
Naturally, how we focus our time is essential to how we 
experience college, which is to say that our time is sacred. 
I’m not sure, though, if many of us see our schedules in this 
way. Indeed, sizeable chunks of our day we see as intrinsi-
cally useless, hence the phrase “killing time.”
Ten minutes at the bus stop, 20 minutes before class, an 
hour before our friend comes over — our default tendency 
is to preoccupy ourselves until these interludes pass and the 
main event begins. And this preoccupation almost always 
takes the form of a head slightly bent, staring at a phone, 
texting or scrolling or checking email.
It is a fallacious assumption that interludes — periods of 
waiting for another part of our day to begin — are useless. 
For life consists in waiting. That fact does not need much 
establishing. What does need establishing, however, is that waiting, whether for a bus, graduation or a job, 
is good, or at least better than we tend to think.
When we are waiting for something, our 
thoughts are ﬁ  xed on that which we wait for, but 
hardly ever on whether we are ready to receive 
it. We say we’re unhappy because we’ve been 
forced to wait longer than we expected for the 
thing we want most. But as Blaise Pascal once 
said, “Since we are always planning how to be 
happy, it is inevitable that we should never be 
so.” In other words, if you’re miserable in the 
waiting room, you’ll be miserable when your name is ﬁ  -
nally called. It’s not the waiting that’s the problem.
Waiting, then, is a necessity. If we allow them to, inter-
ludes prepare us to receive the main event with gratitude. 
We develop character, we mature, while we wait. This is 
not difﬁ  cult to conceive. Boxers wait months before they 
ﬁ  ght so they can train and prepare. Teenagers must wait to 
drive. We all must wait four years to graduate. Employees 
wait to be hired. Parents wait to have children.
In a few words, there is no such thing as useless time. 
Waiting at the bus stop or for class to start are important 
times, and we must treat them as such.
What does this look like? It looks like the end of the 
mindless scroll, for starters, or the mindless binge. Making 
the most of our time is a cultural cliché, but there is some-
thing to living an active, engaged life rather than a passive 
one dedicated to passing large chunks of time away.
Sure, it’s a challenge to use our time wisely, but a good 
start, I think, is to reframe our perspective of our schedule, 
so that no time is intrinsically useless. What would you do 
if you thought those minutes at the bus stop were impor-
tant? Or those few hours before class?
Change only happens when a person wants it to. So let’s 
keep asking ourselves these questions. It’s a good start.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Mondays.Don’t let your idle time be wasted time
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgThe art of the 
five-minute voteMONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
I don’t know Brett Kavanaugh. I’ve met 
several men who ﬁ  t the description 
Kavanaugh’s college roommate and ac-
cusers have given, but I don’t know Ka-
vanaugh, and I won’t pretend to know 
what the content of his character is.
But I do know Christine Blasey Ford. 
Because I am Ford. And you are, too. One 
in ﬁ  ve women are assaulted in college, one 
in 13 men. So, if we do a little math, about 
3,500 undergraduate women and 1,200 
undergraduate men at UF are survivors of sexual violence.
The majority of these assaults will never 
be reported.
The vast majority of campus sexual as-
sault victims, a decent portion of the stu-
dent population, will carry this with them 
the way Ford carried it with her. For the 
rest of their lives, they will feel anxious 
and struggle to cope with the trauma.
Maybe, like Ford, three decades from 
now they will be able to open up to a 
therapist. Maybe, like Ford, they are white and afﬂ  uent. Maybe they’ll have access to 
counseling and support after the assault.
But maybe not. And whether or not they 
report, they exist. They walk among us like 
ghosts. Unless we drastically change our 
campus culture in the immediate future, 
they will never report.
On Wednesday, the Inspire Party lost an 
election running on a platform that took 
steps to address campus rape culture by 
introducing an online platform to encour-
age reporting. Inspire even had a plan to give UF assault survivors what Ford wasn’t 
given, anonymity and protection.
Hundreds of Fords are walking around 
every day. They’re studying at Library 
West. They’re walking through the Reitz 
Union. They’re sitting next to you in class. 
We must protect them.
The RAINN 24/7 Sexual Assault Hotline 
is 800-656-HOPE (4673).
Savannah Gribbins is a ﬁ  rst-year stu-
dent at UF Levin College of Law.
The nation has been glued to 
the news all week as Chris-
tine Blasey Ford and Su-
preme Court nominee Brett 
Kavanaugh testify about 
sexual assault allegations that have 
recently come to light. I’m not here 
to get political, so don’t worry. I do 
that enough already. I’m actually 
here because I have had a com-
pletely different takeaway. 
I noticed one common theme in 
each allegation of Kavanaugh: Alco-
hol was involved each time. He was 
always drunk when he was alleged 
to have done these horrendous 
acts, which in no way makes them 
excusable. Three of the accolades 
on his yearbook page referenced al-
cohol: “Keg City Club (Treasurer),” 
“100 Kegs or Bust” and “Beach 
Week Ralph Club.” He could not 
have been more than 18 years old 
at the time of that yearbook’s pub-
lication, which 
shows how ear-
ly drinking can 
start. The fact 
that Kavana-
ugh’s drunken 
youth is wreak-
ing havoc on 
his professional career prospects 
should be a wake-up call for high 
school and college-aged youths to-
day. 
These current events have com-
pelled me to ﬁ  nally address some-
thing that has bothered me since I 
started high school over ﬁ  ve years 
ago: There is a severe drinking 
problem among high school and 
college students nationwide. Alco-
hol is a household staple in dormi-
tories across campus. Greek life not 
only accepts but promotes drinking. 
Game days are just excuses for stu-
dents to get wasted on free booze. 
Clubbing is a 24/7 occurrence. Stu-
dents “drink to cope” after a bad grade, which is, by the way, one of 
the ﬁ  rst signs of alcoholism. Twit-
ter accounts, such as Young Alco-
holics, which both condone and 
encourage underage drinking, have 
amassed thousands of followers. It 
seems as though students do not 
realize that there isn’t an age limit 
for alcoholism. Alcoholism is often 
acquired during college, and it isn’t 
something to be taken lightly.
Greek life is especially notori-
ous for its alcohol problem. In fact, 
these organizations cultivate an 
environment of drinking, allowing 
members of all ages to participate 
and ostracize those who do not. 
In 2017, fraternities at both Loui-
siana State University and Florida 
State University were suspended 
after the alcohol-caused death of 
two students. Already this year, UF 
suspended Delta Chi Fraternity for 
the near-fatal hazing incident of a 
pledge. After rushing last year, my 
roommate would tell me stories of 
the rampant drinking that occurred 
in her sorority. Date functions were 
ruined because too many girls got 
sick with alcohol poisoning. The 
sorority was given warnings and 
even put on probation more than once. My roommate, who did not 
partake in the alcoholic activities, 
ﬁ  nally left her sorority. Greek life is 
a major cause of most on campus 
alcohol-related issues, but again, 
that is a whole different story.
How can we address this issue 
and change the attitudes surround-
ing drinking culture on campuses? 
Begin by banning fraternities and 
sororities that do not adhere to the 
codes and bylaws regarding drink-
ing. Not suspending. Banning. It 
has been shown time and time 
again that suspension has no effect 
on the actions of these groups. Dis-
banding the organizations that do 
not comply at least prevents them 
from congregating in such large 
numbers. Enforce the rules con-
cerning hazing more strictly. Stop 
normalizing underage drinking. 
Indulge in activities that do not in-
volve getting drunk. My friends and 
I prefer to spend 
our weekends 
going to local 
concerts, which 
do not require 
drinking in or-
der to have a 
decent time. UF 
also has plenty of on campus activi-
ties to get involved with. 
Don’t drink away your youth. 
Only poor judgment occurs when 
under the inﬂ  uence. Judgment ter-
rible enough that it causes someone 
to destroy the life of a young woman 
with a bright future. Hopefully, the 
tragedy of what happened to Ford 
some thirty years ago can inﬂ  uence 
the culture of today’s youth. With 
time, the stigma around drinking 
culture can be changed, but it starts 
with us.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF Eng-
lish sophomore. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.Drinking and sexual assault go hand in handColumn
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgThere’s a lot to 
love about the 
Regional Tran-
sit System here 
in Gainesville: 
There are 40 daytime 
bus routes, nine of 
which cover only UF’s 
campus, and ﬁ  ve Later 
Gator night routes. All 
of them are free (or 
at least covered by fees) with 
a Gator 1 Card. In many ways, 
it’s a convenient system for get-
ting to campus, Midtown or any 
other place in Gainesville you 
might want to go. As long as you 
go there during the daytime on a 
weekday.
Just looking at RTS’ Trans-
Loc Rider app on my phone, the 
difference between weekday 
and weekend service is stag-
gering. As mentioned before, 
RTS has 40 daytime routes, 
and on most days, almost all 
of those routes will be running 
and taking people from point 
A to point B. Now, looking at 
my phone on a Saturday after-
noon, just 17 are running. For 
those of you who are math-
ematically inclined, that means 
only a little more than a third 
of RTS’ daytime bus routes run 
on weekends. Check back a 
day later, and RTS is down to 
15 bus routes. The situation is 
even worse when you count 
Later Gator routes. RTS has 
ﬁ  ve Later Gator routes, orga-
nized A through F. While Later 
Gator routes are an asset in 
many ways, they can be limited 
at times. While the routes are 
inclusive and go to most of the 
places students want to go, two 
of the routes only run on Satur-
days, and none run on Sunday. 
Students who party (and some-
times drink, unfortunately) Fri-
day nights face limited options 
to get back home, and students 
who go out on Sundays face 
even fewer options. While some 
may play it safe in the face of 
this conundrum and take an 
Uber or use a designated driver, 
others may not do so and in-
stead drive themselves, leading 
to more drunk drivers on the 
road and a higher accident risk for everyone. 
For such a com-
prehensive system, 
these gaps in service 
are glaring. While 
some reduction in 
service is under-
standable, and some 
services would likely 
be too underused to 
be worthwhile (such 
as Later Gator services Monday 
through Wednesday), RTS has 
been too extreme in its service 
reductions. During the day and 
at night, the weekends can be 
busy times both for students 
and other Gainesville residents, 
but the service schedule of RTS 
would make you think this uni-
versity of more than 50,000 
students and a city of 130,000 
grind to a halt on weekends. In 
fact, Gainesville can be quite 
active on weekends, with par-
ties and events all over the 
area. The bus service should 
reﬂ  ect that. 
So how can RTS improve 
its service and minimize such 
gaps? There are things that 
would be good ﬁ  rst steps. The 
most obvious would be to make 
all ﬁ  ve Later Gator routes run 
on Friday evenings. Fridays are 
as much a night to party and go 
out on the town as Saturdays 
are, so the fact that Later Gator 
isn’t running its full service on 
Friday night is bafﬂ  ing. RTS can 
also operate at least one or two 
Later Gator routes on Sundays, 
so students who unwisely chose 
to party late into the night can 
easily and safely get home and 
recover for classes the next day. 
And as for a daytime service on 
weekends, a full ﬂ  eet of buses 
running on Saturdays and Sun-
days would be unreasonable, 
but it would be reasonable to 
continue running a few of the 
most popular weekday-only 
routes through the weekend. 
For the Gainesville area, adding 
days to a handful of RTS routes 
would make a huge difference. 
Jason Zappulla is a UF his-
tory junior. His column appears 
on Mondays.Spotty RTS service doesn’t 
do a busy Gainesville justiceColumn
Jason
Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
“It seems as though students do not realize that there isn't an 
age limit for alcoholism. Alcoholism is often acquired during 
college, and it isn't something to be taken lightly.”
Hannah WhitakerTHE MONEY WOULD 
BE USED TO FIND A 
NEW TREATMENT 
FOR LEUKEMIA AND 
L YMPHOMA.
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Finding a cure for cancer was 
not always the goal for Dr. Paul 
Castillo.
But that changed when he be-
came a pediatric oncologist at UF 
Health Shands Children’s Hospi-
tal, focused on the recovery of the 
immune system after conducting 
bone marrow transplants at Texas 
Children’s Hospital at Baylor Col-
lege of Medicine.
To find a cure for childhood 
cancer, Castillo received a two-
year, $200,000 grant from the 
Hyundai Hope on Wheels Founda-
tion. The money will be used to 
find a new method of treatment for leukemia and lymphoma that 
would reduce the damage on a 
patient’s immune system, Castillo 
said.
“I am extremely happy to have 
received this grant and very excit-
ed to help,” Castillo said.
In Castillo’s previous research, 
patients with leukemia would get 
infected with a lethal fungus after 
bone marrow treatments because 
the cancer treatments would wipe 
out the T-cells, he said.
While looking for a solution, 
Castillo came across a group of 
doctors studying cellular therapy 
on T-cells, a type of white blood 
cell that defends the body against 
foreign substances, and realized 
he could apply that data to fight 
leukemia.
“I never thought I would be so 
passionate about this type of re-
search,” Castillo said. “It clicked 
after a couple months of being in a 
lab with my great mentors. Every-
thing was in the right place at the right time for me.”
Castillo said he would use the 
grant to apply cellular therapy to 
train T-cells in the body to target 
only cancerous cells, leaving pa-
tients with a much higher chance 
of survival.
The funds will go toward buy-
ing the equipment and infrastruc-
ture needed to conduct the T-cell 
experiments on mice, Castillo said.
Isabella Ramirez, a 21-year-old 
University of South Florida pre-
nursing junior, was diagnosed 
with stage 3 lymphoma when she 
was 17. She became a patient of 
Castillo’s after she relapsed and 
needed a bone marrow transplant.
“I feel proud to have been one 
of his first bone marrow transplant 
patients here at Shands Hospital,” 
Ramirez said.
While going through her treat-
ment, Ramirez said Castillo made 
her feel like his only patient by 
always checking in on her and 
cheering her up.“It is very comforting to me 
knowing that he is getting this 
grant, so his research can grow 
and get closer to finding better treatments, so future kids won’t 
have to go through what I did,” 
Ramirez said.8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville is only one resolution away 
from joining 84 other cities — and two 
states — in committing to 100 percent re-
newable energy.
The discussion began in last Thurs-
day’s City Commission General Policy 
Committee meeting and will continue 
Thursday, City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos said. Once the city passes 
a resolution declaring its commitment, it 
will begin creating a plan to switch to re-
newable energy.
“It’s important to take it to a local level 
because we’re not seeing it at a state or 
federal level,” Hayes-Santos said.
Currently, about 30 percent of the en-
ergy Gainesville uses is renewable. The 
number can rise to 48 percent depending 
on factors such as the time of day and 
even the season, Hayes-Santos said.
Roberta Gastmeyer, the Ready for 
100 campaign coordinator, believes 
Gainesville still has a long way to go. The 
Ready for 100 campaign encourages cities 
to commit to 100 percent renewable en-
ergy, Gastmeyer said.
The initiative focuses on two major 
areas in the city: transportation and en-
ergy. The goal is to have all municipal 
vehicles run on electric energy by 2035, 
Gastmeyer said. By 2045, she hopes the 
energy Gainesville Regional Utilities sup-
plies to homes and businesses will also be 
entirely renewable energy.
“This is the future,” Gastmeyer said. 
“This is good and healthy for the commu-nity.”
Although she believes the city is mov-
ing quickly toward electric vehicles, Gast-
meyer said it should provide incentives to 
business owners and homes to encourage 
the use of solar panels.
City Commissioner David Arreola is 
also hoping to see more of a focus on so-
lar energy. Right now, GRU draws from 
several energy sources, including two coal 
factories, natural gas turbines and a bio-
mass plant, Arreola said.
The hope is to phase out aging coal fa-
cilities and transition to natural gas until 
the city can focus on renewable energy, 
he said. Due to Gainesville’s location and 
environment, solar energy is one of the 
most viable options, Arreola said.
Batteries would be necessary to store 
solar energy, but the technology is cur-
rently too expensive and can’t store the 
energy well enough to use when the sun 
isn’t out, Arreola said.
“It all hinges on battery technology,” 
he said. “We can’t rely on solar energy at 
night or on a rainy day.”
Fiona Hogan, a second-year UF sus-
tainable development practices master’s 
student, said she is excited about the pos-
sible resolution. The impact of switching 
to renewable energy would improve the 
environment and general health because 
of cleaner water and better air quality, 
said Hogan.
“There’s nothing that wouldn’t im-
prove,” she said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgCity Commission to consider 
pursuing 100 percent 
renewable energy resolution
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF Health Shands Hospital staff and pediatric cancer survivors join 
Dr. Paul Castillo Sept. 18 at the Hyundai Hope on Wheels Handprint 
Ceremony, where he received a $200,000 grant.
UF Health awarded $200,000 grant for pediatric cancer researchCurrently, about 30 percent of 
Gainesville’s energy is renewable.
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
99 bottles of beer on the wall
Ashley Rosser, a 21-year-old UF advertising senior, serves beer from Swamp Head 
Brewery at the second-annual Oktoberfest held at Audi Gainesville Saturday. Rosser 
was one of several members of Delta Nu Zeta who volunteered at the event with 
the Ronald McDonald House. All proceeds from the event were donated to Ronald 
McDonald House Charities.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE 
CAME TO SUNDAY’S EVENT 
ON FLAVET FIELD.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students dashed, danced and 
scored on Flavet Field to celebrate 
Hispanic Heritage Month.
UF’s Hispanic Student Associa-
tion put on a 5K and field day Sun-
day morning as part of the month-
long cultural celebration, said 
Kendra Blandon, the Hispanic Heri-
tage Month coordinator. The field 
day included activities such as a 
Zumba exercise, soccer tournament 
and bean bag toss.  
The annual heritage celebration 
began at UF in 1996 as a week-long 
event, Blandon, a 20-year-old UF 
religion and international studies 
senior said. The festivities now last 
a month, spanning from Sept. 15 to 
Oct. 15.
The event attracted more than 
100 participants and was funded 
by a variety of sponsors, including 
$3,800 from Student Government, 
Blandon said. 
Participants donated more than 
$1,000 for UF Chispas, a UF student 
organization that aims to address the 
needs of immigrants, Blandon said. 
“Since it’s so early in the school 
year and it’s a lot of Latinx Gators’ 
first introduction to the UF com-munity and to the other Hispanic 
Gators,” Blandon said, “we want 
them to feel that this is a place where 
they can always come to make new 
friends and meet new people.” 
The run provided an opportunity 
for Carmen Florez, a 20-year-old UF 
psychology senior, to work out with 
three of her friends. The four of them 
made a “walking squad” and strolled 
through the course together. 
The course was different than a 
typical 5K because participants faced 
fun obstacles while they ran, such as 
an inflatable climbing wall, Florez 
said. 
Florez said she’s attended all of 
the Hispanic Heritage Month ac-
tivities that Hispanic Student Asso-
ciation has put on in the past few 
weeks, including an art show and 
pageant, she said. 
“I just wanted to support the His-
panic Heritage Month team,” Florez 
said. 
Events like this are about cel-
ebrating culture, said Shiselle Pove-
dano, a field day coordinator and 
a20-year-old UF economics and pub-
lic relations senior.  
“It’s about getting all of us to-
gether, sweating together, laughing 
together, bonding together through 
the struggle of running five kilome-
ters,” Povedano said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgHSA hosts Hispanic Heritage 5K and field day
Gillian Sweeney / Alligator Staff
Participants face off in a soccer tournament celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month Sunday morning. 
The field day activities followed a 5K race that raised money for UF Chispas.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
By Adrianna Santiago
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Not every college student survives on a 
diet of microwave ramen and saltine crack-
ers, and one UF student published a cook-
book to prove it. 
Jason Wysocki, a UF business adminis-
tration junior, created a cookbook titled “4 
Hungry College Boys: 101 Recipes for When 
Mom Stops Cooking,” to break the stereo-
type that college students can’t cook, he 
said. The 20-year-old compiled 101 recipes  
from ones he found online then tweaked 
himself and divided them into six sections: 
pork, poultry, pasta, beef, dessert and other. 
The book released on Amazon Sept. 13 and 
has since sold more than 20 copies. 
“Everybody thinks that you go to college 
and eat ramen every night, or you don’t eat 
at all,” Wysocki said. “I think this deﬁ  nitely 
defeats that stereotype.”
The cookbook has been in the works for 
about a year, after Wysocki made a deal 
with his roommates, he said. 
At the start of his sophomore year, Wysocki agreed to do the cooking in the 
apartment if his roommates did the clean-
ing. After a few of Wysocki’s meals, his 
roommates suggested he craft a cookbook.
Jonathan Newman, a 20-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance junior and Wysocki’s roommate, 
knew the moment he tasted Wysocki’s food 
that it should be shared with other people.  
“My mom is a great cook and all, but for 
a 20-year-old kid to make meals that are as 
good as my mom’s, that’s something spe-
cial,” Newman said. 
Of his recipes, Wysocki said his favorite 
is the South-of-the-border burger, which is 
topped with caramelized onions, mangos 
and chipotle ranch. 
Wysocki picked up most of his cooking 
skills from his mom, he said. Growing up, 
she taught him about ﬂ  avor proﬁ  les and 
showed him how to appreciate a home-
cooked meal. 
“It’s like a work of art,” he said. “You’ve 
got to work on it and work on it and then 
at the end of the day you get to reap the 
beneﬁ  ts.”‘4 Hungry College Boys’: UF student publishes cookbook 
The book was released Sept. 13.
Serves 4 Hungry College Boys
Prep Time: ~10 min
Total Time: 45 min
Ingredients:
1 medium onion, sliced into thin strips
1 tablespoon butter
4 ¼ lb. beef patties
⅛ teaspoon cayenne
¼ teaspoon chili powder¼ teaspoon garlic powder
½ teaspoon pepper
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon canola oil
4 slices pepper jack cheese
4 sandwich potato rolls
Sliced jalapeños
1 beefsteak tomato, cut into ¼-inch slices
1 head of romaine, chopped into sandwich size pieces
Chipotle ranch dressing
Directions:
Place a pan on a burner at slightly less 
than medium heat and add onions and 
butter. Stir onions to coat in butter. 
Cook for 18 to 22 minutes or until on-
ions are caramelized, stirring occasion-
ally, then set aside. Season both sides 
of all patties with cayenne, chili powder, 
garlic powder, pepper and salt. In the 
same pan used for the onions, add one 
tablespoon canola and turn the burner to medium-high. When the oil begins to 
sizzle or ripple, place the patties in the 
pan. Cook for four minutes per side, 
putting the pepper jack cheese on top 
in the last 30 seconds. Let burgers rest 
for two to three minutes. Dress burger 
by putting onions on the bottom bun, 
burger, a generous number of jalape-
ños, tomato, and lettuce on top. Spread 
chipotle ranch dressing on top bun, 
close burger and enjoy.“South of The Border” Burger
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
WE BUY UNWANTED CARS & TRUCKS
 WITH TITLE
352 792-2435 or tai2chi2@yahoo.com
10-1-3-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $990/mo.   352-359-1508    
10-8-18-12-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-52-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
10-5-18-6-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestHolographic Kinetics: Advanced Healing Modality
Identify and clear mental, emotional and 
behavioral health issues. Many areas can 
be helped (Anxiety, fear, depression, PTSD, 
suicidal thoughts, addictions, and more)
www.healingwithspirit.net      MA90891
10-5-18-7-16Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-1513 Wanted 13 Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals
MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 8/8- 8/11 
from 5-7 p.m. Quantitative sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.     10-8-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/01/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 1, 2018
ACROSS
1 Crispy fried 
chicken part
5 Foolish sort
9 Neeson of 
“Silence”
13 Canc ún currency
14 Nonspeaking 
street performer
15 Cellist Casals
16 “__ it first!”
17 Complete 
quickly, as a test
19 Spring melts
21 Lake crossed 
traveling from 
Ohio to Ontario
22 Golf course 
standard
23 Predecessor to 
Millard Fillmore
27 “Later, Jacques”
28 Northern sky 
sight
31 Mixed-breed 
barker
34 Isl. of Australia
36 Remove mist 
from, as a 
windshield
37 Sushi tuna
38 Grabbed a chair
39 Praiseful poem
41 Angsty music 
genre
42 Lovestruck teen 
from Verona
44 Houston MLBer
46 Unexpected 
problem
47 Angelic figure
49 Transplant to a 
new container
51 Strict rule-
enforcement 
policy
56 Margaret of 
stand-up
58 Chilly
59 Get the better of
60 Buddhist 
meditation sites
64 Tubular pasta ... 
and a phonetic 
hint to 17-, 
23-, 51- and 
60-Across
65 Geometry 
calculations
66 Brazilian soccer 
legend
67 Actor Baldwin
68 Sore throat sign
69 Part of GPS: 
Abbr.70 Some cameras, 
for short
DOWN
1 Dog group that 
includes the 
Akita
2 “Tik Tok” singer
3 Author Asimov
4 “Yet another 
problem?”
5 Tabloid TV 
debut of 2007
6 Xbox 360 
competitor
7 Driving force
8 Colorful 
aquarium fish
9 Poet __-tzu
10 Active ingredient 
in Advil
11 Pond growth
12 Jay of “Last 
Comic Standing”
15 Musical intro
18 “Howdy there!”
20 Pathetic
24 Beatles’ meter 
maid
25 First Irish 
Literature 
Nobelist
26 Miner’s strike
29 Egg-shaped 
tomato30 Spellbound
31 Artist Chagall
32 “Looks like 
trouble!”
33 Mountain and 
Pacific, e.g.
35 Gourmet 
mushroom
38 Reporter’s 
contacts
40 Info
43 Before, poetically
45 Streetcar
46 Sonnet sections48 Market upswing
50 Gold, to José
52 Big name in 
trading cards
53 Sam of “Jurassic 
Park”
54 More adorable
55 Heroic sagas
56 Industry mogul
57 Zeus’ jealous 
wife
61 Touch lightly
62 Lolling trio?
63 Erector __ACROSS
1 Garden lure
10 Prefix meaning 
“coil”
15 It straddles the 
border of two 
western states
16 Brass, for one
17 Closing question
18 Subjects for 
reviewers
19 Kind of gravel
20 What some 
glasses lack
21 Observed visiting
22 Break off loudly
23 Write the wrong 
number on, 
perhaps
24 Legal option
27 Warning after 
using an iron
28 A.L. East squad
29 __ space
30 Glove material
31 Speech 
interruptions
32 Work to get
33 Support on the 
way up
34 Cookout choice
35 Modicum
36 One of a nursery 
rhyme trio
37 Most successful 
African-American 
PGA golfer 
before Woods
38 Custom finish?
39 Made it up
40 Follow
41 Armadas on the 
road
43 Turnovers, e.g.
44 Take out
45 Shot in the dark
46 Clicking sound?
49 “Battlestar 
Galactica” 
commander
50 One who’s no 
fun to play with
52 Showed up
53 Bicycle tire 
feature
54 Discharge
55 Tiny arboreal 
amphibians
DOWN
1 Indication of an 
offense
2 Take a little off3 Many of its 
products are 
named for 
Scandinavian 
places
4 Mountain __
5 Hardly transitory
6 Like much 
flower symmetry
7 Defeat 
decisively
8 Quite a stretch
9 One who does a 
waggle dance
10 Sensitive health 
class subject
11 Practiced 
diligently
12 Sulky
13 It’s often used to 
make paste
14 Traditional 
Christmas Eve 
dish for some
21 Traffic stopper, 
at times
22 Tailored
23 Power source
24 Elastic wrap 
brand
25 Herbivore 
named for its 
habitat26 List on a ticket
27 In the cards
30 Takes an 
interest in
33 Revolutionary 
pamphleteer
34 Top
36 Far from subtle
37 High-tech 
communications 
portmanteau
40 Feel a strong 
need (for)42 Rest area  
array
43 Made off with
45 Use an updraft, 
say
46 Old movie  
dog
47 Be mindful of
48 Administrative 
branches
50 Low mil. rank
51 Granada  
bear
By Gail Grabowski
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/29/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 29, 2018
1.  ____ file
1.  Fantastic5.  Nursery buy
2.  Closest 6.  Live
3.  ____ chloride 7.  ____ symbol 
4.  ____ SeaGLENSI
ESUBPRNATPL
XEITS
ANSTEER
HUMITLICOMATI
CLIBTAANSWERS: 1A-Single  5A-Plant  6A-Exist  7A-Atomic
1D-Superb  2D-Nearest  3D-Lithium  4D-Baltic  B-Parthenon10-1-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Construction of the ____ 
began in 447 BC.
BONUS1. Entering 2018, when was the 
last time a pitcher started 36 or more 
games in a major-league season?
2. Which major-league team did 
Lou Piniella manage first, and which 
one did he manage the longest?
3. When was the last time before 
2017 that the University of Miami, 
Fla., won a bowl game by more than 
one point?
4. In the 2016-17 NBA season, Elf-
rid Payton became the fifth player in 
Orlando Magic history to have at least 
1,000 points and 500 assists in a sea-
son. Name two of the other four to do 
it.
5. Who were the last players before 
Pittsburgh’s Jake Guentzel in 2018 to 
reach 20 points in 10 or fewer NHL 
playoff games?
6. Name the last time before 2018 
that Russia’s men’s soccer team 
advanced to the knockout stage of the 
World Cup.
7. When was the last time before 
2018 that the U.S. won wrestling’s 
World Cup?
Answers
1. In 2003, Atlanta’s Greg Maddux 
and Toronto’s Roy Halladay each 
started 36 games.
2. The New York Yankees (1986); 
the Seattle Mariners (1993-2002).
3. It was 2004 (the Hurricanes beat 
Florida, 27-10, in the Peach Bowl).
4. Penny Hardaway (three times), 
Scott Skiles (three), Darrell Arm-
strong (twice) and Steve Francis 
(once).
5. Mark Messier and Wayne Gretz-
ky, in 1988.
6. It was 1986, when the team repre-
sented the Soviet Union.
7. It was 2003.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
October 1, 2018King Features Weekly Service19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets 24 Pets
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.Junior Sierra Brooks and the 
Florida women’s golf team 
begins play at the Windy City 
Classic in Evanston, Illinois 
today.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Now seems as 
good a time as any to 
say it: I told you so. 
For all the early-
season skepticism 
surrounding Dan 
Mullen’s decision 
to start quarterback 
Feleipe Franks over 
Kyle Trask and for 
all the overreaction 
disguised as “fair criticism” that 
was thrown in Franks’ direction 
after Florida’s Week 2 loss to 
Kentucky. 
I told you so. 
I told you it would take time 
for Franks to fully acclimate him-
self with Mullen’s system. I told 
you to give it some time before 
judging whether he’s improved 
from last year.And he needed 
just one game to 
prove those senti-
ments true.
Franks strung to-
gether the best per-
formance of his col-
lege career Saturday 
night in the Gators’ 
13-6 win against Mis-
sissippi State.
He hadn’t been much to rave 
about so far this season, even 
though he entered the contest 
with a 6:1 touchdown-to-inter-
ception ratio.
Franks performance in 
Starkville wasn’t so much about 
the numbers, though, despite it 
being a solid outing on the stat 
sheet (22 for 31, 219 yards).At what point do we start 
giving Feleipe Franks creditThe Lost City of Alanis / Column
Alanis Thames
twitter: @lanisthames
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16It will need a repeat performance when 
it faces No. 5 LSU on Saturday. 
Mullen said his team played hard against Mississippi State and grinded for 
the win. He compared it to the Kentucky 
loss on Sept. 8, with the only difference 
being UF executing its big plays against the 
Bulldogs.
“We came out and played hard tonight and were better this week than we were 
last week,” Mullen said. “If we want to 
continue, if we continue to do that, we’ll 
have the opportunity to win another game 
next week.”
The Gators’ tenacious play showed a lot more in the second half, but they were out-
played by MSU in the first half. The Bull-
dogs ran for 94 yards in the first two quar-
ters behind Fitzgerald and running backs 
Kylin Hill and Aeris Williams. 
But a major stat was that Mississippi 
State converted on just one-of-five third 
downs in the first half, and the Gators held 
MSU to just six points.
That was all of the points they allowed. 
The Bulldogs failed to score in the second 
half and had four three-and-outs in their 
final seven drives. 
Defensive end Jabari Zuniga said the 
win was a testament to how much work 
the defense has put into improving.
“It motivated us,” he said. “That follow-
ing Monday when we went to practice we 
got after it. We had a lot of physical peri-
ods, team run, we had some one-on-one 
periods, so we just got after it.”
The defense is improving but still isn’t 
at the level Mullen wants it to be. 
Florida’s defense might have to play 
even more physical next week with a 
matchup against a top-five opponent in 
LSU on Saturday. 
The win in Starkville was just a foun-
dation for the Florida defense. How it re-
sponds in practice this week will determine 
how it will play against the Tigers.
“I think our guys are really starting to 
buy into, ‘We need to prepare the right 
way,’” Mullen said. “And if we do that, 
your performance is going to start to im-
prove.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1MSU was held scoreless in the second half
KICKER
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
Freshman Thayer Hall and ju-
nior Rachael Kramer jumped up 
simultaneously in the final rally 
of the match, rejecting yet another 
Alabama strike. Florida’s front row 
held firm from the continuous at-
tacks from the Crimson Tide, who 
were trying to win its first set over 
Florida since 2008.
The attacks kept coming and 
coming, the hitters kept pounding 
and pounding, but they could not 
find a hole through the wall in front 
of the net. Hall and Kramer jumped 
up one more time to ferociously 
block the ball back down and win 
the final point of the match.
That defense was vital as the 
Gators swept their opponent for the 
fourth-consecutive time on Sunday 
when they beat Alabama in three 
sets (25-20, 25-20, 26-24) in Tusca-loosa to complete their short, two-
match road trip. They’ll return to 
the O’Connell Center on Friday to 
take on Texas A&M.
Florida (13-3, 4-0 SEC) held Ala-
bama to just a .137 hitting percent-
age thanks to the 40 digs and 11 
blocks by the defense in the three 
sets.
Kramer led the team with six 
total blocks while senior middle 
blocker Taelor Kellum bolstered 
the front-row defense with four 
blocks of her own. 
Junior libero Allie Gregory 
shored up the back row with her 
12 digs.
“This was a great win against 
an Alabama team that played really 
well, especially in their pursuit of 
balls in the back row,” coach Mary 
Wise said in a release.
Florida’s offense, however, 
struggled to get past the stout de-
fense of Alabama (13-4, 1-3 SEC) that entered the match ranked first 
in the SEC in digs per set (15.37) 
and second in blocks per set (2.53). 
The Gators were held to a mea-
sly .217 hitting percentage and 
made 17 attack errors along with 
10 service errors.
Florida struggled with getting 
past the Crimson Tide’s back-row 
defense, which seemed impen-
etrable thanks to sophomore libero 
Kaylee Thomas. She racked up 17 
digs and received 11 serves with 
only one error.
Alabama’s defense was exposed 
in the front row, however, when 
Kramer and Kellum began to domi-
nate the middle offensively. The 
duo combined for 22 kills on .512 
hitting percentage.
“Our pins were struggling a 
little bit, so they wanted more pro-
duction to come from the middles,” 
Kellum said. “We were getting Gators sweep Alabama in Tuscaloosa
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Florida safety Donovan Stiner (13) sacked Mississippi State quarterback Nick Fitzgerald at the end of the game, forcing a turnover 
on downs and sealing the win for the Gators.
Gators ranked in latest AP Poll
The Florida football team opens Week 6 ranked No. 22 in the latest Associ-
ated Press Poll. It’s the first time since Week 2 that UF has been ranked. The 
Gators were No. 25 before losing to Kentucky on Sept. 8.MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
MEN’S TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team did not 
fare well in the pre-qualifying round of 
the ITA All-American Championships.
Sophomore Brian Berdusco and fresh-
men Greysen Cacciatore and Lukas Greif 
all competed the round of 256 in Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, this weekend. 
Berdusco fell in three sets to Finn 
Reynolds of Ole Miss. After winning the 
first set 6-2, Berdusco dropped the next two sets 4-6 and 0-6 and was bounced to 
the consolation round. Greif lost in two 
sets to James Trotter of Ohio State 3-6, 
2-6 and also headed for the consolation 
round.
Cacciatore was the only Gator to move 
on to the round of 128 with a victory in 
three sets over Clement Sarradin of the 
University of Texas Rio Grande Valley. 
After jumping out to a lead in the first set, 
he dropped the second and then swept 
the final set to move on. Cacciatore then 
lost to Josh Sheehy of Abilene Christian (1-6, 4-6) to cut his time short.
Berdusco defeated Akinora Wada of 
Abilene Christian in three sets (6-1, 3-6, 
10-7) in the consolation round. Greif 
swept Sansidh Kommaraju of UT Arling-
ton in two sets (6-0, 6-4) in his consola-
tion match.
Sophomores Duarte Vale and Andy 
Andrade and senior McClain Kessler will 
all take the court in the men’s qualifying 
rounds today.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFlorida struggles in pre-qualifying roundMEN’S GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Opening days for fall tournaments have 
been a mixed bag for the Gators. A mis-
erable first day at the Carpet Capital Col-
legiate set the tone for a disappointing 
13th-place finish. John Axelsen’s 64 on the 
opening round at last week’s Trinity Forest 
Invitational sparked a fourth-place finish 
for both Axelsen and the Gators.
So it’s only fitting that the Gators’ open-
ing round at the Nike Collegiate Invitation-
al in Dallas was somewhere between those 
two extremes. They sit in a tie with USC for 
seventh out of 15 teams in the field after 
scoring a 286 (+6) as a team, five strokes 
behind leader Vanderbilt, and placed four 
of their five golfers in the top 30.
The problem, however, is that the high-
est of those four are sophomores Axelsen 
(+1) and Manny Girona (+1), who tied 
for 19th place. Freshmen Aden Ye (+2) 
and Eugene Hong (+2) were right behind 
them, but mistakes from senior Gordon 
Neale (+10) cost the Gators on Sunday.
Neale’s round started off innocently 
enough, scoring a bogey and a birdie to 
go along with four pars across his first six 
holes, but he his day first derailed with a 
triple bogey on his seventh hole. The se-
nior’s last 11 holes featured a birdie, two 
bogeys, a double bogey and another triple 
bogey to give him 72nd place. 
Having four golfers in the top 30 is a 
good sign for the Gators, but they are go-
ing to need at least one golfer to stand out 
individually. All six teams ahead of UF on 
the leaderboard have at least one golfer in the top 10.
The gap between Axelsen and Girona 
and the top 10 is only one stroke, but it 
is something to keep an eye on over the 
next two days. The Gators will need some-one to emerge from the pack if they are to 
move up the leaderboard. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators middle of pack at Nike Collegiate
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Sophomore John Axelsen finished Day 1 of the Nike Collegiate Invitational at 
1-over par, good for a share of 19th.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
McCartney Kessler and Ida Jarlskog 
needed just one more win to reach the 
doubles qualifying rounds of the ITA All-
American Championships. They had al-
ready defeated Texas’ Marta Perez-Mur and 
Tijana Spasojevic earlier in the day, and 
were eight games away from escaping the 
pre-qualifying rounds. 
The duo, however, came up short 
against Oklahoma’s Ivana Corley and Jas-
mine Asghar, 8-6, bringing Jarlskog and Kessler’s doubles run to an end. 
The sophomore tandem began the day 
with an 8-6 win against Perez-Mur and 
Spasojevic. Jarlskog and Kessler fell behind 
2-0 early in the match before bringing the 
match back to a 4-4 tie. UF’s pair took over 
in the second half of the match to earn the 
win and move on to the finals of the pre-
qualifying round, from which only four 
doubles teams advance to the qualifying 
rounds. 
The duo’s second match against Corley 
and Asghar was a close, back-and-forth 
affair. Kessler and Jarlskog took an early 3-1 lead, but the teams continued to trade 
games. They faced elimination with a 7-5 
deficit before winning another game. Their 
run in the tournament ended, however, as 
they dropped the next game to lose 8-6. 
Kessler and Jarlskog were the first of 
two UF doubles teams at the tournament. 
Victoria Emma and Tsveta Dimitrova had 
already qualified for the doubles qualifying 
round. All four are also in the qualifying 
draw for singles.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgJarlskog and Kessler fall short of qualifying roundsFOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Feleipe Franks completed a nine-yard screen 
pass to Kadarius Toney on Florida’s first drive  of 
the third quarter in its low-scoring war of attrition 
at Mississippi State. 
This play may not seem significant. It got some 
yardage back on a Jawaan Taylor holding call that 
negated a 53-yard reception by Trevon Grimes, 
and two downs later on 3rd-and-8, Franks threw a 
pick to end the Gators’ advance. 
However, it wasn’t until the next possession 
that Toney’s catch-and-run became a play of much 
importance and helped lead UF to its 13-6 victory 
over coach Dan Mullen’s former team.
Franks swung a lateral out to the sophomore on 
first down from the MSU 20 yard line that looked 
to be of similar scheme, but the Bulldog defense 
made the mistake of disregarding tight end Moral 
Stephens and turned its full attention to the former 
quarterback with the ball — a big mistake. 
Safety Stephen Adegoke and corner Maurice 
Smitherman were sucked up by the threat Toney 
posed and Stephens snuck behind both of the de-
fensive backs to get wide-open in the end zone for 
an easy catch. 
It was the redshirt senior tight end’s only recep-
tion on the night and the game’s only touchdown, 
and it was set up by Florida’s ability to get the ball 
in the hands of its playmakers.
“(It was) something we’ve been practicing and 
something we got coached up on, knowing that 
they we’re going to bite right there,” Franks said. “I 
think he did a great job during the moment calling 
that play to set us up and put us ahead right there.” 
Toney may have only had one catch on the 
night, but the screen game was established by 
Franks making quick throws to Grimes. The soph-
omore transfer from Ohio State had four catches, 
three of which went for first downs. Grimes caught 
the ball in space behind the line of scrimmage each 
time, and he had wide receivers blocking out in 
front. He finished the night with 34 yards.
Another dynamic of the touchdown strike 
was the play-action fake to running back Lamical 
Perine. He was effective on the ground for Florida, 
and he found his stride on the major scoring drive. 
The junior from Mobile, Alabama, rushed the 
ball three times during Florida’s six-play sequence. 
Two downs before Toney’s pass, he trotted for 22 
yards, the longest run of the game for either team. 
Perine followed the dash with a 16-yard reception, 
becoming the focal point of the drive and giving 
Mullen the perfect opportunity to dial-up play ac-
tion. 
While Feleipe Franks didn’t have a passing per-
formance that popped off the stat sheet (he com-
pleted 22-for-31 passes for 219 yards), the Gators 
offense produced the game’s biggest plays by get-
ting the ball into their hot hands and allowing their 
quarterback to manage the game to victory.
“I don’t think he ever got conservative,” Mullen 
said about Franks. “He was... trying to take what 
they were giving us and stayed aggressive all night 
long.” 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgUF won by 
getting the 
ball to its 
playmakers16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2018
It was about what his perfor-
mance meant.
It showed that whatever Mullen 
and his staff are doing to develop 
the redshirt sophomore is working. 
Franks showed poise in one of 
the most hostile environments in 
the SEC. And that poise seemed to 
rub off on his teammates.
“Feleipe, he’s very conﬁ  dent,” 
receiver Kadarius Toney said. “We 
rely on him and he (relies) on us, 
so we have faith in him.”
No amount of artiﬁ  cial crowd 
noise in practice could have pre-
pared Franks and this Gators team 
for the ear-splitting clanging of 
cowbells at Davis Wade Stadium.
But that ultimately didn’t matter 
on Saturday.
Franks remained composed 
amid the pandemonium. He made 
some solid reads and good throws 
down the ﬁ  eld. He managed the 
game pretty well as the crowd’s in-
tensity eventually weakened along 
with the hopes of the home team 
walking away with a win over its 
former coach. 
Franks still hasn’t proven that 
he can take a game into his own 
hands and squeak out a win. He 
didn’t even throw for a touchdown 
in Saturday’s victory, due to some 
trickery by Mullen that left Toney 
slinging a 20-yard touchdown pass 
to tight end Moral Stephens.
Still, it’s probably time to admit 
that some of the criticism earlier in 
the season was premature. Maybe 
praising him for one (semi) com-
plete performance is a bit prema-
ture as well. But you have to take 
what Florida gives you week to 
week, and Franks gave Gators fans 
a little hope that he has what it 
takes to at least help this team to a 
winning season.  
The answer to whether Feleipe 
Franks is actually a good quarter-
back still lies in the future. But at 
least he’s starting to conﬁ  rm that 
he really was the best choice as the 
Gators’ starting quarterback.
Alanis Thames is a sports writer. 
Follow her on Twitter @alanist-
hames or contact her at athames@
alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14
great passes to our setters, and 
our setters were giving us good 
sets, so Rachael and I were able 
to step up.”
It was the Gators’ aggressive 
serving that resulted in 10 service 
aces, though, that made the dif-ference.
The team produced clutch 
aces that generated big runs, in-
cluding two from ﬁ  fth-year set-
ter Allie Monserez as part of a 
7-0 run in the ﬁ  rst set that would 
help Florida pull away and win it.
This was the second time in 
the last four matches that UF re-
corded 10 or more service aces. The team will seem unbeatable if 
it can minimize the service errors 
and keep up that production from 
behind the line.
 
Follow Dylan Rudolph on Twit-
ter @dyrudolph and contact him 
at drudolph@alligator.org.VOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Gators recorded 10 service aces This Week 
in Gators 
Athletics
MONDAY
Men’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Qualifying Draw), 
Tulsa, Oklahoma
Women’s Golf: Windy City Classic, 
Evanston, Illinois
Men’s Golf: Nike Golf Collegiate 
Invitational, Fort Worth, T exas
TUESDAY
Men’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Qualifying Draw), 
Tulsa, Oklahoma
Women’s Golf: Windy City Classic, 
Evanston, Illinois
Men’s Golf: Nike Golf Collegiate 
Invitational, Fort Worth, T exas
Women’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Qualifying Draw), 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California
WEDNESDAY
Women’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Qualifying Draw), 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California
THURSDAY
Women’s T ennis: ITA All-Ameri-
can Championship (Main Draw), 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California
Men’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Main Draw), Tulsa, 
Oklahoma
Soccer: Home Match vs. T en-
nessee, SEC Network 6:30 p.m., 
Gainesville
FRIDAY
Women’s T ennis: ITA All-Ameri-
can Championship (Main Draw), 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California
Men’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Main Draw), Tulsa, 
Oklahoma
Volleyball: Home Match vs. T ex-
as A&M, SEC Network 7 p.m., 
Gainesville
SATURDAY
Women’s T ennis: ITA All-Ameri-
can Championship (Main Draw), 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California
Men’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Main Draw), Tulsa, 
Oklahoma
Football: Home Match vs. LSU, 
CBS 3:30 p.m., Gainesville
SUNDAY
Women’s T ennis: ITA All-Ameri-
can Championship (Main Draw), 
Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California
Men’s T ennis: ITA All-American 
Championship (Main Draw), Tulsa, 
Oklahoma
Volleyball: Home Match vs Geor-
gia, SEC Network/ESPN 1 p.m., 
Gainesville
Soccer: Away Match @ South Car-
olina, SEC Network 3 p.m., Colum-
bia, South CarolinaChris Houston / Alligator Staff
Middle blockers Rachael Kramer (pictured) and T aelor Kellum combined for 22 kills in Florida’s 
sweep over Alabama.
TEAM COMPARISON: UF vs. MSU
Final: Florida 13, Mississippi State 6  
Offense:
UF: 
T otal yards: 357
Rushing yards: 118
Passing yards: 239
First downs: 20
MSU:
T otal yards: 202
Rushing yards: 104
Passing yards: 98
First downs: 15Defense: 
UF:
T ackles for loss: 8
Sacks: 6
Passes defended: 3
T akeaways: 0
MSU:
T ackles for loss: 3
Sacks: 1
Passes defended: 4
T akeaways: 1Florida’s Stand-out players
Kadarius T oney, sophomore, wide receiver:
One reception, nine receiving yards; two rushes, 20 rushing yards; 
1-for-1 passing, 20 passing yards, one passing touchdown
Vosean Joseph, junior, linebacker:
Seven tackles (three solo), one sack
Jachai Polite, junior, defensive end:
Three tackles, two sacks, one pass batted down