We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center reopens
Groups can book the space for up to 50 people, pg. 3
UF and Vietnam university sign agreement
They agreed to make applying for joint research funding easier,
pg. 10Gators break through for ﬁ  rst SEC win
The Florida women’s basketball team defeated Arkansas by 14 on Thursday in Fayetteville,
pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 47
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Millennial men are more likely to report 
sexual harassment actions, like a joke with 
sexual connotations, a catcall or an uncom-
fortable look, according to a new study.
The Agency, a UF public relations ﬁ  rm, 
surveyed 188 millennials, ages 18 to 35, us-
ing an online research platform between Nov. 27 and Nov. 28. The study’s results, released Jan. 4 showed 41 percent of men compared to 21 percent of women responded that they would report subjective sexual ha-
rassment, said Robert Norberg, The Agency’s 
director of strategy and research. 
To carry out the survey, The Agency used 
MAVY, an online community of 3,000 mil-lennials around the country, created to pro-vide advertisers and marketers with insights from millennials about products, concepts 
and ideas. Any millennial can join the web-
site and answer surveys on its dashboard. 
Norberg said the study results show mil-
lenials have more respect and equality be-tween the genders.
“Millennials seem to want a little bit more 
of a fair playing ﬁ  eld,” Norberg said. 
Norberg and his students found millennial 
men are more sensitive than women to sub-
jective actions, which Norberg described as 
a joke or story with sexual connotations, a catcall or an uncomfortable look. The study showed 41 percent of men compared to 27 percent of women would report subjective Study: Millennial men more 
likely to report dirty jokesSEE CAR,  PAGE 5
SEE AGENCY,  PAGE 5
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
When Andrea Ruiz left her home-
town of Guaynabo, Puerto Rico, she 
expected to return in about a month.
Three months later, Ruiz and her 
family are still in Miami. Ruiz moved 
to Florida on Oct. 10, a month after 
Hurricane Maria left her hometown, and much of Puerto Rico, without power. 
Ruiz misses home, but she 
knows she’s one of the lucky ones. She still worries about the future of Puerto Rico’s schools, especially the neglected public schools.
“Everything was destroyed, and 
it was such a big catastrophe,” the 16-year-old said. “Yeah, I had a chance to come here and be better off, but just leaving my island so de-stroyed. It’s hard to see what’s hap-pening to everyone.”
Ruiz is one of 10,324 Puerto 
Rican students who came to Flor-ida due to power outages in their schools and neighborhoods.
A report issued in December by 
the Center for Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College in New York esti-mates nearly a 5 percent increase in the number of Puerto Rican students enrolled in Florida schools since 
Hurricane Maria hit in September.
“It was quite hard leaving every-
thing so sudden,” Ruiz said. “You 
don’t expect that change.”
Ruiz came to Florida expecting 
to attend a local public school, but was denied by two schools in Mi-ami-Dade County. The ﬁ  rst school, Ronald W. Reagan High School, gave her a uniform and offered her a spot, only for the principal to turn her away on the ﬁ  rst day because the school was overbooked, she 
said. After a two-week search, Ruiz 
enrolled in St. Brendan High School, a private Catholic school in Miami.
“For us, it was quite hard to 
enter a school because they would tell us every time, ‘No you can’t be here, no you can’t be here,’” Ruiz said. “They say it’s gonna be easy and you come here thinking that 
public schools have to accept us no 
matter what, but it wasn’t like that.”
Edwin Meléndez, the director of 
Hunter College’s Center for Puerto Rican Studies, said the education report works to provide a reliable indicator of how many Puerto Ri-can families might stay permanently in Florida as their children attend school.
The report, which uses data col-
lected from the Florida Governor’s ofﬁ  ce and school district surveys, looks at student enrollment data because families who enroll their children in school are more likely to remain in the state, he said. 
“Some of the ﬁ  gures that are 
ﬂ  oating around, especially from the governor’s ofﬁ  ce, say that more than 
200,000 Puerto Ricans have arrived 
to Florida,” he said. “The problem is that we really don’t know how many of them are going to stay.”
Florida schools did not anticipate 
the inﬂ  ux of more than 10,000 stu-dents in about three months, Melén-dez said. Certiﬁ  ed bilingual teachers are scarce, and high school juniors and seniors need special academic counseling to meet Florida’s strict graduation requirements.
Meanwhile, Puerto Rican schools 
continue to close as a result of low enrollment. Severe damage further strained Puerto Rico’s education system, disproportionately affecting rural communities, Meléndez said.
The report focused on K-12 stu-
dents, so the number of Puerto Ri-can high school graduates moving to attend Florida colleges is unclear, 
Meléndez said.
Alachua County Public Schools 
received 76 students from Puerto 
Rico and eight students from the U.S. Virgin Islands since Hurricane Maria made landfall, according to ACPS spokeswoman Jackie John-
Report: Thousands of Puerto Rican students relocate to Florida
SEE PUERTO RICO,  PAGE 5By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Joshua Roe left his car running to keep 
it warm on one of the coldest nights in Gainesville this year. 
When he returned, he later told his wife, 
it was gone. 
But as he spoke to police on the phone, it 
appeared again. First, he saw the headlights. Then, it was barreling toward him. 
Roe, a UF doctorate student in the de-
partment of tourism, recreation and sport management, was delivering a box of house-hold items to someone in need Jan. 6, said his wife, Elizabeth Roe. He left his car near the intersection of Northeast 41st Place and 
Northwest Sixth Avenue.
After ﬁ  nding it gone, Roe called police. He 
was on the phone when he saw his car turn 
around at the end of the road and head to-ward him, Elizabeth Roe said.
“He jumps off the roadway to avoid get-
ting hit, but the car gunned the engine and drove off the roadway, following Joshua up the little curve and, in the grass, runs him 
down,” Elizabeth Roe said. “I guess it just 
happened so fast.”Police arrested three 16-year-olds who 
were in the car when it crashed into a ditch at the intersection of Northeast 39th Avenue 
and Northeast 53rd Avenue, according to Alli-
gator archives. Kyyan Jackson, 16, one of the passengers, told police he was riding his bicy-cle when he saw the car running and took it.
Elizabeth Roe said Jackson made the 
choice to drive off the road and over her husband. Police charged the minor with  at-tempted murder, a felony. Jackson told police the steering wheel locked up and he hit Roe 
by accident. 
After hitting Roe, Jackson drove to his friend’s house and picked up Elijah Philman 
and Brandon Small, police said. 
A police ofﬁ  cer who had been notiﬁ  ed of 
the hit-and-run saw the car, followed it and watched it speed up toward Northeast 53rd Avenue and crash. The crash caused $5,000  of damage to the car, said GPD spokesperson Ben Tobias.
Elizabeth Roe talked to her husband after 
he was hit.
She said his phone shot out from his hand UF graduate student recovering after being hit by own car
•   •   ••   •   •
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
TREATS BY THE FIRE
UF engineering students enjoy the ﬁ  re behind East Hall at the UF Society of Women 
Engineers S’mores Night. This event was part of their “SWEek of Welcome” in an effort to give new students an opportunity to socialize with members of the club.
Gators break through for ﬁ  rst SEC win
The Florida women’s basketball team defeated 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Let’s Talk: Meaningful Dialogue 
in Difficult Times
The Center for the Humanities 
and the Public Sphere wel-
comes Libby Roderick, University of Alaska and Difficult Dialogues National 
Resource Center for a public 
lecture regarding difficult dia-
logues in the humanities. This 
lecture, which is free and open 
to the public, will offer several strategies for effectively and respectfully engaging with fel-low citizens on the most im-
portant topics of our times. For 
more information on the event visit: intersections.humanities.ufl.edu/index.php/upcoming_
events/libby-roderick/.
Sparks Magazine
Sparks Magazine is looking for 
a content editor for our print magazine and website. The 
content editor will approve 
content that goes into the magazine, oversee the work of the writers and act as a men-tor if needed. Knowledge of AP 
style is required. If interested, 
please send a resume and clips to Alexandria Ng at ufsparks.editor@gmail.com by Sunday.
UF Study Abroad Fair  
The UF International Center will host the Spring 2018 Study Abroad Fair from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Wednesday on the Reitz 
Union North Lawn. Study abroad programs help students discover new cultures, increase 
global awareness, enhance for-
eign language skills, make new friends and establish new con-
tacts. Overseas internship op-
portunities are also available. Most financial aid can be used for study abroad programs. For more information, stop by 
1765 Stadium Road, Suite 170 
Hub, or visit online at abroad.ufic.ufl.edu. 
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionA picture is worth a thou-sand words. Words on Canvas is a poetry and prose writ-
ing competition at the Harn 
Museum of Art for UF and Santa Fe College students in-spired by art. The selection of 
artwork features a variety of 
media, which come from the Asian, African, Contemporary, Photography and Modern col-lections. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See 
guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/
wordsoncanvas. The deadline is Feb. 25.  
Spring SG Elections 
Spring Student Government elections are almost here. To learn more about qualifying or running for office, attend 
the informational meeting at 
6:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Reitz Union Chamber. Qualifying and slating for candidates will be on Level 2 of the 
Reitz Union on the following 
days/times: from 3 to 8 p.m.  Sunday, Jan. 28;  from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday, Jan. 29; and 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday, 
Jan. 30. Spring SG elections will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and Feb. 21 at locations across campus. 
For more information, visit 
sg.ufl.edu/elections.
Florida Museum 39th Collectors 
Day Jan. 20Celebrate the Florida Museum’s 39th Collectors Day from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday. This free event attracts collectors 
from across the region. Enjoy 
a variety of personal collec-tions and learn the history and context of these treasures. 
Discover how collecting isn’t 
just for scientists. For more information, visit: floridamu-seum.ufl.edu/collectorsday or call 352-273-2061.
Florida Museum to host 5K 
race Feb. 10Registration is now open for 
the Watch Your Step! 5K race 
from 8:30 to 9:30 a.m. Feb. 10 at the Florida Museum. Early registration ends Tuesday and is $25 or $20 for UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 card. 
Late or race-day registration is $30 or $25 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 card. For 
more information, visit www.
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/watch-your-step-5k or call 352-273-2055.
MLK Lecture
History professor Gerald Smith will speak in Pugh Hall at 6 p.m. Thursday.  This lecture 
will be held to honor the life 
and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. during the year of the 50th anniversary of his death.  He will discuss the FBI's sur-veillance of King and other 
civil rights activists. Smith is 
a University of Kentucky pro-fessor. From 1997-2005, he served as the director of the UK African American Studies 
and Research Program. 
Alachua County libraries
During February, the Alachua County Library District cel-
ebrates Black History Month with programs for all ages. These programs prompt us to remember important people, 
events, achievements and 
contributions by African-Americans to art, literature, sports and pop culture. These 
events and programs are free 
and open to the public. For additional information, please visit the Library District’s eBranch at aclib.us or call 352-
334-3900.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction: In the story, "The 
Top to host Winter barbecue benefitting local homeless 
shelter, Jon DeCarmine was 
incorrectly  quoted as saying: “Anytime folks from the com-munity recognize the value of what we do and are will-
ing to use their resources to 
help us and homelessness — it makes everything we do easier to achieve.” DeCarmine said 
Grace Marketplace's value by 
those in the community helps them "end" homelessness.
HIGH  61° LOW  34°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 47
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez de Sotomayor,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Carly McCullough,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,
  Emily Mavrakis, Grace Kenny
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor BarkerFRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
$10 eGift CardYOU MAKE A DIFFERENCE
GIVE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE $10 eGift 
Card and T-Shirt 
for all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
January 20, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
UF students Natalie Guzman, a public relations sophomore; Diana Rodas, a zoology junior, and Patricia Lauzardo, a sociology senior, draw on canvas bags at the Arts & Crafts Center Grand Reopening Extravaganza on Wednesday afternoon. 
By Raymon Troncoso
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gillian Yee carefully 
pressed her hands against her 
spinning chunk of clay that 
would eventually be molded 
into a pot Wednesday after-noon.
It was the ﬁ  rst time in 
about eight months that the UF art history sophomore got to sculpt in the Arts & Crafts Center located in the Reitz Union.  
The center was closed for 
construction while rooms pre-viously used for maintenance and storage were demolished 
and repurposed to be a part 
of the art studio. Visitors ﬂ  owed in and out from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. to see the enlarged space, said assistant director 
Jill Keezer. 
Yee, 19, started using the 
center as a freshman. She 
said it helped her come out of her shell as an out-of-state student and meet some close 
friends. 
“They make you feel like 
you belong here,” Yee said. 
“I come in my free time. It’s very unique.” 
Groups have started book-
ing the space for socials be-cause its main room can now ﬁ  t up to 50 people, more than 
the previous 25, Keezer said. 
Between six and 10 students can now participate in art les-sons, lowering the cost per student. 
Students can purchase a 
semester membership, which gives complete access to the studio, or they can pay for 
speciﬁ  c courses, Keezer said. 
Beginners can join papercraft workshops for free at the be-ginning of the semester.
“People enjoy the class be-
cause you get to meet people and make friends,” she said. Reitz’s Arts & Crafts Center reopens after construction4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
THOSE WHO DISRUPT THE FREE 
SPEECH COULD FACE PAYING 
FOR DAMAGES.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Some days, Fiona Murphy goes out of her 
way to avoid Turlington Plaza. 
When political protesters and religious 
speakers set up shop on the center of campus, 
the UF sustainability studies senior would 
rather take the long way than listen to the 
noise. 
“If you’re just trying to walk to class and 
you have people with opposing views from you, it’s just kind of distracting,” the 21-year-old said.
If a new Florida Senate bill passes, Murphy 
may have a harder time avoiding free speech zones on campus. 
The “Campus Free Expression Act” would 
prevent public institutions of higher educa-tion, like UF, from restricting free speech to certain areas of campus, known as “free speech zones.” Under this bill, which was in-troduced Jan. 11, free speech would be per-mitted in all outdoor areas of campus, as long as it doesn’t disrupt school operations.Students, faculty or staff who disrupt free 
speech activities could be fined up to $100,000. Frank LoMonte, director of the Brechner Cen-ter for Freedom of Information, said there will be debate over what disrupting means. 
Cristian Dionisi, a UF mathematics sopho-
more, said he fully supports the aspect of the bill that would forbid students, faculty and staff from disrupting another person’s speech. 
He said he feels many speakers on Turlington 
Plaza are currently heckled by students to the point that it infringes on their free speech. 
“I strongly support the different perspec-
tives, and whether we agree or disagree with them, I think it’s important for us to listen to them,” the 19-year-old said. 
LoMonte said the bill likely wouldn’t cause 
dramatic changes at UF since free speech is al-
ready permitted on the most centralized spots 
of campus like Turlington Plaza and the Plaza of the Americas. 
“I don’t see a big problem today where 
people are being forced into remote little cor-ners of the campus to give their speeches,” he said. “That’s where the policies are really the problem.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgUnder proposed bill, free 
speech zones could expand
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
UF sociology senior Raena Thelwell, 21, watches as she gets a henna tattoo during 
a fundraiser hosted by the Gators for Underrepresented Voters’ on Thursday. The henna artist, Mayisah Rahman, 19, a UF health science sophomore, was happy to provide her skills to the fundraiser for an organization that “really tries to incorporate underrepresented people in the community. ” 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
sexual harassment to someone who 
would punish the offender. 
While men are more likely than 
women to report subjective sexual 
harassment actions, both genders 
were about equally likely to report de-liberate actions, deﬁ  ned as offensive gestures, with 68 percent for women and 62 percent for men. Deliberate actions include taking pictures with-out consent, inappropriate touching or indecent exposure, Norberg said.
“Millennials think differently 
about sexual harassment than other generations,” he said. “Other genera-tions didn’t have the same level of anxiety about sexual harassment ac-tion as millennials might have.”
Jackie Guthart, the manager of 
MAVY, said after the #MeToo cam-paign, which went viral to demon-strate the commonality of sexual ha-rassment, the organization decided to see how millennials felt about sexual harassment.
“In the past, women didn’t feel 
empowered enough to speak about sexual harassment, but I think as they gained more and more authority in society, they feel more empowered to speak out against it,” she said. “It’s shed more light on sexual ha-rassment issues.The study also found that the more 
educated someone is, the less likely he or she would be to report sexual 
harassment after witnessing it hap-
pen to someone else, Guthart said. 
One theory that could explain the 
results, Guthart said, is that men have been the ones pursuing women for hundreds of years. She said it’s very odd to see a woman whistling to a man down the street.
Guthart said women grow up ex-
pecting such from men because it’s how they’ve seen these actions hap-pen in the past. 
“Some women might not take as 
much offense because of the way so-ciety has been,” she said. “It’s almost like they get numb to it.”
Stephen Craig, a professor in the 
department of political science, said 
the results of the study can’t be taken 
as representing any voter population, including millennials. 
Craig said the self-selection pro-
cess of the survey, in which people choose to take it, means the results cannot be generalized.
“The results can be interesting, 
but it doesn’t take the results to rep-
resent any kind of reality,” he said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgAGENCY,  from pg. 1188 people were surveyedBy Sabrina Fenske
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers have discovered that 
changes in air pressure contribute to rapid 
sea level rise on the east coast and are now looking to study the Caribbean Sea.  
A group of UF scientists found that pat-
terns in air pressure, naturally occurring phe-nomena known as the North Atlantic Oscil-lation and the El Nino Southern Oscillation, cause areas along the coast to experience rises in sea level at rates almost 10 times the average, said Andrea Dutton, an assistant professor of geology at UF who worked on the research. The group published its ﬁ  nd-ings in August. 
The sea level rises globally at a rate of 
about 12 inches every century, but in certain areas of the east coast, from Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, to Miami, the sea rose about ﬁ  ve inches between 2011 and 2015, Dutton said. Now, the researchers are trying to dis-cover a way to predict when air pressure will affect sea levels again. 
“Five inches doesn’t seem like a lot, but 
(it) can be the difference between the water coming up to the neighborhood next door or into your house,” Dutton said.
These ﬁ  ndings will be important for 
coastal planning, Dutton said. While these cities may be prepared for ﬂ  ooding during storms, hurricanes during the past year — such as Harvey and Irma — were more disas-trous due to the higher sea level. The rapid sea level rise is not new or just 
limited to the east coast, said Arnoldo Valle-Levinson, a professor of civil and coastal engineering at UF who also worked on the study. It is likely occurring in the Caribbean as well, which is where UF researchers are looking to turn their focus next.
“Sometimes the sea level will come up 
faster than the normal global rate, and other times it will not,” Valle-Levinson said. “You have wave-like attacks of sea level rise, so you have to be prepared for that.”
UF researchers ﬁ  nd second factor causing sea level rise
A 16-year-old was charged with felony attempted murder10,324 Puerto Rican students moved 
to Florida after Hurricane Maria
Courtesy to The Alligator
Joshua Roe was hit by his own car after he reported it stolen on Jan. 6, according to police.  He won’t be 
able to stand for months, his wife said, but he should make a full recovery. 
son. More students from hurri-
cane-battered areas are still ex-pected to come.
Lymaries Velez, a second-
year UF medical student, gets 
emotional thinking about her 
family in Puerto Rico.
The 22-year-old shed a tear 
during a Latino Medical Student Association panel in October while a UF doctor discussed her struggles moving to the U.S. from Peru. 
Velez said the discussion hit 
close to home because her aunt, 
Yari Lugo, and 10-year-old cous-
in, Soﬁ  a, would have the same 
experience when they moved 
from Puerto Rico in the coming weeks.
“I know a lot of people who 
have come here and struggled to get to where they are, but I’ve never seen it from the begin-ning, and I was about to see it from my aunt’s point of view,” 
she said. 
Velez’s aunt, Lugo, worked as a nail technician for more 
than 20 years and is now a jani-
tor working toward a new nail 
certiﬁ  cate. She lost her job in Barceloneta, a suburban area in northern Puerto Rico, after her salon lost power.
Unable to secure a job in 
Puerto Rico, Lugo moved to Lakeland in late October to live with Velez’ family. She enrolled 
Soﬁ  a in an elementary school 
where she takes ESOL, or Eng-lish for speakers of other lan-guages, classes.
Although Soﬁ  a is coping well 
in school, she is sometimes frus-trated by the language barrier, Velez said. 
“It’s a family effort because 
my parents were done raising me, and now they all of a sud-den have to teach my cousin English,” she said.
After talking to two of the 
panel members, Dr. Victoria Bird and Dr. Giuliano De Portu, Velez decided to start the Puerto Rico Relief Initiative to collect 
supplies and raise money for 
those still on the island.
Along with Bird and De Por-
tu, Velez works on the relief ini-tiative with UF College of Medi-cine’s Dr. Maria Velazquez and 
Dr. David Hernandez Gonzalo. 
The group hopes to become an ofﬁ  cial nonproﬁ  t.
The initiative hosted a dona-
tion drive called “Stand With Puerto Rico” in December to col-lect hygiene products, mosquito repellant and ﬁ  rst aid kits, Velez said. 
Four Puerto Rican students 
from the San Juan Bautista School of Medicine were able to study at UF Health Shands for about two months until their college and local hospital recov-ered from hurricane damage, Velez said. Two of the students spoke at the event.
As her family adjusts to life 
in Florida, Velez said she wishes for the public to remember Puer-to Rico even as media coverage declines.
“It’s a lot worse than it ever 
seemed, and it continues even if you don’t hear about it,” Velez said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
during the crash. A responding ofﬁ  cer returned it to him, and he called her.
“It (was) just really emotional at 
the time for both of us. I’m pretty sure we were both crying,” Eliza-beth Roe said. “I could hear the pain in his voice, because he was 
still on the ground.”
Roe was taken to the intensive 
care unit at a hospital with severe 
road rash, three to four broken ribs, a dislocated and fractured elbow, a crushed pelvis and four broken vertebrae, his wife said. He won’t be able to stand for about three months, but is expected to make a 
full recovery in about a year.
The couple enjoys camping, 
hiking and bicycling, Elizabeth Roe 
said. 
“Getting Joshua completely 
healed is a big priority because be-ing outside means everything to him,” she said. “There’s a lot that was stolen from him, literally and 
metaphorically, and we’re just try-ing to get that back.”
Elizabeth Roe said the family is 
paying for Roe’s medical bills and 
will need a new car. Joshua Roe’s cousin set up a page through a fun-draising website called YouCaring 
for the couple and their 2-year-old 
daughter and 3-month-old son. As of press time, $7,379 has been raised by 82 donors.
Marc Bentley, who studied with 
Roe at Appalachian State Univer-sity, described Roe as an outdoors-man and a hardworking person.
“I hope the UF community and 
the Gainesville community rally around Josh and his young fam-ily,” Bentley said. “Josh is too good a man to have this happen to him.”
Elizabeth Roe said what hap-
pened that Saturday night won’t affect the family’s plan.
“We’re not going to let this 
derail what we consider our life 
plan,” she said. “Raising a family 
and Joshua’s (doctorate program) is of utmost importance.”
@Lewis__RobertPUERTO RICO , from pg. 1
CAR,  from pg. 1•   •   •The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Darts & Laurels
You remain snuggled up in your bed as your phone alarm 
blares next to you. This is the third time you’ve hit the snooze 
button this morning, but, to be frank, you’d rather die than brace the frigid 23-degree weather waiting for you outside.
By the time you ﬁ  nally muster the courage and energy to get 
out of bed, cover yourself in several layers of clothing and run out the door, you’ve already missed your usual bus. Ten minutes later, you hop on the next available bus, fully aware you will be stumbling into class several minutes late.
As you sprint off the bus, trying to minimize your time in 
the cold, something falls out of your backpack, but you’re too frazzled and cold to look back at what it was.
Once you sit down in class, you ﬁ  nally realize what it was: 
your glasses. After several minutes of intense squinting to see what is written on the board when you walk into class, you de-cide to move up to the front row. Now, with a full view of the projected words, you see they read … 
Darts & Laurels
This past week was an eventful one in the world of UF Stu-
dent Government. We were both saddened and frustrated by SG’s rejection of the proposal to use student fees for free tam-pons and pads on campus. After 20 minutes of deliberation, 
the Student Government Budget and Appropriations Commit-
tee unanimously voted against the code revision. Its argument 
for rejecting the proposal? The funding would beneﬁ  t only the female portion of the Student Body. For this, we give the SG 
Budget and Appropriations Committee a dart for thinking 
that just because it doesn’t beneﬁ  t those with male anatomy means it’s not worth funding. 
On a more positive note, we want to award a laurel to the 
courageous and principled UF Student Body Treasurer Revel 
Lubin. After he ran for the executive ticket last year with the Impact Party, he quickly noticed the tendency the party has to tokenize minority students. In a letter sent to the Alligator earlier this week, he said minority students, including himself, were marginalized and often were given positions to ﬁ  ll quotas and allow for the use of buzzwords like “diversity.”
This week, Lubin took a stand against the way minority stu-
dents are treated within Impact. He revealed what many be-lieved about SG — that it can often be an organization obsessed with appearing diverse than actually being diverse. He also an-nounced he will switch to Inspire Party. We would like to com-mend Lubin for using his platform to make a real difference and stand up against things he does not believe to be just.
When a state employee in Hawaii mistakenly sent out a false 
alert, warning Hawaiians of a ballistic missile attack,  residents were faced with pure terror for more than 30 minutes until the issue was resolved. We understand everyone makes mistakes, but one of this magnitude should surely not be happening in our government. While we sympathize with Hawaiians who had to live through this terror, we give a dart to that one employee be-
cause of the lack of carefulness. We can only hope the worker’s actions encourage others to use more caution in their positions.
At the state level, many Florida students got great news from 
the Florida Senate. This week, the Florida Senate unanimously passed a bill that would permanently expand the Bright Futures Scholarships Program for the top two tiers of scholars and re-quire all state universities to adopt a block tuition system. Al-though the bill still awaits consideration from the Florida House,  we are hesitant to consider it a completely good thing. We give a laurel to legislators for expanding Bright Futures, but a dart 
for trying to bring block tuition to all state universities. Column
A friend visiting Charleston, South Caroli-
na, sent me a photo of a historic building with a prominent sign inscribed “Provost Dungeon.” My friend claimed the dun-geon was where Charleston placed mis-
behaving provosts.  I have also seen a plaque in New York City near city hall inscribed, “Near this site stood the Provost Prison, where patriots died for the cause of freedom 1776.”
Over time, the provost title has referred to jail-
ers, military ofﬁ  cers, ecclesiastical leaders and, more recently, university leaders. The provost is often not as well-known as other leaders on campus. I was a graduate student at the University of Illinois for ﬁ  ve years and then a 
faculty member for 12. Although I knew many members of 
the administration, I did not know Illinois even had a provost until later. 
At UF, the provost is not a jailer, military ofﬁ  cer or an 
ecclesiastical leader. UF created the position in 1985 with the understanding that the provost would be the chief academic ofﬁ  cer and the university’s second-ranking ofﬁ  cer, serving as deputy president. From 1985 to the present, UF has had six provosts.
Last week, I attended a memorial service for the ﬁ  rst, Bob 
Bryan, who lived in Gainesville and died during the holiday break at age 91. Bryan was a professor of English and an expert on the  poet John Donne. He was provost when UF was invited to join the prestigious Association of American Universities, a transformational moment in our history.  He stepped down to serve as interim president from 1989 to 1990.  While interim president, he personally recruited and appointed Steve Spurrier as head football coach.
President Marshall Criser decided in 1985 there needed 
to be a single person responsible for the academic mission across the entire university with broad oversight responsi-bilities. According to university historian Carl Van Ness, pro-vosts do today what presidents used to do. Presidents now serve as public ﬁ  gures representing the university and pro-curing resources, while provosts decide how those resources will be allocated to accomplish the mission and enhance the stature of the university.  
This academic year, UF lost another former 
provost with the death of Betty Capaldi Phillips in September. Phillips served as provost from 1996 to 1999, during Lombardi’s presidency.  He said 
of her, “No one who had the opportunity to work 
with Betty was left unchanged by her remarkable intelligence, her exceptional commitment to the university’s many missions, her charm and hu-mor and, above all, by her drive and effectiveness, which required us all to do much more than we 
imagined possible.” 
When their appointments end, many provosts go on to 
other positions of leadership. Phillips, among her many aca-
demic positions, also served as Arizona State University’s 
provost and played an important part in ASU’s transforma-tion into a uniquely large and effective university. Bob Bryan was not only interim president of UF, but also later served as interim president of UCF and USF. UF is blessed to have David Colburn, provost from 1999 to 2005, now serving as director of the Bob Graham Center for Public Service and a distinguished member of the UF history department. Having someone with Colburn’s experience and accomplishments 
on faculty is of considerable beneﬁ  t to our current leaders.
Although I am frequently congratulated on the accom-
plishments of UF, in reality, that success is due to our en-
tire community — particularly UF’s faculty, staff, students and many leaders, including department chairs, deans, vice presidents and especially the provost. For example, our cur-rent provost, Joseph Glover, is responsible for UF’s plan to move into the top 10 of public university rankings and our recent plan to raise our ranking to the nation’s top ﬁ  ve of 
public universities.  
I conclude with a challenge: The ﬁ  rst UF student to email 
me a selﬁ  e with Provost Glover taken on Jan. 19 or later will 
be invited with their guest to join me in the President’s Suite for their choice of either the Orange and Blue game on April 14 or the ﬁ  rst home football game of the fall season on Sept. 1, 2018. 
Kent Fuchs is the President of the University of Florida. A challenge from the UF president to students
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Column
A mother has just given 
birth to a baby. She recognizes the signs of a blood clot. She tells her doctors and nurses, 
only for them to brush her con-cerns aside. When she ﬁ  nally does get the tests and medica-tions she needed, they ﬁ  nd she did have a blood clot and could have died if she had not advo-cated for herself.
This isn’t a story from some faraway 
country where it’s hard to come by sophisti-
cated medical care. This story happened — 
in Florida — to Serena Williams, who easily could have died if she did not have a history of blood clots to be able to recognize the signs. 
As one of the wealthiest nations in the 
world, the U.S. should not have a problem with maternal death. Yet, it does. And race plays a substantial factor in outcomes. We 
don’t pay enough attention to women’s 
health, and this is even worse for women of color. This was just as evident this week as Student Government declined to pay for menstrual products in UF’s bathrooms, be-cause it would only beneﬁ  t the female por-tion of the student body. 
Reading about how common maternal 
death is in the U.S., I’d always assumed that 
it was an issue of money. I assumed factors 
like not having access to health insurance must make it difﬁ  cult to make it to all the appropriate check-in appointments for a baby. But Serena Williams’ case shows that money doesn’t have to be the main factor. 
Some might argue what happened to 
Williams may have nothing to do with race either — it was simply the medical staff try-
ing to stop a new mother from overreact-
ing — but statistics suggest otherwise. Ac-cording to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, black women had 44 deaths per 100,0000 live births from 2011 to 2013. This is more than three times the maternal deaths for white wom-en (13 per 100,000 live births) or women of other races (14 per 100,000 live births). 
According to the World Health 
Organization, as cited by NPR, black expectant and new moth-ers in the U.S. die at rates compa-rable to Mexico and Uzbekistan. This should be embarrassing for a country that prides itself on 
medical innovation. Over the past several months, NPR and ProPublica have launched an investigation into maternal death in the 
U.S. Maternal death may be but a symptom 
of a larger issue — there is not enough fo-cus on racial disparities in health care as a whole. Most people can agree that within the doors of a hospital, everyone should be treated the same, and preserving a person’s life should be put above all else, but this is not being put into practice. 
According to a study by the Kaiser Fam-
ily Foundation, people of color had less access and utilization of care and scored worse on measures of health. Despite gains made under the Affordable Care Act, people of color were still less likely to be insured. 
When a woman as wealthy and pow-
erful as Serena Williams still has to ﬁ  ght for her life after giving birth, it’s clear that we have a problem. A problem that may 
go even deeper than health care itself.  A 
researcher at the University of Michigan, Arline Geronimus, coined the term “weath-ering,” to describe health erosion due to stress, according to NPR. The bottom line is the U.S. should not have such huge dispari-ties in health outcomes. It’s clear that race can be a matter of life or death, even within hospitals. This is something we cannot let 
continue.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
and journalism senior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.Column
Serena Williams’ story highlights 
disparities in American health careSalvaging Gainesville’s local music 
scene by supporting local venues
For a town of its size and seem-
ingly small cultural relevance, Gainesville actually has quite the thriving music scene, far outﬁ  ghting its weight class. 
Nearly every night, a stroll down University Avenue into the center of town will offer you some sort of live music options from which to choose. For what might appear to be a sleepy college town from afar, Gainesville occupies a unique position in the musical envi-ronment — it has a humming live music scene ﬁ  lled with a spectrum of independent artists, 
but it also has the might of UF to bring in much 
larger performers every once in a while. There truly is something to satisfy each musical taste, and it is something that sets Gainesville apart from many other towns comparable in stature.
The sad reality, however, is that music scenes 
like this one are dying right before our eyes.
This past week, Paul McCartney made news 
by backing a new campaign in England that 
hopes to save UK music venues from shutting 
down.
“Without the grassroots clubs, pubs and mu-
sic venues, my career could have been very dif-ferent. If we don’t support music at this level, then the future of music in general is in dan-ger,” McCartney said in NME Magazine this past week.
Musical performance, at its core, is a social 
activity. Songs are created to be heard. Artists dream of as many people as possible listening to their creations. For much of history, music was performed in town squares and city streets, seamlessly becoming a part of the day-to-day life of all passing by. Popular artists would eventual-ly perform in massive concert halls and amphi-theaters for all to hear, establishing the concert as one of the most fundamental of social events.
In the 20th century, pubs, clubs and other 
smaller, independent venues became massively popular for their duality. They provided cheap and enjoyable entertainment for audiences, while also serving as effective vehicles for art-ists to garner attention and spread their music and brand.
The 21st century brought a com-
plete shift in the music industry, one that would forever change en-tertainment and the life of the art-
ist: the internet. Artists soon saw the 
untapped potential of MySpace as a way to spread their music, and with the eventual addition of Soundcloud, Bandcamp, YouTube and Spotify, the ﬂ  oodgates opened.
For the last 15 years, the internet’s crusade 
of the music industry has given anybody with a computer a stage, while putting countless 
bars and clubs out of business in the process. 
Why scratch and claw to perform for 30 people at your local club, when you can easily upload your own music onto a platform that billions have access to?
The beneﬁ  ts of the internet’s impact on mu-
sic are strong. It is far easier for artists to get seen, and everybody has free and open access to consume, collaborate or create music.
The cons, however, are a little more nuanced 
and hard to sell. Nonetheless, they are power-ful. The pros listed above neglect to consider the magic of live performance. Some artists are more performance acts than solely studio acts, and being on a physical stage, in the ﬂ  esh, brings the best out of them — something that might not be evident when listening online.
Is it possible for online and in-person music 
scenes to coexist peacefully? Can there be some sort of compromise? Absolutely. The two are supplements, not substitutes. Eventually, peo-ple will gravitate back toward what originally brought them all together: the social and per-sonable elements of music. We will eventually ﬁ  nd what each medium does best and then ﬁ  nd ways to have them work together, not cannibal-ize the pool of artists they both feed from. While 
the internet gives any artist an outlet and access 
to listeners, only local establishments can pro-vide them with a stage.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
UF student arrested for using a ﬁ  re 
extinguisher in a fraternity house
HE TOLD POLICE HE WAS 
JUST MESSING AROUND. 
A UF student and fraternity brother was arrested for 
setting off a ﬁ  re extinguisher in the Sigma Nu Fraternity 
house early Thursday morning, University Police said.
Sunil Kumar Ghosal, 19, was playing 
with a ﬁ  re extinguisher on the second 
ﬂ  oor of the fraternity house, witnesses told police, according to an arrest report. 
Ghosal used the ﬁ  re extinguisher twice and left.
When the building’s ﬁ  re alarm went 
off, residents evacuated the house and waited outside until police arrived, ac-cording to the report. Gainesville Fire 
Rescue made sure there was no ﬁ  re in the house and then silenced the alarm, police said.
Two residents who witnessed Ghosal use the ﬁ  re ex-
tinguisher twice agreed to take an ofﬁ  cer to where Ghosal lived, according to the report.
After his arrest, Ghosal told ofﬁ  cers he did spray the ﬁ  re 
extinguisher twice in the house, and he said he was just messing around, police said.
Ghosal is currently a UF industrial and systems engi-
neering junior, university spokesperson John Hines wrote in an email.
Ghosal was charged with hindering ﬁ  reﬁ  ghting equip-
ment and taken to the Alachua County Jail. He was re-
leased on his own recognizance just before noon Thurs-
day.
He could not be reached for comment.GPD: Man holds woman at 
gunpoint, steals her bag
SHE RAN AWAY BAREFOOT FROM 
THE MAN, POLICE SAID. 
A Gainesville woman ran away barefoot from a man 
who robbed her Wednesday night, Gainesville Police said.
Joseph Thomas S. Boone, 64, of 
Gainesville, was arrested by police of-
ﬁ  cers who were responding to reports 
that a woman was being chased a block 
north of the intersection of Northeast 
Waldo Road and West University Av-
enue at about 11:30 p.m., Ofﬁ  cer Ben 
Tobias, a GPD spokesperson, wrote in 
an email. Boone matched the description 
given of the man, Tobias said.
The woman told police Boone threatened her with his 
knife and took her blue drawstring bag from her shoulder, 
according to an arrest report. She took off running, leaving 
her shoes and the bag behind.
Her bag and shoes were found in woods nearby, police 
said. 
Boone told police he had an argument with the woman 
and had something he shouldn’t have in his hand but said it was a stick that he was using to try to get his phone back from the victim, police said.
Police found a crack cocaine pipe on his person, and 
Boone told ofﬁ  cers he had smoked it three hours before, Tobias said.
He was arrested on charges of armed robbery and pos-
session of drug paraphernalia. Boone was taken to the Ala-chua County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $75,000 bond.
Boone was convicted of at least two felonies in 2002, 
according to court records.Man punched a gas station manager 
after not getting free gas, police said
HE TOOK GUM FROM THE GAS 
STATION AND SAID HE 
WANTED TO GO TO JAIL.
A White Springs man who refused to pay for his gas 
and gum punched the store manager at an Alachua Circle 
K gas station Wednesday, Alachua Police said.
William G. Hill, 25, threw merchan-
dise off the counter, took gum and put it in his mouth after punching the manager at about 8 a.m., according to an arrest 
report. He said he wanted to go to jail, 
the manager told police.
Hill was screaming in the parking lot 
when police arrived at the gas station, 
according to the report. Police said Hill 
would not obey their commands, and one ofﬁ  cer drew a stun gun.
Police found a container with marijuana residue on 
Hill’s person and discovered the car Hill drove to the gas 
station was reported stolen in Hamilton county, according 
to a supplement of the arrest report.
He told police he stole the car and did not know the 
car’s owner, according to the supplement.
Hill was arrested on a felony charge — grand theft auto 
— and ﬁ  ve misdemeanors: battery, shoplifting, disorderly conduct and drug equipment possession. He was taken to Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $97,500 bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Zadkiel Zabala, a 20-year-old UF electrical engineering junior, stops by the involvement fair on 
Thursday. Zabala stopped to talk about upcoming events at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service with 21-year-old Hali McKinley-Lester, UF international studies and history senior and vice president of the Student Fellows organization, and 19-year-old UF economics and political science sophomore Megan Pitt, a student fellow for the Graham Center. 
By Madison Hindo
Alligator Contributing Writer
A former Pennsylvania con-
gressman visited UF on Wednes-
day to discuss how extreme po-litical polarization harms the 
country. 
About 70 people came to Pugh 
Hall Ocora at 6 p.m. to see Jason 
Altmire, a democratic congress-
man who served from 2007 to 
2013. The Bob Graham Center for Public Service hosted the event to promote the former congress-man’s new book, “Dead Center: 
How Political Polarization Divid-
ed America and What We Can Do About It,” said Kevin Baron, the civic engagement coordinator at 
the Graham Center.
“His experience as a former 
member of Congress makes him 
a great person to bring in for the 
Graham Center when we talk 
about public service,” Baron said.
Altmire said he worked in 
Congress as a centrist and pro-posed potential solutions to the hyperpartisan climate in politics, such as reforming the primary system. 
“We need to elect representa-
tives of the whole rather than the extremes,” he said.
Participants during the Q&A 
asked how Altmire retained a centrist position in Congress and about millennials’ role in politics.
Lindsey Cazessus, a UF eco-
nomics and statistics junior, said 
the talk made students think 
about the changes they want to see in politics.
“I think it’s important to have 
independent or more centrist voices to represent the portion of young people who don’t neces-sarily identify with the extremes on either side,” Cazessus, 21, 
said. Former congressman 
speaks about 
partisanshipGhosal
Boone
Hill
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff WriterFRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
FUN AND
FITNESS
2018
Help students gain a 
healthy perspective by advertising in The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is  
dedicated to giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.
Contact Your  
Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline: Wed., Jan.  31
Run Date: Wed., Feb. 7
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and change a life, starting with your own.Call 1-800-RED-CROSSor visit  redcross.org
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
After three stores’ windows were found 
smashed and products or cash missing 
early Wednesday, police are investigat-
ing whether the burglaries are connected, 
Gainesville Police said.
An AT&T store, located at 6110 NW 
Fourth Place, was burglarized at about 3:30 a.m. by three suspects, who police said were 
young males wearing masks and gloves. 
Ofﬁ  cers responded to an alarm when the suspects threw a rock in the store’s window 
and took an unknown number of display 
items and merchandise, GPD spokesperson 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
About 30 minutes later, while police 
were investigating the scene of the AT&T 
burglary, another burglary was reported at 
the Sprint store in Butler Plaza. The alarm company told police they were watch-
ing the burglary through the store’s se-
curity cameras, Tobias said. The suspect 
was wearing a hoodie, gray sweatpants, 
red sandals, black socks and gloves and 
smashed the front door before stealing two 
display items.
Next to the Sprint store, ofﬁ  cers discov-
ered the Gainesville Running & Walking 
store’s window smashed, and the cash reg-
ister was on the sidewalk outside missing 
cash, police said. 
“We do know that other jurisdictions in 
Florida have reported similar burglaries in their areas,” Tobias said.
Police are asking anyone with informa-
tion to call GPD’s Detective Bureau at 352-
393-7670.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgPolice investigating after 
store windows found brokenBy Stephanie Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF neuroscientists are collaborating on 
a registry of outcomes to an uncommon 
treatment used to reduce the amount of tics a person with Tourette syndrome experi-ences. 
The database will allow the public to re-
view how successful the deep brain stimula-tion therapy worked on patients, which can help researchers ﬁ  nd better methods to help personalize treatments, said Aysegul Gun-duz, an assistant professor of biomedical engineering and researcher on the project. 
The deep brain stimulation procedure 
acts as a “pacemaker” for the brain by send-
ing electrical pulses to designated areas, 
Gunduz said. Similar types of therapy have also been used to treat Parkinson’s disease and tremors. 
“The overall goal of the registry is you look at all the outcomes of deep brain stim-ulation therapy across different hospitals, different countries, so that we can all con-
verge on a better therapy altogether,” Gun-
duz said. 
Dr. Michael Okun, a neurologist and an 
author on the research, said the deep brain stimulation therapy is only used on a small percentage of patients because less invasive types of therapy are available. Because it is used so infrequently, it is impossible to know how to improve the surgery.
He said making this data available can 
help doctors understand what brain targets will be better for patients with very speciﬁ  c symptoms.
“When you have a procedure that’s 
potentially helping a lot of people but you don’t have the volume of outcomes data to make decisions, then public registries and databases become really important,” Okun 
said.UF researchers creating a 
database to record Tourette syndrome therapy outcomes
By Madison Hindo
Alligator Contributing Writer
A runway took over the center of the Plaza 
of the Americas on Wednesday as students 
strutted in professional attire. 
More than 200 students attended the sec-
ond annual Gator Career Closet Expo, which showcased tips on how to best prepare for a job interview, said Ambre Hobson, the assis-tant director for student success for the Care Area at the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. 
The Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce put on the 
event that took place from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. with help from the UF Career Resource Center, Bank of America and Student Government. 
“Whether students are looking for an in-
ternship for the summer or for a job after they graduate in May, it’s worthwhile to always be learning and building your career skills,” Hob-son said. Two fashion shows took place during the 
expo. The models wore outﬁ  ts such as full suits and blazers that came from the Gator Career Closet, Hobson said. The closet is a 
service that allows students to borrow profes-
sional clothes and accessories. 
Hobson said the event was purposely held 
a couple of weeks before Career Showcase so students can learn what resources are avail-
able to them before they attend Career Show-
case on Jan. 30 and Jan. 31. 
Kylie Jessmer, a UF business administra-
tion junior, learned about the event as she walked on the Plaza of the Americas and saw 
one of the shows. She said she decided to stop 
because she wanted to prepare for the Career 
Showcase.
“My favorite part of the event was talking 
to the Career Resource Center,” the 21-year-old 
said. “They gave me a lot of good advice about 
upcoming events in the business school.”Students walk the runway 
on Plaza of the Americas 
Victoria Salomon / Alligator 
Kevin Arneus, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, models some of the available 
clothes at the Gator Career Closet Expo event on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday morning. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
SOUTHWEST EIGHTH STREET 
BETWEEN SOUTHWEST FIRST 
AVENUE AND SOUTHWEST 
SECOND AVENUE WILL BE 
CLOSED UNTIL FEB. 17.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The shell of a mixed-use ofﬁ  ce and re-
search building at Innovation Square will be completed in the summer, said Lindsey Rob-
erts, the project developer.
During the construction of 800 Second at 
Innovation Square, Southwest Eighth Street — between Southwest First Avenue and Southwest Second Avenue — will be closed until Feb. 7, city spokesperson Chip Skinner said.
The building, complete with ofﬁ  ces, a labo-
ratory and retail space, will have 55,000 rent-able square feet and has been in the works for 
two years, Roberts, the marketing manager for Concept Companies, wrote in an email.
“(It) will meet the needs of the growing 
Gainesville business community and the de-
mand for contemporary facilities proximate to UF and downtown,” she said. 
The CEO of Concept Companies, Brian 
Crawford, said the building is state-of-the-art. 
“With rectangular ﬂ  oor plates and full-
height glass, spaces are efﬁ  cient and naturally lit,” he said. “The Gainesville business com-munity was ready for a class-A ofﬁ  ce option.”
Cole Gomez said she’s surprised she hadn’t noticed the construction noise near her work.
The UF computer engineering senior works 
in the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Real Estate next door and just got back to work Thursday after being out of town for winter break.
“That whole metal structure went up basi-
cally the entire time I was gone,” the 21-year-old said. “Before I left, it was basically dirt and holes in the ground.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgNew research building being built near Infinity Hall
By McKenna Beery 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Russell Anderson remembers the count-
less nights that he only got four hours of sleep to ﬁ  t in an extra 90 credit hours in two years at UF. 
During his time, Anderson, 32, of 
Gainesville, broke UF’s Graduate Certiﬁ  cate program record with six certiﬁ  cates, dou-bling the prior record. He discovered the 
achievement through his program adminis-
trators.    
To do this, Anderson said he took full 
course loads for nine consecutive semesters. 
He took 18 hours during both Fall and Spring and nine per Summer. He ﬁ  nished his six certiﬁ  cates in Fall 2017.
“I’ll be honest, coupling that commitment 
and the coursework along with working 20 hours per week and sustaining a small busi-ness was not easy,” Anderson said. 
The majority of certiﬁ  cate programs, 
which is a grouping of classes offered by a speciﬁ  c ﬁ  eld of study, range from 12 to 18 hours of coursework. Despite the workload, Anderson said he managed to meet his obli-gations and sustained a 3.64 GPA.
Anderson said he considers himself an in-
terdisciplinary and experiential student. He felt there was more to learn than what his sustainable development practice master’s program offered. 
“When I learned about the certiﬁ  cates 
and started reading about what was avail-able, I felt like a kid in a candy store,” An-derson said. 
Anderson earned his certiﬁ  cates in eco-
logical restoration, natural resource policy administration, Latin American studies, trop-ical conservation and development, leader-ship in agricultural education and emergen-cy services and disaster management. 
“I was often running from one commit-
ment to another and sacriﬁ  cing social en-gagements,” Anderson said. “More than once I found myself double-booked, over-
whelmed or crashing against deadlines.”
He currently works as the chief operat-
ing ofﬁ  cer for a transnational development 
corporation aimed at advancing long-term sustainable solutions for global problems. 
Many of his professors inspired him dur-
ing his academic career, Anderson said. Two of them, UF professors Paul Monaghan and Glenn Galloway, recognized Anderson’s dis-
tinct work ethic. 
Galloway said that this accomplishment 
takes a person who has diverse interests and 
commitment to taking on challenges.
“It has been a great pleasure to have Rus-
sell in our program, and we are proud of his accomplishments,” he said.
Monaghan said Anderson’s intellectual 
curiosity gave him the motivation to seek out 
the extra programs.
“I think Russ just has a thirst for knowl-
edge, experiences and challenging himself,” 
Monaghan said. “I honestly don’t know how he actually did complete them.”UF graduate student is ﬁ  rst 
to complete six certiﬁ  cates 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Russell Anderson poses in front of the Bull Gator statue. He graduated in Fall 
2017 and broke UF’s Graduate Certiﬁ  cate program record with six certiﬁ  cates.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Representatives from UF and An Giang University met to sign a  formalized agreement Tuesday.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
UF representatives met with ofﬁ  cials 
from Vietnam’s An Giang University on Tuesday and agreed to collaborate more.
The group signed a memorandum of 
understanding, a formalized agreement to make applying for joint research funding and organizing exchange programs easier, said Kati Migliaccio, a UF hydrology and water conservation professor.
“It shows that we’re interested, and 
we’re going to try to make this successful from our side and from their side,” Migliac-cio said.
Several years of discussion between UF’s 
department of agricultural and biological en-gineering and AGU started when former UF graduate student Tanh Nguyen, a Vietnam native, wrote his dissertation on Vietnam’s Mekong wetland, a valuable natural labora-tory for observing food production methods, and provided data to AGU. Nguyen returned to An Giang, where he teaches environmen-tal engineering at AGU. 
UF has continued studying the Mekong 
valley since Nguyen completed his disser-tation in 2014. Migliaccio said the valley is special because it supports both aquacul-ture, which is the farming of aquatic organ-
isms, and crop agriculture, depending on 
the season.
“There’s a lot of really unique ways they 
manage the land that we think would be in-teresting for our students to learn about,” 
she said.
Last year, UF professor Senthold Asseng 
traveled to Vietnam to meet with AGU fac-
ulty and observe crop production systems. 
He showed researchers how UF utilizes crop 
modeling, a system that monitors food pro-
duction using technology to simulate crop 
growth.
Asseng said the relationship between 
both schools could help them secure grants and improve crop modeling research in both 
countries.
“Our idea is to have students from Viet-
nam spending some time (at UF), and may-be have some of our students over to Viet-
nam studying there as well,” Asseng said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgUF and Vietnamese university 
agree to work together moreBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Lake Foreclosure Resale $29,900
Before foreclosure sold for $134,900.Special Financing.Selling- off Jan. 27thInfo: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com877.712.3650 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.     1-19-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Charming Historic Cottage 2 BR 1 BA.Near Law school. CH/A, screened porch, granddaddy oaks. Available Now2703 NW 2nd Ave. 900 mo w/approved cred-it. No pets 352-332-5836     1-19-18-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY,JANUARY 19 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-31-18-6-14
ATTENTION:Looking for a dependable, caring caregiver to care for my daughter and help her with daily activites & personal care. Female only please.  Call Marilyn at 352-339-2798    1-26-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Seeking PT help with admin and misc tasks. No exp nec, but professional communication, attention to detail, and willingness to learn are a must. Tasks include processing orders, data entry, folding apparel, and others. Exp with USPS, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office, and inventory are preferred. Flexible sched-ule is okay, but we need around 15 hrs/week split over 2-3 days. To apply, please send a resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com  1-19-18-5-14
Seeking part-time copy editor for scuba-related articles and educational texts and materials. Must have prior editorial/copy editing experience and must have advanced grammar knowledge. Please send resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com   1-19-18-5-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call AIM 888-242- 2649.     1-19-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night 
without a date?
Read The Alligator.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Type of
coordination
5 Wolverine rival
9 Hidden 3-D image
14 State as fact
15 “A Hard Road to
Glory” author
16 Coffeehouse
draw
17 Sagacious
18 Lacking in some
way
19 Checkout choice
20 “Roar” singer22 Large pipes23 Malfoy, to Potter24 Attention getter
26 Sign on a
highway
30 Binging
34 Order to a sea
dog
35 Genesis victim
38 Quinnipiac
University
product
39 “Kid-Tested,
Mother-Approved” brand
40 Scornful glance
... and a hint tocompleting 12aptly placed
answers
43 Soul seller
44 Sooner State city46 Jodie Foster title
role
47 Slogs
49 Antarctica, for
example
51 Domains53 Coop cries55 Really big stretch56 E alternative?59 Chip topper65 Pilot that can’t fly66 Favorable thing
to be on
67 Halliwell once
known as GingerSpice
68 Rte. that crosses
Lake Michigan by
ferry
69 Sighed line70 Course that may
cover a crash:
Abbr.
71 Intuition72 Batter’s
command of the
strike zone, inbaseball lingo
73 Pacific salmonDOWN
1 Iowa athlete
2 New Balance
competitor
3 Incubator site
4 Subject of Zola’s
“J’Accuse...!”
5 Whalebone6 Certain surfer7 Arctic trout
8 “Out of Africa”
setting
9 Drama set at an
advertising
agency
10 Hotel handout11 Silk Road desert12 “Let’s do it!”
13 Reflective
semiprecious
stone
21 USB and others25 Toledo opening?26 Unassisted
peeper
27 Like Lamb Chop28 Prepares to take
off
29 One-named
Nigerian singer
31 Batman nemesis,
with “the”
32 Similar33 Physical feature
of Peter Falk andSammy Davis Jr.36 “The Fresh
Prince of __-Air”
37 Charged fish?
41 Van Morrison’s
“__ the Mystic”
42 Set of values45 Bush 43, so he
said, with “the”
48 Goes back (on)50 French epic 
hero
52 Prepared to eat,
as a banana54 Skin-and-bones
sort
56 Z’s57 Nibble58 Fighting60 Relative of a
Yodel
61 Big Bird buddy
62 Chrysler Building
style
63 __-Z: classic
Camaro
64 Conjunctivitis
By Debbie Ellerin©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/19/1801/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 19, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Shake
1.  Nocturnal canine 5.  ____ appearance 
2.  Trick, scheme 6.  Perfect
3.  Least tight 7.  Ice ____
4.  Prison warden LJIGEG
ALACJKEAMCO
LAIED
MCKIMIG
OSOSTLEKASERT
ILARJEANSWERS: 1A-Jiggle  5A-Cameo  6A-Ideal  7A-Skater
1D-Jackal  2D-Gimmick  3D-Loosest  4D-Jailer  B-Mick Jagger1-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Andy Warhol painted a series of silkscreen 
portraits of ____ ____ in 1975.
BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 Rides
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.ACROSS
1 It doesn’t go off
4 Dugong or
manatee
10 Friskies sister
brand
14 “Lookee here!”15 Turkey’s second-
largest city
16 Enjoyed People
17 Singer Fogelberg18 *Acting like the
locals
20 Toughness
22 Stage great
Hagen
23 White __
24 Site of
Napoleon’s exile
25 Accessories for
many lawn
mowers
27 Engrave with
acid
29 Dalai Lama, for
one
32 Sport with clay
pigeons
34 Canapé spread35 Husky follower37 Part of SASE:
Abbr.
38 Wartime prez40 Sci-fi aviators42 Shapiro of NPR43 Exertion45 Suburban trees47 Picker-uppers?49 Hole’s starting
point for skilledgolfers
51 Many a college
graduate’s
burden
52 Reel
54 Software glitches
... and, in a broadsense, smallthings hidden inthe answers tostarred clues
57 Trouble greatly59 LG competitor
60 First name at
Woodstock
61 *Try not to look
bored
64 Lithium-__
battery
65 Pakistani tongue
66 Scoresheet
slashes
67 Find fault to a
fault
68 Mandarin discard69 Siberian expanse70 Some hot rodsDOWN
1 Sidestep
2 Penske rival3 *Google Code of
Conduct motto
4 Succumb to
gravity
5 “Cut it out
already!”
6 Curly-tailed dog7 Rummy game
played with twodecks
8 Suffix for NPR’s
website
9 “You sure of
that?”
10 Gallery VIPs11 Hawaiian
wedding rings
12 Tar13 Neruda’s “__ to
My Socks”
19 Top-ranked21 Make full26 Credits as a
source
28 Commuter org. in
the Loop
30 *“The Imitation
Game” subject
31 Comic-Con
attendee
32 Ready33 Door opener34 Pequod co-owner36 Belittle
39 Trial run
designed tocatch 54-Across
41 “__ Walks in
Beauty”: Byron
poem
44 Satyrlike46 “You’ve Got Mail”
co-star
48 “Fernando” pop
group50 Letters replacing
unlisted items
51 Bureau unit53 Internet greeting
55 Be a bad sport
56 iTunes
downloads
57 Raison d’__
58 West Wing staffer61 “How’re things?”62 “The Simpsons”
clerk
63 Fort Meade org.
By C.C. Burnikel©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/18/1801/18/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 18, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comSix former UF football players 
are on the active rosters of the 
four remaining teams in the 
NFL playoffs this weekend, 
including Jacksonville's Dante 
Fowler Jr.Seiler selected in first round of NWSL Draft
Florida soccer and women's basketball player Gabby Seiler  was picked 
ninth overall by the Portland Thorns in the 2018 National Women's Soccer 
League's draft on Thursday. Seiler led UF's soccer team in assists (8) and was 
second in goals (6) in 2017.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Jenny Rowland was the epitome of posi -
tivity on Wednesday. As she led the Florida 
gymnastic team’s practice, the third-year 
coach showed no sign of worry, instead 
displaying confidence in the wake of UF's 
197.250-197.125 home loss to LSU on Jan. 
12.
“I’m not one to look back and dwell from 
day to day,” Rowland said. 
Florida (1-1, 0-1 SEC) will face Kentucky 
(5-0, 1-0 SEC) tonight at the Memorial Coli -
seum in Lexington, looking to rebound from 
its conference-opening defeat to the Tigers 
at a sold-out O’Connell Center, the first in 
program history.
The loss to LSU featured some stumbles 
for UF. Senior Rachel Slocum didn’t register 
a score on her first attempt at vault, fresh -
man Megan Skaggs fell during her uneven bars routine and multiple gymnasts ended 
their events with shaky landings.
Rowland was well aware of those mis -
takes, noting the team needs to work on fin -
ishing its routines strong.
“That’s a big takeaway from this last 
competition,” Rowland said. 
Kentucky enters tonight with its own 
experience in front of a sold-out venue. It 
opened its season with wins against Ball 
State, George Washington and Southeast 
Missouri before a crowd of 10,006 at Rupp 
Arena on Jan. 5. The team features two All-
Americans, including 2017 SEC Freshman of 
the Year Mollie Korth, who took all-around, 
vault and floor wins in the Wildcats last 
match against Arkansas on Jan. 12.
As the Gators hit the road for their third 
meet of the season, Rowland said the team 
needs to do what it has done all spring:  
have fun. Florida looking to win first 
SEC meet tonight in Lexington
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16FLORIDA 65, ARKANSAS 51
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
At the start of the third quar -
ter, Florida forward Paulina Her -
sler pulled up from the top of the 
key and attempted the Gators’ 
first shot of the frame. The jumper 
went straight through the basket, 
increasing UF’s lead over Arkansas 
to double digits and jump starting 
a 14-4 run to open the second half. 
Florida’s second half run — 
kicked off by Hersler’s shot — 
helped the Gators grab their first 
SEC win of the season on Thurs -
day, defeating the Razorbacks 65-
51 in Fayetteville.
Hersler and forward Haley Lo -
renzen led the Gators (9-10, 1-5 
SEC) on the offensive end of the 
floor, combining for 31 points to 
nearly outscore the rest of their 
teammates. Coach Cameron New -
bauer said UF didn’t back down 
from its recent five-game losing 
streak, praising his players for 
keeping their composure.
“It’s been great to see the re -
solve every day,” Newbauer said. 
“We’ve talked about needing it 
more in games and tough situa -
tions, and you saw it today.”The Gators began the game on 
a 9-0 run and never trailed for the 
duration of the contest. Arkansas 
attempted to claw its way back 
in the fourth quarter, cutting the 
deficit to eight with 3:18 left in the 
contest. 
But one minute later, Loren -
zen found Hersler in the paint on 
a bounce pass. Hersler converted 
the layup attempt and drew a foul, 
pushing Florida’s lead back to dou -
ble digits and sinking any chance 
of a Razorbacks comeback.
“That’s a play we’ve been work -
ing on in practice, especially this 
week,” Hersler said. “I know (Lo -
renzen is) always gonna be there 
in the post.”
In addition to the contributions 
from Hersler and Lorenzen, guard 
Delicia Washington nearly record -
ed her fifth double-double of the 
season, scoring 14 points on 6-of-
15 shooting and collecting nine re -
bounds during the contest. Wash -
ington also scored two layups for 
Florida late in the game that helped 
seal the victory.
“Her pace is just getting so much 
better,” Newbauer said. “And you 
see it with those finishes she had Hersler, Lorenzen lead UF to first conference victory of 2018
GYMNASTICS MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida guard Jalen Hudson stood at 
the left wing of the three-point line as he 
received an incoming pass from teammate 
Egor Koulechov. As soon as Hudson shot 
the ball, he started backpedaling, confi -
dent his attempt would fall through the 
basket.
In the UF men’s basketball team’s 88-
73 home win over Arkansas on Wednes -
day night, Hudson did what he does best: 
score. He finished the night with 21 points, 
a feat overshadowed by guard KeVaughn 
Allen’s 28.
“I was able to get in the lane, just try -
ing to be aggressive,” Hudson said. “Had 
a couple shots fall, so I kind of felt good.”
Hudson’s performance was no sur -
prise. He has been the Gators’ (13-5, 5-1 
SEC) most consistent scoring option this season, leading the team with an average 
of 16.5 points per game as well as 46 total 
made three-pointers. Hudson has scored 
in single digits just twice this season, 
while recording at least 21 points in five 
games.
On Wednesday, his strong play con -
tinued, giving Florida a boost that helped 
Florida pull away from the Razorbacks. 
During a 13-2 run midway through the 
first half, the redshirt junior dropped eight 
points off one three-pointer and five free 
throws, extending UF’s lead to 16 with 
eight minutes remaining.
“He’s consistently improving his ener -
gy level,” Florida coach Mike White said. 
“Definitely one of his best games this sea -
son.”
The Gators will need Hudson’s positive 
energy when they face Kentucky Saturday 
night at 8:15 at Rupp Arena in Lexington. Hudson coming off solid outing 
as Gators prepare for KentuckyAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Forward Paulina Hersler tied her career high with 19 points in Florida's 65-51 win over Arkansas on 
Thursday, its first SEC victory of 2018.
SEE W-BBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE M-BBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Jacob McManamon
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s and women’s swimming 
and diving teams are set to take on Auburn 
this Saturday at the O’Connell Center on Se-
nior Day.
The No. 4 UF men’s team enters the meet 
with a 5-1 record after recent victories over 
Florida State and FAU. It’ll face an Auburn 
men’s team that’s ranked No. 13 in the coun-try.
For the No. 16 Florida women’s team, it will 
look to bounce back from last year’s 94-point 
loss to the Tigers on Jan. 21, 2017. The Gators 
women’s team is ranked No. 12 in the nation, while Auburn is ranked No. 16.
Florida will also honor its 15 male and fe-
male seniors on Saturday, including Caeleb Dressel, Jan Switkowski, Ben Lawless, Mark Szaranek and Amelia Maughan.
The meet kicks off at 10:30 a.m. with the 
men’s and women’s 1-meter diving.
 
@jmcmanamon97UF hosting AU 
on Saturday for Senior Day
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and women’s track 
and field teams will compete at the Clem-
son Invitational today and Saturday in Clemson, South Carolina, for the Gators’ third meet of the 2018 indoor season.
The No. 1 ranked men’s team and the 
No. 6 ranked women’s team are hoping to have the same success they had in the Or-ange and Purple Classic on Jan. 6 and the Commodore Invitational on Jan. 12 to 13, where they combined to place first in six different events.
Sophomore Grant Holloway, the reign-
ing NCAA champion in the 60-meter hurdles, ran a 7.69 in the event during Florida’s season-opening meet in Clemson earlier this month, good for the second-fastest time in the nation. Meanwhile, teammate KeAndre Bates will look to im-prove from his poor showing in the long jump on Jan. 6 after winning national titles in the indoor long jump and outdoor long jump and triple jump last season.
@alanisthamesFlorida hoping to continue early-season 
success today at Clemson InvitationalSWIMMING & DIVING TRACK & FIELD
Courtesy of UAA Communications
UF track athlete Grant Holloway enters this weekend’s action looking to build off his 
recent 60-meter hurdles time of 7.69, tied for the second-fastest mark in the nation.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team was one 
player shy of its usual squad during Thursday 
afternoon’s practice. Freshman Duarte Vale was busy competing in the second round of the City of Sunrise Pro Tennis Classic while the rest 
of his teammates were in Gainesville preparing 
for their home opener against UCF on Monday.
Vale and freshman Oliver Crawford were 
the only Gators to qualify for the tournament’s main draw in Sunrise, where Crawford fell to No. 7 seed Fred Gil 7-5, 2-6, 6-2 in the first round on Wednesday.
As the only UF player remaining, Vale faced 
No. 3 seed Gonzalo Escobar in the second 
round on Thursday. He lost the match in three 
sets after holding an early lead. A final score of 2-6, 6-3, 7-6(6) sent the tournament’s final Gator home.
Now, the team’s focus is on Monday when 
Florida opens its dual-match season as the No. 9-ranked team in the nation. But coach Bryan Shelton isn’t taking unranked UCF lightly.
“We know UCF is a really good team this 
year,” Shelton said. “So we know we will be pushed. I am looking forward to seeing how our guys respond.”
UF’s roster is full of talent this year. Three 
of its players hold ITA singles rankings in the top 40 and four doubles pairs landed rankings in the top 15.
Earlier this month, Shelton sat his team 
down to talk about its goals for the spring. His 
players said they have their eyes set on not just 
an SEC title, but the first national champion-ship in program history. Shelton’s focus is on the present for now, however.
“We’ve got to just think about how we can 
get better today,” he said.  
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgVale eliminated in Sunrise, Gators get ready to host UCF
Alligator File Photo
Florida men’s tennis coach Bryan Shelton has shifted his focus to UF’s home opener against UCF on Monday following freshman 
Duarte Vale’s exit from the City of Sunrise Pro T ennis Classic. “We know UCF is a really good team this year, ” he said.
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2018
TH
restau rant & roo ftop barE
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Premium Wells 
$3 Pork Rinds$4 STOLI Mules
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots $4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (“When this team has fun, it shows,” 
Rowland said. “They’re a little more re -
laxed, and they can transfer what they’re 
doing in the gym out on the competition 
floor a lot better.”
At each meet, the team can be seen danc -
ing to each other’s floor routines and sup -
porting each other across all events. Follow -
ing its defeat to LSU, Florida wasn't brought 
down by the result. Instead, its gymnasts 
strutted into the post-match press confer -
ence with the attitude of winners.“Team chemistry is one of our biggest as -
sets that we have this year,” Slocum said.
Florida is led by seniors Slocum, Alex 
McMurtry and Kennedy Baker. As seasoned 
veterans of the ups and downs of the regu -
lar season, the three Gators are leaving the 
LSU loss behind them and now aim to bring 
home another win on the road. 
“It’s like fire to the fuel,” Baker said. 
“Like ‘wow this is the last time, so I want 
it to be the best time and the best one that I 
can possibly do each meet.’”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14UF fell to LSU in SEC opener
tonight, getting in the paint and making 
some incredible footwork moves.”
For the Razorbacks (11-8, 2-4 SEC), its of -
fense ran through guard Malica Monk. The 
junior attempted 28 shots, scoring 23 points 
and collecting eight rebounds in 39 minutes 
of play. No other player for Arkansas had 
more than eight points in the contest.
The Gators will attempt to win its sec -
ond consecutive game on Saturday when 
they host Ole Miss at the O’Connell Center, 
a team UF lost to in double overtime earlier this season.
But for now, Florida comes back to 
Gainesville boasting its first conference vic -
tory of the year, something that couldn't 
help but bring a smile to Newbauer's face.
“They’re so deserving of this,” he said. 
“I couldn’t be more proud of them for their 
effort.”
A video posted to FloridaGators.com con -
tributed to this report.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgW-BBALL,  from pg. 14Florida nabs first conference winThe Wildcats (14-4, 4-2 SEC) 
are undefeated at home this 
season, with their losses to 
Kansas, UCLA, Tennessee and 
South Carolina all occuring on 
the road.
Kentucky features a young  
lineup, as all six players who 
have started for UK are either 
freshmen or redshirt freshmen. 
The team’s top five scorers are 
all first-year players as well, 
including forward Kevin Knox, 
who’s averaging 14.6 points 
per game.
Despite having five players 
averaging double-digit scoring, 
the Wildcats average fewer 
points per game (77.7) than 
the Gators (82.0). Florida’s 
top-four scorers — guards 
Hudson, Koulechov, Allen and Chris Chiozza — will be relied 
on heavily to give the Gators 
an offensive edge.
On the boards, however, 
Kentucky holds the advantage. 
Led by forwards Knox (5.7 re -
bounds per game) and Weny -
en Gabriel (5.7 rebounds per 
game), the Wildcats’ inside 
presence will challenge Florida 
center Kevarrius Hayes and 
forward Keith Stone.
White said he knows how 
talented an opponent the Wild -
cats are, but said he will pre -
pare for UK the same way he 
would for any other team.
“(Kentucky will) be a really 
tough task,” he said. “We’ll 
have to have great prepara -
tion.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgM-BBALL,  from pg. 14Gators face Kentucky 
Saturday in Lexington
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Jalen Hudson is leading UF this season with 16.5 points per game. "He's consistently improving 
his energy level, " Gators coach Mike White said.
