We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
SFPD invites residents to watch and learn
Emergency personnel gave Santa Fe students and faculty an up-
close look at emergency meetings and preparations, pg. 3
Upcoming autobus debut draws safety concerns
The buses have drawn criticism from residents and experts, pg. 5What are UF football’s worries 
heading into fall camp?
Sports writer Mark Stine overviews the top 3,  
pg. 15VOLUME 112 ISSUE 103
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Anais Roache
Alligator Contributing Writer
After being closed all of Sum-
mer B, the UF Gator Career Closet 
will reopen in the renovated center 
at the start of fall.
The closet is a space where stu-
dents can borrow professional at-
tire for interviews and networking. 
It was previously on the third ﬂ  oor 
of Peabody Hall and was part of 
the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. 
When the closet opens, it will 
be run by the Career Connections 
Center, formerly called the Career 
Resource Center. Staff is setting 
up inventory for the closet to be 
reopened Aug. 22 on the ground 
ﬂ  oor entry of the Reitz Union.
The relocation of the closet, 
which was decided by the DSO 
and CCC early last fall, is part of a 
bigger renovation of the center as a 
whole. The $10 million renovation 
has been funded by UF’s Capital 
Improvement Trust Fund.
In March, the center appointed 
its fourth permanent senior di-
rector for career services, Ja’Net 
Glover, who said the center took 
advantage of this pivotal time to 
make the changes.
“I think the move makes sense,” 
Glover said. “I see the ability for Gator Career Closet reopens, expands selection in Reitz this fall
Courtesy of Anais Roache
The UF Gator Career Closet is reopening for the fall semester thanks to a $10 million renovation. 
SEE CLOSET,  PAGE 4
By Victoria Chin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Each year, students at four-
year institutions pay an aver-
age of more than $1,200 on 
textbooks they may not even 
use. A program at UF is lower-
ing this cost — and unneces-
sary purchases — one orange 
apple badge at a time.
Affordable UF, an initiative 
that was piloted this summer 
and will ofﬁ  cially be launched 
this fall, shows students which 
courses require materials that 
cost $20 or less per credit hour. 
Classes that meet this require-
ment get an orange-colored 
apple badge on their textbook requirement page.
The cost of textbooks rose 
by 88 percent between 2006 
and 2016, said Alexandra Bit-
ton-Bailey, academic innova-
tion specialist for the Ofﬁ  ce of 
Faculty Development & Teach-
ing Excellence at UF. During 
this time, the price of a gallon 
of milk only increased by 9.7 
percent.
“We want to see students 
succeed,” Bitton-Bailey said, 
“and it’s really hard to succeed 
if you can’t buy your textbook.”
This initiative was inspired 
by the State University System 
of Florida’s plan to make cours-
es more accessible through af-UF program seeks to 
lower cost of textbooks
SEE AFFORDABLE,  PAGE 4By Alana Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
On a rainy Monday, Corbin Ste-
vens was operating the blood mo-
bile across the street from Turling-
ton Plaza at UF. From 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m., he and his co-worker drew 
blood from only seven donors.
“Most blood drives, there is 
about a dozen students, but today 
with the rain we didn’t get much,” 
Stevens said. “When it rains, they 
are more likely to go inside the 
buildings, wait for it to stop raining 
and go home as fast as they can.”
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers currently have less than a 
two-day supply of blood on their shelves. They are in need of all 
blood types, especially O-negative, 
the universal type.
“If someone has never donated 
before, this is a really good time 
to begin,” said Laura Bialeck, dis-
trict community development co-
ordinator for LifeSouth. “We want 
to make sure there is a safe blood 
supply for your family and friends. 
It only takes 30 minutes, and you 
can save up to three lives with 
each donation.”
When a donor gives blood, it 
is separated into three parts: red 
blood cells, platelets and plasma. 
It is then given to hospitals for the 
patients.
Red blood cells are most com-monly used for patients who are 
anemic or have lost a lot of blood. 
Platelets can be used to prevent 
blood clotting in cancer patients 
going through chemotherapy, Bial-
eck said.
The donor is given a recognition 
item after they donate, usually a 
T-shirt. Depending on the time of 
year, other gifts are also handed 
out, Stevens said. Along with a gift, 
donors receive a mini-physical, a 
snack and a drink.
Summer months are always 
slower due to school breaks and the 
weather, but this summer has been 
a challenge, she said. UF, Santa Fe Summer blood shortage leads to 
emergency need for donors 
SEE BLOOD,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 107
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
GATORFeed
Tweet of the Week
CLARIFICATIONS:  
The Alligator published a story 
Tuesday entitled “‘Road to Change’ 
tour talks gun violence, voting in 
Gainesville.” The Alligator implied 
that state Sen. Keith Perry was a 
congressman who had an affiliation 
with the National Rifle Association. 
While state Sen. Perry has no vis-
ible affiliation with the NRA, he 
was endorsed by the organization in 2014.
Sen. Perry’s office also disputes a 
quote attributed to him. While The 
Alligator reporter said she recorded 
the phone call with permission from 
state Sen. Perry and quoted it direct-
ly, the recording was lost when the 
reporter’s computer crashed shortly 
after writing her report. We have re-
moved the quote from our story out 
of an abundance of caution, and we 
apologize for any inconvenience.Meme of the Week
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 107
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Karla Paredes, Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Emily Perpich, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Ruben Riera
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
In an emergency incident, key Santa Fe 
College staff would meet in the emergency 
operations center, located inside the Santa 
Fe Police building, to discuss a plan of ac-
tion.
SFPD invited residents, students and 
staff to see what it’s like to be in one of 
these emergency meetings and more as a 
part of their emergency preparedness expo 
Tuesday morning.
The expo was designed to make sure the 
Santa Fe community is ready for all haz-
ards, like hurricanes or tornadoes, said Ed 
Book, SFPD’s chief and the college’s emer-
gency manager.
Down the hall of the SFPD building, the 
door to the operations center was left open 
for attendees to peek in on a pretend tor-
nado exercise.
Benjamin Fox, SFPD office supervisor, 
said the exercise started with the partici-
pants receiving an emergency alert. Ev-
eryone in the room was assigned different 
roles, which included public information 
officer, logistics and more. They then got 
some information about what was happen-
ing and had to discuss what they would do.
As time went on during the 90-minute 
exercise, participants got more and more 
information and continued to make deci-
sions based on what they learned. Partici-
pants would work through aspects of the 
emergency, going so far as to discuss post-
emergency support, Fox said.
Joining SFPD were different partners 
from around Alachua County, all having 
stations outside or within the halls of the 
SFPD building, which is located on the northwest side of campus.
“A lot of people don’t know how many 
agencies are involved in emergency plan-
ning,” said Robert Linnens, regional plan-
ner at Florida Health. “I think it’s some-
thing people should know.”
On the table in front of him, Linnens 
did demonstrations with a mobile ventila-
tor. Linnens said the mobile ventilator is 
used in situations where people need to be evacuated but can’t breathe on their own.
Attendees saw how the ventilator react-
ed to varying levels of oxygen and learned 
from Linnens that, with an external battery 
added, the device could last six hours with-
out being connected to power.
Next to his table, representatives from 
Gainesville Regional Utilities cautioned 
people from getting too close to metal 
wires that may be lying on the ground dur-ing or after an emergency disaster.
GRU electric safety and training coordi-
nator Gary McKenzie said downed wires 
could still be energized and recommended 
staying 25 to 30 feet away from them.
“Electricity can radiate through the 
ground just like throwing a rock in water,” 
McKenzie said.
Some partners, including Alachua Coun-
ty Fire Rescue and Gainesville Fire Rescue, 
had their displays outside of the building. 
A GFR firefighter took guests for a ride in 
the basket of the truck’s aerial ladder.
A hundred feet in the air, people got a 
wide view of the campus and surrounding 
trees. For some, the Jurassic Park theme 
song could be heard through the commu-
nications radio, courtesy of another fire-
fighter on the ground.
“I think it’s a great opportunity to learn 
about other organizations,” said Clarinda 
Choice, student activities specialist at San-
ta Fe and an organizer for the intiative. 
“It’s also great for me to network for Safe 
Santa Fe. It provides better resources for 
our students.”
Other stations had representatives from 
Alachua County Emergency Management, 
Gainesville Amateur Radio Society, a trau-
ma response team and more.
Book said SFPD will probably continue 
to hold the expo annually during the sum-
mer. The department also holds different 
events during the year.
“This may be a readiness event,” Book 
said, “but all year long, we’re always try-
ing to evaluate how prepared we are for 
different emergencies.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Jessica Curbelo / Alligator Staff
Santa Fe Fire Department personel watch over a demonstration of a firetruck ladder.
Santa Fe College organizes emergency safety expo for public4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
us at the career center to talk more 
about the importance of profes-
sional clothing and attire as it re-
lates to students gaining a diverse 
array of professional experiences.”
Glover said students can look 
forward to a more diverse selec-
tion of styles and colors in the new 
closet as well as a separate en-
trance, allowing students to access 
the closet without coming into the 
center directly.
Heather White, associate vice 
president at the DSO, said the old 
location will most likely be used 
as an additional workspace for 
students, and the new location felt 
like a better move.
“This is a very nice ﬁ  t into what 
the Career Connections Center 
does,” White said. “I know that 
they are looking on making it part 
of their career coaching model and 
making it part of the holistic pro-
cess for students for the career de-
velopment process.”
White and Glover encourage 
students in need of business attire 
in the meantime to contact either 
the DSO or CCC for support.CLOSET,  from pg. 1“holistic process” 
for students
fordability, said John Jordi, learn-
ing and organizational specialist 
at UF.
Reducing the cost of textbooks 
is more feasible than reducing the 
cost of tuition, but both can be ﬁ  -
nancial hurdles for students.
“Cost is really one of the No. 
1 barriers for students completing 
their degree on time,” Jordi said.
Some courses require students 
to purchase expensive materials 
they may not even use, Bitton-Bai-
ley said. Affordable UF encourages 
faculty to re-evaluate the need for some of these course materials.
Faculty members can lower 
the costs of their required course 
materials by creating their own 
textbooks, using open-access re-
sources or putting materials in on-
line course reserves, Bitton-Bailey 
said.
“That’s a huge time invest-
ment, and it changes your course,” 
Bitton-Bailey said. “So we wanted 
to recognize the faculty who are 
are pushing forth this effort.”
UF also works with publishers 
to reduce textbook costs by allow-
ing electronic access for students. 
The application for courses to receive the Affordable UF badge 
requires faculty members to ﬁ  ll 
out a textbook adoption form and 
answer a few questions about the 
affordability of the materials they 
require, Bitton-Bailey said.
The adoption form, which lists 
the materials faculty members ex-
pect students to purchase for the 
course, is already a requirement 
faculty have to complete every se-
mester.
The Affordable UF system has 
been reﬁ  ned since its pilot, Bitton-
Bailey said. The applicants are be-
ing audited to ensure books are 
actually affordable. More than 600 courses qualiﬁ  ed for the badge 
over the summer, and this number 
is expected to be higher in the fall.
“So many students at UF are 
struggling to pay for college, 
whether it be their tuition or their 
books and class fees,” said 21-year-
old political science and statistics 
major Jamie Lee. “It’s good that 
students can ﬁ  nd a cheaper option 
that better ﬁ  ts their needs, and it’s 
important that we make that a pri-
ority for our students.”
For more information, visit 
teach.uﬂ  .edu/affordable-uf/.AFFORDABLE,  from pg. 1“So many students at UF are struggling to pay for college”
College and all of the Gainesville 
high schools make up 25 percent 
of the donor population.
Depending mostly on college 
students can make it difﬁ  cult for 
LifeSouth to stay on top of their 
supply.
“A lot of students also don’t 
donate during exams, just be-cause they are focusing and they 
don’t want to have a reaction,” 
Stevens said.
However, putting up signs 
stating that they are in a state of 
emergency tends to help.
“A lot of times people will 
come up and say, ‘I’m only do-
nating because the sign says 
you’re in an emergency need,’” 
he said.
Aside from the mobile loca-tions, there are two centers in 
Gainesville where people can do-
nate, located at 1221 NW 13th St. 
and 4039 W. Newberry Road.
Donors must bring a photo ID, 
be at least 17 years old or 16 with 
parental permission and weigh 
110 pounds or more for safety 
reasons. If donors also provide 
the blood center with their email 
address, they will receive their 
lab results and blood type within 24 to 48 hours, Bialeck said.
If someone is unable to do-
nate, they can let their friends 
and family know about the short-
age and encourage them to do-
nate, she said.
“If you plan on donating, 
bring a friend, eat some food and 
just know that the worst thing on 
the bus is anxiety, not a needle,” 
Stevens said.BLOOD,  from pg. 1Donors may receive lab analysis and blood type after testTHURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
On July 24, six students at the 
UF Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences received individual 
fellowships from the National Sci-
ence Foundation.
The Graduate Research Fel-
lowship Program was created for 
exceptional students in science, 
technology, engineering and math 
pursuing a degree in the U.S. It 
includes a three-year annual pay-
ment of a $34,000 stipend with a 
$12,000 allowance for tuition and 
fees. More than 12,000 students applied for the fellowship — only 
2,000 received the award.
One of the recipients, wildlife 
ecology and conservation doctor-
al student Kimberly Ledger, was 
excited she didn’t have to stress 
about finances for the next few 
years.
“One of the most valuable 
things about the fellowship for any 
student is how it allows you to re-
ally focus on the research you’re 
doing,” Ledger said.
Plant molecular and cellular 
biology student and fellowship 
recipient Ann Bernert said she is 
passionate about science and en-joys setting an example for others 
in her field.
“I hope to continue to encour-
age my female students to stay in 
STEM fields and be a role model 
for some,” Bernert wrote in an 
email.
In the future, Ledger and Ber-
nert plan on finishing each of their 
Ph.D.s. Ledger hopes to pursue a 
career working with students on 
conservation issues and science 
skills, while Bernert intends to 
teach or work in the biotechnology 
industry.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSix UF IFAS students awarded National 
Science Foundation fellowshipsBy Blake Trauschke
Alligator Contributing Writer
The money-sharing app Venmo 
recently created a debit card with 
Mastercard for users to pay for things 
using a Venmo account anywhere 
Mastercard is accepted in the U.S. 
Venmo, which is owned by Pay-
Pal, is typically used to link people’s 
Facebook and bank accounts, so 
people can pay friends who also 
have the app without paper money 
or checks.
If a user does not have enough 
money in their Venmo balance to 
cover a transaction, it is drawn from 
their linked bank account. They can 
also transfer their Venmo funds to 
their bank for a fee of 25 cents, ac-
cording to Venmo’s website. 
Up until now, a Venmo balance 
could only be used on the app and 
for online orders with a handful of 
companies like Uber, J. Crew and 
Grubhub.
According to Venmo’s website, 
people can use their card like any 
other debit card with even more fea-
tures. People can make ATM with-
drawals, turn off the card if they misplace it and use swipe-free shop-
ping at stores, bypassing swiping or 
inserting a chip.
Venmo spokeswoman Jaymie 
Sinlao said people can use the new 
reload feature so that the card won’t 
get declined as long as they have 
money in the bank.
“Users who have the Venmo card 
will have the option of selecting 
a bank account that will act as the 
funding source for reloads. Venmo 
will automatically take money, or 
‘reload,’ from the bank account you 
selected in $10 increments to cover 
any purchase amount that exceeds 
your Venmo balance,” Sinlao said.
Users will be able to pick one of 
six colors — white, yellow, pink, 
blue, green and black — for their 
new debit card, Sinlao said.
There is currently a waitlist for 
the card. Sinlao would not comment 
on how many people are waiting for 
the card or how many have been re-
leased so far. 
Finn Spencer, a 19-year-old Santa 
Fe College forestry sophomore, has 
been using the app since coming to 
college last year, and he sees the 
need for the card.“I think the card is pretty con-
venient and could be super useful,” 
he said. “I like how Venmo is run; 
it makes paying people incredibly 
easy.”
Jonathan McDonnell, a 19-year-
old Santa Fe biology sophomore, has 
also been using the app regularly 
since starting college, but he believes 
Venmo is overextending its reach by 
adding the card.
He recognizes that you must pay 
to deposit money into your bank ac-
count, but he believes Venmo should 
incentivize keeping money in its ac-
count.
“The reason I’m not getting a card 
is because I don’t have any money 
in the app. All I use Venmo for is to 
transfer or accept funds from others. 
But after that, I deposit it in my bank 
account,” McDonnell said.
McDonnell said he enjoys the app 
how it is now. However, he only 
uses it in Gainesville.
“I find that anyone outside of 
cities with young populations don’t 
know what Venmo is, but maybe 
that’s the whole point of the card. 
Maybe Venmo knows that its card’s 
usefulness is limited.”Venmo unveils new physical debit card
By Dennis Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In 2016, a Tesla driver was 
killed in a crash in Florida when 
his car, operating on Autopilot 
mode, failed to recognize a large 
truck crossing into its path. Last 
March, a driver in California 
died after his Tesla, also on Au-
topilot, hit a roadside barrier 
and caught fire. 
These incidents make safety 
in the early stages of vehicle 
automation a concern as two 
driverless buses are set to be-
gin operating in downtown 
Gainesville by Aug. 20. 
The buses, manufactured by 
the company EasyMile and op-
erated by Transdev Services, are 
part of a three-year, four-phase 
testing project being conducted 
by UF and the Florida Depart-
ment of Transportation. The lat-
ter is providing $2.7 million for 
the project.  
Phase One was in April when 
a driverless bus began driving a 
route along Southeast Second 
Avenue and onto a portion of 
Main Street. There was an op-
erator on board as a failsafe.  
The bus mapped its route 
and stops onto its hard drive. 
The bus was taken off the road 
in May, and the information it 
gathered will be transferred to 
a second bus that will hit the 
streets in August. 
The final phase of the proj-
ect will increase the fleet to four 
buses, which will connect UF 
and the downtown area near 
Depot Park. They can reach 
a maximum speed of 25 mph 
but normally won’t exceed 5 
to 10 mph due to the frequen-
cy of stops, City of Gainesville 
spokesperson Chip Skinner 
said.
“We’re very confident that 
at the slow speeds it will be 
moving that we won’t have the same impacts that Tesla vehi-
cles have,” Skinner said.  
Transdev already has driv-
erless buses operating in Bab-
cock Ranch, Florida. However, 
that community is still under 
construction and not fully 
populated. The busy streets of 
Gainesville and the area around 
UF create a more intricate 
course for the buses.
Steven Shladover, a research 
engineer at the University of 
California, Berkeley who’s been 
researching road vehicle auto-
mation systems for more than 
40 years, said driverless ve-
hicles often can’t tell the differ-
ence between a candy wrapper 
and a person. The vehicle will 
brake for either depending on 
the occasion.
“They don’t have the intel-
ligence yet to be able to handle 
the full range of the situations 
that they’re gonna encounter,” 
Shladover said. “If they’re on 
the campus, they’re probably 
gonna have to interact with a 
lot of pedestrians, a lot of bi-
cyclists... That’s a challenging 
combination.” 
He suspects it’ll be a long 
time before the buses can oper-
ate without a human on board 
as a precaution.
A safety operator will ride 
along at the beginning of the 
project, and no timetable is set 
for when the buses will drive 
unaccompanied, Gainesville 
spokesperson Bob Woods said. 
The Gainesville Regional 
Transit System and Trans-
dev will also have the ability 
to monitor the buses and take 
control if a dangerous situation 
arises, Skinner said. 
Once up and running, Skin-
ner said the driverless buses will 
be in service Monday through 
Friday from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 
will be free to all riders during 
the three-year testing period. Autobuses on track, 
safety concerns persistEditorial
Column: How we lost our Library West
Part IV: (Un)willingness to pay
Students here at UF pay a fee of $19.06 
per credit hour called the “Activity and 
Service Fee.” Multiply that by however 
many credit hours students are taking, 
and this is how Student Government gets 
its $21 million budget.
If anyone from SG is reading this, I suppose 
now would be a good time to point out that the 
link to the amended Fiscal Year 2018-19 budget 
under “Resources” on the SG website is broken: 
“404 - File or directory not found.”
But since I’m a senator and I have it in my email, I can 
reveal that our budget speciﬁ  cally is $20,819,571 for the 
2018-19 ﬁ  scal year.
Okay, so how much money does it cost to fund over-
night hours for Library West in the Fall and Spring? Around 
$150,000. I should probably mention that SG in the past 
hasn’t asked for overnight hours in the Summer, which 
means Newell does bring some beneﬁ  ts for those looking to 
do all-nighters in the Summer. Additionally, it would be re-
sponsible to mention almost two-thirds of our budget goes 
toward funding the Reitz Union and RecSports so that’s 
more on the side of non-discretionary spending.
Funding overnight hours, that $150k ﬁ  gure, would be an 
astounding 0.72 percent of our current budget. A lot of my 
exasperation over this whole debacle is because I know all 
the less-than-stellar money moves we make as a SG.
For example, for Gator Growl last year, SG paid $180,000 
just so students could have the opportunity to pay like 15 
bucks to watch Snoop Dogg smoke what was honestly 
probably weed on stage and listen to Daya sing some songs. 
Like, I mean at least it’s less money than when SG paid 
$230,000 for the acts the year before. Only God knows if 
Florida Blue Key turns a proﬁ  t from Gator Growl, even with 
SG’s what-feels-like-a-giant-subsidy.
There’s also the little things, like the fact that SG paid 
$190 for headshots of our Senate President and Pro Tempo-
re (disclaimer: I run the Gator Career Closet’s free headshot 
program, so I ﬁ  nd this particularly offensive). There was 
also the time we spent $1,972 on Newell Hall T-shirts and $2,645 on commemorative “Newell Hall Chal-
lenge Coins.” State of the Campus shirts? That’ll 
be $2,319.50. Food for that one event? $507.50. 
As much as I love handing out goodies during 
tabling and eating forgettable food at events, the 
way we spend our money sometimes makes me 
wonder if we’re being the best possible stewards 
we can be.
I’m not saying that this is what’s going on, 
but it feels like SG just doesn’t want to pay for 
the libraries anymore so they can use the money 
for other stuff. As I mentioned before, our budget was in-
deed kind of tight with the incurred costs of running New-
ell… But then we got a budget increase this past June of 
$408,219. Our original budget for Fiscal Year 2018-19 was 
around $20.4 million, but then the estimated amount of 
credit hours students would take increased, so we suddenly 
had access to more money.
Looking over how we divide up the funds, I like to think 
we’re spending it on a lot of things we should be spending 
it on, such as salaries, projects, organizational funding and 
much-needed maintenance projects. But yeah, no overnight 
library funding. We’ve been going through ﬁ  rst and sec-
ond readings for ﬁ  scal year 2019-20 in the Senate these past 
couple weeks and no overnight library funding in there for 
next year either.
There’s clearly different budget priorities at play here, 
which can be ﬁ  ne — there’s a lot of things deserving of 
money. However, the optics look pretty poor to have mas-
sive outcry over cutting money from library support fol-
lowed up by SG getting a budget increase, not restore fund-
ing and then arguing that we shouldn’t have been providing 
funding in the ﬁ  rst place.
I’ll have a part 5 next week.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government.THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Looks don’t really matter at the end of the summer, espe-
cially in North Florida. The entirety of the Gainesville popu-
lation is dripping with sweat and unbothered by unkempt 
appearances.
We speak from experience. Picture this: You’re walking 
to campus early on a Wednesday morning in an attempt to 
beat the midday heat and its wrath.
Your backpack is glued to your shirt. Your clothes are 
no longer vestments, but rather, colorful extensions of your 
epidermis.
You shove your matted hair into a ponytail, ﬁ  nally pull-
ing the back though a baseball cap in a Hail Mary attempt 
to look presentable for class.
Most may know this state of being as the “dog days of 
summer.” But you know better than that. You see through 
tired cliches and innuendo. You know these dark, brutal 
times as the trials of…
DARTS AND 
LAURELS
If you’re a true Floridian, you know that the end of July 
to the beginning of August is the absolute hottest time 
of the year. This year in particular has been especially 
scorching, with temperatures in the high 90s.
The kind of hot that makes you want to enter into 
a committed relationship with an air conditioner. We don’t 
judge. In fact we bestow a laurel on the effectiveness of 
modern-day air conditioning units in keeping us cool. So 
go ahead: Feel free to shove your signiﬁ  cant other to within 
an inch of falling off the bed at night. We all know who your 
real love is.
This was the case for much of the country, with states 
like New York and Illinois experiencing some of the worst 
heat waves in modern history. This “second hottest July 
on record” most deﬁ  nitely deserves a well-placed dart.
Instead of lumping our criticism on the environment we 
will give credit to the true protagonist of the story. We serve 
Florida Gov. Rick Scott a ﬂ  aming dart for his frequent gre-
enwashing and cuts to the EPA budget that have left an 
enormous impact on the state.
Which brings us to the latest crisis. Southwest Florida 
remains hostage to an outbreak of red tide that has well 
outlasted its typical season by three months and shows no 
signs of weakening. 
Until it abades Florida’s marine life and those who proﬁ  t 
from it will continue to suffer. We award a laurel to the 
local aquariums and animal hospitals dealing with this 
outbreak.
Might we suggest an outing of sorts to escape from real-
ity? This Friday marks the statewide holiday known as tax-
free weekend.
Created in the late twentieth century, the event allows 
parents and students to save on a plethora of school sup-
plies, repairs to equipment and clothing under $60. This 
year’s holiday runs from Friday to Sunday.
So we throw a laurel to tax-free weekend savings.  
Nothing is quite as American as duking it out over a re-
duced-price Macbook Air in a dingy Walmart aisle. Nothing 
is more Floridian than trampling over a bearded man in a 
tank top for the last of the pens you prefer over all others. 
Count us in.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORZachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Ever wondered if your con-
stant browsing of social 
media is depressing you? 
Here’s the science.
Evidence suggests that 
if we use sites like Facebook, In-
stagram and Twitter extensively 
— in the wrong ways — it can 
break or weaken the bonds that 
are most important to our mental 
health. But there is also conﬂ  ict-
ing evidence that says the use of Facebook 
can raise self-esteem. In any event, there 
are things we can do to avoid the depres-
sive effects associated with social media. 
Most importantly, if you already have a 
tendency toward depression, steer clear 
of Facebook and Instagram. Seeing lots of 
skinny friends while worrying about your 
weight won’t help your state of mind.
Social networks’ effect on our mental 
health is a pressing question because they 
are used ubiquitously in the U.S. None is 
more popular than Facebook. About 68 
percent of U.S. adults use the site, accord-
ing to the Pew Research Center. That per-
centage is much higher in young people; 
about 81 percent of people from ages 18 
to 29 use the site. Seventy-four percent of 
women use the site every day. If it seems 
like everybody uses Facebook, it’s be-
cause nearly everyone does. Whether or 
not that’s a bad thing is still up for debate.
Research published by the National 
Center for Biotechnology Information has 
shown that use of Facebook can increase 
self-esteem. This is supported by a psy-
chological model of the self, called the Hy-
perpersonal Model. The theory is: Select-
ing the best parts of yourself to display to 
others on the internet increases your self-
esteem. People are happier with them-
selves when they’re looking at their Face-
book proﬁ  les than when they’re looking in 
the mirror. That’s because they get to post photos of themselves at good an-
gles, show off their achievements 
and only show the parts of their 
lives they want to reveal.
On the other hand, Facebook 
might be linked to depressive 
symptoms and low self-esteem 
precisely because everyone gets 
to post the best parts of them-
selves. While you only see the 
highlights of your friends’ lives, 
new cars, jobs, families and weight loss, 
you’ll be stuck living the entirety of yours, 
including faults and mistakes. It’s why 
your perception of your online friends is 
probably skewed. We tend to overesti-
mate the looks, degrees, smarts and mor-
als (among many other areas) that we 
see online. One study on state university 
students in Utah found Facebook use is 
linked to thinking that other people are 
happier than you and even that “life is not 
fair.”
This would paint the mass use of Face-
book in a very different light. If use of 
Facebook and other social networking 
sites is indeed linked to depression, the 
statistics on social media use aren’t a tech-
nological marvel — they’re scary. They 
point to an epidemic in the making.
Social media is not a demon, but it 
hides dangers. Whether it depresses peo-
ple is a question best answered at the in-
dividual level. One good practice is to use 
social media to strengthen the bonds with 
your family and loved ones and maintain 
social ties. Using social media for shal-
low interactions, as in scrolling through 
your feed to like pictures of all your rich, 
thin friends or arguing with Twitter trolls, 
probably isn’t good for you.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political sci-
ence junior. His column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday.Facebook is a mixed bag for your 
own mental health and sanityColumn
Wellness, where health 
and happiness inter-
sect, has become a 
trillion-dollar industry. 
It’s come at the cost of 
science and truth.
Companies and blogs that spe-
cialize in wellness focus on re-
moving toxins, recharging your 
“energies” and using natural rem-
edies to cure health problems. Goop, argu-
ably the leader of the wellness phenomena, 
is run by Gwyneth Paltrow and is worth 
about $250 million.
These companies use fear tactics to sell 
products. They tell their customers that 
every chemical is a carcinogen and invent 
conspiracy theories about pharmaceutical 
companies. Rich medicine companies are 
the enemy, and buying useless junk is the 
supposed cure. Somehow they’ve started 
the narrative that medicine companies are 
extorting the sick, but selling essential oils 
for $26 is God’s work. 
One look at the Goop website brings you 
into this eccentric world where face masks 
are king and insurance companies are mon-
sters. Paltrow sells normal things like vita-
mins, but she also sells jade eggs that are 
to be inserted into one’s vagina to improve 
sex. Goop and sites like it can avoid accu-
sations of false advertising by not directly 
stating claims as facts but rather suggesting 
nutty trends and offering the products for 
sale. Goop has come under ﬁ  re for making 
false claims like wearing bras leads to an 
increased risk of breast cancer.
It’s very easy for me to write off the well-
ness community as a bunch of lunatics with 
too much disposable income. Very easy. But 
I will now explore the mind of a wellness 
guru. Could they be seeing something that 
I am not?
I don’t think they are wrong in their general criticisms of the medical 
industry. Going to the doctor for 
a check up has become a robotic 
procedure. You sit in a cold, dark 
and sanitized room with an uncar-
ing doctor who speaks with you 
for less than 15 minutes. The lack 
of empathy and humanity on the 
part of doctors is not only frustrat-
ing, it leads to incorrect diagno-
ses. I can understand a wellness fan’s inter-
est in a way of healing themselves that is 
warm and caring. 
Obviously ignoring Western medicine 
can be dangerous. Steve Jobs initially re-
fused a life-saving surgery to treat his can-
cer and opted for Eastern wellness medi-
cine instead. This led to an early death that 
could have been delayed. He thought he 
could mentally make the problem go away. 
For cancer, this clearly doesn’t work. But 
for other health problems, it could. If tak-
ing a B-12 vitamin makes someone feel like 
they have more energy, what’s the harm? If 
taking a bath in goat’s milk makes you feel 
parasite-free, go for it. There is a connection 
between body and mind.
Some problems are too minor for medi-
cine but still need a solution. I think a mild 
treatment with natural products is harmless 
and can have a placebo effect, making the 
patient’s issue goes away because they be-
lieve it did. The only problem is when this 
is taken too far, like in Jobs’ case.
The way that we take care of ourselves 
is deeply personal, and everyone should 
make their own decisions about their body. 
Rejecting hard drugs in favor of natural rem-
edies isn’t always a bad thing.
To ﬁ  nd a good moisturizer, you can 
catch me on goop.com. To cure a ﬂ  u, you 
can catch me at the doctor’s ofﬁ  ce. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her 
column comes out Tuesday and Thursday. Goop is a scam. So why can't I stop 
reading it so often? Column
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Tune into our newest playlist:
Flip over to page 10 for our musical farewell to the 
summer semester.Dive into the world of BDSM: 
Check out page 9 for an inside look into the fetish community 
oasis right here in Gainesville.THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
This is not the ordinary tragedy of death, 
daggers and deception that you snoozed 
through in 11th grade English.
High Dive hosts Gainesville Alternative 
Shakespeare’s production of “Drunk Mac-
beth” — a tragically funny take on one of the 
Bard’s greatest tragedies. Showings will con-
tinue into tonight at 7 p.m. and Friday at 9 
p.m. Tickets are available at ticketﬂ  y.com for 
between $4.50 and $8.
Gainesville Alternative Shakespeare was 
started a year ago by UF graduate, Nick Chi-
naris. The company’s ﬁ  rst production of “Ti-
tus Andronicus,” directed by Chinaris, also 
took place at High Dive.
On Monday night, actors Nick Bublitz 
(Macbeth) and Katie Haeuser (Lady Macbeth) 
got plastered before reciting some of the most 
dark, iconic verses in theater history. Both 
Bublitz and Haeuser stole the show with their 
diverse acting techniques as well as their al-
cohol-induced shenanigans.
To top this, the four sober actors select 
three audience members to whom they give 
a cowbell, a whistle and a horn. These au-
dience members have the privilege of stop-
ping the show whenever they please to ask 
the drunk actors to take a jello shot, a regular 
shot or chug beer, arousing more chaos on 
the stage.
Overall, this alternative take on Shake-
speare’s tragedy was executed well. The en-
tire cast worked well as an ensemble to bring 
this story to life by creating powerful illusions 
while only dressed in black and adding on 
various costume pieces and props. High Dive 
is an intimate space that provided a cool, 
grungy, rustic backdrop for an interactive 
production.
Bublitz deserves a round of applause for 
his portrayal of Macbeth. Bublitz’s commit-
ment to the seriousness and the truth of the 
story, only brought out more comedy when 
he would forget a line, break character, drop 
a prop or seemingly hallucinate. This alterna-
tive production incorporated farcical elements 
of the mistakes into such a deep tragedy, and 
it worked. One particular moment of Bublitz’s 
that was strong was the “Is this a dagger I see 
before me?” speech. One could see Bublitz’s 
thought process so clearly; the alcohol only 
enhanced these scripted hallucinations.
“Some things really aren’t funny until you 
have an audience in front of you. The audi-
ence is what makes the comedy. You may 
have to do things in a serious way, but it 
will all come together once you have people 
watching,” Chinaris said.
Of course, what is Macbeth without his dear Lady Macbeth? Haeuser stole the show. 
Even while intoxicated, her vocal variety and 
diction were spot on so the audience could 
hear every word she said… even if it was not 
always Shakespeare. Her physicality was en-
gaging and hilarious at the peak of her drunk-
enness. At one point, actor Afsheen Misaghi 
had to carry her off stage after she fell and 
took her shoes off! Needless to say, some she-
nanigans ensued. 
Haeuser’s “Out damned spot!” speech was 
stellar. One could see Haeuser’s mind ticking 
ever so rapidly. Her thought process was so 
clear. Her actions escalating to a scream at 
the end that did not feel forced. Her choices 
were clear and informed, adding color to the 
character.
Bublitz and Haeuser shared fun banter 
and chemistry on stage as they drunkenly 
screamed profanities at each other or broke 
character in the most intense moments of the 
show. Other notable cast members include 
Melanie Sholl and Gloria Halsell, who both 
carried a wide variety of tracks throughout 
the show, portraying at least four different 
roles. Sholl’s physicality as Macduff was en-
gaging and alive, as was Halsell’s portrayal of 
one of the three witches.
The overall vision of the show was ambi-
tious and raw. Could it use a little ﬁ  ne tuning? 
Sure. Were there messy bits? Yes. However, 
the entire point of a drunk production is to 
ﬁ  nd the messy comedic bits in something se-
rious. This is exactly the kind of vision China-
ris had in mind.
“I wanted to cut the script in a way that 
will allow six people to adequately portray 
Macbeth and hit all the major plot points,” 
Chinaris said. “Even though a death in a regu-
lar production of a Shakespeare setting might 
be dramatic and intense, in this, someone 
dying on stage when they’re drunk or being 
killed by a drunk person with a foam sword 
is funny. So, you have to keep the things that 
bring out the comedy, that keep the plot mov-
ing and keep the iconic moments.”
Chinaris’ goal when directing any show 
is accruing a larger appreciation for theater 
from audiences, for people to be able to walk 
away from a show with something tangible 
and have fun.
“It’s 95 percent rehearsing it as a serious 
play, knowing that when you introduce the 
wildcard of a drunk person, the serious be-
comes funny,” Chinaris said. “The juxtaposi-
tion of it makes it that more palatable to audi-
ences.”
Chinaris points out that theater, as well 
as many of the high arts, are dying. In order 
to rejuvenate these arts, people need to cre-
ate art that is more relatable to the millennial 
generation.Gainesville Alternative Shakespeare presents: “Drunk 
Macbeth” at High Dive
THEATRE
Emma McAvoy
Drunk Shakespeare makes for a night of hilarity and culture with actors 
performing some of the great tragedies in history, and they’re completely 
hammered.
By Lindsey Brenemen
Avenue Writer
When she hung a man in a full latex 
suit by his ankles and ﬂ  ogged him onstage 
in front of 2,000 people 20 years ago, the 
Lady Grinning Soul was born.
Soul performs the ﬁ  rst Friday of every 
month at 6th Street North. This Friday’s 
“Lace, Leather and Latex” event is Disney 
Villains versus Heroes. No full nudity or 
photography is allowed. All adults are 
welcome as long as they bring an open 
mind.
Between high school and going to 
college, Soul worked as a dance instruc-
tor where her boss groped her. A couple 
years later, when she interviewed for a job 
at a catering company, the owner offered 
her $150 and lingerie in exchange for sex 
with him. Then, while working as an elec-
trician’s apprentice, she was stalked and 
harassed by another contractor.
“The whole time I’ve been a fetish 
performer, or worked in adult entertain-
ment in that fashion, I’ve been treated 
with more respect than most women get 
treated at their day job,” Soul said.
In the era of the “Me Too” movement, 
America is reckoning with the pervasive-
ness of sexual harassment in all workplac-
es. One workplace where this may be sur-
prisingly absent, is adult entertainment.
Soul was working in an adult store in 
1998 when an old friend offered her an op-
portunity. He asked if she was interested 
in using her past experience as a go-go 
dancer to perform at Club 5’s Saturday 
Night Seduction. She decided to try it out.
Soul sat down with her husband and 
wrote an act. They presented it to the club 
owner who told them to be ready to per-
form it the next Saturday. 
That’s how they ended up onstage 
with two other submissive men at the 
largest fetish event in Jacksonville. Soul has been performing ever since.
The Lady Grinning Soul is her stage 
name. She keeps her personal life and fe-
tish life entirely separate, as people don’t 
always understand the fetish or BDSM 
lifestyle. Soul has already suffered person-
al consequences because of this. She said 
it’s part of the reason she can no longer 
speak to her mother.
Soul thinks this is mostly because 
the community is misrepresented by the 
media. According to her, “Fifty Shades 
of Grey” got it all wrong. They took the 
lifestyle and twisted it to the point that it 
became an offensive rape fantasy.
“You don’t do that in (this) lifestyle,” 
Soul said. “We would never do that.”
Trust and communication are the two 
most important pillars of the community.
There are rules to the lifestyle: don’t 
touch somebody else’s person, always ask 
permission and always openly communi-
cate. Everything must be consensual.
While America has a national conver-
sation about deﬁ  ning gray areas of con-
sent, this community has the rules spelled 
out plainly in black and white.
Anthony Grezlik, owner of 6th Street 
North, said if participants are intoxicated 
during consent negotiations, they can be 
blackballed from the community entirely. 
You can’t give consent unless you are 100 
percent sober. 
Partners lay out their ground rules and 
safe words with one another before any 
physical interaction takes place. Soul said 
if you don’t feel comfortable with some-
thing you simply need to speak up.
Grezlik has lived in Gainesville for 20 
years. He has a passion for serving his 
community. After serving in the military 
for 10 years and 14 years in law enforce-
ment, he tried to retire but said it was too 
boring. He decided to open a bar instead.
First, he opened Market Street Pub 
and Cabaret. It was too cumbersome for him to stay downtown though. In June 
2016, when the bar closed, he moved on 
to 6th Street North.
At the same time Grezlik said he was 
evolving. He had an epiphany that mo-
nogamy was not for him. 
“It’s not that I’m not committed to 
one partner,” Grezlik said. “It’s just that 
I don’t believe one partner can do every-
thing for you.”
He decided to explore this lifestyle in 
a more open fashion. Grezlik said that 
sometimes relationships that fulﬁ  ll a need 
for an individual may not be sexual at all. 
Soul agreed. In fact, she said that nine 
times out of 10, sex is entirely absent from 
BDSM partnerships. 
According to Soul, it’s a healthy release 
because it’s between two consenting indi-
viduals. In her 20 years performing, she 
has seen the whole gamut of fetishes. 
“Whatever that little kink is, that little 
fetish that turns them on, that they can’t 
express to anyone else,” she said. 
Soul said some people are into candle 
wax or light spanking, some people want 
to be dressed and paraded around as po-
nies, some people want to be another per-
son’s servant. Powerful men in business 
suits come in to be satissiﬁ  ed, dominated 
and degraded by tiny women. She said 
she’s still surprised sometimes by the 
things she sees.
Soul said no one would ever know. 
Those men put their suit and tie back on 
and go back to their corporate ofﬁ  ces. 
Society at large may judge fetishes., 
and people in that community may never 
be able to fully express themselves to oth-
ers in their day-to-day lives.
But the ﬁ  rst Friday of every month, 
they can be safe to explore inside 6th 
Street North.
“At the end of the day we’re all giant 
dorks that just want to have fun,” Soul 
said.Courtesy to The Alligator
The Lady Grinning Soul performs fetish cabaret acts with “her beauties” the ﬁ  rst Friday of every month at 6th Street North.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
‘Leather, Lace and Latex’: 
A window into the fetish community
MUSIC
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
We’d love to give you all the details on these great 
events, but there just isn’t time! Gainesville is always 
buzzing with exciting local events, so don’t miss out. 
Here’s a quick rundown of what’s coming up:
Thursday:
-Local favorite, The Savants of Soul, join forces with 
HoneyWhat and Ceramicats at The Atlantic. Doors open 
at 8 p.m., and tickets are available for $10 in advance at 
Showclix.com.
-Matthew Fowler & The Prado Sisters, Dillon Basse, 
Max Helgemo and Nicholas Roberts will perform at Hard-
back Cafe. Doors to the show open at 7 p.m., and tickets 
are available at Eventbrite.com for $5 to $7.
Friday:
-Satchel’s Pizza is bringing The Browns’ soul, funk, 
blues and Motown vibe to the local, pizza-centric restau-
rant Friday at 6 p.m. 
Saturday:
-David Feder is bringing his signature “bohemian ﬂ  a-
menco guitar” sound to Heartwood Soundstage on Satur-
day beginning at 8 p.m. Tickets for the show are available 
at heartwoodsoundstage.com for $15 in advance and $20 
on the day of the show.
-Perpetual Groove, Tamayo and special guests will 
perform at High Dive on Saturday night. Doors open at 
9 p.m. Tickets can be purchased for $12 in advance and 
$14 on the day of the show at highdivegainesville.com, 
Hear Again Records and High Dive box ofﬁ  ce.
Sunday:
-The End Up Bar is now hosting Salsa and Bachata 
Sundays with drink specials extending from 9 p.m. to 11 
p.m. There is no cover at the door, and the bar is open 
until 4 a.m.
-Diplocrats, R-Dent, Jason Guy Smiley and Shark 
Anatomy will perform a rock show at Hardback Cafe on 
Sunday at 9 p.m. Entry is $5.
Monday:
-WWE Live: SummerSlam Heatwave Tour comes to 
the O’Connell Center on Monday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets for 
the event range from $15 to $90.
Tuesday:
-The UF School of Music’s Summer Symphony Or-
chestra Concert will be performed Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. 
The concert will be held in University Auditorium, and 
it’s free to the public.
Wednesday:
-Union Street Farmers Market is a weekly event held 
on Bo Diddley Community Plaza from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
-High Dive is showing “Fight Club” on Wednesday as 
part of their weekly cult movie nights with Soul Spice 
Tacos. The showing is free and begins at 9 p.m.Weekly Event 
Calendar:
LIFESTYLE10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
This is it, Gators. The summer sea-
son is nearly over, and we’ve made a 
playlist to celebrate. Enjoy the last of 
your Popsicles and even out your sun-
tan. Soon it will be fall, and we will 
all have to replace our swimsuits with 
sweaters.Imagine inﬁ  nite sunshine. Can you 
see it? Now, imagine a ﬁ  eld of limes 
and strawberries. Can you taste it? 
“Almost Solid Light” celebrates these 
ﬁ  nite inﬁ  nites, our otherwise insig-
niﬁ  cant summer memories. Summer 
may be nearly over, but our love for 
each other never will be. Here’s to a 
summer that mattered because noth-
ing else did.Gregory Florez
Check The Avenue Spotify to stream our playlists on your device.
“Humility” 
by Gorillaz (ft. George Benson)
“Sour Patch Kids”
by Bryce Vine
“Little Slice”
by Watsky (ft. Danny Skyhigh McClain)
“Pills” 
by Joji
“Feels Like Summer” 
by Childish Gambino
“Lottery” 
by Kali Uchis“Lose Yourself to Dance” 
by Daft Punk (ft. Pharrell Williams)
“Coast is Clear” 
by Skrillex (ft. Chance the Rapper)
“I Already Forgot Everything You Said” 
by The Dig
“Night Of The Long Knives” 
by Everything Everything
“Dream Sweet in Sea Major” 
by Miracle Musical
“Encoder” 
by Pendulum
MUSIC
THE PLAYLIST‘Almost Solid Light’ 
 The Avenue’s conclusive 
summer playlist
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
What do you say when the queen and revo-
lutionary behind reality TV says she’s making 
a comeback? 
That’s hot!
Yes, the Hilton empire is back on television. 
Paris Hilton has announced her comeback 
to our television screens with the new series 
“Hollywood Love Story.” 
The new show explores the complexities of 
social media, including the darkness that can 
come with all of the gloriﬁ  ed good. Hilton’s 
new program follows the lives of a group of 
regular people who aspire to have the same 
social media following as some of the well-
known media personalities.
Hilton acts as a narrator and contrasting 
voice of reason to the lavish dreams that all of 
the subjects speak about. 
The series ofﬁ  cially premiered on Viceland 
on July 11, and eager fans who may not have the channel can watch the ﬁ  rst full episode on-
line now.
In the ﬁ  rst episode, we watch the daily life 
of an aspiring pop star named Riiottt. This 
young female, although not economically sta-
ble, poses her life on Instagram as glamorous 
while also being edgy and raw. As we watch, 
we see the successes and failures of other 
young adults trying to make it in Hollywood. 
Some of the stars, including the best friend 
duo The Spirit Sisters, simply want to gain fol-
lowers based on a “cool factor” and hope to 
gain a presence based on their ability to throw 
epic parties. 
As we watch the lives of these wannabes, 
Hilton shares parallels in her own journey and 
describes moments, both positive and nega-
tive, that brought her to her current level of 
fame.
There’s no word from the network yet on 
whether viewers will get another season, but 
if the Instagram trending page is any indicator, 
then there are many more stories to share. Series review of the week: 
‘Hollywood Love Story’
MOVIES & TV
Viceland
Reality TV star Paris Hilton returns with a new series  on Viceland, “Hollywood Love 
Story.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1800/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000                    8-22-18-7-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS.  Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
KENMORE WASHER & DRYER
16 months old. Purchased at Sears. Great 
condition, used by single person. Call 352-
246-1312 - only between 4-7 p.m.   $400.    
8-9-3-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
DONATE YOUR CAR - 877-654-3662
FAST FREE TOWING -24hr Response -
Maximum Tax Deduction - 
UNITED BREAST CANCER FDN:
Providing Breast Cancer Information & 
Support Programs    8-2-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PART-TIME
● yard work ● cleaning ● chores ● errands, 
etc. 6 - 12 hours per week.
$10 / hr + tip.
Apply at:  www.Gator2018.com         8-7-5-14      
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR INSECT 
REPELLENT RESEARCH STUDY AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
UF IRB#201700763
We are seeking volunteers for participation in 
a study of insect repellents and how they will 
prevent bites from mosquitoes in a field set -
ting. Participants must be between the ages of 
18 and 55. The study will take up to 6 visits to 
complete (compensation is provided per visit). 
If you would like to participate or you would 
like more information please contact the study 
director Emma N.I. Weeks Ph.D., Phone 352-
273-3954, email: eniweeks@ufl.edu     8-2-18-
5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.    8-2-1-15Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
SIMEDHealth is hiring a full time Maintenance 
Technician for our Gainesville office location. 
$14-$16 per hour. 
Visit our website at
simedhealth.com/jobs to apply.    8-9-18-5-14
PART TIME - $15 PER HOUR - FUN  
Promote delicious wines at your local 
grocery store on weekends!
APPLY HERE: Cheerfulpromo@gmail.com 
Include your phone #                    7-7-18-3-14
1. FOOD & DRINK: What ingredi-
ent is added to sugar to make it brown 
sugar?
2. CURRENCY: Which historical 
figure featured on a $100 bill was NOT 
a president?
3. GEOGRAPHY: How many coun-
tries border Germany?
4. GAMES: Who invented the game 
of roulette?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: On which 
continent would you find a dingo, a 
wild dog?
6. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
American industrialist once said, 
“Formula for success: rise early, work 
hard, strike oil”?
7. HISTORY: Who was the last 
queen of France?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How 
long did the Pony Express deliver mail 
in the United States?
9. SCIENCE: What is the filament in 
an incandescent light bulb made of?
10. MOVIES: Which Disney movie 
features a character named Cruella de 
Vil?
Answers
1. Molasses
2. Benjamin Franklin
3. Nine
4. French mathematician Blaise Pas-
cal
5. Australia (or Oceania)
6. J. Paul Getty
7. Marie Antoinette
8. 1860-61 (18 months)
9. Tungsten
10. “101 Dalmatians”
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 30, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 ServicesTHURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   ‑13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    8-2-
1-16
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Learn how you can make an extra
$300-$1000+ weekly as a college student. 
Go to: www.alexwaytofreedom.com    8-2-
18-4-20
LEARN HOW to make an extra
$450 per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.studentsurvey.club    8-2-18-4-20
Make Money Online
While In College. 
https://tinyurl.com/y86d9y4a     
8-15-18-5-20Learn how to make up to $400
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: http://www.makemoneynow.shop/
8-15-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Lacks options
6 Passion
10 Asian holidays
14 When
Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern are
last seen in
“Hamlet”
15 Super-large film
format
16 Tons
17 Give some space
19 Filmmaker
Wertmüller
20 The blacksmith
was busted for __
22 Chow line?
24 Clamor
25 Pistons great
Thomas
26 The miner was
busted for __
31 Pattern for some
school uniforms
32 French peak
33 Toxin fighters
34 Dogpatch name
36 Some
40 Desertlike
41 Jane Curtin title
role
42 The marathoner
was busted for __
47 Confuse with
booze
48 Vein find
49 Word with bar or
suit
50 The barber was
busted for __
55 “I hate the Moor”
speaker
56 Creates
opportunities
59 Piano piece for
four hands
60 “Love Song”
singer Bareilles
61 China’s Zhou __
62 Alternatively
63 Cheribundi Tart
Cherry Boca
Raton Bowl airer
64 Real cards
DOWN
1 “I’m sorry, Dave.
I’m afraid I can’t
do that” speaker
2 Big heart?
3 Military wheels4 Watch-when-
you-want gadget
5 Went too far with
6 Taxpayer’s chore
7 “That’s my cue!”
8 Gave a buzz
9 Office VIP
10 “The Voyeur’s
Motel” writer Gay
11 Evoke
12 Some small
trucks
13 Secret store
18 Not fer
21 Walk in the
woods
22 iPhone
downloads
23 Agitate
27 Soul supplier
28 Pampers maker,
for short
29 World Cup cheer
30 EMT’s skill
34 MSNBC
journalist Melber
35 Compost holder
36 Clerical vestment
37 Had no co-pilot
38 Joyce’s land
39 Old place?
40 Not for
41 One changing a
bill42 Move again, as
lumber
43 Linguist’s
concerns
44 Dissenting ballot
45 Presidential
speechwriter
Peggy
46 “Mila 18”
novelist
47 Gloria Gaynor’s
“I Will Survive”
was one51 Odor detector
52 Students’ 
stats
53 Blacksmith,
miner,
marathoner or
barber, in this
puzzle
54 “Beloved” 
author 
Morrison
57 Squeal
58 Part of the fam
By Ed Sessa
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/02/1808/02/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 2, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Light-ly armed
fighter?
5 “Better Call Saul”
network
8 Takes by force
14 Nerve impulse
carrier
15 Bit of texting
mirth
16 ThinkPad maker
17 Liveliness
19 “Grumpy” film
guys
20 Really enjoyed,
with “up”
21 Got 100 on
22 Iberian river
23 Jefferson
Airplane song
with the words
“Go ask Alice”
27 To the degree
that
30 “It’s __!”
31 Like the Piper
32 Wrapped up
33 Piece of land
36 “To boldly go,”
e.g.
41 Boston winter
hrs.
42 Words before a
start date
43 Swedish retail
giant
44 Color from the
French for “mole”
46 Multiplex theater
count
49 Cat owner’s
purchase
51 Deeply
engrossed
52 Nest-building flier
53 Wordsmith’s ref.
56 Verdict challenge
59 Tabloid pair
found in 17-, 
23-, 36- and 
49-Across
61 Throwing money
around, in slang
62 __ urchin
63 Central
64 Chinese bamboo
eaters
65 TV shopper’s
option
66 Tom Stoppard
creationDOWN
1 Indonesian island
2 __ interview
3 Spoil, with “on”
4 Ship __ bottle
5 Keys of music
6 Church songs
7 Half a notorious
crime duo
8 __-mo replay
9 Slender
aquarium
swimmer
10 Like many a
college graduate
11 Resembling the
walking dead
12 Tennis legend
Chris
13 Prefix with gram
18 Cowardly Lion
portrayer
23 Desert riverbed
24 Sitar master
Shankar
25 Yemen’s main
port
26 City on the
Adriatic
27 Semicircular
church area
28 Doesn’t guzzle
29 Sharpie, e.g.32 On vacation
34 “Cupcake Wars”
appliance
35 Drinks with scones
37 Opposite of slack
38 Game played with
one’s “little eye”
39 Dramatist Coward
40 Level
45 Go to
46 Declares
47 Diagnostic pic48 Loan default risk
49 Iota follower
50 “If only”
51 Rough file
53 Iridescent gem
54 “East of Eden”
director Kazan
55 Say no to
57 MouthHealthy.org
initials
58 Lille lily
60 Diamond authority
By Victor Barocas
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/01/1808/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 1, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Ten years 
1.  Dethrone5.  Part
2.  Wash6.  ____ passage 
3.  ____ up 7.  Band of fibrous tissue 
4.  Sri Lanka, formerlyCEDDEA
SDEEOPCEIPE
SNLAA
NCSLEEA
SEERSDDOTENND
YONECLANSWERS: 1A-Decade  5A-Piece  6A-Nasal  7A-Tendon
1D-Depose  2D-Cleanse  3D-Dressed  4D-Ceylon  B-Cape Cod8-2-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA, 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Since 1914, ____ ____ has been separated from 
the U.S. Mainland by the ____ ____ Canal. 
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 20 Events/NoticesCoach Becky Burleigh and the UF 
women's soccer team held the first 
practice of the 2018 season on 
Monday at Dizney Stadium.GATORS HOST FOOTBALL MEDIA DAY
Florida is hosting its annual football media day today at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium starting at 11 a.m.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
FOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Florida is holding its annual foot-
ball media day today, which means 
Friday is the anticipated launch of the 
Gators’ fall camp. 
Obviously, the biggest question 
for UF is who will start at quarter-
back. But in my opinion, a decision 
between redshirt sophomores Feleipe 
Franks and Kyle Trask won’t come 
before the season opener against 
Charleston Southern on Sept. 1. 
So, what are the three biggest 
questions coach Dan Mullen and Flor-
ida face on the cusp of training camp? 
Allow me to ask. Will any players be suspended?
With all of the recent reports about 
football players being involved in a 
series of altercations with Gainesville 
locals and incidents spanning from 
February to late July, there has to be 
some sort of discipline from Mullen. 
Right?
Of course, he could have already 
spoken to his players regarding many 
of these incidents, dealing out punish-
ments as he sees fit without drawing 
media attention. 
But what about recent reports of 
a Gainesville police officer that pulled 
over wide receiver Kadarius Toney 
and found an assault rifle laying in the back seat of his Chevy Monte Carlo? 
The sophomore wasn’t arrested 
(although having an assault rifle read-
ily accessible in a car is illegal), but 
there must be some violation of team 
rules here. 
It will be interesting to see what 
disciplinary action, if any, comes 
from the actions of Toney and his 
teammates. 
Can the O-Line take the next 
step?
Many coaches would be ecstatic 
inheriting a starting offensive line 
comprised of three seniors and two 
juniors. But if this unit struggles as 
much this season as it did in 2017, it won’t matter who starts at quarter-
back or running back for the Gators. 
It’ll be a long season. 
UF ranked last in the SEC in sacks 
allowed per game last season (3.36) 
and 12th in tackles for loss allowed 
per game (6.64).
Center T.J. McCoy will be one of 
Florida’s most important players in 
2018 after starting nine games last 
season and four in 2016. His experi-
ence making calls on the line is in-
valuable, but at 6-foot-1, he’ll almost 
always have a size disadvantage 
against opposing defensive tackles. 
Yet, there are more important things 
for a center than height, and if Mc-
Coy can improve on his snapping and blocking techniques from a season 
ago, it’ll be a huge step forward for 
the whole line.
Seniors Tyler Jordan and Fred 
Johnson look to be the starting 
guards, but don’t overlook redshirt 
sophomore Brett Heggie, who started 
seven games in 2017 and was argu-
ably the team’s best guard before go-
ing down with a knee injury against 
Missouri. If he’s healthy for the sea-
son opener, he may start over Jordan 
at left guard. 
Senior Martez Ivey and junior 
Jawaan Taylor, both 6-foot-5 and 
over 310 pounds, each started 23 
games over the past two seasons but Top 3 questions heading into the start of fall camp
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
Chris Chiozza set the UF career assists record in a win over Kentucky on 
Senior Day on March 3. 
alligatorSports Awards: Record/Milestone of the Year
Alligator Staff Report
Several records were broken 
and milestones were achieved 
during the UF 2017-18 athletic 
season. We saw Caeleb Dres-
sel torch several records, Chris 
Chiozza dazzle us with passes, 
Grant Holloway have himself a 
year, Jim McElwain slumping 
and Mary Wise showing why 
she's one of the best coaches in 
collegiate volleyball. Our round-
table of Chris O’Brien, Evan 
Lepak, Andrew Huang, Brendan 
Farrell and Mark Stine debate 
which event was the record or 
milestone of the year.
Chris: I don’t really know if 
this is the right example, but who 
cares? 
The football team sucked last 
season, and its 4-7 record is a 
milestone. A bad one, but a mile-
stone nonetheless.
Maybe it’s a hallmark for the 
worst UF coach ever (shoutout to 
Ron Zook and Charley Pell, the 
walking probation) in Jim McEl-
wain.
The four wins were all over 
mediocre teams - Tennessee, 
Kentucky, Vanderbilt and UAB. 
In its seven losses, its scoring 
average was 16.43, and only 
once did it score more than 20 
points (that stat includes defen-
sive touchdowns as well). That 
was against FSU in a beatdown 
loss 38-22, where UF scored a 
touchdown with 37 seconds left 
to push them over 20.
Last year’s football team was 
not fun to watch. To me, it’s a historic milestone because it 
marked another year that UF was 
mired in offensive mediocrity.
The last time Florida lost 
less than four games? 2012. Six 
straight years of being average. 
And really, 2012 was an outlier 
because, prior to that year, the 
last time the Gators lost less than 
four was in 2009 - Tebow’s final 
season.
Eight of nine years of medioc-
rity.
Before 2009, Florida fans were 
treated to some damn good foot-
ball. There weren’t back-to-back 
seasons with at least four losses 
between 2003 and 2009. Now, it 
has been eight of nine years that 
football hasn’t been very fun to 
watch.
That’s a milestone if you ask 
me.
Regarding McElwain, I don’t 
even need to go into detail for 
you to know he’s already got a 
case for worst Florida coach ever.
That’s a pretty good (bad) 
milestone of the year if you ask 
me.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Evan: So if you’ve paid atten-
tion even a little bit to UF swim-
ming over the last few seasons, 
you’d know right away who Cae-
leb Dressel is.
You’d know that he’s an ab-
solute monster in the pool, and 
you’d probably also know his 
personal list of accomplishments 
runs longer than the Nile River.
Breaking records seems so in-
credibly effortless to this guy, yet you can’t help but be impressed.
That’s why my “Record of 
the Year” candidate belongs to 
Dressel’s accomplishments at 
the NCAA Swimming and Diving 
Championships in Minneapolis 
last March.
The Green Cove Springs, 
Florida, native took the event by 
storm, thrashing through records 
just like he did the water.
The 28-time All-American 
broke both the 50-yard and 100-
yard freestyle records, becoming 
the first person to ever swim un-
der 18 seconds in the 50 (17.63) 
and also becoming the first per-
son to swim under 40 seconds in 
the 100 (39.90).
That’s simply incredible if you 
really sit back and think about it.
Does the guy even breathe 
oxygen? Has anybody confirmed 
whether he has gills or not?
Oh yeah, the two-time Olym-
pic gold medalist would also go 
on to become the 2018 NCAA 
champion in the 100-fly as well 
as the 200-free relay for a total of 
four titles in one meet.
Florida’s most-decorated 
swimmer in the program’s his-
tory will be missed mightily in 
Gainesville, but one thing’s cer-
tain: We haven’t seen the last of 
Caeleb Dressel.
The 2020 Summer Olympics 
in Tokyo are right around the 
corner, and I’m pretty confident 
you might hear Mr. Dressel’s 
name more than a few times.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
AP
The Associated Press
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) — Re-
sorts Casino Hotel and DraftKings on 
Wednesday received approval to be-
come the ﬁ  rst companies to offer on-
line and mobile sports betting in New 
Jersey.
The state Division of Gaming En-
forcement gave 
approval to the 
casino and its 
Boston-based on-
line partner to 
launch an invita-
tion-only version 
of mobile sports 
betting, which will undergo several 
days of testing before becoming fully 
available. Requests for invitations to 
participate can be made at draftkings.
com.
A launch was expected to happen 
Wednesday afternoon or evening.
The companies won a heated race 
to be ﬁ  rst to market with mobile and 
online sports betting, which is widely seen as the most promising segment 
of the nascent sports betting market. 
New Jersey regulators are considering 
mobile applications from several oth-
er companies and could soon approve 
additional online providers.
Four casinos and two horse tracks 
currently offer in-person sports bet-
ting.
Resorts ofﬁ  cials declined to com-
ment on Wednes-
day’s launch, 
which came hours 
after Harrah’s be-
came the fourth 
Atlantic City casi-
no to offer sports 
betting: A Frank Sinatra impersonator 
asked Luck to be a lady as he bet on 
the New York Yankees, and an Elvis 
impersonator thanked the clerk very 
much for handing him a similar bet 
slip.
Harrah’s started taking sports bets 
two days after its sister property, Bal-
ly’s, did, joining the Borgata, Ocean 
Resort, Bally’s and two horse racing 
tracks, the Meadowlands and Mon-mouth Park.
“I did one with my heart and one 
with my head,” said James Prend-
ergast, of Washington Township in 
Warren County. “My heart bet on the 
(New York) Giants to win the Super 
Bowl, and my head bet on the (Hous-
ton) Texans.”
Longtime Harrah’s customer Alan 
Kallman, of Monroe Township, placed 
the ﬁ  rst sports bet at Harrah’s, putting 
$25 on the Yankees to win the World 
Series — after his wife talked him out 
of betting on the Boston Red Sox.
“There’s a saying, Alan: Happy 
wife, happy life,” said Kevin Ortzman, 
Atlantic City president of Caesars En-
tertainment, which owns Harrah’s, 
Bally’s and Caesars.
Ortzman said Bally’s sports book 
“has met our expectations” during 
its ﬁ  rst two days of operation, but he 
would not say how much in bets it 
had taken in.
New Jersey won a U.S. Supreme 
Court case in May clearing the way 
for all 50 states to offer sports betting 
should they choose to do so.  Resorts, DraftKings approved for online 
sports betting in JerseyFOOTBALL
The Associated Press
Ohio State has placed 
coach Urban Meyer on 
paid administrative leave 
while it investigates 
claims that his wife knew 
about allegations of abuse 
against an assistant coach 
years before he was ﬁ  red 
last week.
Courtney Smith gave 
an interview to Stadium 
and provided text mes-
sages to former ESPN re-
porter Brett McMurphy 
between her and Shelley 
Meyer in 2015 and with 
the wives of other Buck-
eyes coaches. 
Courtney Smith also 
provided threatening texts 
she claims came from her 
ex-husband, former assis-
tant Zach Smith.Zach Smith was ﬁ  red 
last week after an Ohio 
court granted a domestic 
violence protective order 
to Courtney Smith.
Hours after Courtney 
Smith’s interview was 
posted online Wednesday, 
Ohio State said it was con-
ducting an investigation 
into the allegations and 
Meyer was being placed 
on leave. 
Offensive coordinator 
Ryan Day will serve as 
acting head coach for the 
Buckeyes, expected to be 
one of the top teams in the 
nation again this season.
Meyer said he and ath-
letic director Gene Smith 
agree that being on leave 
during the inquiry was 
best for the investigation 
and the team.  Ohio State puts 
Meyer on leave, 
investigation opened“What in the f--k?”
That was my reaction to the 
initial breaking of the report 
of UF football players getting 
involved in a “confrontation” 
with Santa Fe student Devante’ 
Zachery.
And if it wasn’t yours too, 
then you should probably re-
evaluate your thought process.
Let’s break the whole situa-
tion down piece by piece and start with 
the initial report, because there is A LOT 
wrong with it.
First, why the hell is the football team 
involved with trouble like this anyway? 
Everyone and their mother knows that 
getting involved in disputes like this ruins 
lives and can only mean bad news.
Second, regarding the initial report of 
the confrontation, it stated Zachery and 
his crew were strapped with guns. Like, 
real guns. 
Yet, tight end C’yontai Lewis wielded a 
frying pan. We’ve heard the old adage say-
ing, “Don’t bring a knife to a gun ﬁ  ght,” 
but this takes it to a whole new level.
C’mon C’yontai, a frying pan? Serious-
ly? What did you expect to do, become a 
freaking ninja and block their hypothetical 
bullets with it? The tight end shouldn’t be 
involved at all, but if he’s going to be, you 
want him to be sensible about it. 
Then, on July 4, wide receiver Tyrie 
Cleveland got cold-clocked and knocked 
out in front of Rain nightclub. 
Once again, why are they even giv-
ing this guy the time of day, and why 
are they ﬁ  ghting with him? As soon as he 
approaches, just get out of wherever the 
hell you are and call the police. Unless, 
of course, you have something to hide as well.
Let’s move to the next report 
that came out about wide re-
ceiver Kadarius Toney, who got 
handcuffed for not complying 
with police.
GPD pulls him over because 
he’s not wearing a seatbelt, but 
then they ﬁ  nd something much 
more heinous. An assault riﬂ  e. 
Something you kill someone or 
something with. 
When asked why he had such a weap-
on in his backseat, Toney responded he 
had it “for protection because of the lo-
cals.”
For what now? Protection because of 
locals? I am incredulous. Never once have 
I met someone who has an ASSAULT RI-
FLE for protection. A pistol? Okay, maybe. 
I can somewhat understand that. But an 
assault riﬂ  e? 
Finally, why are the football players 
CONTINUING to associate with this local 
after he caused them trouble in the ﬁ  rst 
place?
It’s not as if Zachery is going after the 
players, it’s cited speciﬁ  cally in the police 
report that players have attempted to seek 
him out for a showdown.
There’s something more going on here. 
I don’t know exactly what it is, and I don’t 
know why it’s going on, but we’re going 
to ﬁ  nd it. We might not ﬁ  nd it ﬁ  rst at the 
Alligator, but someone will. We, as jour-
nalists and reporters, are going to ﬁ  nd it.
Dan Mullen, you better get ahold of 
your team, and you better do it damn 
quick because the walls are closing in.
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer. You can 
follow him on Twitter @THEChrisOB and 
contact him at cobrien@alligator.org.It’s about time for Dan Mullen to take control of his football teamO’B-Wan Kenobi / Opinion
Alligator File Photo
Wide receiver Kadarius T oney was pulled over for a seatbelt violation on July 22 when a 
Gainesville police ofﬁ  cer found a loaded assault riﬂ  e in his back seat.
Chris O'Brien
Twitter: @THEChrisOB
“[DraftKings will] launch an 
invitation-only version of mobile 
sports betting ... before becoming 
fully available.”16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Brendan: I’ll fully admit that this is more of 
an emotional pick than a logical one, but Chris 
Chiozza breaking the all-time school assists re-
cord was just incredible to watch. 
The Gators’ 2017-18 basketball season was a 
wild roller-coaster ride of incredible highs and 
unfathomable lows, but Chris Chiozza was the 
steadying force of an otherwise inconsistent 
team. 
After splitting point guard duties with Kasey 
Hill for three years, Chiozza ﬁ  nally was the 
starting point guard for the Gators full time in 
2017-18. And with that came 205 assists for the 
season, 73 more than he had the season prior. 
Entering the regular season ﬁ  nale against 
Kentucky, Chiozza just needed one more assist 
to pass Erving Walker’s record for the most in 
school history. 
With 6:06 left in the ﬁ  rst half, Chiozza took 
a few dribbles and went to drive towards the 
basket before pulling up and dishing the ball to 
Keith Stone, who drilled a three-pointer to give 
Chiozza the career record with 548 assists. Be-
tween the rest of the game, the SEC tournament 
and the NCAA tournament, he would add an-
other 23 assists, ﬁ  rmly establishing himself as 
the owner of the most career assists in Florida 
history with 571 total. 
For him to do this on Senior Day in his last 
game in the O'Connell Center was just incred-
ible to watch in person, and it was a fantastic 
way to cap off an illustrious career at Florida. 
And, oh yeah, he led Florida to an 80-67 
demolition of rival Kentucky in a game that 
wasn’t as close as the score indicated. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
Mark: Last season was full of individual re-
cord-breaking efforts from some great seniors.
Caeleb Dressel set records at the NCAA 
Swimming Championships. Alex McMurtry ﬁ  n-
ished the career “Gym Slam” by earning two 
perfect scores to beat Oklahoma. And Chris 
Chiozza set the all-time assist record on Senior 
Day. 
However, Grant Holloway’s record-setting 
year in men’s indoor and outdoor hurdles was 
Florida’s most astounding.The man broke the collegiate record in the 
60-meter indoor hurdles (7.42) and won the na-
tional title for the second-straight season. 
He backed that up by setting the school re-
cord in the 110-meter outdoor hurdles (13.15), 
also good for second in collegiate history, and 
winning the national championship in that 
event for back-to-back seasons.
He’s only the second man in collegiate his-
tory (Terrence Trammell, South Carolina, 1999-
00) to sweep the 60- and 110-meter hurdles in 
two-consecutive seasons. 
And he’s only a sophomore. In 2017, he was 
the ﬁ  rst freshman ever to sweep both events. 
But these accomplishments don’t even be-
gin to express how amazing of an athlete Hol-
loway is. 
He took gold at the SEC Outdoor Champion-
ships last season in the long jump, defeating 
his teammate KeAndre Bates, the 2017 national 
champion. 
He also ran second leg in the 4x400 outdoor 
relay team that set the school record. 
Holloway is already the greatest hurdler in 
program history, but imagine what he can ac-
complish with two more years under Mike Hol-
loway (not his dad). 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Andrew: It’s no secret that sexism is alive 
and well in this country. I’m not here to call 
the entire sport of volleyball sexist, but it does 
make me scratch my head knowing that there’s 
only one female head coach among the top 
ﬁ  ve winningest in NCAA women’s – keyword 
“women’s” –  volleyball.
That coach is Mary Wise, an unparalleled 
trailblazer who hit several milestones as UF’s 
head coach last season. For one, she became 
just the fourth coach in NCAA volleyball histo-
ry to win 800 games with one Division I school. 
This happened with sweeps of Florida A&M 
and Northern Kentucky on a Sept. 15 double 
header. Again, she’s the only female coach to 
accomplish this (in a sport played exclusively 
by women). 
You can read the remainder of this article 
online by going to alligator.org/sports. 
 AWARDS,  from pg. 14Holloway set a collegiate record
have to improve both technically and physi-
cally. Ivey spoke at SEC Media Days and 
talked about how he felt frustratingly weak 
compared to opponents last season. 
Hopefully, Hevesy and strength and 
conditioning coach Nick Savage have al-
ready begun transforming this unit techni-
cally and physically. 
Is there a possibility of two kickers? 
I’m sure nobody wants to revisit the 
UF special teams unit that came after place 
kicker Francisco Velez and before Eddy Pin-
eiro, but it’s the last time the Florida kicking 
job was as wide open as it is this year. 
Current redshirt senior Jorge Powell and 
Austin Hardin split the kicking duties in 
2015. 
Hardin, a junior at the time, went 5 for 
14, and Powell knocked in 2 of 3 as a fresh-
man, his only career makes (long of 31 yards). Hardin made 24 of 27 extra points; 
Powell converted 10 of 11, and Neil “The 
Dentist” MacInnes went 2 for 3. 
Now, Powell is the only Florida kicker 
with in-game experience. He’ll be vying for 
the starting job with true freshman Evan 
McPherson. 
Powell’s accurate, but lacks the booming 
leg that Pineiro had and McPherson seems 
to possess. This could mean that McPher-
son could handle the kickoff and long ﬁ  eld 
goal duties, while Powell takes extra points 
and shorter ﬁ  eld goals. 
However, Gator fans may be wary of 
having a multiple kickers for the ﬁ  rst time 
since 2015. So it wouldn’t be surprising if 
Mullen chose either Powell or McPherson 
to take over as UF’s new full-time kicker. 
If McPherson twins the job and doesn't 
work out, Mullen can always redshirt him 
after four games. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Will UF play two kickers?
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt senior Jorge Powell and freshman Evan McPherson are the favorites 
to replace Oakland Raider Eddy Pineiro (pictured) as UF's starting kicker. 
