We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
What can we learn from the Vandals?
The Gators take on Idaho on Saturday. Despite 
the likely blowout, Florida should be able to 
ﬁ  gure some things out on both sides of the ball, 
pg. 14EXCELSIOR!
Comic book writer Stan Lee dies at 95, pg. 4
Cotton on history
Historical Harlem-era nighclub building reopens as museum at 
ribbon-cutting ceremony, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 35
THE MAYORAL AND CITY 
COMMISSION DISTRICT 
4 SEATS WILL BE ON THE 
BALLOT MARCH 2019.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Mayor Lauren Poe announced his 
re-election campaign two months early Wednesday morning.
The mayoral seat and City Com-
mission District 4 seat, which is held 
by Commissioner Adrian Hayes-San-
tos, will be on the ballot on March 
19, 2019, according to the city of 
Gainesville website. Gainesville resi-
dents can vote early from March 9 
to 16.
Although qualifying for the City 
Commission elections begins Jan. 
28, Poe said he came to a realization after the midterm election results. 
Hayes-Santos has not yet announced 
if he will seek re-election.
Poe said he woke up feeling a bit 
heartbroken, especially after Demo-
cratic candidate Andrew Gillum’s 
loss. He said he couldn’t impact the 
statewide results, but he could affect 
change locally. He announced his 
decision on Facebook.
“I knew I had one thing under 
control and that was whether or not I’d run for Gainesville mayor again,” 
Poe said.
Running the city has been a dif-
ﬁ  cult but enjoyable experience, Poe 
said.
“I think I’ve worked really hard 
and hopefully earned their trust and 
respect,” Poe said.  “And I’m there 
to represent every single civilian of 
Gainesville.”
Hayes-Santos is focusing on vol-
unteering with the Democratic party during the midterm election recount 
and will announce his decision after 
the recount is complete, he wrote via 
text. 
“As Gainesville is headed in the 
right direction, there are still many 
issues that need to be addressed to 
make Gainesville a better place to 
live for everyone,” Hayes-Santos 
wrote. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMayor Lauren Poe announces campaign for re-electionA screen lit up with an image of waves 
crashing Tuesday night in Pugh Hall.
Daniel Smith, the UF department of po-
litical science chair, clicked the next slide 
which read, “Blue wave.” Some students 
laughed, others waited for an explanation. 
“There was a lot of talk about a blue 
wave coming this election,” he said. “We 
saw more of a red tide.”
Smith and Susan MacManus, a Univer-
sity of South Florida political science profes-
sor, took turns discussing the results of the 
2018 midterm election to a crowd of about 
100 students and residents. 
The event was hosted by the Bob Gra-
ham Center for Public Service, a nonpartisan 
civic engagement center, to help voters un-
derstand the midterm results, said spokes-
person Shelby Taylor. Smith and MacManus UF, USF 
political science 
professors 
discuss midterm
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff 
WAR DANCE AT THE REITZ
Native American performer David Velez, 55, dances the “Fancy War Dance” for an audience at the Reitz Union on Tuesday to 
celebrate Native Heritage Month. Velez is an Air Force veteran who has been dancing since he was 11 years old.
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 3VOTES IN THREE KEY RACES 
SHIFTED BY .01 PERCENT.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
The results of three high-proﬁ  le Flori-
da races shifted by .01 percent in Alachua 
County after the Supervisor of Elections of-
ﬁ  ce ﬁ  nished its machine recount Monday 
morning. 
Although the recount was estimated to take about two days, the ofﬁ  ce ﬁ  nished 
counting in less than 20 hours.
The races for Florida governor, U.S. Sen-
ate and Commissioner of Agriculture were 
within the state’s margin for a machine re-
count, according to the Florida Divison of 
Elections.
Democratic candidates Andrew Gillum, 
Bill Nelson and Nikki Fried won in Alachua 
County but lost their perspective races on 
Election Day. After the county’s machine 
recount, Nelson led at 64.5 percent, Gillum led at 63.04 percent and Fried led at 62.99 
percent of the votes.
Unofﬁ  cial results in Alachua County:
Nelson led Scott by 33,813 votes 
Gillum led DeSantis by 31,381 votes
Fried led Caldwell by 29,159 votes
Recount results in Alachua County:
Nelson leads Scott by 33,839 votes
Gillum leads DeSantis by 31,393 votes
Fried leads Caldwell by 29,185 votes
Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ces must send 
the machine recount results to Secretary of State Ken Detzner by 3 p.m. Thursday.
The Broward Supervisor of Elections of-
ﬁ  ce began recounting its 700,000 ballots at 
about noon Tuesday, according to the Mi-
ami Herald. Miami-Dade County, which had 
about 800,000 ballots to recount, ﬁ  nished 
Tuesday night.
Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elec-
tions Susan Bucher said her staff could only 
meet the 3 p.m Thursday deadline for the 
Senate race, according to The Palm Beach The Final Countdown: Alachua ﬁ  nishes machine recount
SEE RECOUNT,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
UPCOMING EVENTS: 
TODAY
Fulbright Luncheon with Swapna 
Kumar
UF Fulbright Programs and the UF 
International Center will host the 
Fulbright Luncheon with Swapna 
Kumar, a 2016-2017 Fulbright 
Scholar and faculty member of 
the UF College of Education, 
from noon to 1:30 p.m. in Reitz 
Union Room 2365. Students can 
learn about Kumar’s experiences 
working with diverse faculty and 
students on the design of blended 
learning and mentoring environ-
ments in Hungary, as well as her 
research on online and blended 
learning in higher education. 
This event is part of International 
Education Week 2018. Lunch will 
be provided, and the event is free 
and open to the public. To RSVP, 
please email UFFulbrightRSVP@
gmail.com. For more informa-
tion, contact mcardec@ufic.ufl.
edu.
Flowers with Frida Kahlo
Guests can discover the signifi-
cance of plants, fruits and flow-
ers in the work of Frida Kahlo 
and create their own watercolor 
still-life inspired by local and na-
tive specimens at 6:30-8 p.m. at 
the Headquarters Library, at 401 
E University Ave. This is a free 
class, and all materials will be 
provided. No experience is neces-
sary. This class is geared toward 
adults but interested kids and 
teens who are accompanied by 
an adult are welcome. 
Always True Unplugged
Join some Gainesville musicians 
for a stripped-back night at the 
Always True Collective pop-up 
shop at The SL8 downtown, at 
10 E. University Ave. The bands 
Baer and the Lady, The Hails 
and flipturn will all be perform-
ing acoustic sets from the store. 
Guests can come early to shop 
and find a good spot to watch the 
show. Tickets are $10 and can be 
purchased online at alwaystrue.
co. Doors for the show will close 
at 7:55 p.m. and not open for late 
attendees out of respect for the 
musicians.
THURSDAY
Botanical Illustration for 
Beginners
Guests can join Kristyn Bat 
Lopez of Wayfaring Painter for 
a beginner's botanical illustra-
tion workshop at 1-3 p.m. in 
Marston Science Library, at 444 
Newell Drive. All supplies will 
be provided. The event is free 
and open to UF students, staff 
and faculty. Learn more about 
unpublished Cuban botanical il-
lustrations of Nancy Kingsbury Wollstonecraft to be revealed at 
UF at cms.uflib.ufl.edu/news/in-
dex.aspx#20181026. This is limit-
ed to 30 participants. Registration 
is required and can be done at ufl.
libcal.com/event/4761957. For 
more information, contact Sarah 
Prentice at prentice@ufl.edu.
FRIDAY
Ribbon Cutting for Palmetto 
Moon Grand Opening
Palmetto Moon, a Southern life-
style retail store, will open its 
newest location at Celebration 
Pointe, at 3528 SW 45th Street, 
Suite T600, with a ribbon-cutting 
ceremony. The 6,500 square-foot 
store will carry on-trend and af-
fordable clothing, footwear, ac-
cessories, décor and gifts from 
a wide selection of Southern-
inspired outdoor lifestyle brands. 
Palmetto Moon officially opens 
its doors at 10 a.m., followed by a 
ribbon-cutting ceremony at 11:30 
a.m. The first 250 customers who 
make a purchase of $25 or more 
will receive a free custom 20 oz. 
YETI Rambler. The celebration 
will feature food, music, games 
and “spin to win” giveaways ev-
ery 15 minutes from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 6-10 p.m.
Explore the cosmos at ‘Starry 
Night’
Visitors may observe the night 
sky and explore the world beyond 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History’s free “Starry Night” 
program at 6-10 p.m. Activities 
include the opportunity to use 
high-performance telescopes and 
see a portable planetarium show. 
For more information, visit flori-
damuseum.ufl.edu/event/starry-
night or call 352-273-2062.
UF Opera Theatre & Symphony 
Orchestra present Hansel 
and Gretel
The holiday tradition of Hansel 
and Gretel will come to the stage 
at 7:30-9:30 p.m. at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts, at 
3201 Hull Road. Vocal perform-
ers from the graduate and un-
dergraduate programs of the UF 
School of Music make up the cast 
and orchestra for this gala pro-
duction. The UF Opera Theatre 
program, under the direction of 
Anthony Offerle, has a long his-
tory of bringing musical dramas 
to the stage in North Florida. UF 
alumnus Matt Wardell, the con-
ductor of the Ocala Symphony 
Orchestra, will lead the full or-
chestra of UF students in Hansel 
and Gretel. Tickets can be pur-
chased at tickets.performingarts.
ufl.edu. A second showing will 
be held at the same time and lo-cation Saturday.
GatorNights - A Magical Night in 
the Swamp
Appear at GatorNights this Friday 
for an enchanting night.  Students 
can put their skills to the test in 
GatorNights’ Forbidden Forest 
Escape Room. They can also at-
tend performances by the Unión 
de Estudiantes Puertorriqueños 
Activos’ “Salsa Concert: A Night 
in San Juan” in the Rion Ballroom, 
as well as the University Gospel 
Choir’s “Resound: The Sound 
of Victory” and Theatre Strike 
Force’s improv comedy show.  
There will also be deck of cards 
crafts, wire writing and painted 
glass jar stations. Guests can also 
drink Butterbeer and receive a 
tarot card reading. As always, 
there will be free bowling and 
billiards in the Game Room and 
breakfast at Midnight Munchies. 
GatorNights is always Friday 
and always free for UF students 
with their Gator 1 Card at the 
Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 
a.m. Attendees must be students 
to participate and are allowed to 
bring a guest. 
SATURDAY
Florida Gators Football vs Idaho 
Vandals
The Florida Gators Football team 
is playing the Idaho Vandals 
at noon at the Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium, at 121 Gale Lemerand 
Drive. Gates open an hour and a 
half before kickoff. Tickets range 
from $35 to $325 and can be pur-
chased on Ticketmaster. 
Movies at Depot Park
Depot Park, at 874 SE Fourth St., 
will be showing “Fantastic Mr. 
Fox” at 5:30 p.m. Guests can 
bring low-back chairs, blankets 
and picnic baskets. Minors must 
be accompanied by a guardian. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.HIGH  78° LOW  60°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 35
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Lokela Blanc, 
Sabrina Conza, Hanna Gibson, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Samantha Marshall, Federico Pohls,
April Rubin, Juan SalgueroSarah Breske, Mikayla Carroll,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
By Jenny L. Allen 
It was a neck-and-neck presidential race 
that, in part, hinged on chance. 
“Like a coin toss – either of the candi-
dates could take the race,” said UF sopho-
more Philip Eschbach on Tuesday night 
while watching the results being televised at 
a College Republicans gathering just blocks 
from the university. 
The tight running between Democratic 
candidate Al Gore and Republican candidate 
George W. Bush in the closest presidential 
race in 40 years quickly heated up as Elec-
toral College votes across the nation were 
announced.
The ﬁ  rst results reported Gore as the winner of Florida’s 25 electoral votes, an 
announcement that had Mark McCullough, 
president of the UF College Democrats and 
fellow members shrieking with happiness 
and caused them to pause to celebrate.
“This is about to become the happi-
est night of our lives,” said UF sophomore 
Jocelyn Smith, a College Democrat member 
who, after hugging nearby friends, called her 
parents. 
But as McCullough and others soon 
found, it was a night that would take many 
turns. 
Less than two hours later, news organi-
zations recalled their original results, instead 
citing the race in Florida as “too close to 
call.”While the news for McCullough was “like 
a wet blanket over my enthusiasm,” on the 
other side of town, Dan Soyka, president of 
the UF College Republicans, and his friends 
celebrated at his home.
“Frankly, it was quite a scare when the 
ﬁ  rst results came in,” he said. “But we’re 
conﬁ  dent and feeling good. This is Bush 
country. When they called Florida early, it 
was disheartening. Now, it’s more like we 
expected it.”
Throughout the evening, both student 
leaders followed the “rather nerve-racking 
race,” knowing the outcome rested with the 
25 electoral votes of Florida.
“I think it’s safe to say that whoever wins 
Florida wins the race,” McCullough said. “I am on pins and needles right now. We’re all 
just biting our ﬁ  ngernails waiting.” 
The candidates would not concede un-
til the last vote was counted in Florida, the 
ﬁ  ercest and latest of the battleground states 
to return its results. Both candidates bom-
barded the state during the ﬁ  nal leg of the 
campaign with rallies and TV ads, while lo-
cal supporters blitzed campus with chalk.
At press time, Bush was leading with 
246 electoral votes to Gore’s 242, according 
to CNN. In Florida, results at 1:50 a.m. said 
Bush and Gore both had about 49 percent of 
the vote with 95 percent of the precincts re-
porting. Bush led the national electoral votes 
246-242. Florida results a late-night toss-up, Wed. Nov. 8, 2000were not paid to speak.  
Many Floridians and politi-
cal scientists believed the Black 
Lives Matter movement, Park-
land shooting and teacher pay 
strikes would help Democrats 
win the gubernatorial and Sen-
ate races, Smith said. Instead, 
voters were left confused. 
The results boiled down to 
Republicans voting at higher 
rates than Democrats, Smith 
said. In Sumter County, more 
than 80 percent of Republicans 
voted during the midterms.
“All I can say is that Re-
publicans come out to vote on 
Election Day,” he said.
MacManus said she knew 
the Senate and gubernato-
rial races would be a toss-up. Florida is known for its close 
elections because of the state’s 
diverse and unpredictable de-
mographics. 
“Florida’s elections are al-
ways nail-biters,” she said.
Mark Werwitzer, an 
18-year-old UF political science 
freshman, voted for the ﬁ  rst 
time this election and was sur-
prised by the results. He came 
to the event to hear what pro-
fessionals had to say. 
Werwitzer said he expected 
a Democratic wave this year 
but will have to wait to see if 
his generation can swing Flor-
ida blue in upcoming elections.
“I want to see what the future 
of Florida will be like,” he said.ELECTION,  from pg. 1More Republicans voted.
Post. A judge extended the deadline 
for the Palm Beach recounts to Nov. 
20.
In the meantime, Alachua County 
is preparing for Detzner to announce 
a manual recount of the senator and 
Commissioner of Agriculture races at 
5 p.m. Thursday, said TJ Pyche, the 
Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-
tions spokesperson. 
In the case of a manual recount, 
40 volunteers would review the bal-
lots by hand, Pyche said. If a ballot 
is unclear, it will be reviewed by the 
county canvassing board to judge 
the voter’s intent.
Alachua County recounted half of 
the 116,000 ballots by 10 p.m Sun-
day. Of these ballots, about 40,000 
were early voting ballots, 40,000 
were election-day ballots and 35,000 
were vote-by-mail ballots, Pyche 
said. 
The county ﬁ  nished ahead of 
schedule because of a lack of tech-
nical issues and the number of vol-
unteers who worked the overnight 
shift, Pyche said. About 60 volun-
teers worked from 1:45 p.m. Sunday 
to about 6 a.m. Monday. 
“We’re lucky to live in a county 
that is so engaged and has so many 
people from different parts of the 
political spectrum that come in and 
participate in the process,” he said.
The machines were tested for 
glitches before the recount started, 
said Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections Kim Barton.
The paid volunteers were sta-
tioned at a total of 32 machines, two 
of which were programmed to count 
vote-by-mail ballots. 
The ﬁ  rst set of volunteers worked 
a 6-hour shift. The following shifts 
were 12 hours long, Pyche said. Vol-
unteers were paid a minimum wage 
of $8.25 an hour but could opt out 
of it. 
The Alachua County Democratic 
National Party and Republican Na-
tional Party sent designated observ-
ers to monitor irregularities. Cynthia 
Chestnut, the chair of the Alachua 
County Democratic Party, said more 
than 150 volunteers from the Demo-
cratic party covered Alachua, Levy, 
Dixie, Gilchrist, Union and Bradford 
counties to monitor the process. 
Observers from each party were 
not required to be present, Chestnut 
said.
“We were overwhelmed by the generosity of people’s time,” she 
said. “I think people really want to 
see democracy at work and this is 
it.”
The recount was open to the pub-
lic from start to ﬁ  nish. Residents sat 
in red, white and blue chairs as the 
machines whirred and dinged. 
Michael Howard, a 62-year-old 
disabled Vietnam War veteran, ar-
rived at about 5 p.m. Sunday and 
said he would stay until they ﬁ  nish 
in the morning. He said he wanted to 
silently observe the process in honor 
of his fallen brothers on Veterans 
Day. 
“We’re a 242-year-old experiment in democracy,” Howard said. “We’ve 
made it longer than any country and 
any other democracy for a reason.”
However, Howard was not satis-
ﬁ  ed with the recount system. He said 
it should be organized better. 
Other spectators like 54-year-old 
Alachua County resident Jackie Bor-
deaux said she wants the recount to 
be organized, smooth and modern-
ized.
“It just needs to be fair,” Bor-
deaux said. “At least, it’s not those 
punch cards, right?”
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org RECOUNT,  from pg. 1Counties’ recounts are due to the state Thursday.
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Susan MacManus, 71, speaks at the 2018 Election Wrap-Up 
event in Pugh Hall Tuesday night. MacManus is a professor 
emeritus at the University of South Florida, as well as a 
member of the Bob Graham Center Council of Advisors.
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Joanna T aft, a 4-year-old Gainesville resident, listens to Commissioner 
Harvey Ward encourage the crowd to help recount votes during the 
Count Every Vote rally Sunday afternoon.
FROM ALLIGATOR ARCHIVESNov. 6
After polls close at 7 p.m. on Election Day, the tally 
appears to favor Democrats early in the night. How-
ever, during the night, Republican Ron DeSantis gains 
ground in the governor’s race and announces victory 
over Democrat Andrew Gillum. Republican Gov. Rick 
Scott tells supporters he won the U.S. Senate seat for 
Florida from incumbent Bill Nelson. Nelson releases a 
statement saying he’s waiting for results.
Nov. 7
Florida wakes up to the news that the races for gov-
ernor, U.S. Senate and agriculture commissioner are 
even closer. The Republican lead dwindles. Nelson 
announces the race is too close to call. 
Nov. 8
As the races become closer, Republicans protest in 
Broward and Palm Beach counties, which are still 
tallying votes. Scott announces he would sue those 
counties’ supervisor of elections and says “unethical 
liberals” are stealing the election. Democrat Nikki Fried 
moves ahead of Republican Matt Caldwell.Nov. 10
All 67 counties, including Alachua County, send un-
oﬃ   cial election results to the Secretary of State Ken 
Detzner, who orders a machine recount for the three 
contested races. Gillum retracts his concession he gave 
the election night. Fried announces she won, even 
though the recount is still happening.
Nov. 11
The recount begins. Broward’s is delayed by a techni-
cal glitch. 
Nov. 12
President Donald Trump writes on Twitter that “many 
ballots are missing or forged,” and “an honest vote is 
no longer possible.” A judge tells lawyers represent-
ing both sides in the Florida recount that they need to 
“ramp down the rhetoric” after Republicans, including 
Trump, alleged illegal activity.
Nov. 13
Broward County begins recounting. All the counties 
are supposed to turn in their counts by Thursday. Palm 
Beach County got an extension. Timeline of the Florida recount4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. 
Top it off with our famous sour 
orange pie. Now that is a meal any 
FL Gator can enjoy. So come on 
out to the creek + take a step back 
in time. Only here can you see the 
legendary bluesman Willie “The 
Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St.  
(352) 375-7372
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy 
Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off 
select wines by the glass, $5 select 
specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 
3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south 
of Archer Road on 13th Street in the 
Shands Parking Garage. Private 
room available. Great for rehearsal 
dinners, student life organizations, 
and other group events. Always 
taking reservations, call us at 872-
5181. Like us on Facebook and follow 
us on Instagram @chefcarlwatts for 
upcoming events and daily specials.SPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 
years as an alternative to alcohol 
used for ceremonial, political, 
medicinal, and social purposes. 
Come try our Kava, Kratom, Mate,
and other teas in Downtown 
Gainesville. Open weekdays 
12pm-12am, weekends 12pm-1am 
and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave.  
maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-
2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and 
modern Korean dishes with the best 
sushi in town Weekday specials 
including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one 
beer, wine and sake from  
4pm-7pm! 352-384-3733
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you
Lunch: Mon-Sun 11am-3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pm 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482HE DIED MONDAY AT 
THE AGE OF 95. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Alison Pager remembered 
being 15 years old again, 
laughing along to Stan Lee’s 
appearance in “The Amazing 
Spider-Man” after her phone 
buzzed with a Twitter notiﬁ  -
cation. 
It said the comic legend,  
who was listening to music 
as Spider-Man burst through 
bookshelves in the background of the ﬁ  lm, was 
dead at 95. 
“He’s one of those people you don’t think 
about dying,” the 19-year-old UF biomedical en-
gineering freshman said. “He’s dead out of no-
where.” 
Lee was declared dead at Cedars-Sinai Medi-
cal Center in Los Angeles. The cause of death is not yet known, according to CNN. 
Lee brought a new cast of superheroes into 
the world of American ﬁ  ction. He revolutionized 
the industry by giving human frailties to super-
heroes like Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk. 
Reilly Baker, a 19-year-old UF business ad-
ministration sophomore, said his father took him 
to see “Iron Man” at age 9. It was the ﬁ  rst Marvel 
ﬁ  lm Baker saw and has been his favorite since. 
Baker found a community around the shared 
excitement of Marvel movies Lee helped create. 
He won’t forget seeing every fan in the the-
ater jumping out of their seat to clap for Lee as 
he made an appearance in “Avengers: Inﬁ  nity 
War.”
“It almost felt like a sporting event,” Baker 
said.  
Because of those make-believe universes 
and real-life connections Lee made during his 
lifetime, Baker said the comic creator will be re-
membered as the “Steve Jobs of Marvel.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgUF students remember Stan Lee  
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County and the city of 
Gainesville want to clean up their act. 
About 15 community leaders and 
residents attended the fourth Zero Waste 
Community Meeting at the Eastside Recre-
ation Center Tuesday night to discuss the 
county’s plan to be waste-free by 2040. 
“We all want to see this to happen, but 
there’s so many levels — education is the 
key,” City Commissioner Gigi Simmons 
said.
Jeffrey Klugh and Philip R. Mann, rep-
resentatives from the county and the city’s 
public works departments, presented 
ideas to promote zero waste. Notes from 
the meeting will be submitted to the City 
Commission General Policy Committee by 
spring 2019. 
City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos said he plans to suggest a plastic bag ban at a commission meeting Thurs-
day. Residents also suggested increasing 
access to composting and charging busi-
nesses that use plastic bags. 
Eighty percent of Gainesville’s waste 
comes from commercial businesses, 
Klugh said. The development of the Ala-
chua County Resource Recovery Park, an 
area for waste-based businesses to repur-
pose waste, can help reduce trash. 
“If you want to see a real loss, go to 
Midtown on a weekend night and see the 
glass bottles that don’t go into the recy-
cling,” Mann said. 
However, Simmons said enacting new 
policy can only go so far — the next step 
is mobilizing the community. 
“You really need boots on the ground 
really advocating for this,” Simmons said. 
“This is heavy lift and you need people in 
the community.” 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org County leaders talk waste 
Lee
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
WANTEDAdvertising 
Interns
Must be currently enrolled at the  
University of Florida or Santa Fe College5. Hands On Training1. Internship Credit Hours Earn
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative2. Valuable T eam work and client relations learned
4. Build Your Resume
Contact the intern coordinator at intern@alligator.orgBy T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
The King of Blues, B.B. King, serenaded a 
Gainesville hotspot in the 1940s.
He and other jazz and blues artists of-
ten stopped at Gainesville’s Cotton Club, 
a Harlem-style nightclub. On Monday, his 
daughter, Patty King, clapped as the building 
reopened as Cotton Club Museum and Cul-
tural Center, a museum commemorating mu-
sicians like King and the songs they played.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and mu-
seum board members cut a symbolic green 
ribbon tied to the porch and entered the large 
white building, at 837 SE Seventh Ave. About 250 people attended the museum’s opening.
“I thought there were going to be a lot of 
people here, but this is a whole city,” said 
Karen Cole-Smith, a member of the Cotton 
Club Museum’s board of directors.
Cole-Smith said she was proud to see so 
many people interested in learning more 
about African American culture and history. 
“There’s always something powerful 
about history, culture and keeping young 
people in the loop about why preserving this 
is so important,” she said.
The nonproﬁ  t Cotton Club Museum and 
Cultural Center, Inc. raised money to build 
the museum with grants from the Florida 
Department of State’s Historic Preservation Bureau and the Gainesville Community Re-
development Agency, as well as from inde-
pendent donations and fundraisers like the 
annual Juneteenth Breakfast, said Vivian 
Filer, the chair of the museum’s board of di-
rectors.
Filer saw the historical signiﬁ  cance of 
the building, which had deteriorated since it 
closed. In 1960, it became a furniture store 
for a decade and then shut its doors until 
Monday, she said.
The original tin roof had caved in and had 
to be replaced, Filer said. It took 13 years to 
complete the project.
Charles Kibert, a professor at UF’s Powell 
Center for Construction and Environment, began to oversee the project in 2008 when 
he saw the building in poor condition, with 
a tree growing out of it, and wanted to help 
preserve the historical landmark, Filer said. 
“People would call this place an ‘eyesore’ 
and wanted the city to take it down,” Filer 
said. “We saw potential.”
The museum will open after a private gala 
in January, when ticket prices will be posted 
on its website, Filer said. 
She said it was an important time to learn 
from the past.
“We are preserving that which has be-
come the past and we are creating new his-
tory,” Filer said.Historic Cotton Club nightclub reopens as museum
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff 
Native American Martin Olvera, 41, performs a Northern Traditional Dance on Tuesday at 
the Reitz Union to celebrate Native Heritage Month. Olvera is of the Comanche tribe, which 
originated in present-day T exas and Oklahoma.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff 
Martin Olvera, 41, of the Comanche tribe does the “Friendship Dance” 
with children from Heart Pine Waldorf School. Native American 
performers visited UF on Tuesday for Native Heritage Month as guests 
of the Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander American Affairs At UF group.
Dancing for American heritageThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORLet the recount proceed 
smoothly. Don’t yell 
‘fraud.’ Follow the law.
“Rampant fraud.” That’s how Gov. Rick Scott and his 
lawyers characterized the recounts currently hap-
pening in Broward and Palm Beach counties for 
the U.S. Senate race. That’s what the lawsuit they 
ﬁ  led in Palm Beach County to get voting machines 
impounded said. But why is the governor suing Florida counties 
that are doing their best to give Floridians a fair recount? One 
thing is for certain: Florida must not ﬁ  nish its elections on these 
rough and uncertain terms. In the words of Broward Circuit Chief 
Judge Jack Tuter, who refused to bow to Scott’s lawsuit, both 
parties need to “ramp down the rhetoric,” though we’ve seen 
most of the dramatization come from Republicans. 
The post-election day recounts are narrowing the margins in 
several of the most important statewide races. It makes the fraud 
allegations all the more troubling.
On Election Day, Scott led U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson by about 
57,000 votes. By the following day, Scott’s lead had shrunk to 
about 39,000. By the time of the ﬁ  rst certiﬁ  ed vote four days later 
on Saturday, Scott’s lead had decreased by about 80 percent. 
Scott now leads Nelson by 0.1 percent from the 0.5 percent he 
led by on election night.
Ron DeSantis’ lead over Andrew Gillum was also substantial 
on Election Day — about 78,000 votes. But just like the Senate 
race, by Saturday Gillum was catching up. He was behind by 
just 34,000 votes. DeSantis’ lead was erased by half while Florida 
slowly recounted.
In the race for Commissioner of Agriculture, Republican Matt 
Caldwell led Democrat Nicole “Nikki” Fried by 40,000 votes. By 
Saturday, the race ﬂ  ipped. Fried leads by more than 5,000 votes.
In State House District 89, Democrat Jim Bonﬁ  glio and Repub-
lican Mike Caruso are separated by just 37 votes — that amount 
of people can ﬁ  t in a medium-sized classroom at UF.
As the margins narrow, Scott still seems to be outraged at 
the results. “Bill Nelson is clearly a sore loser. He can’t stand the 
fact that he’s not going to be elected for, what, the ﬁ  rst time in 
decades. He’s just here to steal the election,” Scott said Monday.
Scott is following President Donald Trump’s lead. With tenta-
tive victories for Republicans in jeopardy, Trump raced to dis-
credit the recounts Monday via Twitter, saying, “large numbers 
of new ballots showed up out of nowhere, and many ballots are 
missing or forged. An honest vote count is no longer possible-
ballots massively infected. Must go with Election Night!”
We must not “go with election night.” Neither Trump nor 
Scott offer a single piece of evidence that there is misconduct 
surrounding the recount. Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner, 
who began the recount, is a Republican appointed by Scott him-
self. Contrary to what Trump and Scott would have Florida voters 
believe, the recount is a procedural matter mandated by law. It is 
not a cause for alarm. Scott and Trump should take a deep breath 
and settle down: Reversals of election results from recounts are 
even rarer than recounts themselves, according to NPR.
We cannot continue to yell “fraud” when elections aren’t go-
ing our way. It’s a threat to the peaceful transfer of power. It 
erodes trust in elected ofﬁ  ce. Making sure every vote is counted 
is not fraud. The Democratic candidates have already said they 
would respect the results of the recount. They haven’t conceded 
yet because not every voice has been heard, and it would be 
premature to call the race. Meanwhile, Scott keeps repeatedly 
asserting that he’s already won.
Voters deserve a recount. As Scott keeps falsely claiming vic-
tory, he risks doing exactly what he’s been condemning — to 
“steal this election from the great people of Florida.”There’s nothing wrong with early holiday spirit
As Halloween candy is slashed with clear-
ance prices, Michael Bublé’s “Santa 
Baby” plays in the background of the 
local Target, a gentle reminder that it’s 
time to start breaking out the holiday 
socks — and your wallet.
People tend to have opinions on when to start 
celebrating the holiday season, often strong ones. 
However, the argument shouldn’t be made with 
the general public, it should be made with a mar-
ketplace that demands an earlier setting of holiday 
sales each year. It’s hard to understand why people get upset 
at the idea of celebrating the holidays early when businesses 
like Starbucks are rolling out its red cups in November. 
Whether you started listening to Christmas music before 
Halloween or maybe you don’t celebrate a holiday at all, re-
specting how people want to spend their time is important. 
There are thousands upon thousands of people who look 
forward to the holidays each year, and they will celebrate 
however they see ﬁ  t. 
You could argue that it’s the consumers who push the 
holiday season each year, but I would say it’s an American 
market that survives on the sales of the season. For years, 
Black Friday was the ﬁ  rst day of each year that a business 
would start to turn a proﬁ  t. It served as a way for businesses 
to ﬂ  ourish. As the years have gone by, sales now start on 
Thanksgiving — a day supposed to be spent with family. 
This raises a moral dilemma for shoppers: Are the sales really 
that important?  
But in reality, does it really matter? If no one is being hurt 
by someone buying an ugly Christmas sweater, why do we 
care if the holiday season is going to start in November? 
The holiday season starts earlier every year in our minds 
because we’ve been watching commercials and walking into 
stores that have been enforcing the idea of the approaching 
holidays. If companies are being respectful of other cultures, showing a little holiday spirit isn’t such a bad 
thing. It’s a reminder to be kinder because it’s a 
time to be grateful for the people around you and 
the things you have. 
It starts our holidays sooner than normal, but 
it gives us an excuse to be a bit cheerier and a 
bit more generous. The holiday season isn’t cel-
ebrated by everyone, but it can be a way to get 
people in a better mood. In a world where news is 
riddled with anger and tragedy, it’s refreshing to 
think about decorations and holiday feasts. 
Businesses’ earlier incorporations of the holiday season 
are not done out of the goodness of their hearts but instead 
with the consumers’ wallets in mind. That doesn’t mean we 
have to boil it down to money and politics. We can take the 
extra reminders of seasonal gingerbread soap and 24 days of 
Christmas movies that there are sweeter days ahead. 
Giving people something to look forward to and allowing 
people to enjoy holiday moments is easy when we aren’t 
arguing over when is too early to be seeking out gifts for our 
loved ones. 
Businesses also help to serve as examples of being re-
spectful of other people’s cultures at this time of year. Ameri-
ca is diverse, with different religions and practices across the 
country, companies have to be accommodating to everyone. 
Starbucks was under ﬁ  re a few years ago for displaying an 
all red cup, with no holiday adornments. It was said to be 
“erasing” Christmas from its seasonal cups. 
Businesses understand that the holiday season evokes 
different emotions for a diverse group of people, and they 
understand the need to be respectful. These businesses teach 
us to be respectful of each other, and they serve as the push-
ers that begin to get us in the holiday spirit, even if it is only 
November. 
Michaela Mulligan is a UF journalism sophomore. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Michaela
Mulligan
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
In 2016, I decided to try online dating apps 
for the ﬁ  rst time. It was great until I was 
assaulted. Three times. Over the course of 
less than two years. The ﬁ  rst time I was 
attacked came at the end of an evening 
I spent with a man I met on Tinder. We 
had dinner downtown and then went to 
hang out at his apartment complex’s pool. 
I ﬁ  gured this was totally safe — neighbor-
hood pools are public areas and there were 
other people there. I had to use the public 
bathroom before going back home for the 
evening, but it was being renovated, so my 
date invited me to use the bathroom in his 
apartment before heading home. I agreed. 
Once I got inside, however, the nightmare 
every woman fears began. He grabbed my 
arms — leaving bruises — and attacked 
my face with his tongue. It was disgust-
ing, but after a few seconds of struggling to 
get away, I realized that this man was not 
going to willingly let go of me. My brain 
went into survival mode: I kissed him back 
until he let go of my arms, at which point 
I ran toward the door. I jammed my foot in 
the doorway as he tried to slam it shut. I 
knew then that it was time to start scream-
ing for help. He must have known, too, 
because as soon as I opened my mouth to 
start screaming, he lost his grip on the door 
enough that I was able to use my foot and 
a free hand to pry it open and run away.
I texted my friends on my way back 
home, unable to believe what had hap-
pened. They asked me why I was stupid 
enough to go into his apartment. It was 
surreal, and I felt deeply embarrassed and 
naïve. Until this point, I didn’t worry about 
going to a public pool with someone I’d 
spent several hours talking with. It also 
seemed normal to use this person’s bath-
room before going home. Part of me still 
thinks that should be a normal thing, but 
now I rarely go into even my male friends’ 
homes. Men I’m dating must always come 
to mine — and only after we have had sev-
eral dates.I eventually reported the attack to the 
police. It was shortly after the Brock Turn-
er sentencing, and I realized I was very an-
gry that this man, a resident at UF Health 
Shands Hospital at the time, thought he 
could just do whatever he wanted. The 
male ofﬁ  cer who took my report did not 
believe me at ﬁ  rst and seemed to think I 
was an idiot for going into the man’s apart-
ment to use the bathroom. The ofﬁ  cer 
tested me, having me tell my story forward 
and backward about seven times. He also 
repeated the story back to me a few times, 
leaving out certain details in an attempt to 
catch me lying or trip me up. Each time I 
corrected him. Eventually, I think he start-
ed to believe me, but I can’t be sure. He 
didn’t seem to understand why I was even 
reporting this.
Although I knew the man would deny 
the attack occurred, I wanted the police to 
speak with him so he would know there 
are at least some consequences to his ac-
tions. I thought maybe this would deter 
him from trying to attack another woman 
in the future. The ofﬁ  cer did ﬁ  nally agree 
to talk to him, but when I asked about my 
safety (I was a Shands patient and knew 
he may be able to look up my address that 
way), the ofﬁ  cer shrugged. I never heard 
anything else about the case from the 
Gainesville Police Department, and it’s un-
clear if it ever contacted my attacker. The 
whole encounter was humiliating, so I de-
cided to let it go and tried to forget about 
the whole thing.
Since that ﬁ  rst attack, I have been raped 
by two different men I had known quite 
well.  The ﬁ  rst man actually admitted via 
text message to raping me while I was 
unconscious. I still have these messages, 
and I’m aware that if I showed the police, 
this man would be arrested. The problem, 
however, is that I’m a white woman and 
he is black. Although I believe in justice 
and want to protect other women from this 
man, I also don’t think it’s fair that he will face a much greater prison sentence sim-
ply because of our racist judicial system. 
Moreover, I don’t want to deal with the po-
lice again. I already felt bad enough about 
being raped while unconscious; I don’t 
need the police to make me feel worse like 
last time.
The second time, I was raped by a very 
wealthy man I’d been spending time with.  
I got a rape kit done immediately after but 
decided not to report to the police because 
I know this man has far more resources 
than I will ever have, and I don’t trust the 
police to keep me safe from any retribu-
tion. It’s not worth it to risk my safety once 
more when I know the police don’t care 
and the ofﬁ  cers who come out to take my 
report will likely humiliate me again. I’ve 
already been through enough.
Fast forward to the recent Ford-Kava-
naugh hearings. Congressman Ted Yoho 
and others across the country keep asking 
why Christine Blasey Ford did not report 
her assault 35 years ago. Incensed, I called 
Yoho’s ofﬁ  ces in Florida and Washing-
ton, D.C. to explain why women don’t re-
port. Next, I decided to relay my thoughts 
to GPD in hopes that it may enact some 
much-needed institutional changes.  
I spoke with a detective in the police de-
partment about my concerns and was not 
met with any warmth. He wanted to know 
if I wanted to ﬁ  le reports. I explained that 
I did not call to ﬁ  le any reports; instead, I 
stated that I wanted to communicate my 
concerns to the police administrators so 
they may consider better ways to respond 
to victims of assault.  I explained that I 
thought that the ofﬁ  cers would beneﬁ  t 
from sensitivity training when dealing with 
sexual assault survivors, and that it may be 
beneﬁ  cial to offer victims a choice between 
a male or female ofﬁ  cer to take down their 
reports. The ofﬁ  cer I was speaking with, 
however, seemed incapable of understand-
ing that I was calling for an institutional 
review of police practices. He repeatedly told me I sounded upset and asked if I had 
tried therapy.  
We went back and forth like this several 
times: I would explain that I was calling 
not for myself, but on behalf of all women 
who are too afraid to report to the police. 
I told him that if the police really wish to 
serve and protect all people, including as-
sault survivors, he and his superiors should 
take my message seriously. He, in turn, re-
sponded by trying to reframe my concerns 
regarding institutional policy practices into 
my own personal problems. It eventually 
became clear to me that this ofﬁ  cer was 
not just failing to understand my message 
— he did not want to hear my message. 
I asked him if it might be more useful to 
speak with someone else or write a letter 
to the police department to make my con-
cerns known. The ofﬁ  cer responded that I 
could write a letter if it would be therapeu-
tic for my mental health.
This is why women don’t report. Rape 
and sexual assault are traumatic experi-
ences that often stir up feelings of shame 
and powerlessness for victims. GPD seems 
bent on reafﬁ  rming the shame and power-
lessness I felt from my assaults. The ini-
tial ofﬁ  cer I reported to didn’t believe me 
(at ﬁ  rst at least) and implied I was reck-
less for going into my date’s apartment to 
use the bathroom. When I offered the de-
tective I spoke with concrete suggestions 
and insights into how the police can better 
serve sexual assault survivors, he refused 
to acknowledge my concerns and instead 
suggested I needed emotional help. This 
is institutional abuse. And this is why 77 
percent of victims, according to the Bureau 
of Justice Statistics, don’t report rape and 
sexual assault to the police.
This letter is being published on the 
condition of anonymity for the safety of 
the student.I was raped. Talking to GPD made me feel like I was the guilty party
Every now and then, Merri-
am-Webster introduces new 
words to its ofﬁ  cial diction-
ary collection. Among the 
dictionary’s latest additions 
from September were “TL;DR,” 
“bougie,” “bingeable,” “zoodles” 
and “mocktail,” which are cer-
tainly reﬂ  ective of tech, style, 
entertainment and food-related 
trends that are important and of-
the-moment in our culture. 
But as I sift through the most 
recently added words from this 
year and ﬁ  nd abbreviations like 
“marg” and “rando” — which tru-
ly feel more like texting lingo than 
formal words — I can’t help but 
think of George Orwell’s dystopi-
an novel, "1984," where some of 
the characters tried writing a new 
dictionary for the government’s 
language, Newspeak. 
Why did these words make the 
cut compared to others that are common among my generation? 
And if “marg” and “rando” have 
a place within the pages, what’s 
next? Where do we go from here? 
Considering “avo” and “adorbs” 
are formal Merriam-Webster deﬁ  -
nitions, here are some terms I 
think might as well be next in line 
to make their dictionary debut. 
Let’s talk about “adulting.” 
We’ve all heard it, some of us are 
probably annoyed by it and many 
of us are likely culprits of using it 
as a gold star of achievement for 
completing just about any activity 
or task that’s not exactly enjoy-
able — including (but not limited 
to) buying cleaning supplies, us-
ing that monthly 20-percent-off 
coupon at Bed Bath & Beyond or 
*gasp* sending a physical letter in 
the mail. 
I have no doubt the editors at 
Merriam-Webster have “adult-
ing” on their radar, but perhaps they’re cringing at the vagueness 
of the deﬁ  nition, as what’s con-
sidered “adulting” for one may 
not be applicable for another. 
Still, though, I think this is a word 
that’s telling of our culture and 
of the mindset many people of 
young generations have about life 
beyond adolescence. 
Another idea is the widely used 
compound phrase “girl boss.” 
In this age deﬁ  ned by empower-
ment, it’s hard to scroll through 
Twitter or Instagram without 
seeing “girl boss” in headlines or graphics or used as a blan-
ket statement to describe inspir-
ing female ﬁ  gures. The phrase is 
pasted on holographic notebook 
covers in way-too-big text, it’s on 
Post-Its and desk accessories, and 
just when I think I’ve found the 
perfect plain workout leggings, 
I come face-to-face with — you 
guessed it — “girl boss” printed 
down the leg in all caps. 
“Girl boss” would undoubtedly 
present some interesting chal-
lenges and conversations if added 
to the dictionary, because what 
would it mean for the already-
existing word “boss”? Would 
there have to be a separate deﬁ  ni-
tion for “guy boss”? Either way, 
I think stranger words have ap-
peared in the dictionary (*cough 
cough* “zuke,” which is short for 
zucchini).
My other propositions in-
clude “brunching” (verb: a coun-terpart to the already-existing 
word “brunch”), “double-texter” 
(noun: a person who exclusive-
ly sends multiple messages in 
a row), a new deﬁ  nition for the 
word “spin” (to include “spin 
class” or indoor cycling), and 
“refresher” (noun: a person who 
constantly refreshes his or her 
email or feeds, even when noth-
ing new shows up).
Now that ﬁ  rst and second grad-
ers who are learning how to use a 
dictionary (if that’s still even an 
elementary school activity) can 
cite “Instagrammable” and “bou-
gie” as adjectives, only time will 
tell which words and phrases are 
next. If any editors from Merriam-
Webster are reading this, maybe 
you’ll consider my suggestions.
Darcy Schild is a UF journal-
ism senior. Her column appears 
on Wednesdays.Dear Merriam-Webster: Consider adding these words for your next edition 
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Theater Review
Read our review of Florida Players’ show, “Evolution” 
on page 10.Friendsgiving recipies:
Check out our favorite Friendsgiving recipes on page 10!By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer 
High Dive’s Pat Lavery was 
just an excited college student 
when he went to watch Gainesvill 
band, Subrosa, perform in South 
Florida. 
“At the end of the show, their 
lead singer and guitarist Travis 
Tooke threw one of his guitars 
into the audience, and I just so 
happened to catch it and later 
have them sign it,” he said.    
20 years later, the broken-up 
Subrosa is reuniting in Gainesville 
to commemorate their home. 
Before there was the High Dive 
there was the Covered Dish, and a 
new photo book is being released 
to celebrate the club’s legacy. 
On Friday, High Dive will be 
hosting a book release event to 
celebrate “All of Us Are Now,” a 
book comprised of photos from 
the past live music club. The 
release event will also feature 
performances from prized local 
Gainesville music acts including 
the reunion of Subrosa. 
Bill Bryson moved to 
Gainesville in 1992 to open the 
Covered Dish, 26 years later he’s 
still here and created the Pola-
roid book as a means to resonate 
with the youthful exuberance in 
Gainesville. 
“The concept came to me years 
ago when I was going through a 
storage facility a few years ago 
and came across six or seven box-
es of polaroids,” he said. “They 
just had a smell with them that 
brought back memories.” 
Bryson organized the perform-
ers for this event, including re-
tired hometown band Subrosa. 
Bryson said when the idea 
came to him, he reached out to 
the band and asked about them 
coming together.
The local alternative rock 
band, who began under the name 
For Squirrels before changing its 
name to Subrosa in 1996, fre-
quented the Covered Dish before 
disbanding in 2001. Now, the re-
maining members will be getting 
back together for the ﬁ  rst time 
in 20 years to commemorate the 
past. In an email, Pat Lavery, the 
High Dive facility and events 
manager, wrote that his love for 
what was once the Covered Dish 
as a ﬂ  yer guy when he was in col-
lege. 
“I am thrilled to see this part 
of the history of the Gainesville 
music scene to be celebrated, “he 
said. “I spent many many nights 
at the Covered Dish getting my 
education in underground music 
which was an invaluable founda-
tion for me moving forward.”  
Lavery mentioned that several 
years ago High Dive dedicated a 
wall to the Covered Dish with a 
bunch of old ﬂ  iers. 
“On top of that, one of my 
very favorite bands from the 
era, Subrosa are headlining this 
night,” Lavery said. “They are 
the ﬁ  rst band I ever saw from 
Gainesville.” 
Other performers for the night 
include Perfect Strangers, Jack 
Mason and Swayze.
High Dive posted on its Face-
book page that there was a 
change in the lineup. Crustaceans 
was originally set to perform but 
were unable to make it so it was 
replaced by soloist and former 
member of Gainesville’s NDol-
phin and Space Masons, Jack Ma-
son.  
That night, attendees will be 
able to purchase copies of the 
book as well as other Covered 
Dish memorabilia. The book cop-
ies and other Covered Dish mem-
orabilia can also be purchased 
online before and after the event 
Friday. 
The show will start early, for 
Gainesville, with doors opening 
at 8 p.m. and the show starting at 
9 p.m. Tickets are $10 and avail-
able online at Ticketﬂ  y, the High 
Dive box ofﬁ  ce and Hear Again 
Records downtown.
The show isn’t just for local 
residents of a certain age. Bryson 
hopes the music will bring every-
one together. 
“I would hope it brings all 
kinds of people together, even 
those under 40,” Bryson said. “I 
think the music and energy will 
connect with young people and 
all people.” A look back at Gainesville’s live music club:  
‘All Of Us Are Now’  book release and performances  
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Members of the now-retired band Subrosa are reuniting to perform at the release party 
for the photo book  ‘All Of Us Are Now. ’ 
Courtesy to The Alligator
High Dive hosts the release party for ‘All Of Us Are Now, ’ a Polaroid photo book created 
by Bill Bryson.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
COLLEGE 
NIGHT
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595Free Wells 
for Ladies
with college ID
$6.99 
Mac n’ Cheese
Loaded or  
Pesto Chicken   WEDNESDAY NIGHTS
In the Creekside Mall Plaza
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Sister Ivy’s soulful jazz performance comes to Satchel’s 
Pizza.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Satchel’s Pizza serves slices and tunes Friday night with music from Sister Ivy’s Rachel Waterhouse.
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer
The voice of the vine will be 
ﬂ  owing through the swamp come 
Friday night. 
Rachel Waterhouse, a member 
of soul jazz band Sister Ivy, is tour-
ing Florida and her next stop is 
Satchel’s Friday.
Sister Ivy most often perform as a quartet, fusing neo-soul, jazz and 
R&B with emotional poetry. The 
members include Brennan Dougan 
on bass, Kayla Zuskin on guitar; 
Edwin Mericle, Mattick Frick and 
Will Miller.
According to Jessica Terry with 
LP Artists, the current tour is a solo 
tour and the only trio show will be 
in St. Augustine with Sandi Grecco 
on drums and David Shenk on bass at the Sarbez Lounge. 
“The current tour is mostly for 
networking and spreading the word 
about Sister Ivy’s recently released 
EP and single off their upcoming 
ﬁ  rst full album,” Terry said. 
This group deﬁ  nes itself as 
“the voice of the vine that weaves 
in and out of roots and open air, 
mixes with the weeds, and climbs 
to lofty vistas on the limbs of grand trees.” 
The group posted in their Face-
book group on Oct. 17 that it would 
be going on a tour this November 
with the dates and locations un-
known. 
On Oct. 23, the group an-
nounced the tour in locations 
across Florida and Georgia. The 
ﬁ  rst show will be this Thursday in 
Savannah, GA, with more to come. The other dates include:
11/16 - Satchel’s, Gainesville FL
11/20 - Casa Del Fuego, Fort 
Pierce FL
11/21 - Black Crow Coffee, St. 
Petersburg FL
11/23 - Sarbez, St. Augustine FL 
(as a trio with FL musicians)
11/24 - The Hostel in the Forest, 
Brunswick GASister Ivy’s Rachel Waterhouse at Satchel’s Pizza
MUSICBy Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
From Nov. 9-11, Gainesville’s 
student-run theatre organization, 
Florida Players, presented an intoxi-
cating, moving production of Jona-
than Marc Sherman’s “Evolution” at 
the Squitieri Studio Theatre, located 
in the Phillips Performing Arts Cen-
ter.  
Imagine a Harvard dropout and a 
washed-up drug abuser walk into a 
TV producer’s ofﬁ  ce. Sounds like the 
beginning of a corny dad joke, right? 
Well, this play was no joke.  
Henry, the Harvard student, had 
no knowledge of pop culture due 
to his full investment in academia, 
which included writing essays with-
out using the letter “e.” Ernie, the 
washed-up drug abuser, exposed 
the sheltered academic to a new-age 
world of possibility. 
The two embarked on a journey 
to write a legendary TV show, but 
what they suffered from was a down-
ward spiral in their relationship with 
others and with themselves.  
Sherman’s absurdist, postmodern 
style of writing depicts the image of 
the Hollywood ﬁ  lm and television 
industry and its impact on society 
today. 
Directed by UF theatre sopho-
more Joshua Evangelista, this pro-
duction demonstrated the way 
Hollywood can make and break 
an artist’s career and relationships 
through truthful, informative acting 
and innovative technical elements. 
The play exposed how human 
beings have gone out of touch with 
reality due to their addiction to the bright screens of TV and cell phones.  
UF theatre performance sopho-
more Ryan Siegel did an exceptional 
job in his portrayal of Henry. His 
moments were clear and realized, 
his character was rich and power-
ful and his presence was infectious.  
Siegel deserves a round of applause 
for his commitment to his charac-
ter’s downward spiral as Henry real-
izes that he could not make it as a 
big shot, without making sacriﬁ  ces.  
One of the most climactic mo-
ments of the play was when he 
erupted with madness and rage at his opposite lover, Hope, portrayed 
intelligently by UF theatre sopho-
more Tara Schulman. He was driven 
mad by her lack of support and his 
own twisted guilt. This play was liv-
ing proof that if one is not careful, 
they can get eaten alive in the big, 
bad Hollywood world. 
UF theatre performance fresh-
man Emma Friedman’s portrayal 
of the aspiring actress Gina was 
poignant, humorous and well-ad-
vanced for a performer so young. 
Friedman’s speciﬁ  city of movement 
and thought process enhanced her performance as well as her vocal 
variety. Her energy radiated to the 
back of the house and her humor 
left audience members toppled over 
with laughter.  
Joshua Evangelista expressed 
his desire to present something un-
like anything anyone’s ever seen 
onstage. The cast worked well as a 
cohesive unit with the technical ele-
ments of the show to bring his vision 
to light. 
The wacky nature of colorful 
TV’s hanging from the ceiling with 
a music video, movie or cartoon playing on a projection screen in the 
background enhanced the plot of the 
story.  
“Evolution is really built around 
this idea that theatre doesn’t have to 
be boring. …This all takes place dur-
ing one man’s journey to ﬁ  nd what 
he wants in life,” Evangelista said. 
Evangelista stated that the re-
hearsal process, however, was espe-
cially difﬁ  cult due to the speciﬁ  city 
and coordinated timing this show 
required. 
“The speed and intricacies of 
movement made the whole period 
seem like a dance,” Evangelista said.  
“It is always challenging working on 
a piece of theatre as wacky as this 
one, but this cast was exceptionally 
talented, and were able to run with it 
an make every character their own.” 
The 20-year-old director had also 
pointed out that “Evolution” relates 
so much to society today because of 
the show’s inclusion of cultural ref-
erences and its coming-of-age tale 
that, according to Evangelista, both 
mystiﬁ  ed and connected the audi-
ence to the show. 
According to the assistant direc-
tor, UF theatre sophomore Leah Vi-
cencio, “Evolution” was all about 
what people were willing to do to 
ﬁ  nd success and fulﬁ  llment. 
“As students, we are constantly 
bombarded with questions about our 
futures, careers, and plans,” Vicen-
cio said. “Sometimes, by focusing so 
much on how to achieve success, we 
overlook the present moments that 
bring joy and sanity into our lives 
… Evolution is a cautionary tale that 
reminds us how being present in the 
moment can be fulﬁ  lling enough.”  10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
By Vanessa Blankenship 
Avenue Staff Writer
Thanks to the iconic sitcom “Friends,” 
Friendsgiving has become a popular alterna-
tive to the traditional Thanksgiving experience. 
Instead of being bombarded by extended fam-
ily members with questions about your love 
life and college career – why not share a meal 
with your closest friends? 
Spend the holiday weekend with your best 
friends and cook up these easy, yummy  reci-
pes.
Cranberry Sangria
Start off the meal with a special twist on 
this fruity wine infused cocktail.
Ingredients:
2 cups of frozen cranberries
1 cup of sugar
1 cup of water
1 bottle of red wine
1 half cup of brandy
1 cup of orange juice
Freshly sliced fruit (preferably cranberries, 
lime and orange)
Directions:
1. Mix the ﬁ  rst three ingredients in a medi-
um saucepan at a medium-high heat until the 
cranberries pop. Pour the mixture through a 
strainer to get rid of the remaining fruit pieces.
2. Put the mixture into a large pitcher and stir in the brandy, wine and orange juice. Let 
the mixture chill for two hours and then place 
the fruit slices.
Mac and Cheese with Squash
Ingredients:
12 ounces elbow macaroni
2 ½ cups of milk
1 12 oz. of frozen cooked squash puree
2 teaspoons of Dijon mustard
¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
8 ounces of shredded cheddar
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
3 tablespoons panko bread crumbs
2 tablespoons grated Parmesan
Salt to taste
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Faren-
heit and place a rack in the top shelf.
2. Cook the pasta until al dente, it should 
take about 10 minutes. Afterward, drain and 
place the pasta back in the pot.
3. Place the milk and squash in a pan at a 
medium heat, stirring for about ﬁ  ve minutes. 
Then add mustard, half a tablespoon of salt, 
cayenne and cheddar until everything has 
melted into a sauce. Stir sauce with pasta and 
toss into a baking dish.
4. Mix butter, panko bread crumbs, and 
parmesan into a small bowl and sprinkle on 
top of the macaroni.
5. Bake for about 20 minutes or until the edges are golden brown. Let the dish cool for 
10 minutes before serving.
Hawaiian Sweet Roll 
Citrus Stuffing
Ingredients:
1 package of Hawaiian sweet dinner rolls,
cubed
12 ounces day-old white bread, cubed
4 thick-cut bacon slices
1 cup of chopped yellow onion
1 cup of chopped carrots
3 garlic cloves, minced
3 cups of unsalted chicken stock
¾ cup of melted unsalted butter
6 large eggs
1 tablespoon ﬁ  nely chopped fresh sage
1 tablespoon chopped chives
1 tablespoon orange zest
2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon black pepper
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees Farenheit.
2. Spread cubed bread and rolls on a bak-
ing sheet and place in the oven for about 20 
minutes or until toasted.
3. Cook bacon in a skillet until crispy. Then 
add carrots, onions and garlic in the skillet for 
ﬁ  ve minutes or until it’s softened.
4. Whisk eggs, butter, stock, sage, chives, 
zest, salt and pepper in a large bowl. Add the 
mixture, crumbled bacon and toasted bread cubes.
5. Spread the mixture into a medium-sized 
glass baking dish.
6. Bake in the oven for 25 minutes or until 
the sides are toasted.Three tasty recipes for Friendsgiving
Courtesy to The Alligator
Cranberry Sangria is a seasonal 
cocktail that is easy to make and 
perfect for your Friendsgiving.
Erica Siri
Theatre performance sophomore, Ryan Siegel, and theatre performance freshman, Emma 
Friedman, portrayed Henry and Gina, respectively, in a scene together.
Review: The Florida Players presents ‘Evolution’ 
THEATREBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $804/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Better Grades in Half the Time!
www.makethegrade.xyz
11-19-18-4-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
1/1 in 2/2 duplex. Pool, gym, on 3 bus routes. 
2 miles to Shands or Butler Pl. Grad stud. 
pref. M/F. All inclusive. $600 per month & 
$300 security. Avail 08/20. eaglimo@gmail.     
11-14-2-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
Walk to The Swamp! Beautifully updated 
5 bedroom/ 2 bath home, located 7 blocks 
from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Huge floor -
plan, central A/C, wood floors, ceiling fans, 
washer and dryer, dishwasher, microwave. 
Private backyard. 1815 NW 7th Ave. $2350. 
Shown by appointment only. (352) 256-2574    
11-14-4-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
Apply Within
11-16-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
*INSTANT CA$H sent to your PayPal.
FREE to join with best companies. 
Guaranteed income online. 
Register at: www.paidmarketsurveys.com    
11-19-18-3-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident’s Secret Service code name was 
“Rawhide”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What body of 
water separates Ireland from England?
3. HISTORY: What are the descen-
dants of Dutch settlers in South Africa 
called?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
name of a drink that mixes rye whisky, 
sweet vermouth, a dash of bitters and a 
maraschino cherry?
5. U.S. STATES: How many coun-
ties does the state of Louisiana have?
6. GAMES: How many pieces per 
side are in a game of chess?
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
young bat called?
8. COMICS: Which long-running 
comic-book series features characters 
called Jughead, Veronica and Betty?
9. LANGUAGE: What is the inter -
national radio code word for the letter 
“K”?
10. BIBLE: Who were King Solo-
mon’s parents?
Answers
1. Ronald Reagan
2. The Irish Sea
3. Afrikaners
4. Manhattan
5. None. The state is divided into 64 
parishes
6. 16
7. A pup
8. “Archie”
9. Kilo
10. David and Bathsheba
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 12, 2018King Features Weekly Service
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FINANCIALLY SET FOR LIFE!
Never Be Broke Again.  Discover Why it 
Works.  So shocking I had to look 
www.followthetrendworld.com    11-26-18-
4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Designated drivers are the greatest
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your 
roommate...pets. Find or advertise your pets 
or pet products here in the Pets section of 
the Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Ed Sessa
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/14/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/14/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, November 14, 2018
ACROSS
1 Hee-hawers
6 Tinker Bell’s 
friend
9 Part of WTO
14 Low on funds
15 Garden tool
16 Four-bagger
17 Manx currency
18 Seriously funny 
shows?
20 Organ near the 
stomach
22 Doldrums
23 “Boyz n the Hood” 
actress Long
25 __ shadow
26 Hive builder
29 Entrance
33 Amaretto flavor
35 Trivial matter
36 Reef creature
37 Foes of the evil 
Saruman
38 Logical 
beginning?
40 Appear
41 Word that always 
brings a smile?
44 Winding Alaskan 
river with a 
Hawaiian name
47 V8 veggie
48 Upper arm 
muscle
49 Yoga chants
50 Wrigley Field 
abbr.
52 Roll in the grass
53 Political spin, say
55 Cocoa company
60 Anno Domini 
alternative
64 With 67-Across, 
what five pairs of 
answers in the 
circles represent
65 Hippie’s wheels
66 Coke go-with
67 See 64-Across
68 Roofing stone
69 English cuppa
70 More than a little 
heavy
DOWN
1 Pharaoh’s sacred 
snakes
2 Look for bargains
3 Heart’s 
companion
4 Sea eagle
5 Martyred bishop 
of Paris6 Advanced deg.
7 “You have two 
choices”
8 Writer Zora ___ 
Hurston
9 Oscar-nominated 
film starring Viola 
Davis
10 Towel holders
11 Mate, across the 
Channel
12 Ruby of “A Raisin 
in the Sun”
13 Critical-care ctrs.
19 Mesoamerican 
pyramid builders
21 Petty peeves
24 Take __ from: 
emulate
26 Study hard
27 Marx collaborator
28 Buildup of fluid
29 Actress Helena 
__ Carter
30 Passes the 
threshold
31 More like the 
Magi
32 “Notorious” 
screenwriter Ben
34 Israeli leader 
Dayan
35 Maker of sweet 
wafers39 Collective 
possessive
42 “Missed it by that 
much”
43 Musical 
wunderkind 
Bortnick
45 Columbia 
University athlete
46 Auto parts 
supplier
51 Like some gases
53 X-rated stuff54 Get straight?
56 Automaker 
founded in 
Sweden
57 Tot
58 Jeans choice
59 Scots Gaelic
60 Rite Aid rival
61 Midnight mouser
62 Degree for a 
CFO
63 Reddit Q&A 
session
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/10/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, November 10, 2018
ACROSS
1 Cheese 
manufacturing 
by-product
5 2017 events for 
SNAP and Blue 
Apron
9 Dolt
13 Green feature
14 Soup bar staple
17 Dwarf planet 
named for a 
Greek goddess
18 Annual awards 
for which many 
adolescents vote
19 “Do I dare to eat 
a peach?” poet
21 Ready to go out
22 Underground 
rodent
24 Grafton’s “__ for 
Alibi”
25 Oceanus, for one
26 Shot in a tiny 
cup
31 Top
32 Bar at the 
garage
33 “Rich Man, Poor 
Man” novelist
34 Owns
35 Bliss
38 Cold draft, 
perhaps
39 “This other __, 
demi-paradise”: 
Shak.
41 Obsessed 
mariner
42 Like sea lions
44 Set free
46 Data breach 
causes
47 Welcome sight?
48 Small  
two-seater
51 Herald
55 Soften
56 Rash-causing 
shrubs
58 Quite some time
59 Source of 
potential 
matches
60 Out house?
61 Vein valuables
62 “If all __ fails ... ”
63 Body shop figs.DOWN
1 Sharpens
2 Shrewd bargain
3 The U.S. 
Holocaust 
Memorial 
Museum Award 
was renamed 
for him
4 “We should!”
5 “Tough 
decision!”
6 Only work 
Michelangelo 
ever signed
7 Together
8 Dispatch
9 Mass symbols
10 Hi’s wife, in 
comics
11 Some time ago
12 House document
15 Tough spots
16 “__ Eyes Were 
Watching God”: 
Hurston novel
20 Fit to be tied
23 Some online 
banners
27 Big piece
28 Divers’ 
protection29 Pitcher?
30 Outstanding
31 “Believe” singer
32 Court immortal
36 Certain director’s 
concern
37 Quite some time
40 Waterloo
43 Set in motion
45 Alphabetically 
first Baseball 
Hall of Famer46 Major headache
49 Powerful sharks
50 Stops  
presenting 
evidence
51 Bun, e.g.
52 Skyrocket
53 “Women and 
Love” author
54 “You wish”
57 Yahoo! sister 
company
1.  Intelligent 
1.  ____ gum5.  Located, stationed
2.  Germany neighbor 6.  Lift
3.  Motioning yes7.  Broadway’s “Miss ____”
4.  In this placeINRAYB
BLBEUBEADBS
AEISR
ARIASUT
DGNDINOAOGNIS
NEHRIEANSWERS: 1A-Brainy  5A-Based  6A-Raise  7A-Saigon
1D-Bubble  2D-Austria  3D-Nodding  4D-Herein  B-Hudson Bay11-14-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
CLUE: This was named for an Englishman sailing 
for the Dutch East India Company. 
BONUS1
62
53
74
16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Both the men's and women's 
swimming and diving teams will 
be in action on Thursday at the 
Georgia T ech Invitational. The 
meet will conclude on Saturday.Gators rise in latest CFP poll
The Florida football team rose to No. 13 in the most recent College Football 
Playoff rankings. UF was slated at No. 15 in last week's rendition.FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
It’s tune-up week in the Southeastern Con-
ference.
The week where SEC programs reward 
themselves for an exhausting season by sched-
uling opponents from small conferences to beat 
up on for 60 minutes.
Among just three SEC matchups, Week 12’s 
riveting slate of SEC football games will include 
thrillers like Alabama-Citadel, Georgia-UMass 
and Florida-Idaho. 
But there’s plenty of opportunity for Florida 
to capitalize on in its Saturday afternoon play 
date with the Vandals ahead of its regular-sea-
son finale against Florida State. Here are three:
Eliminating the big play
Allowing explosive plays has been an Achil-
les' heel of this Florida defense all season, and 
each game has illuminated that weakness. 
Even the Charleston Southern Buccaneers 
managed a 70-yard play when UF trounced 
them 53-6 in Week 1.
South Carolina only got away with a few of 
those plays Saturday, but when the Gamecocks 
did get those huge chunk plays, it led to scores. 
The Gamecocks’ first two touchdowns came 
because of busted coverages by the Gators. But 
two times South Carolina moved down the 
field and scored because the Florida defenders 
were unable to wrap up and gave up  big plays because of it.
“I think it’s a combination of matching bet-
ter and tackling, and we’ve got to do a better 
job of tackling in space, getting guys down,” 
he said. “You’ve just got to understand your 
match and your fit and things like that.”
The Gators did make necessary adjustments 
to clean up some of those mistakes in the sec-
ond half of that game, but they have yet to go 
a game without giving up a play of at least 20 
yards.
Idaho has tallied 18 rushing plays of 15 or 
more yards and eight passing plays of at least 
30 yards this season, so this won’t be an off 
week for the Gators’ defense.
“To be a better defense we have to play fast, 
physical and aggressive,” linebacker James 
Houston said. “So we’re working on that this 
week.”
More fire from Feleipe Franks
It was clear that Feleipe Franks was angry in 
Saturday’s win against the Gamecocks.
He ran with more purpose and physicality 
than he has all season. 
Perhaps it was the outside noise and Twitter 
babble that got to him. But he wanted the ball, 
and he wanted it at the most critical points in 
the contest. 
“I just wanted to run somebody over. I was 
just super pissed,” Franks told reporters on Three ways Florida can benefit from matchup with Idaho
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Feleipe Franks rushed for 36 yards on 16 attempts in the Gators' 
35-31 win over South Carolina. "I just wanted to run somebody over, " he said.
Morgan Meets the Eye / Column
Ladies and gentlemen, 
boys and girls, Gators of 
all ages, step right up and 
play the hottest game in 
Gainesville! 
Everybody loves a good 
quarterback controversy. In 
lieu of the weeks of media 
scrutiny and fan theories that 
would’ve come out of that, 
we’ve devised a new game 
for the public to play for the final few weeks 
of Florida’s regular-season schedule.
Say it with me, folks: WILL! HE! PLAY! 
The goal is simple. The Gators (7-3, 5-3 
SEC) have three games left this season. 
Freshman quarterback Emory Jones can 
play in two before he loses his redshirt ca-
pabilities, which coach Dan Mullen said he 
wants to keep intact. 
Which contests will Jones see playing 
time in? How long will he stay in those 
games? Spin the wheel of redshirt to find 
out!
Idaho (11/17)
This is a tempting selection, right? Mul-
len could opt to get his young quarterback 
time against a soft defense and undersized competition (Seriously, this 
team gave up 62 points to Idaho 
State and 79 to Fresno State). 
The last thing you want as a 
coach is to have your redshirt 
candidate to be absolutely de-
molished and demoralized 
against stronger competition. 
Why not get him some success-
ful reps that he can build some 
confidence off of? 
The only trouble here is the benefit. 
Idaho isn’t exactly a grand stage. You want 
your potential 2019 starter to know how a 
big-game environment feels. 
Overall though, this game seems like 
a win-win for Mullen and the fans. At the 
very least, our eyes won’t be glazed over by 
Franks handing the ball off to Jordan Scar-
lett, Lamical Perine and Kadarius Toney.
Overall probability of a Jones sighting: 
7/10. About as likely as seeing your ex at 
the grocery store.
Florida State (11/24)
Don’t let the noon kickoff fool you. This 
is a huge game for Mullen and the Gators. Which games will Emory Jones play?
Morgan McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMuffinMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Florida needs to shoot the ball better to be 
successful. That much is clear.
The Gators currently shoot at a 41.8 per-
cent clip and have a 26.9 percent three-point 
percentage.
Only four teams in the 14-team ACC, 
arguably the country’s best basketball con-
ference, have shot worse than 47.5 percent 
from the field. No teams in the ACC have lost 
a game yet.
UF (1-1) utilized mismatches against 
Charleston Southern, a contest that looked 
more like Anakin Skywalker vs. the Tusken 
Raiders on Tatooine. The Gators’ lack of 
shooting was exposed, and it showed in a 
81-60 loss against FSU.
Even coach Mike White acknowledged 
the team needs to shoot better.
“It starts with me and the staff, just get-
ting these guys going and putting them in a better place,” White said. 
He went on to talk about how the inten-
sity level is different in practice than in the 
game.
Florida draws La Salle (0-2) from the At-
lantic-10 Conference. La Salle is no pushover 
though — it played Temple hard and only 
lost by a point to Lafayette.
The Explorers are led by guard Pookie 
Powell, an Orlando native. Powell is averag-
ing 20 points, 2.5 assists and 3.5 rebounds 
through the first two games of the season.
UF has its own weapons, though.
Although UF relies on its two senior 
guards - Jalen Hudson and KeVaughn Allen - 
the team leads a balanced attack and can be 
led by any player.
After a performance at FSU (0 points on 
0-for-4 shooting) that was worse than the 
freshman experience of taking the Good Life 
at UF. Allen responded with a 14-point show-Gators trying to find their stroke 
before Battle 4 Atlantis tourney
SEE M-BASKETBALL,  PAGE  16SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Two games, two losses so far for the Florida 
women’s basketball team.
The Gators will look to get in the win col-
umn on Thursday when they travel 250 miles 
up I-75 to take on Mercer (1-1).
The two losses to start the season don’t 
tell the whole story, though. Florida lost both 
games by just nine combined points. They fell 
to Gardner-Webb 60-58 after Funda Nakkasog-
lu’s three-pointer at the buzzer came up short. 
They lost to FSU 63-56 after blowing an early 
lead.
The results, especially the one against Flor-ida State, can be seen as an improvement over 
last year, when UF went 11-19 and lost to FSU 
by 30 points.
“I think we’re confident. We’re confident in 
the growth we show every day in practice, and 
together as a group,” UF coach Cam Newbauer 
said. “We don’t focus on wins and losses. If we 
do that, that’s gonna shake your confidence. 
Instead we gotta focus on the growth of each 
moment.”
Delicia Washington and Nakkasoglu have 
led the way so far. The two guards have been 
UF’s most productive players by far this sea-
son, averaging 21.5 and 13.5 points per game, 
respectively. The duo has scored over 60 per-
cent of Florida’s points.In addition, Nakkasoglu leads the team in 
three-pointers with nine (no other player has 
more than two), and Washington leads the 
team with 17 rebounds.
Zada Williams has been another key con-
tributor so far. The redshirt junior forward av-
erages 8.5 points per game while gathering 15 
rebounds.
“Three players that have real experience 
on the court in Division 1 basketball games,” 
Newbauer said. “Just in terms of experience on 
the court, they’ve done a good job of stepping 
up and trying to lead the way.”
That being said, beating Mercer will be no 
easy task for the Gators. The Bears had a his-
toric season last year, winning a school-record 27 straight games en route to a 30-3 finish and 
the school’s first ever NCAA Tournament ap-
pearance, along with a spot in the AP Top 25.
Mercer returns most of its starters from last 
year, including guard Keke Calloway. The se-
nior is off to a brilliant start this season, averag-
ing 26 points a game.
“I don’t think she’s a player you can com-
pletely shut down,” Newbauer said. “You have 
to slow her down a little bit, make her uncom-
fortable, try to get the ball out of her hands.”  
“We’ve gotta have a defensive team re-
bounding and team offensive game if we wan-
na have any sort of success,” Newbauer said. 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgGators look to right the ship against Mercer on ThursdayBy River Wells
Sports Writer
The University of Florida will not forget Kaylan Marckese.
Kaylan prowled the six-yard box all four years of her colle-
giate career in Gainesville. She’d deflect, catch, punch and kick 
most balls that came her way, and opposing defenders were 
hard-pressed to find the back of the net so long as she was its 
sentinel.
She had 250 career saves and the school record for shut-
outs. She averaged less than a goal allowed per game for her 
entire career and will likely go down in UF history as one of the 
school’s greatest goalkeepers.
There’s another sport, however, that won’t forget her any 
time soon.
Once upon a time, Kaylan Marckese was a dual-sport ath-
lete. Once upon a time, she faced a choice that defined her ath-
letic career.
Once upon a time, Kaylan Marckese chose soccer, much to 
the delight of UF soccer fans and the chagrin of the rest of the 
Southeastern Conference.
Kaylan’s love of sports started off simple enough.
She learned to throw everything from a frisbee to a baseball. 
She swam competitively. She was invited to play travel softball. 
She dabbled in flag football. She attended basketball camps in 
the summer. And she played soccer and volleyball. When she 
was younger, she’d even make up new sports with her neigh-
bors when they’d exhausted all the other ones.
“I loved to be outside, to play and run around,” Marckese 
said. “Sports were the way to go, especially coming from a 
neighborhood environment.”
While Kaylan’s knack for sports was clear, there came a time 
when she had to narrow her focus in order to hone her craft.
“She had to make a choice,” Michael, her father, said. “To 
be good at anything, you have to put the time in.”
She ditched swimming first. It’s an individual sport and 
not the type of competition she was looking for. The rest were 
whittled down until she reached two: soccer and volleyball, the 
sports she went on to play in high school.
Kaylan excelled in both sports. She recorded 129 kills in 
her freshman year at St. Petersburg High School and 169 as a 
sophomore. She often played against older kids on her club vol-
leyball team because she was more physical than the players in 
her own age group. 
Eventually, Kaylan began to notice a shift. On the soccer 
pitch, she dealt with a broken thumb her sophomore year. It 
prevented her from starting in goal too often, but she saw lim-
ited action in other positions. She returned to her normal goal-
keeping duties during her junior year for the Green Devils.
“I just realized that I loved going to soccer practice every 
day,” she said. “And I loved volleyball practice, but there were 
some days where I was like ‘Ugh, I really don’t want to go’. But 
that never happened for soccer.”
When it came to volleyball, there were concerns about her 
height. Kaylan is currently 5-foot-11 and hasn’t grown much 
since high school. She was never particularly tall for an outside 
hitter.
“She was either going to be a DII volleyball player or a DI 
soccer player,” Michael said. “She wanted to go to a big school.”
Her club volleyball coach, Courtney Draper, is now the head 
coach at USF. She asserted Kaylan’s height wouldn’t be a prob-
lem on the court. She attempted to lure Kaylan to play at Eckerd 
College in St. Petersburg, where Draper was coaching at the 
time. She also offered Kaylan a full scholarship and to find a way to have her play soccer simultaneously.
“There’d probably never be another athlete ever to have that 
opportunity,” Draper said. “We felt like, ‘Let’s work together 
and see if we could make it happen,’ because she would have 
made both of (Eckerd’s) programs so much better.”
Soccer eventually won out. Because the two ran at the same 
time, Kaylan gave precedence to soccer and attended soccer 
practices and games if they overlapped with any volleyball ac-
tivities. Although she was excited for her upcoming opportuni-
ties on the pitch, it still wasn’t easy to leave the court behind.
“She got a different fun out of volleyball,” said Kaylan’s 
mother, Kristi. “Soccer can be very stressful.”
In her junior year, she began to take visits to various univer-
sities with an interest in soccer, and it wasn’t long until a certain 
soccer coach reached out with an intriguing offer.
Becky Burleigh was a frequent visitor to Kaylan’s club soc-
cer matches. The University of Florida coach needed to replace 
a local legend in Taylor Burke, who allowed just .86 goals per 
game throughout her four years of starting. 
“Her club coach was able to put the team into very large 
tournaments where soccer coaches like Becky Burleigh would 
attend and scout the players,” Michael said. “Becky was one, 
and Kaylan was very fortunate that she had quite a few oppor-
tunities to go to quite a number of DI schools.” 
Kaylan still entertained other offers. On top of the in-state 
USF and FSU, she embarked on visits to West Virginia, Virginia 
Tech and Boston University and talked to other schools over 
the phone.
There were a few things she was looking for. She wanted 
to be a part of a program that felt personal. She wanted to go 
somewhere with academic prestige. 
“Kaylan’s a really bright student, and obviously UF is such an amazing academic school,” Burleigh said. “I think that was 
a huge draw for her.”
But there were two aspects of her search for a new home 
that impacted her the most. The first came from the top.
“I think she had such a strong, positive role model in a fe-
male coach that she was like, ‘That’s what I want,’” Kristi said.
Kaylan’s decision came down to UF and West Virginia, both 
of which had female head coaches. Burleigh asked Kaylan if 
she would come to Gainesville a year early and forgo her senior 
year. That declaration was a significant turning point in her re-
cruitment.
“I really did like the fact that Becky offered me a spot a year 
early,” Kaylan said. “Once she kinda mentioned that, I had my 
sights set on that.”
Although the prospect of skipping out on her senior year 
would be daunting to some, both Kaylan and her parents had 
no doubts about the process.
“I was 100 percent (on board),” Michael said. “Kaylan’s al-
ways been a mature, thoughtful person, and she does extremely 
well in academics.”
Kaylan’s other selling point was familiarity. She wanted to 
go somewhere close to St. Petersburg but not too close. 
“(Gainesville is) far enough away that I can get home for a 
weekend if I want to, but it’s also far enough away that I don’t 
have to go home for dinner everyday,” Kaylan said.
UF seemed to be her Mecca. Her pilgrimages to and from the 
swamps of north central Florida fulfilled her need. She realized 
that when she went to the campus for the first time.
“When she came back from the Florida visit, I asked prob-
ably, ‘How was the visit?’” Michael said. 
“I felt like I was home,” Kaylan responded.
Despite returning to play volleyball for the St. Petersburg 
High Green Devils, Kaylan’s decision to focus on her soccer ca-
reer was set in stone, and Draper made one more effort to get 
her former club volleyball player on the court at South Florida.
“If (Kaylan) wasn’t able to play professional soccer immedi-
ately after college, I would even take her at USF as a fifth year,” 
she said. 
She’d have an offseason to train with the team. Draper, who 
still makes the offer to Kaylan nearly every year, asserted her 
confidence in Kaylan’s abilities.
“Just being a strong, fit Division I athlete in a different sport, 
I still feel like she could get it back with the snap of a finger,” 
Draper said. 
While Draper may have been unsuccessful in bringing Kay-
lan to the court in Tampa, she still makes sure to support her 
every chance she gets. Whenever the Gators played USF during 
Kaylan’s tenure as their goalkeeper, Draper and her family were 
always in the stands to cheer her on.
“One of the times, I was able to bring my own children to see 
her play as well,” Draper said. “They wanted to sit behind the 
goal, and they were yelling for her the whole time… She was 
almost an extension of our family.”
Kaylan Marckese chose soccer. She wants to pursue it pro-
fessionally. But despite leaving volleyball in her past, Kaylan 
never forgot it.
“Even coming to Florida, I love going to volleyball games,” 
she said. “I hang out with the volleyball team. I think it’s some-
thing that I’ll always be very interested in, something I’m pas-
sionate about even though I’m not playing.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgNET MINDER: Marckese decided which net was right
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Florida goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese decided to play 
soccer in college rather than volleyball.
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
$5 Craft Pints$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSing on 6-of-11 shooting against Charleston Southern.
Hudson has two double-digit shooting efforts but hasn’t 
shot very accurately at 29.4 percent.
One player that has stuck out so far is guard Deaundrae 
Ballard. He is one of only two members on the team that 
has shot at least 50 percent with a minimum of ﬁ  ve at-
tempts (forward Keyontae Johnson being the other at 4-of-
8).
Ballard currently sits at 10-for-18 and averages 12.5 
points, the most on the team. Florida needs another good 
game from the Atlanta native to stay aﬂ  oat offensively.
The Gators get La Salle tonight at 7 p.m. After La Salle, 
Florida heads down to the Bahamas to compete in the Bat-
tle 4 Atlantis, a tournament that features Butler, Virginia, 
Oklahoma, Stanford, Middle Tennessee State, Wisconsin 
and Dayton. 
Mike White claims his team isn’t complacent heading 
into the game.
“Deﬁ  nitely not looking past them.”
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org  M-BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Deaundrae Ballard is one 
of two players shooting at 
least 50 percentThe last UF win against FSU was just after President Obama 
was elected to his second term. If Mullen wants to get Jones 
his ﬁ  rst high-stakes playing time outside of the Georgia 
game, this is it. 
This year couldn’t present better timing. The Seminoles’ 
defense can't stop a slug with salt, and the Gators should 
ﬁ  nd themselves up by a bunch by halftime. 
The only issue here is the rivalry factor. If FSU comes to 
play that afternoon, it could be a close matchup all the way 
through. Would Mullen want to risk burning Jones’ redshirt 
in a tightly contested rivalry game?
That depends on if Jones was used the previous week. 
Seeing as how that’s a high possibility, I can’t see why Mul-
len would.
Overall probability of a Jones sighting: 3/10. Roughly the 
chances of seeing your mom at Rowdy Reptile.
Unknown Bowl Game (TBD)
Whether it’s a New Year’s Six matchup or the Bad Boys 
Mowers Gasparilla Bowl, this is the one for sure. 
A few weeks’ worth of extra practice on stuff Jones can 
run in-game is too much for Mullen to pass up. You also 
have the added tension and drama of a potentially close 
game against an out-of-conference opponent. 
If Mullen has already used Jones in both the previous 
games, this is absolutely off the table. But Mullen’s a smart 
guy. He knows what he wants. And he wants Jones to play 
on this stage. So do we. 
Overall probability of a Jones sighting: 11/10. Seeing the 
impending C's on your report card in your dreams and in 
real life. 
Morgan McMullen is the sports editor at The Alligator. 
Follow him on Twitter @MorganMcMufﬁ  n and contact 
him at mmcmullen@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14
Monday. “I just wanted to lower my head.. I 
mean I have faith in myself and conﬁ  dence in 
myself to go and...especially on fourth-and-1 
you know. I wanted the ball and I wanted to 
score.”
The Gators need more of that from their 
redshirt-sophomore quarterback. And there’s 
no better way of building on that ﬁ  ery per-
sona he established than in a tune-up match.More action for younger guys
It’s unknown if and when freshman Em-
ory Jones will see the ﬁ  eld in the remaining 
games this season. But it could happen on 
Saturday.
Even if he doesn’t, there are plenty of 
other young players who need the experi-
ence and the boost in conﬁ  dence from being 
thrown into some game action.
“I want to see them young guys,” right 
guard Fred Johnson said. “Rich (Gouraige), Noah (Banks), all them. I wanna see all 
them, you know, go after it, get after it, you 
know, hype them up, you know like they do 
(for) us when we’re playing.”
The Gators have a lot of youth at the de-
fensive back position and a lot of young guys 
will replace their veteran offensive linemen. 
And the plan with more ﬂ  exibility to play 
different guys in their remaining non-confer-
ence games is to gear them up for more reps 
for the rest of the season.
“This is an opportunity for guys to go play, because you’re not limited on who 
can dress,” coach Dan Mullen said. “In SEC 
games, you’re very limited on the number of 
guys that can play in a game within all the 
rules … so there’s going to be more opportu-
nities for those guys situationally to get into 
a game, whether it’s special teams or what-
ever the situation is.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Coach Dan Mullen: 'This is an opportunity for guys to go play'Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator Staff
Senior guard KeVaughn Allen went 6-of-11 from the ﬁ  eld 
for 14 points on Friday against Charleston Southern. He 
went 0-for-4 in the season-opener against FSU.
