We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Comedia Jim Jeﬀ  eries to visit UF
He replaced comedian John Mulaney, pg. 4
Gainesville oﬃ   cials ban conversion therapy
City commission passed an ordinance Thursday, pg. 4GATORS REACH NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS
Florida’s gymnastics team clinched its 36th berth to the NCAA 
Championships in 37 years on Saturday, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 78
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
SWEEPING AND LEAPING 
Floridance, UF’s dance company, performs to a Sam Smith song at their spring show, “Once Upon A Time, ” at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Sunday night in front of more than 300.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida defensive lineman Keivon-
nis Davis’ status with UF’s football 
team remains unclear after he violated 
three parts of his pre-trial intervention 
agreement for his alleged involvement 
in a 2017 credit card 
scandal.
The Florida De-
partment of Correc-
tions ﬁ  led a letter 
with a signature 
from his probation ofﬁ  cer on March 20 
citing that Davis still 
hasn’t fulﬁ  lled three 
speciﬁ  c requirements from the agree-
ment.
The ﬁ  rst part cited Davis’ failure to 
complete 50 hours of community ser-vice. According to the letter, Davis was 
reminded on Jan. 26 of the requirement and how to complete it. As of March 19, 
he hadn’t done any community service.
The second violation was a failure to 
make court cost payments to the proba-tion ofﬁ  cer. Davis owed $139.62 at the 
time of the letter’s ﬁ  ling, and it is unclear whether he has paid it off yet.
The ﬁ  nal point mentioned alleged 
drug use. As part of the agreement, Da-vis had to “live without violating any 
law,” according to the letter. On March 
12, he was found with marijuana and later admitted to using the drug.
The letter ended with the probation 
ofﬁ  cer requesting Davis be allowed to continue with the pre-trial intervention 
program, despte violating three of its 
terms. While the case appears to closed on the Alachua County Clerk of Court’s FOOTBALL
SEE FOOTBALL PAGE 14SEE COPPER MONKEY PAGE 4
Player involved in credit 
card scandal violates pre-trial inte rvention terms
CONGRESSMAN TED YOHO 
AND REPRESENTATIVE CHUCK 
CLEMONS DID NOT ATTEND.
By Christina Morales 
and Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writers
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School 
senior Taryn Hibshman would’ve been in 
the Holocaust study class that Nikolas Cruz shot into on Valentine’s Day had she not left school early that day.Hibshman, 18, wearing a button with 
Nicholas Dworet’s face on it, one of the 17 victims of the Parkland shooting, pinned to a maroon school spirit T-shirt, came to a town hall at UF to talk to politicians about gun law reform.
“There’s the inevitable survivor’s guilt,” 
Hibshman said. “I thought I could’ve stopped it somehow, but the plain fact is that he had a semi-automatic riﬂ  e and I was unarmed. No one could’ve done anything.”
Republican candidates, including U.S. 
Rep. Ted Yoho and Florida Rep. Chuck Clem-ons, declined an invitation to attend the town hall from a student group UF Stands with MSD, which is changing its name to Never Again UF. Republican Florida Sen. Keith Perry was one of the politicians in attendance at the event but came about an hour and a half late.
Among the candidates who spoke to the 
audience of about 40 were Amol Jethwani 
and Jason Haeseler, who are running for 
Clemons’ seat; Tom Wells and Yvonne Hin-son, who are running for Yoho’s seat; and Olysha Magruder and Kayser Enneking, who are campaigning against Perry.
Alyson Moriarty, a UF biology freshman 
and event organizer, said she was told Yoho was busy with prior engagements.
“I guess he wasn’t interested in speaking 
about gun reform,” the 19-year-old said.
Julia Tiplea, a Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School alumni and UF marine science sophomore, said elected ofﬁ  cials should show 
up to these events.
“As elected ofﬁ  cials, they need to listen to 
their constituents,” the 19-year-old said.
Kat Cammack, a representative from 
Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce, said the Congressman will be 
holding town halls in coming months but did not specify when those would be.
Political candidates speak at town hall about gun reformTHE RESTAURANT WILL 
COME BACK ON APRIL 23.
By Carolina Watlington
Alligator Contributing Writer
Copper Monkey is returning to 
Gainesville nearly a year after it was 
sold on eBay.The restaurant’s Midtown loca-
tion closed in April 2017 after 37 years of business due to construction around the restaurant, said Ashlea Zeller, 37, who has owned the bar 
and restaurant with her husband 
Robert, 47, since 2003. The couple also owns another location in New-berry known as Copper Monkey West. The Midtown location was sold for $80,100.01 to the owners of the Rowdy Reptile, according to Al-ligator archives.
The new Creekside Mall location 
will be at 3501 SW 2nd Ave. The of-ﬁ  cial opening will be April 23, with details of the grand opening to come soon.“The best decision was to relo-
cate it,” Zeller said. “It was smarter to take a break and let Midtown establish itself between the closed streets and all the construction.”
The Creekside Mall location will 
be two-stories, with bars both down-stairs and upstairs, along with a ban-quet room. The menu is mostly the same, but was revised with some new items from the Jonesville loca-tion, as well as some new twists on classic items.
In an effort to attract students, 
the restaurant will have college night specials for students on Tuesdays, 
Copper Monkey to reopen after being sold on eBay
SEE TOWN HALL,  PAGE 4Davis
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
HIGH  79° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Curator Talks
Two collection curators from 
the Smathers Libraries will give informal presentations from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. today at the Smathers Library, Room 100. Carol McAuliffe will discuss the history of the Map & Imagery Library, its impact on UF and 
current initiatives. Margarita 
Vargas-Betancourt will present “The Cuban-American Dream.”
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters, which helps people get more comfortable speaking in pub-lic, meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in Entomology Building Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to all. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
Book release and reading
The Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., will hold a book release of “Alone Together: Ties of Sisterhood and Solitude in Latin America,” which shares the stories and experiences of women across Latin America 7 p.m. Wednesday.  Ronnie Lovler and Elizabeth Holli Wood, two of more than 30 contributors to the book, will both read excerpts from their chapters.
From Colored to Black: The 
Stories of North Central FloridaNine dramatic vignettes cre-ated by students and performed by members of the local the-atre community in the exhibi-tion “History, Labor, Life: The Prints of Jacob Lawrence” will be presented from 6 to 7 p.m. Thursday and from 3 to 4 p.m. April 15 at the Harn Museum of Art. Composed of the oral histo-ries of North Central Florida resi-dents from the 1920s to the pres-ent day, the vignettes focus on the Black History of the region and connect with themes in the work of artist Jacob Lawrence.
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage MonthApril commemorates the first Japanese immigration to the United States on May 7, 1853. It also honors the Chinese immi-grants who worked to complete the transcontinental railroad on May 10, 1869. Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs will celebrate Asian Pacific Islander Desi American Heritage Month with events from April 5 to 23. The 2018 theme is the Japanese concept of ikigai, meaning “a reason to live.”
National Library Week
During National Library Week, which started Sunday and will end Saturday, Alachua County Library District joins libraries na-
tionwide to celebrate the many 
ways libraries lead their com-
munities with the transformative 
services, programs and exper-
tise they offer. Celebrations in-
clude National Library Workers 
Day on Tuesday and National 
Bookmobile Day on Wednesday.
Gainesville High School Theatre 
Program
Gainesville High School will 
present Disney’s “Peter Pan Jr.” 
at 7 p.m. Thursday to Saturday and April 19 to April 21, as well as at 2 p.m. April 21. Tickets, 
which can be picked up at GHS 
Auditorium Box Office one hour 
before each show, cost $10 for adults and $7 for students.The GHS auditorium is located at 
1900 NW 13th Street. For more 
information, call Sarah Shepherd 
at 352-213-8666.
What Were You Wearing? 
Exhibit
The “What Were You Wearing? 
Art Exhibit” is being displayed until April 30 on the third floor of Ustler Hall Library. Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education at GatorWell and 
the American Student Medical Association have collaborated 
with anonymous UF student sur-
vivors to show outfits they wore 
during their attacks. An opening 
reception will be held from 5:30 to 8 p.m. Friday in the Ustler Hall 
Atrium. For more information, 
call 352-273-4450.
Earth Day 
In celebration of Earth Day 
on April 22, Alachua County 
Library District is holding special 
programs. The month will kick 
off with “Plant a Seed Project,” where kids ages 5 and up will 
be able to design a planter, fill it 
and plant a seed with provided 
materials Friday, April 14 from 
3 to 4 p.m. at Newberry Branch, located at 110 S Seaboard Drive.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Museum for Me’ The Florida Museum will hold an event for adults and children on the autism spectrum, including their friends, families and care-givers, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. April 15. Participants will be able to explore at their own pace in a peaceful and less crowded envi-ronment. A separate quiet space will also be available to decom-press or desensitize. For more information, call 352-273-2064.
Eastern European Showcase: 
Connecting the DotsEastern European Showcase, 
organized by Eastern European 
student community, will take 
place 7 p.m. April 18 in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom. The at-
mosphere of the event will be 
created by a flag show, amplified 
throughout the evening with na-
tional dances, interactive trivia, 
songs and traditional food. The 
showcase will also host a fashion show by Orlando based designer Inna Rudenko, who's inspired 
by Eastern European cultures. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
jtavel@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. 
Correction
In a column by Zachary Chou,   the Murpree Area Senator 
who writes about Student 
Government, The Alligator in-
correctly titled it "So you want to get more funding for the CRC and 
the CWC?" The column, which 
was published Friday, was about 
the Disability Resource Center, 
not the Career Resource Center. The correct acronym is DRC, not 
CRC.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 78
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce released 
the name of the man shot and killed on 
Southwest Williston Road on Friday.
Devonte Demetrius Jenkins, 24, was 
found Thursday night dead near the inter-
section of Southwest Williston Road and 
Southwest 34th Street by ACSO deputies 
who responded just before midnight after getting a call reporting gunshots, ACSO Sgt. 
Brett Rhodenizer said in a press conference.
Jenkins, of Citra, Florida, had no forms 
of identiﬁ  cation on his person, so ofﬁ  cials 
used his ﬁ  ngerprints to identify him, Rho-denizer said. His ﬁ  ngerprints were taken in 
2012 after he was arrested for violating a 
no-contact order in Marion County, accord-
ing to court records.
K-9 and Joint Aviation units were not 
able to locate any suspects after the shoot-
ing, Rhodenizer said. 
Rhodenizer said Jenkins and his killer or killers arrived at the scene by car, but 
deputies don’t know if they drove in the 
same car. He said the shooting took place 
there, and then one car left, with the sus-
pect or suspects. 
How many times Jenkins was shot and 
with what type of gun is part of the con-tinuing investigation, Rhodenizer said.
There is no clear motive for his death, 
but it is being treated as a homicide, Rho-
denizer said.
“We don’t know why Devonte is dead,” 
Rhodenizer said. “We want the public to 
help us ﬁ  nd out who did this to Devonte’s 
mother’s son.”
Deputies ask that anyone with infor-
mation call Detective Chris Weitzel at 352-367-4161. Those who want to remain 
anonymous can call Alachua County Crime 
Stoppers at 352-372-7867.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgCitra man who was found 
shot to death identiﬁ  edBy Heaven Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Project YouthBuild, a Gainesville non-
proﬁ  t founded in 2009, held a grand open-
ing and open house of its center Saturday.
The nonproﬁ  t moved to the Banks-Cos-
by Youth Empowerment Center, located on 635 NW 6th St., because they ran out of 
space at their previous location at 408 W. University Ave., Suite 111, said Jonathan 
Leslie, executive director of Project Youth-
Build.
But before it moved, the building under-
went an about $320,000 renovation, which was funded by the city of Gainesville, Gainesville Police and Youthbuild, he said.
It took nine months to renovate the 
50-year-old building, which is 2,500 square feet. Everything had to be restored, he said. 
“We are so honored to have a part in 
this, to help restore a building and use it for something that helps people,” Leslie said.
 Leslie said Project YouthBuild is a nine-month service program for low-income in-dividuals aged 16 to 24 who dropped out 
of high school. It helps young adults earn 
a high school diploma and ﬁ  nd affordable housing in the community. 
Kimesha Mann, a 20-year-old Gainesville 
resident who graduated from the program in 2017, said she’s working to become a 
police ofﬁ  cer.
Mann said she wanted to play basket-
ball in college, but she tore her ACL in high school. That’s when she dropped out and 
eventually started working at Wal-Mart. 
She heard about YouthBuild, and she 
was picked to do a physical and emotional training program. She was then picked out of 60 people to continue at YouthBuild. 
Mann said the staff continued to encour-
age her. Now, YouthBuild is paying for her to get her tattoos removed so she can start 
her career in law enforcement.
“I didn’t feel like they were there for a 
check, but to help people who had a hard time,” Mann said.Local nonproﬁ  t for high school dropouts gets new building
Courtesy to The Alligator
Youthbuild, a nonproﬁ  t that helps high school dropouts, opened its new building, located at 
635 NW 6th St. on Saturday. The group was previously located at 408 W. University Ave.Suite 111. 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government Senate Ju-
diciary Committee supported an initiative 
Sunday to increase funding for the Disabil-
ity Resource Center. 
After The Alligator published an article 
on the center’s need for funds, the com-
mittee unanimously approved a resolu-
tion, which is a written statement with no legislative weight, to support increasing funding. The Senate will vote on it Tues-
day. 
In the committee meeting, Senator Ben 
Lima (Inspire, District D) said the resolu-
tion proposes SG and the UF administra-tion work together to increase funding. 
Before the DRC resolution was ap-
proved, Senator Graham Boone (Impact, Business Administration) said Senate needs to consider why there is an increase in demand. 
“This problem is going to be perpetual 
if they continue to increase funding. There 
is more and more resources available to 
all students, and it’s going to be exhausted naturally,” he said during the meeting.
Boone, who uses the DRC himself, later 
told The Alligator he wants to ﬁ  nd why more students are using the center before increasing the funds.
“My concerns are just rather than being 
reactive to problems, looking at what the 
issue is at hand,” he said. 
The committee also unanimously ap-
proved a resolution to raise awareness 
about the economic hardships of interna-
tional undergraduates. 
The committee also passed several 
code revisions, including one that would 
require SG social media accounts to in-clude closed captioning in pre-recorded 
videos to improve accessibility. SG committee wants more funds 
for UF Disability Resource Center4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018THE CITY COMMISSION 
PASSED THE ORDINANCE 
ON THURSDAY.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville is now the first city 
in North Florida to ban conversion 
therapy for minors. In a unanimous vote on Thurs-
day, the City Commission passed an ordinance banning licensed profes-sionals from practicing conversion therapy on minors. Conversion 
therapy is the practice of employing 
counseling efforts with the goal of changing someone’s sexual orienta-tion.
Mayor Lauren Poe choked up 
when he shared a story about a recent student of his at Santa Fe College who came out to her fam-ily and said they considered using conversion therapy to change her sexual orientation.
“For all of the pressures and for 
all of the difficulties that exist for every 18-year-old, 17-year-old, this is one that she should not have to deal with,” he said during the meet-ing. Donn Smith-Lopez was moved 
by Poe’s personal tie to the issue. Smith-Lopez represents Gainesville on the Equality Florida Board of Di-rectors and has been a vocal advo-
cate for the conversion therapy ban 
at City Commission meetings. 
“It was a great relief to know 
that our city leaders are behind pro-tecting our LGBT youth,” he said. 
While he celebrates the victory at the city level, he said he’s also working to get a similar ban passed at the county and state level. 
“The practice of conversion 
therapy really is dreadful and det-
rimental to the mental health state 
of these kids,” he said. “It’s telling them essentially that who they are isn’t good enough.” 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Gainesville officials ban conversion therapy for minorsHE’S BEING PAID A TOTAL 
OF $125,000.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Australian stand-up comedian Jim 
Jefferies will perform April 12 at UF, re-
placing comedian John Mulaney, who 
canceled due to other career opportuni-ties.
Jefferies will speak at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts. Doors 
will open at 7 p.m., and the event will be-
gin at 8 p.m. He will 
be doing an hour-long stand-up show and 
will hold a 15-minute 
Q&A, Accent Chair-
woman Shelby Bu-
chanan wrote in an 
email.
“We feel very fortunate that Mr. Jef-
feries was available to come to UF after 
John Mulaney’s cancellation,” she said.
Students with a valid Gator 1 can re-
ceive up to two tickets between noon 
and 5 p.m. April 11 at the Accent office, 
located on the third floor of the Reitz 
Union. Buchanan said there are about 
1,700 tickets available. Any remaining 
tickets can be picked up at the box of-
fice at the center.
The Accent Speaker’s Bureau origi-
nally scheduled comedian John Mu-laney to perform on April 19. Mulaney 
canceled the event March 26 after his agents said he had “career opportuni-ties that were too good to pass up,” ac-
cording to Alligator archives.
Buchanan said the group wanted to 
find another comedian to replace Mu-
laney. Jefferies was available to perform during one of the dates the organiza-tion had on hold at the Phillips Center, which were April 9, 12 and 19.
Buchanan said the event is co-spon-
sored with Accent and Student Govern-ment Productions. Jefferies is being paid a total of $125,000, with Student Gov-ernment Productions paying $50,000 and Accent $75,000. This is a $40,000 increase from what would have been paid to John Mulaney before his cancel-lation.
“The way the speaking industry 
works, the closer to the event date, the 
higher the offer,” she said. “We wanted 
to make sure there was still a stand-up 
comedian coming to UF.”
Jefferies released his Netflix special, 
“Freedumb” in 2016 and premiered 
“The Jim Jefferies Show” on Comedy 
Central in 2017. His show premiered its 
second season March 27.
“Mr. Jefferies’ unique comedic style 
makes him stand out among comedi-
ans,” Buchanan said. “His willingness 
to tackle important issues can help 
members of the Student Body facilitate 
conversations on difficult subjects.”
David Brice said Jim Jefferies or John 
Mulaney would’ve made him happy.
The 27-year-old said Jefferies is one 
of his favorite comedians because he has a different perspective on America, 
politics and a different way of thinking.
“I like how his style is that he 
doesn’t care what people think,” the 
fifth-year UF biomedical sciences gradu-
ate student said. “He’s very confident in 
himself, but he’s still able to find absurd 
things about himself.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgComedian Jim Jefferies to 
be next Accent speaker
Jeffries
Clemons could not be reached for comment.
Moriarty said having current students from the 
high school like Hibshman speak makes the im-portance of gun reform more real.
“I think the emotional aspect adds to what they 
can do to change laws and gun violence preven-tion,” she said.
When one audience member listed Perry’s vot-
ing record on the issue, another yelled “Shame on you, Keith.” Perry said the animosity in the audi-
ence came from adults.
“I would’ve preferred the questions from stu-
dents than from the adults in the room,” Perry 
said. “I think the adults came in, and they didn’t really want to engage.”
He explained the process of creating and ap-
proving legislation and offered to meet with peo-ple individually.
Toward the conclusion of the town hall, Hibsh-
man said she wanted Perry and the other candi-dates to clarify their policies on gun reform. She said Perry’s answer about arming teachers was not clear.
“He went around the question,” she said. “But 
I respect that he was there in the first place.”
Hibshman, who committed to UF for Summer 
2018, said those students couldn’t have done any-thing to have stopped the incident. She said she’ll continue speaking at town halls to make her voice heard.
“Now, we’re going to make change in the 
names of the people who are no longer here,” she said.
cmorales@alligator.org
@Christina_M18FACT CHECKING THE CANDIDATES:Jason Haeseler, a candidate for the Florida 
Representative seat in District 21, said Florida 
has the lowest funding for mental health re-sources of all states. This is mostly true. The National Association of State Mental Health Pro-gram Directors Research Institute says Florida is 51 out of 52 in the U.S., ahead of Puerto Rico. PolitiFact reported that the data used to make the ranking is based on money spent by Department of Children and Families’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Office and doesn’t include funding from other sources, like Medicaid.
Yvonne Hinson, a candidate for the U.S. 
Rep. seat in District 3, said there is a state that 
banned assault weapons and fines owners who haven’t turned in weapons $1,000 daily. This is false. Hinson misspoke calling the ban statewide when it was only enforced in one town. Deerfield, a town in Illinois, banned assault weap-ons and fines owners who haven’t surrendered their weapons $1,000 a day.
Amol Jethwani, another candidate for the 
Florida Representative seat in District 21, said “One out of every three Americans knows someone who’s been shot.” This is false. In 2017, Pew reported 44 percent of Americans know someone who has been shot. Jethwani was likely referring to outdated data from a 2006 study from Princeton University that found one in every three American adults knows someone who has been shot. The report was cited on the website of The Brady Campaign, an anti-gun violence organiza-tion.
Olysha Magruder, a candidate for the 8th Dis-
trict seat in the Florida Senate, said 97 percent 
of Americans support criminal background checks for all gun sales. This is true, accord-
ing to a February 2018 report from the Quinnipiac University Poll.
arosa@alligator.org
@amandanicrosaTOWN HALL,  from pg. 1About 40 people attended Saturday
but the specifics still haven’t been de-
cided.
Bruce Floyd, 45, said he started go-
ing to Copper Monkey monthly since 1990 until he heard about the closing last year, and went multiple times within one weekend. Floyd said he was excited for 
the reopening, and he will continue his 
regular patronage.
“I even purchased a couple of their hand painted signs as mementos, which I’m loaning back to them for the new lo-cation,” he said.
Alana Peisner, a 22-year-old UF politi-
cal science senior, said the distance of the 
new location will factor into how often 
she goes.
“The midtown location had a ladies 
night special, similar to (The Rowdy Rep-tile) or (Fat Daddy’s), but it was never 
very crowded, so it was a great place to go 
on Wednesdays,” she said. “But now it is not close enough to serve that purpose.”COPPER MONKEY,  from pg. 1It will offer college specialsCourtesy to The Alligator 
Local politicians and candidates participated in the town hall on gun law reform Saturday.
MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Heaven Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rani Mahmoudi’s father came to 
Jacksonville, Florida, not knowing 
a word of English in the 1970s to escape persecution from the Syrian government. 
To grasp the language, he 
walked up to random people and talked to them.
“He told me about his struggles,” 
Mahmoudi said. “And what is hap-
pening in Syria now is heartbreak-
ing for both of us.”
Mahmoudi, a 21-year-old UF bio-
medical engineering junior, said he was inspired by his father’s story to create Gators for Refugee Medical Relief. He’s now the president of the organization. The group travels to Jacksonville 
to help refugees aged 4 to 13, Mah-moudi said. The members teach the 
children about American culture, 
such as sports and games.
Gators for Refugee Medical Relief, 
which was established in Summer 2017, currently has about 80 mem-bers.
The organization raised $2,000 to 
purchase electrocardiogram medical monitors for refugee camps over-seas, Mahmoudi said.
According to BBC, Syria has been 
in a full-scale civil war that started from a peaceful uprising against the president seven years ago, and has left more than 350,000 people dead.
Ajay Dass, a UF mechanical engi-
neering senior and vice president of internal affairs of the club, said one of his favorite experiences working with refugee children was helping a 10-year-old boy get a prosthetic hand.
Some members were able to build 
it with the help of a UF club called Generational Relief in Prosthetics, according to Alligator archives.
“My favorite accomplishment 
was seeing his face with the hand and being able to put it on,” the 22-year-old said.
UF students help Syrian children refugees in Jacksonville
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Gainesville man arrested for attempted 
murder
A Gainesville man was arrested Thursday and faces 
a charge of attempted murder after he ﬁ  red at a stopped 
car on March 31, Gainesville Police said.
Dana Dushwan Grant, Jr., 24, drove to an apartment 
at 1406 SW 18th Place, near the intersection of South-
west 18th Place and Southwest 13th Street, a little after 
6 p.m., according to an arrest report. 
Grant exited his car and shot a 
handgun at least 13 times at a car, then 
drove away, according to the report.
None of the three people in the car 
were injured, according to the report. Bullets also hit the apartment wall.
Someone inside the apartment 
overheard the victims saying Grant’s name and told police, according to the 
report.
Grant was arrested at about 1 p.m. Thursday at Tower 
Oaks Glen Apartments, located at 6900 SW 21st Lane, on a warrant for possession of a ﬁ  rearm by a convicted felon, shooting a deadly missile into a vehicle and three counts of attempted murder, according to the report. An ofﬁ  cer searched Grant and found a round of .38 Special 
ammunition in his pocket, according to the report. He 
was charged with possession of ammunition by a con-victed felon.
He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he 
remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $1,650,000 bond.Convicted felon breaks into home, steals gun 
and $5,000 of possessions, police say
A Gainesville man was arrested for breaking into a 
house and stealing $5,000 worth of items, including a 
gun, Gainesville Police said.
At about 3 a.m. Saturday, David Allen Tyree smashed 
a window of a Gainesville home on Northwest 38th 
Place, according to an arrest report. Tyree, a 41-year-old convicted felon, took a Glock 27 handgun from a bed-room closet and about $5,000 worth of 
other items.
At about 8:30 a.m., a woman saw 
Tyree hiding stolen items in the woods about 100 yards from the home he bur-glarized, police said. He left on a bicy-
cle, taking some stolen items with him.
Police stopped Tyree nearby and arrested him, ac-
cording to the report.
After his arrest, Tyree admitted to breaking into the 
home and stealing, according to the report. Police said he 
took them to the spot where he hid the gun, which was in a box with two ammunition-ﬁ  lled magazines, along with the other stolen items.
He was arrested on charges of armed burglary of a 
dwelling, grand theft between $300 and $4,999, grand theft of a ﬁ  rearm and possession of a ﬁ  rearm by a con-victed felon. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $325,000 bond.GPD: Woman cuts, robs man at knifepoint
A Gainesville woman woke a man sleeping in his car 
and then cut and robbed him early Thursday, Gainesville 
Police said.
Anita Jean Webb, 45, woke the 
owner of the car parked downtown on Northwest Second Street, who unlocked 
the car door, according to an arrest re-
port. The man told police she opened the 
door and put a pocket knife to his throat, 
demanding his money, police said.
He reached for the knife, and she slit 
his palm, put the knife back to his throat 
and told him to give her “his s---,” according to the report.
After Webb punched him, splitting open his lip, he gave 
her his wallet, which she took about $100 from, and she stole his phone and biked away, police said.
The bleeding man waved down an ofﬁ  cer driving by 
and described Webb and the knife, according to the report.
Police said they found Webb about two blocks away at 
a house known for drug activity, with two folding pocket 
knives in her front right pocket and a glass pipe with co-
caine residue in her front left pocket, but did not ﬁ  nd the man’s phone. Police didn’t say if they found the money.
Webb denied robbing the man to police, GPD said.Webb was charged with robbery with a deadly weapon, 
aggravated battery and possession of drug paraphernalia. 
She was taken to the Alachua County Jail where she re-
mains, as of press time, in lieu of a $155,000 bond.All Stories by Robert Lewis  | Alligator Staﬀ   Writer
@Lewis_Robert | rlewis@alligator.org
Webb
Grant
Tyree
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Safety outweighs privacy with mental well-being
In March, the survivors of the shooting at 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, returned from Spring 
Break to a new set of security measures. 
Perhaps the most notable of these new 
measures is a requirement to use a see-through backpack.
Based on what I’ve seen in numerous news 
articles and social media posts, many of the students feel violated. They are not convinced this security measure is effective, and they now have a constant reminder of what happened at their 
school and of the permanent impact it has had on their 
lives.
This is understandable. Privacy is an important part of 
our mental well-being. There’s a reason we go to thera-
pists, aside from their counseling training. We know that 
what we tell them is staying in that room. Imagine if you could never close a door. Imagine if you could never be by yourself or keep anything to yourself. What if all your text messages and journal entries were public record? You 
would feel so exposed and possibly emotionally unsafe.
These students deserve privacy. High school is a hard 
time as it is. These kids have been through more trauma 
than most people experience in a lifetime, and most of 
them aren’t even old enough to vote.
However, there is a certain aspect of life I believe is 
more important to mental well-being than privacy: safety.
If we don’t feel safe, we cannot hope to function at our 
highest capacity. While having a clear backpack may be demeaning, as we often carry personal items, it is safer 
than an opaque one. Many athletic stadiums, including Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, have implemented clear bag policies. If a bag is larger than a certain size, it must be 
transparent. This is not because the university does not 
value privacy. It is to prevent people from having things they should not have.Think for a moment about what you do 
when you hear a noise and are afraid. You can-not see what is going on. But, when you open 
the door and see it was just a branch falling 
or someone next door dropping their keys, you feel safe. It is often not enough just to be pretty sure everything is ﬁ  ne. It feels so much better 
to know for sure.
With these backpacks, we can take a step 
closer to knowing. A common way people who 
suffer from anxiety or panic attacks talk them-
selves through it is acknowledging that what is happening 
will not cause them physical harm. This situation may be 
stressful, but it will be OK.
We live in a time in which children go to school and 
don’t know if they will be OK. Someone could be try-
ing to hurt them. With this particular measure, school 
ofﬁ  cials and police ofﬁ  cers have one extra method of ensuring this is not happening. This can drastically de-crease anxiety and fear in both students and faculty of high schools. They can focus on learning and living, not 
worrying about what could be hiding in someone’s bag.
So, to any high school students who feel violated by 
these clear backpacks, I can completely see where you 
are coming from. You are almost adults, and you have 
been through tragedy and lived through it. You certainly 
deserve respect. But even more than that, you deserve to be safe.
You deserve a secure environment to grow and learn, 
and right now, those making decisions are having a hard 
time deciding how to do that. I hope they ﬁ  gure out some-
thing better and more effective for you. But for now, this is what they’re doing. I am sorry it has to be like this, but it is done with your safety and mental well-being in mind.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology ju-
nior. Her column focuses on mental health.ColumnEditorial
After the 2016 Presidential election, many American 
women felt anguish and fear for their future. The ac-tions and words of President Donald Trump during his campaign hinted at a “The Handmaid’s Tale”-esque future and a lack of progression for the feminist move-
ment and general equality.
However, what we’ve seen not only contradicts the anxiet-
ies many women and men had, but actually goes beyond what any of us could have hoped for. It would appear women have used Trump’s presidency as a wake up call to get to work mak-ing history.
Has Trump continued to debase women and their value? 
Yes. Has he maintained an utter disrespect for most Americans other than those with white skin, a plump bank account and 
both an X and Y chromosome? Of course. And that’s exactly 
what Americans expected. Yet, there is a difference between the dystopian future we expected and the one we are living in. The distinction is this: we didn’t choose to sit down and take it. Women, in particular, didn’t chose to sit down and take it; they chose to ﬁ  ght to preserve their place in society.
According to Fortune Magazine, as of April 5, 309 women 
— Democrats and Republicans alike — have ﬁ  led papers to run for seats in the U.S House of Representatives. The last time the 
country saw a number this high was in 2012, when 298 women 
ﬁ  led to run, according to data from the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University that AP analyzed.
Unsurprisingly, the House and Congress have been full of 
men throughout U.S. political history. As such, seeing women strive to change the norm and insert themselves in a male-dominated arena is a big win for modern feminists. It also proves Americans are not only rejecting the attitude Trump has put forth toward women, but we are showing him just how 
wrong he is and how little we care about his frequent belittle-
ment of females.
Jennifer Palmieri, a top Hillary Clinton Aide, told Vox in an 
interview, “I think Trump’s victory proved to women — if you did not support him — you could draw two conclusions. One: Women were only meant to go so far, and men like that were meant to win in America, or we were playing by an outdated set of rules that women politicians and women in business fol-lowed for decades.”
Basically, women are more inspired than ever to make 
their voices heard and advance the feminist agenda. The igni-tion provided by Clinton’s loss and by Trump’s victory has propelled American women to further their agenda and see it come to fruition. It didn’t stop at pink hats or sarcastic signs, it continued all the way to the House ﬂ  oor, where they are sure to continue to ﬁ  ght for and represent American women.
The Trump presidency has helped to ﬁ  re up some women 
who are ready to take back their country. Women are making 
America what they want it to be, regardless of who’s in charge.
In Trump’s attempts to silence women and their goals, he’s 
only made them louder. This record-breaking number of wom-
en ﬁ  ling to run for seats in the House is proof of this.Is a Trump 
presidency actually 
good for the 
feminist movement?
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
Some may think toilets 
have a “magic ﬂ  ush.” One does their business, 
ﬂ  ushes the toilet and 
the wastewater just dis-
appears. That’s how much peo-ple would like to think about 
it because most wouldn’t want 
to know more about what hap-pens to “poop water” once it’s ﬂ  ushed.
The animosity toward wastewater ex-
plains the strong opposition to a recently proposed bill to inject treated wastewa-ter into the Floridan Aquifer to address an inevitable Florida water shortage. In 
response to receiving more than 3,000 
petition signatures against the proposal, Gov. Rick Scott rejected the bill last Fri-day. Although Gov. Scott avoided the pos-sible consequences of injecting chemically 
treated water into the ground, some argu-
ments against the “toilet-to-tap bill” stem from mentalities that will have to change in the near future.
A clear concept of the Floridan Aquifer 
eludes most, not because of its complexity or size, but because we cannot physically see it. It’s hard for many to imagine that fresh water runs 1,000-feet thick and 2,000 
feet below us. Nevertheless, the Floridan 
Aquifer supplies water to the state’s pre-cious ecosystems and provides drinking water to more than 90 percent of people 
in northeast and east-central Florida.
Injecting wastewater into the ground 
would basically use the aquifer system as 
a ﬁ  lter. By ﬂ  owing through pore space, the injected water would be cleaned further 
and increase the overall groundwater sup-
ply. For the same reasons people have to replace their Brita ﬁ  lters, environmental-ists were concerned with the possibility of 
the buildup of treated chemicals in pore 
spaces that would decrease ﬂ  ow and po-tentially pollute groundwater. 
Unlike sink ﬁ  lters, humans can’t just 
dig up the state’s aquifer system when 
Mother Nature’s orange light, in the form 
of polluted ecosystems, tells us the ﬁ  lter needs to be replaced. Aquifer damage from injected water would be irreversible.
Those against the proposed bill were 
correct to denounce the proposal to pro-tect the health of the Floridan Aquifer, but some opposition originated from the thought of drinking water that was once used in toilets. People ﬁ  nd the idea of reusing waste-
water hard to swallow, no mat-
ter the level of treatment or safety. However, as Florida’s population continues to grow 
while groundwater supply does 
not, toilet-to-tap water seems inevitable.
Orange County, California, 
serves as the perfect example for what 
may come to Florida. With an extreme 
water shortage already in California, gov-ernment ofﬁ  cials built the largest state-of-the-art potable reuse facility in the 
world, enough to provide drinking water 
to 850,000 people every year. Wastewa-ter goes through a three-step purifying process that cleans the water to meet all federal and state drinking water quality 
standards.
Ofﬁ  cials have had a difﬁ  cult time in 
convincing people to drink the water, 
but the dependable supply of wastewater 
will breed necessity over preference. Po-
table reuse is and will continue to be the largest source of new water supplies for California. As climate change and a grow-ing population puts further strain on the 
nation’s most populous state, used toilet 
water provides a reliable source of water to sustain human life.
Florida should begin investing in pota-
ble reuse facilities. According to the Natu-ral Resources Defense Council, Florida is among 14 states that will experience “high risk” water shortage by 2050. Potable re-use can delay a Florida water shortage 
without having run the risk of polluting 
the Floridan aquifer system. Although drinking treated wastewater may not be ideal to some, it is better than a future 
without drinking water.
Treated wastewater should never be di-
rectly injected into the Floridan Aquifer, 
but there will come a day when we will drink the water that was once in our toilet.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineering junior. His column focuses on 
science.When a water shortage comes, 
toilet-to-tap water will be a solutionColumn
Ah, yes. The March and 
April wave of work has crashed upon our 
shores once again. 
We’re entering that 
part of the semester when sud-denly we have so many assign-
ments due, some of them must 
be in classes we’re not even taking. But never fear. 
With the exception of fresh-
man year, when my biggest worry was if 
I’d ever read both “Antigone” by Sopho-
cles and “Siddhartha” by Hermann Hesse, I have felt this panic-inducing onslaught of papers and exams each semester — and 
survived. 
What’s the secret to making it through 
while striking a balance of sanity, grade 
point average and general happiness? I’m still working that out, but it seems to me 
our best bet is better time management. 
Each semester, particularly with this most recent bout of senioritis, it has become increasingly difﬁ  cult to start my assign-
ments a little sooner and study a little ear-
lier.
But I will ﬁ  nish out this last semester 
strong. So, readers, I have perused the in-ternet far and wide and drawn from my 
own personal experiences to discover 
the most effective organization and time-management skills. I present a few here for you in the hopes they help us all:
Make brief morning to-do lists.If you’re like me, when you’re stressed, 
it hits you when you’re waking up in the morning just as you’re remembering all 
the work you left for today instead of do-
ing it yesterday. To-do lists are nothing new in terms of organization and time management, but I’ve found the optimal 
number of tasks is between three and ﬁ  ve 
per list, written down in the morning be-fore you forget. 
Any more than that can feel over-
whelming, and further, you can priori-
tize your jobs by ranking them in order of which you must ﬁ  nish ﬁ  rst, 
second and so on. Don’t just word-vomit on the page; brieﬂ  y 
spell out what you need to do in 
order of when you need to do it.
Intersperse relaxing or 
stress-relieving activities be-tween your assignments.  
Don’t let academics get the 
best of you. I truly believe we 
work most effectively and efﬁ  ciently when 
we feel our best, and this requires at least 
a little time dedicated to hobbies and inter-ests we enjoy. Take 15 minutes to stretch and go for a run. Take a 20-minute study 
break to draw, paint or read a chapter or 
two of your favorite book. Make some tea, call a friend or just zone out for 10 min-utes. Your brain will thank you.
Work toward your strengths and 
around your weaknesses.
If you know you’re a morning person 
with a lot of work to do, set your alarm 
even just 30 or 45 minutes earlier than 
usual. Brew your coffee, tea or morning drink of choice, make sure your desk is clean and get started with some time to spare. If you’re a night owl, organize your 
desk or work area earlier in the day and 
set time limits on when you’d like to start and stop for the evening. This is all to en-sure you get a healthy amount of sleep 
and to avoid the stress of cramming work 
into time you don’t have.
Remember why you’re here.What’s the overarching reason you’re 
studying, anyway? I don’t mean the “I 
have to take this class to graduate” thing, 
either. What’s the ultimate career goal or underlying passion? Use that to your ad-vantage. Sometimes the best motivation comes from within.
School can get stressful. We should try 
not to make it harder than it already is — after all, we should enjoy the ride. Now, 
if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got some home-
work to start.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column focuses on 
education.As the semester hits peak amount
of work, start thinking strategicallyColumn
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
“Work toward your strengths and 
around your weaknesses.”
Mia Gettenberg
Columnist8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
Thousands of visitors at the Santa Fe College Spring Arts Festival look at and walk by the hundreds of booths filled with artwork and merchandise Saturday afternoon. The 
festival draws thousands of people to the downtown area each year.
North Carolina-based artist John Furches works on a painting inside his booth at the Santa Fe College Spring Arts Festival downtown on Saturday afternoon. Furches chooses watercolor as the primary medium for his work. 
Members of the student Jazz combo class at Santa Fe College perform on Bo Diddley Community Plaza at the Spring Arts Festival on Saturday afternoon. Some of the songs they performed include “Up Jumped Spring” by Freddie Hubbard and “Meditation” from Jazz Standards.
Spring Fling: Thousands flock to 49th annual arts festival 
Photos by Will Clewis
Alligator StaffMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Color, cuisine and culture at local India Fest
YMCA performers dance along to traditional Bollywood music during the India Fest 2018 at Santa Fe College on Saturday. The event, sponsored by the India Cultural and 
Educational Center of Gainesville, acts as a display of the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of India.  Crowds of people line up to try traditional Indian dishes at India Fest 2018, held at 
Santa Fe College on Saturday.Colorful handmade jewelry was displayed and sold at ICEC’s India Fest on Saturday.  The event, held at Santa Fe College, featured traditional Indian cuisine and performances as well as original art, clothes and jewelry.  
Photos by T aylour Marks
Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
By Valentina Pinzon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sara Lind wants to help foster 
children because her father lived in 
a foster home when he was a baby.  
But when the political science 
sophomore looked into it at UF, she 
found no student organization fo-
cused on the cause, so she decided to create one. 
UF Students Activities and In-
volvement approved the application for her organization, “Gator Strong Families,” which will advocate for 
children and help foster care fami-
lies, on Thursday. 
Lind, 19, said the organization 
plans to create internships and shad-owing opportunities with Partner-ship for Strong Families, a nonprof-it. It will also help foster families by cooking meals or babysitting, create mentorship opportunities and host 
fundraising events, like a back-to-
school backpack drive. 
“I am very passionate about ev-
ery kid having a family and a lov-ing home to go to,” the 19-year-old 
said.
Lind and the other organization 
co-president, vice president and 
treasurer will attend a mandatory New Student Organization Info Ses-sion on Wednesday. 
Then they must submit ofﬁ  cial 
paperwork online to GatorConnect. Once this is completed and con-
ﬁ  rmed by Student Activities and 
Involvement, the organization is ﬁ  nally approved and can request 
funding from Student Government.Hannah Green, an outreach re-
cruitment specialist for Partnership 
for Strong Families, said she has worked with Lind throughout the planning process of interconnecting the two organizations.
Partnership for Strong Families is 
a nonproﬁ  t that focuses on helping the foster care system, the 23-year-old said. The organization covers 
1,300 children across 13 counties in 
North Central Florida.
In Alachua County, there are 
about 300 foster children, Green said. There is an average of 110 to 
120 foster care families registered 
throughout the 13 counties.
She said she hopes Gator Strong 
Families can become ambassadors in the community. Green said al-though UF dominates Gainesville, it is still in the dark about the social injustices happening in the town. “I cannot wait for the day when 
Gainesville is known not just for the 
Gators, but for a town that is known 
for social justice,” she said.
UF student creates club to support local foster children
By Amber Bond
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A professor who claims to be one 
of the few to have foreseen President 
Donald Trump would win the 2016 presidential election visited UF.
Christopher S. Parker, a Univer-
sity of Washington scholar, shared the research behind his prediction Thursday at Pugh Hall in front of an audience of about 45 people. The Bob Graham Center for Public Ser-vice hosted Parker. 
Parker’s research focused on the 
reactions of predominantly white Trump supporters, as well as how 
people of color responded to his 
campaign. He collected data from the Voter Study Group, a group of nearly two dozen individuals who analyze the evolving views of Ameri-can voters. Parker analyzed the motivations 
of Trump’s core voters and oppos-ers. He found the fear of a changing America is what motivated people to vote for Trump.
“Fear, anger and anxiety,” Parker 
said. “That’s what gets people out.”
Parker discussed “The Great 
White Hope: Donald Trump, Race, and the Crisis of American Politics,” 
a forthcoming book he co-wrote. 
In the book, he said he emphasizes that the voting behavior for the 2016 election was inﬂ  uenced more by de-mographic anxiety than by economic anxiety.
“We argue that Trump’s rise 
was fueled by a sense of existen-tial threat,” Parker said. “The belief 
that ‘real American’ culture is under 
siege. There’s a siege mentality.”
Lindsey Cazessus, the student 
outreach coordinator for the Bob Graham Center, said Parker’s talk 
helped open up the hard discussions 
people need to have about race and the future of politics. 
“I think that the Bob Graham 
Center really strives to be that space to have conversations like that,” Ca-zessus said. 
Christopher Weaver, a UF public 
policy and administration doctoral 
candidate, said before attending 
Parker’s talk, he believed there was a statistical signiﬁ  cance in people voting for Trump based on econom-ics and class. After hearing Parker’s research, Weaver realized economic anxiety was not a determining fac-tor.
“His research showed me it was 
more about race,” the 31-year-old said, “and about a feeling of their country being taken away.”
Professor: Fear of changing America swayed Trump voters
Courtesy to The Alligator
In front of an audience of about 45 people Thursday at Pugh 
Hall, Professor Christopher S. Parker shared his research on why President Donald Trump won the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF College of Medicine redesigns joint replacement program to cut costs for patients
UF College of Medicine’s department of orthopedics and 
rehabilitation redesigned a program to lower costs of joint re-
placement surgery like knee and hip replacement surgeries. 
Chancellor Gray, lead author of the redesign study and an 
assistant professor in the UF College of Medicine’s department 
of orthopaedics and rehabilitation, said a pilot of the new 
joint-replacement program began in 2015.
Gray said the redesign was meant to match a 2015 budget 
program enacted by the Affordable Care Act. 
The average cost of a joint replacement under Medicare is 
$25,000, but after the program redesign, patients would save about 20 percent on the cost of surgery, Gray said. 
“Right now there’s a lot of attention on how to modify the 
way that Medicare pays for hip and knee replacements,” he 
said.
The redesign study, published in the March issue of Ar-
throplasty Today, began collecting joint replacement patient 
data in 2016, Gray said. It did not cost anything to redesign the program.
Andrew Duncan, executive director of the UF department 
of orthopedics and rehabilitation, said the program’s “service-line approach” to joint replacements, where there is a special-ist for each stage of the surgery, helped improve care. 
In addition to lowering costs, Duncan said the redesign 
improved the value of care, reduced postoperative compli-cations, reduced emergency room revisits and decreased the length of stay.
“I wouldn’t say that we’re done by any means,” he said. 
“In fact, we’ve just begun.”
- Rachel ChangUF scientists strategize to save threatened 
tree species before possible extinction
At ﬁ  rst, scientists did not know what was killing 
off what is said to be the rarest tree species in North 
America — the Torreya taxifolia.
But in 2007, UF forest pathology associate profes-
sor Jason Smith and a team of international scientists started researching and discovered the source: a rare 
fungus. The tree has been critically endangered since 
the 1980s, Smith said. There were more than 500,000 trees during the 1930s, and today there are fewer than 
1,000 trees left.
“If we lose more of these trees in the wild, there will 
be consequences in the ecosystem,” Smith said. 
The unknown fungal disease, Fusarium torreyae, 
has been killing trees. The fungus forces the tree bark 
to crack. It then expands and eats the tree, leaving only 
a stump behind.
In early March, the scientists held a seminar to try to 
ﬁ  nd solutions to restore the trees, Smith said.
One plan was for scientists to try to genetically mod-
ify the trees to increase resistance to the fungus, said Douglas Soltis, a professor in the Florida Museum of 
Natural History and Department of Biology at UF.
Smith and Soltis hope to reproduce healthy trees in 
the wild within the next 10 years.
“We have the resources. We have great people 
working on this, and we have great favor in our di-
versity,” Smith said. “I think there is a real likelihood, 
maybe even before ten years.”
- Hannah MaggioreUF student wins $2,000 grant for invasive 
species work
A UF student received a research grant from the 
Weed Science Society of America for her work with in-
vasive species.
Rachel Watson, a UF entomology and nematology 
senior, was awarded the $2,000 grant at the beginning of February, but got conﬁ  rmation April 2 that the budget 
was approved and she could use the money, she said.
The grant will be used to continue her research on 
an insect, psyllid Calophya latiforceps, that could poten-tially control and suppress the Brazilian pepper-tree, an 
invasive tree species growing throughout Florida. 
Watson’s research aims to prove that biological con-
trol agents like the insect do not have a preference be-
tween male and female plants. This theory would help 
manage the Brazilian pepper-trees, which have male 
and female ﬂ  owers on separate plants.
The 22-year-old said she thinks her writing ability 
and three years of experience helped her win the grant. 
She said her mentors — UF professor James Cuda and UF doctoral student Patricia Prade — also helped her 
through the writing process.
Prade said Watson’s achievement is signiﬁ  cant be-
cause the competition was tough.
Watson said she was surprised to win the grant be-
cause she is hard on herself. She didn’t expect it.
“It shows me that all the work I’ve put into what 
I’m passionate about is coming back, and I can reap the 
beneﬁ  ts,” she said.
- Vivian NguyenBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
5-15-18-21-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1201 
NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800    4-13-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYParalegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
COVENANT AGENCY seeks compassion -
ate, responsible, caring people to be com-panions to developmentally disabled young adults.Must have at least one year of experience working with children, elderly, or develop -
mentally disabled persons.OFFERING ALL HOURS OF AVAILABILITY 24/7. CALL 954-729-5750 MONDAY-FRIDAY, 8AM-4PM.      4-18-18-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Designated drivers are the greatestIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 4/16- 4/19 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.       4-16-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  From side to side
1.  ____ machine 5.  ____ lessons
2.  Fresh start6.  Bet
3.  Deceptive dexterity 7.  ____ pedal
4.  Pressing needSRCOAS
DGAINDNDAEC
GREAW
NARELWE
TLISGHEUHCCLT
CRSTHAANSWERS: 1A-Across  5A-Dance  6A-Wager  7A-Clutch
1D-Adding  2D-Renewal  3D-Sleight  4D-Starch  B-Scotland4-9-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to about 5.5. million people.
BONUS1. Who holds the Texas Rangers 
record for career batting average?
2. Name the only catchers elected on 
the first ballot to the Baseball Hall of 
Fame.
3. Who was the last Washington 
Redskins quarterback before Kirk 
Cousins in 2016 to throw for at least 
350 yards in consecutive games?
4. Entering 2018, who were the last 
two men’s basketball coaches to lead 
their team to an NCAA champion-
ship without having ever coached in a Final Four before that year?
5. Name the first NHL player to 
record a hat trick for the Vegas Golden Nights?
6. Who was the first driver to win in 
races in Formula One, IndyCar and NASCAR? 
7. When was the last time before 2017 
that two American female tennis play-ers were in the final of the U.S. Open?
Answers
1. Al Oliver, with a .319 average 
(1978-81).
2. Johnny Bench (1989) and Ivan 
Rodriguez (2017).
3. Jay Schroeder, in 1986.4. Tubby Smith (1998) and Kevin 
Ollie (2014).
5. William Karlsson, in 2017.
6. Dan Gurney.
7. It was 2002, when Serena Wil-
liams defeated Venus Williams.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 9, 2018King Features Weekly ServiceACROSS
1 Romantic kissing
at the mall and
such, briefly
5 Skier’s challenge
10 Ref’s decisions
14 Finnish architect
Saarinen
15 Egg-shaped
16 Tipsy17 Rich19 To be, in
Bordeaux
20 English china21 With 61-Across,
seriouslyoverweightfictional sleuth
22 Chick’s cry23 Tree-toppling tool25 “That’s cheating!”27 Wine evaluators31 Get in your face
about
34 Lisbon hello35 Shankar’s
instrument
38 Personal, as
thoughts
39 Break in relations
41 Lawyer’s backlog
43 “I’m paying for
the drinks”
44 Dined at home
46 Indian breads
48 “A mouse!”
49 Sound
equipment thatmay pick up aprivate remark
51 Prayerful chants53 Scold loudly56 Sticky stuff57 “Cosmos” author
Sagan
59 Chief Asgard god61 See 21-Across65 Healthful berry66 Object of the
puddy tat’spursuit
68 Skinny69 Dominican
Republicneighbor
70 Triangle
calculation
71 Prefix with -pathic72 Max of Dadaism73 Consider
DOWN
1 Benches flanking
church aisles
2 Thoughtful3 Guthrie at
Woodstock
4 Went for in an
auction
5 Homer’s
bartender
6 Pizza maker
7 Ancient Greek
physician
8 In __: not yet
born
9 Batted first
10 1993 film with an
instrument in itstitle
11 2000s best-seller
involving flyingtoys, with “The”
12 Fairy tale meanie13 Herding dog
name
18 Evil spells24 Guitarist Clapton26 Muhammad in a
ring
27 Hebrew scroll
28 Samuel on the
Supreme Court
29 Protective bar on
a flat roof
30 X-Men co-creator
Lee
32 Mythical lion’s
home
33 Arduous journeys36 Words that
connect each
pair of four-letter
words intersecting
at a circle
37 Unit at Staples40 Facebook feature42 Stocking tear45 Zip, in soccer47 Wintry and white50 Provide apparel
for
52 “Tough!”54 No-holds-barred
commercialcompetition
55 Advertising link
57 Suffragist Carrie
58 Tooth pain60 Brooklyn NBA
team
62 Old Italian cash63 Priceless?64 Cheese from the
Netherlands
67 Tiny songbird
By Lila Cherry
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/09/1804/09/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, April 9, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Where thoughts
can be organized
11 __ punk: No
Doubt genre
14 Not go off-script
15 Zero-star fare
16 They’re hidden
annually
17 Holds up
18 Got into a pickle?
19 Xi preceders
20 Kind of baseball
league for pre-
Little Leaguers
22 Duplicates24 Dogs follow them
26 Ruled by thieves
30 Like some
restaurant boxes
33 Crispy triangle
34 One of two
possible
Passover mos.
35 Indignant reply
37 “It’s Raining __”:
The Weather
Girls hit
38 Sip40 Charge41 Lost control in a
big way
44 Throw below
deck, say
45 Bolo ties or 
bell-bottoms
48 “Camptown
Races” refrainsyllables
49 Brick partner
53 Graduates55 One using bugs56 Media co. based
in D.C. and Fla.
57 Best Actress
between Jenniferand Julianne
58 Targets
62 Building blocks
for tots
63 They take forever64 Kinda equivalent65 “Quit it with the
attitude!”
DOWN
1 Begin to fast?
2 Raccoon kin3 Start over4 Grisham hero,
often: Abbr.
5 Carbolic acid
6 Read carefully7 They may be
blonde or red
8 Glutton
9 University dept.
10 Franklin spelled it
out
11 What you might
get on a day off
12 Laker great,
familiarly
13 Arcing recess
15 Former Fox
News anchorVan Susteren
21 2001 scandal
subject
23 Ring stats
24 Extend
25 Expression
maker
27 College in
Claremont,California
28 __ jure: by the
law itself
29 Word with neck
or cut
30 Row31 Ancient
performance halls
32 Shares
expenses, in away36 Star-studded
hunter
39 Intervention
target
42 Like much table
salt
43 Depresses
46 Development
units
47 Lawn grass
genus
50 Arab Spring city51 “__ begins in
delight and ends
in wisdom”: Frost
52 Certain cycle
53 Antioxidant-rich
berry
54 Chocolates, e.g.55 Kind59 WWII arena60 Han and Leia’s
son Kylo __
61 “__ a date!”
By Claire Muscat©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/07/1804/07/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, April 7, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 Rideswebsite, his status in the pre-trial intervention 
program has not been resolved.
The past nine months have not been easy 
for Davis.
On Aug. 13 — nearly three weeks before 
Florida’s 2017 season opener against Michi-gan — seven players, including Davis, were 
suspended indefinitely for alleged credit card 
fraud. The defensive lineman had faced two possible third-degree felony charges.
Davis was then involved in a scooter acci-
dent a month later that left him hospitalized. He underwent multiple surgeries as a result.
Those incidents occurred under former 
head coach Jim McElwain. When current head coach Dan Mullen took over the program, he 
reinstated Davis along with four other players 
to the team.“All of our players understand the standards 
and expectations we have of them to be mem-bers of the Florida football program,” Mullen 
said in a statement.
Despite being back on the team, Davis is still 
dealing with injuries from the scooter accident. UF defensive line coach Sal Sunseri said he is 
unsure when Davis will be back at practice.
Before spring practices began, Mullen said 
Davis was starting to work out, although he wasn’t able to fully participate in team activi-ties. The redshirt junior was at Florida’s first 
scrimmage on March 30 and was stretching 
with the team, but ultimately sat out the prac-tice. It is unclear if the violations in the pre-trial 
agreement will further delay Davis’ return to 
the field.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
The Florida men’s basketball 
team announced on Sunday that it has a new associate head coach in Armon Gates. Gates was an 
assistant at Northwestern for the past five years.Gators sweep LSU on Sunday
Florida’s men’s tennis team defeated LSU 7-0 on Sunday, increasing its 
record in SEC play to 8-3. Coach Bryan Shelton earned his 100th victory at UF in the process. The Gators have their regular season finale on Fri-day against Alabama at 5 p.m.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer  
 
Right before senior Rachel Slocum 
stepped up to the mat for her floor routine 
during the NCAA Regionals on Saturday, 
teammate Alex McMurtry ran up to her, grabbed her hands and touched her fore-head to Slocum’s. Although it only lasted 
three seconds, the private moment had a 
clear effect on Slocum, who went on to claim her first floor title as a Gator.
“Before we go on each other’s events, 
we always say ‘set me up,’” McMurtry 
said in a release. “I can’t wait for her to 
get her confidence back and bring that to nationals.”
Slocum’s 9.900 on floor, along with her 
second regional win on vault with a score of 9.950, helped push the Gators to a lead they didn’t give up all night. At the end of the meet, UF left University Park, Pennsyl-vania, as champions of its NCAA regional 
with a final score of 197.725. The night 
saw a Gator take each regional title, as well as three Gators turning in a season-best score. With Florida’s top-two finish, 
it will now advance to the NCAA Champi-
onships on April 20.
“It was really good to see the team 
perform at this level with the nerves and knowing that they have to qualify to na-
tionals,” coach Jenny Rowland said in a 
release. “They handled everything under pressure very well.”
In addition to Slocum’s two titles on Slocum and McMurtry shine as Gators win NCAA Regionals
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida’s gymnastics team won its NCAA regional on Saturday after posting a score of 197.725. It is now advancing to the NCAA 
Championships for the 36th time in 37 years.
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
I was reminded of a scene 
from the 2007 crime-drama “American Gangster” last 
week when I heard about 
the drama between LeBron 
James and Nick Saban.
The greatest basketball 
player of all time and the greatest college football coach of all time clashing with each other sounds like a true heavy-weight fight. But clashing over a small-
scale TV show?
Sounds more like a squabble. A petty 
squabble at that.
Let’s recap: James is the co-creator of a 
multimedia platform called Uninterrupted. 
One series posted through Uninterrupted is “The Shop,” a round-table discussion between James, NBA player Draymond Green, rapper 2 Chainz and others about sports filmed in a barbershop setting.
Not a particularly innova-
tive or creative premise.
But neither was Saban and 
Alabama’s logo for their own show, “Shop Talk,” which 
features former Crimson Tide 
receiver Julio Jones chatting with Saban and other Ala-bama players in a barbershop 
setting.
The name is kind of similar, but more 
importantly, the “Shop Talk” logo is ba-sically “The Shop” logo flipped upside down.
This is similar to the plot of “American 
Gangster.” In the move, big-time Harlem crime boss Frank Lucas (Denzel Wash-ington) has built a monopoly on the local LeBron has a right to be mad at SabanHuang Story Short / Opinion
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Davis was suspended on Aug. 
13 with six other teammates
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
BASEBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
After inclement weather pushed back the 
start of Florida’s three-game series against Ten-
nessee from Friday to Saturday, the No. 1 Gators (28-6, 9-3 SEC) and the Volunteers (19-14, 5-7 SEC) squeezed in a doubleheader on Sunday at 
UT’s Lindsey Nelson Stadium.
Game 1
Both teams agreed to only play seven in-
nings in each game due to time constraints.
However, extra frames were needed to settle 
the first contest of the day, with Florida eventu-ally winning 6-4 in 11 innings.
The Gators’ duo of third baseman Jonathan 
India and right fielder Wil Dalton continued to stuff the stat sheet.
India extended his hitting streak to 18 games 
early in the afternoon with a single through the 
left side in the third inning.
India went 2-for-4 and had a crucial RBI in 
the fifth. He sent a deep shot to left field that 
just stayed in the confines of the ballpark. The double drove in a run and cut the Volunteers’ lead to one. 
After India was intentionally walked in the 
top half of the seventh, Dalton drove him in with  a two-run double tattooed off the base of the right-field wall, giving the Gators a 4-3 lead.
UF closer Michael Byrne proceeded to blow 
his first save of the season in the bottom half of the frame, giving up an RBI single to Tennessee right fielder Justin Ammons with two outs.
Four innings later, UF reclaimed the lead. A 
sacrifice fly from catcher JJ Schwarz and an er-
ror from UT’s defense allowed Florida to plate 
two runs during the frame and extend its win-ning streak to nine games.
Game 2After opening the day with a two-run, extra-
innings victory over the Volunteers, the Gators fell flat in the second half of the doubleheader.
Tyler Dyson took the hill for the Gators as UF 
set its sights on its second straight SEC sweep of the season.
But Tennessee had different plans.The Volunteers jumped at UF’s throat, taking 
advantage of two walks and a hit batter from Dyson in the third. Tennessee went on to score six runs in the inning, chasing Dyson off the mound as he failed to get through the frame.
UF attempted to mount a comeback against 
the Volunteers. Another Dalton home run, as well as an RBI double from first baseman Keen-an Bell, pulled the Gators to within three in the bottom of the sixth.
In addition to that, India extended his hitting 
streak in his final at-bat of the game, getting on base with a single to right field to represent one of the three runs the Gators needed to tie the score in the seventh.
However, they only scored one off an RBI 
single from left fielder Austin Langworthy as the Volunteers picked up their first win against a No. 1 team since 2016.
”We gave ourselves a chance to win... and 
that’s really all you can ask for,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a release.
Florida now has its eyes set on a matchup 
with No. 6 Florida State (24-9, 8-7 ACC). The 
Gators and Seminoles face off on Tuesday at 6 
p.m. in Tallahassee.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgUF splits doubleheader with Vols, ends nine-game win streak
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Starting pitcher Jackson Kowar gave up two earned runs in six innings of work on Sunday 
during the first game of Florida’s doubleheader with T ennessee. UF won the contest 6-4.
LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
The No. 8 Florida lacrosse team continued 
its romp through Big East play on Sunday as 
it took down Villanova 18-8 on the road to earn its fourth straight victory.
“I’m extremely proud of how well the 
entire team competed today,” Gators coach Amanda O’Leary said in a release. “Our en-ergy level throughout the game was terrific and I think it showed.”
UF (10-3, 5-0 Big East) trailed early after 
allowing a first-minute goal from Wildcats midfielder Christine Graziano. However, Florida responded with a 10-1 run over the 
next 17:09, taking a 14-4 lead to the locker 
room.
Villanova (6-6, 1-4 Big East) was able to 
score four goals in a second half that featured a running clock, but it wasn’t enough to close the gap against the Gators, as the Wildcats lost by double-digit goals for the first time this season.
“We were able to make substitutions early 
on in the first half and keep everyone’s legs fresh during the second half,” O’Leary said.
A pair of juniors — attacker Lindsey Ron-
beck and midfielder Sydney Pirreca — com-bined for eight goals for the second consecu-tive game.
Senior attacker Shayna Pirreca scored two 
goals Sunday afternoon, marking her 33rd consecutive game scoring a goal — a school 
record.Gators junior goalie Haley Hicklen had 
another strong performance, making five 
saves on 11 shots on goal before being pulled 
for Olivia Cole with 18:15 remaining in the 
game.
Freshman midfielder Shannon Kavanagh 
continued her dominant rookie campaign in the draw circle, setting a new school record for draw controls in a game with 12. As a team, Florida won in the circle 17-11 against a Villanova squad that ranked second in the Big East with 16 draw controls per tilt.
“Shannon (Kavanagh) did a great job for 
us in the draw circle, and helped us control possession of the ball for the whole game,” O’Leary said.
In addition to her defensive efforts in 
holding the Wildcats’ leading goal scorer Jillian Swikart to only two goals, freshman defender Sabrina Cristodero scored the first goal of her career on a free-position attempt 
in the second half.
With only four games remaining in the 
regular season, Florida sits tied atop the Big 
East standings with Marquette (9-4, 5-0 Big East).
The Gators have six days off before the 
Eagles come to Gainesville on Saturday for a game that could likely decide the regular-sea-son conference champion. A victory would 
give UF a one-game lead with only three 
games left to play.
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgGators blow out Villanova to 
remain undefeated in Big EastSOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Pitcher Aleshia Ocasio stepped to the 
plate in the top of the first with the bases 
loaded and two outs.
She adjusted her grip on the bat and fo-
cused on Alabama pitcher Courtney Gettins — who had already sent two strikes from the mound — and swung when the ball was thrown.
As the pitch found its way past Ocasio’s 
bat and into the glove of catcher Reagan Dykes, Crimson Tide fans erupted in excite-ment throughout Rhoads Stadium as Get-tins successfully worked her team out of a 
bases-loaded jam.
Ocasio’s strikeout was 
her first of three for the 
contest, which contrib-uted to a 3-2 loss for the No. 4 Gators against the No. 15 Crimson Tide in Tuscaloosa on Sunday.
Inefficient at-bats led 
to a subpar offensive per-
formance for the Gators. 
Florida (33-6, 8-3 SEC) stranded 11 runners on base, compared to Alabama’s two, and had a team batting average of .286, com-pared to Alabama’s .333.
Despite the poor offensive outing, the 
Gators found a couple of highlight moments.
In the top of the fourth, shortstop Sophia 
Reynoso logged her first home run of the season. Reynoso sent the homer toward left field and was greeted by her teammates as she stepped on home plate.
One inning later, Ocasio sent a triple to 
right field, putting her in good position to tie up the game.
Janell Wheaton sent a double down the 
left-field foul line one at-bat later to score Ocasio.
For the Crimson Tide, center fielder Elissa 
Brown stole some of the spotlight with two hits, one run and two stolen bases. Brown 
stole second base after her first at-bat in the 
bottom of the first and stole second again in the bottom of the sixth.
In the circle, Ocasio tossed 90 pitches 
and struck out six batters for Florida. The Crimson Tide  used two pitchers in Gettins and senior Alexis Osorio, who combined for 148 pitches and six strikeouts. Osorio came in the relieve Gettins in the bottom of the 
fifth after Ocasio scored to tie the game at 
2-2.
Heading into Monday’s final matchup 
in the series against the Crimson Tide, the Gators have a half-game lead over Georgia for second place in the SEC standings. An-other loss for Florida would leave it tied for second with South Carolina.
The Gators will try to clinch a series win 
in Tuscaloosa tonight at 7 after UF defeated Alabama 6-1 on Saturday.
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgFlorida falls to Crimson Tide 
after offense fails to cash in
Ocasio
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
MONDAY, APRIL 9
SOFTBALL @ ALABAMA, 7 P.M., SEC  NETWORK
TUESDAY, APRIL 10
BASEBALL @ FLORIDA STATE, 6 P.M., ACC NETWORK 
EXTRA
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11
SOFTBALL @ FLORIDA STATE, 7 P.M., ESPN2
THURSDAY, APRIL 12
WOMEN’S TENNIS VS. KENTUCKY, 5 P.M.
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
MEN’S GOLF @ MASON RUDOLPH CHAMPIONSHIP, ALL DAY
WOMEN’S GOLF @ LIZ MURPHY COLLEGIATE CLASSIC, ALL DAYMEN’S/WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD HOSTS TOM JONES 
MEMORIAL, 11 A.M., SEC NETWORK +
MEN’S TENNIS VS. ALABAMA, 5 P.M.SOFTBALL VS. SOUTH CAROLINA, 6 P.M., SEC NETWORK +BASEBALL VS. MISSOURI, 6:30 P.M., SEC NETWORK +SATURDAY, APRIL 14
MEN'S GOLF @ MASON RUDOLPH CHAMPIONSHIP, ALL 
DAY
WOMEN'S GOLF @ LIZ MURPHY COLLEGIATE CLASSIC, ALL DAYWOMEN'S TENNIS VS. VANDERBILT, 11 A.M.
LACROSSE VS. MARQUETTE, NOON, YOUTUBE
SOFTBALL VS. SOUTH CAROLINA, 1 P.M., SEC NETWORK +FOOTBALL HOSTS ORANGE AND BLUE GAME, 3 P.M., SEC NETWORK
BASEBALL VS. MISSOURI, 5 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
SUNDAY, APRIL 15
MEN'S GOLF @ MASON RUDOLPH CHAMPIONSHIP, ALL DAY
WOMEN'S GOLF @ LIZ MURPHY COLLEGIATE CLASSIC, ALL DAYBASEBALL VS. MISSOURI, 1 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
SOFTBALL VS. SOUTH CAROLINA, 1 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
ﬂ  oor and vault, McMurtry took 
three event titles on bars, beam and all-around. Her 9.975 on bars 
marked a season best.
McMurtry also took her second 
NACGC Southeast Region Gymnast 
of the Year honor. She bounced 
back after a fall on her ﬂ  oor per-
formance at the SEC Champion-ships on March 24 that brought the team’s total in the routine to a sea-son low of 48.400.
“A good loss is really motivat-
ing sometimes and I think SECs did that to us,” McMurtry said. “We got back to the gym and worked our 
butts off and it obviously showed.”
The Gators now look forward to 
competing in the Chaifetz Arena in 
St. Louis, Missouri, for the NCAA Championships. Florida will com-
pete with 11 other teams to win one 
of six spots to advance to the NCAA Super Six on April 21.
2018 marks the NCAA Champi-
onships’ last year using a 12-team ﬁ  eld. This year, the SEC brings half of the group: Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky and LSU.
“We still have a few things we 
can ﬁ  x, but we are going to be hun-gry (for) NCAAs,” Slocum said.
 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14McMurtry won titles on bars, beam and all-around
heroin market with Blue Mag-ic, the best heroin around by a long shot. Another, smaller 
Harlem crime ﬁ  gure, Nicky 
Barnes (Cuba Gooding Jr.), has diluted Blue Magic and is selling it himself under the 
name Blue Magic. Lucas did 
not appreciate this.
“I would have to insist that 
you change the name,” Lucas told Barnes.
The difference between his 
product and Barnes’ probably wasn’t enormous — just like the differences between “The 
Shop” and “Shop Talk” — 
but that’s not the real issue. What matters more is that the imitation happened in the ﬁ  rst place.
If Saban and the Crimson 
Tide hadn’t chosen such a derivative name and logo for their own show, then I doubt 
LeBron would have sent the 
letter he did on April 2 ex-pressing his camp’s concern over copyright infringement, trademark rights and intellec-
tual property. The letter isn’t 
a hostile attack on Saban or anything. Rather, the idea is to avoid “rushing into legal pro-
ceedings.”
LeBron is protecting his 
business interests and I don’t 
blame him.
Andrew Huang is a sports 
writer. Contact him at ahuang@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
SATURDAY, APRIL 14
 @ MASON RUDOLPH CHAMPIONSHIP, ALL 
 @ LIZ MURPHY COLLEGIATE CLASSIC, 
 VS. VANDERBILT, 11 A.M.
 VS. MARQUETTE, NOON, YOUTUBE
 VS. SOUTH CAROLINA, 1 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
 HOSTS ORANGE AND BLUE GAME, 3 P.M., SEC 
 VS. MISSOURI, 5 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
 @ MASON RUDOLPH CHAMPIONSHIP, ALL 
 @ LIZ MURPHY COLLEGIATE CLASSIC, 
 VS. MISSOURI, 1 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
 VS. SOUTH CAROLINA, 1 P.M., SEC NETWORK +
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida is one of six SEC teams competing at the NCAA Championships on April 20, along with Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky and LSU.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 9, 2018