We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
GYMNASTS COME TOGETHER OVER 
NASSAR SCANDAL
UF’s gymnasts were rattled after learning that former T eam USA doctor Larry Nassar sexually abused his patients, pg. 14Fuchs calls on leaders for DACA solution
UF President Kent Fuchs called on Congress to give Dreamers a path to citizenship, pg. 4
UF to oﬀ  er Tom Petty seminar
UF is offering a course this Fall aboutT om Petty’s life, pg. 3VOLUME 112 ISSUE 53
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld and Elliott 
Nasby
Alligator Staff Writers
Music acts A$AP Ferg, Snakehips and Saint 
Motel will perform at UF on Feb. 25, Student 
Government Productions announced Thurs-day.
The acts will play in an inaugural spring music festival, The Wetlands, on Flavet Field. SGP said the festival will feature student per-formances and organizations, wrote SGP chairman Alex DesRosiers in an email.
Rapper A$AP Ferg will be paid $65,000 for 
his performance, while Saint Motel, an alter-native rock band, and Snakehips, an electronic music duo, will be paid $40,000 and $35,000 respectively, he said. 
“This is an opportunity for an SGP show to be more than just a place where students gather, but a place where they can contribute to the event as well,” DesRosiers said.
SGP began offering tickets Thursday at 
noon at the O’Connell Center box ofﬁ  ce. Stu-
dent tickets cost $15, and non-students tickets 
are $30. Up to 10,000 tickets will be distributed Tuesdays through Fridays from noon to 5:30 p.m. and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
The festival will have two stages, four lo-cal acts, a silent disco with student DJs, an activities tent and food trucks, according to a news release. 
Julia Jeanty, a UF sustainability studies se-
nior, plans on getting a ticket to see the British 
duo Snakehips.
“I’ve been trying to see them live for years, 
so it’s awesome that I’m going to see them 
perform before I graduate,” the 22-year-old said.A$AP Ferg, Snakehips, Saint Motel to perform at UFBy David Hoffman and 
Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writers
Pamela Bingham had never been 
called the N-word in her life — until she ran to be UF’s ﬁ  rst black female Student Body president in Spring 1986.
Every day when Bingham, a Mis-
sissippi native, came home to her Weaver Hall dorm during the elec-tion, the ﬁ  rst thing she did was clear the answering machine ﬁ  lled with 
hate mail. 
“N-----” 
“Go back to Africa.” Now, 32 years after her term, 
Bingham sees an election she never imagined. Three black student can-didates are running for Student Body president in a three-party race — a historic moment at a university that only began admitting black students in 1958 and where black students make up about 6 percent of the Stu-
dent Body. The last black Student 
Body president was Jamal Sowell in 2004. The Alligator could not con-ﬁ  rm how many black Student Body presidents have served because UF does not keep track of their races. 
Candidates Janae Moodie, Revel 
Lubin and Ian Green said they hope by leading the Student Body, they can inspire young black boys and girls who may one day see them-selves in their shoes.
The three have all previously 
served in Student Government lead-ership positions. They have afﬁ  lia-tions with Florida Cicerones, Black Student Union, Florida Blue Key and more. 
To them, UF has been a place 
where they found success regardless of race, but all are keenly aware of what it means to be a black person in America.
Janae Moodie still remembers 
the door. The slurs. The dead bird shoved in the mailbox.
She was 12 years old, living in 
the predominantly white West Palm Beach area, when her mom took her BIGGER THAN US
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
For the ﬁ  rst time in UF history, three black candidates, Ian Green, Janae Moodie and Revel Lubin, are running for Student Body president. 
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8FEATURE FRIDAY
Three black UF students are running for Student Body president
•   •   •Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Throwback GatorNights
Throwback GatorNights will 
be from 8 p.m. to midnight 
Friday in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. The event will fea-ture an LED dance floor, Air Jordans, 'Space Jam' hoops and 
the "Scooby Doo" clan. Delta 
Sigma Theta will organize Black History Month festivities from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m., followed by a showing of the film “Henrietta 
Lacks” at 10 p.m. The weekly 
movie is “Back to the Future,” which will play in the Reitz Union auditorium. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always free 
for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. 
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-zation, is holding “Stomp the Swamp for Autism” to benefit the UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities at 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. CARD supports indi-
viduals with autism and their families through training and assistance. To learn more about 
autism and register for “Stomp 
the Swamp,” visit card.ufl.edu or search the Facebook event page.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ raceRegistration is now open for LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ Five Points of Life 
Race Weekend on Feb. 17 and Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. 
Gainesville’s largest running 
race begins on the UF Cultural Plaza. Both days will include food, free massages and mu-sic. All proceeds go to the Five 
Points of Life Foundation, which 
educates people on ways to share life with others, including the donation of blood, organs 
and tissue.
Student Government elections
Spring Student Government 
elections will be held from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and 
21 at locations across campus. All absentee ballot requests are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday. Visit 
sg.ufl.edu/elections to request 
an absentee ballot before the deadline.Free citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship classes from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. every 
Thursday until March 29 at the 
Millhopper Library Branch, lo-cated at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawom-ensleague.org.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWords on Canvas is a poetry 
and prose writing competition 
at the Harn Museum of Art, lo-cated at 3259 Hull Road, for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. Winning con-
testants will be awarded prizes. 
See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas. The deadline is Feb. 25. 
Tango classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? The UF Argentine Tango Club will hold free classes for all UF 
students. No dance experience is 
necessary. Join them from 6:15 p.m. to 8:15 p.m. Sundays at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday 
in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to at-tend and open to all. For more 
information, visit talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Retraction
The Alligator has removed an article published on alligator.org Wednesday titled “RTS launches 
internal investigation into slow 
bus times after Alligator ques-tions.” The story was removed from the website due to a mis-
communication between a City 
of Gainesville spokesperson and the reporter.
Correction  In an article published 
Wednesday titled "More than 
300 register to run for SG Spring elections," The Alligator incor-rectly reported that Erica Baker said the Elections Commission  
placed the signs indicating stu-
dents to go to the SG Office. It was also incorrectly stated that UF student Livia Ledbetter was 
a biology and sociology junior. 
Lidbetter is a sociology and women's study junior. 
Correction 
In an article published Wednesday titled "UF student running for Florida House of Representatives," it was incor-
rectly stated that Shreyas Amol 
Jethwani, a UF student running for a seat in Florida's House of Representatives, was an orga-nizer for Hillary Clinton's 2016 
presidential campaign. He was a 
fellow, an unpaid intern.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Girl arrested in LA school middle 
shootingA girl believed to be 12 years old 
opened fire Thursday in a mid-
dle school classroom, critically wounding one classmate and injuring three others, authorities 
said. Police arrested the girl and 
recovered a gun after the shoot-ing that happened just before 9 a.m. A possible motive was not identified as the investigation 
was in its early stages.
Clashes in Maldives as court or-
ders politicians released
Political opponents of the Maldives government clashed with police on the streets of the 
capital early Friday after the 
Supreme Court ordered the re-lease of ex-President Mohamed Nasheed and an ex-vice presi-dent jailed after trials that were 
internationally condemned. re-
election later this year.HIGH  65° LOW  40°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 53
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
SALES REP
OF THE MONTH
CONGRA TULATIONS!JANUARY
BISMARIE PLASENCIA
major: advertising
$10 eGift CardGAINESVILLE,
YOU MAKE A DIFFERENCE
YOU MAKE A DIFFERENCE
DONATE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE $10 eGift 
Card and T-Shirt 
for all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Local ofﬁ  cials are considering 
several ways to raise money for Ala-
chua County Public Schools facili-ties. 
The Gainesville City Commission, 
Alachua County Commission and the Alachua County School Board met Wednesday and discussed two initiatives voters may see on the bal-lot in November, said ACPS Spokes-person Jackie Johnson. The ﬁ  rst is a half-cent sales tax and the other is the formation of a children’s services council. 
“There are a lot of needs that we have in this district that we haven’t been able to meet with the money that we’ve had available,” she said. 
Due to their age, many ACPS fa-
cilities require renovation, Johnson said. A majority of the roofs are past their lifespan, air-conditioning sys-tems need updating and classrooms 
need remodeling. The school board 
would also like to build more mod-ern spaces that can accommodate more students, she said. 
The half-cent sales tax is spon-
sored by the school board and would cost the average household about $60 a year while it’s in place for the next 12 years, Johnson said. The tax 
would raise about $20 million annu-ally.
“That would go a long way to-
ward improving our facilities district-
wide,” she said, “and that’s some-thing that would touch every single school in a very signiﬁ  cant way.”
Johnson said the half-cent sales 
tax would also bring the county up to 
what surrounding counties already 
pay. Currently, Alachua County has a 6.5 percent sales tax while the sur-rounding counties have a 7 percent sales tax, she said. 
The other initiative voters may 
see on the ballot in November is a referendum to create a children’s services council, which would oper-
ate as an independent authority and spend about $7 million annually on 
children’s programs for all ages, said Tom Tonkavich, assistant director of Alachua County Community Sup-port Services. 
“Nobody could take that fund-
ing and use it to build a new park or something like that,” he said. “It 
would have to be dedicated for chil-
dren’s programs.”
At the meeting, it was announced 
this was the ﬁ  rst time in a decade the board and commissions met, Claudia Tuck, the director of Alachua County Community Support Services, wrote in a text.
Some parents, like Magali Jorand-
Fletcher, have noticed the age of some schools is beginning to show. Jorand-Fletcher’s two daughters at-tend Stephen Foster Elementary School, located at 3800 NW 6th St. The technology is outdated and por-tables need updating, she said. 
“There’s quite a few areas in that 
school that need to be deﬁ  nitely up-
graded,” she said. 
Jorand-Fletcher said she would 
support the half-cent sales tax if it 
appears on the ballot. 
“I think the half-cent tax would 
be really helpful to help bring Alach-ua County schools back up to what they should be,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Local oﬃ   cials consider initiatives to fund public schools By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Tom Petty’s inﬂ  uence at UF has con-
tinued long after his death. 
His lyrics have been sung by thou-
sands at Gator football games. 
UF President Kent 
Fuchs and Fall gradu-ates sang the lyrics, “I won’t back down” at 
commencement last December.
Now, starting this 
Fall, UF will again commemorate the Gainesville native — 
this time in the classroom.
UF mass communication professor 
Clay Calvert  announced Wednesday on Twitter his upcoming one-credit Honors program course  called “Petty: The Bi-ography.”
The required text for the class is 
Warren Zanes’ “Petty: The Biography,” which Calvert said is more than a story 
of Petty himself. Calvert said the class 
may also include analyzing lyrics.
Calvert said the effort Petty put into 
his craft is an example for what dedi-cation looks like, no matter a student’s discipline. 
“I think we saw that even at the very 
end, when he had broken his hip and was clearly in pain, but he refused to 
stop,” he said.
The class will be offered as part of 
the Honor Program’s “(Un)common 
Reads,” which consists of classes that focus on a book or author.
It will be capped at 15 students, said 
Mark Law, the director of the Honors Program.
Registration for the course begins 
during Honors early registration on March 29.
“I expect this is going to be a popular 
one,” Law said.
             @enasby@alligator .org                                        @_elohelUF will oﬀ  er one-credit course 
about Tom Petty’s life in Fall
Petty
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
City of Gainesville and Alachua County 
commissioners are in disagreement over a bill 
in the Florida House of Representatives.  
The bill, proposed in December by Rep. 
Chuck Clemons, who represents District 21, 
would allow county representation on the 
board of the Community Redevelopment Agency, which is currently not allowed, ac-cording to state law. Clemons said the coun-ty’s participation in decision making is lacking, considering it funds two-thirds of the agency.
“They have no seat at the table. I think 
that’s unjust,” he said.
The county commission has requested rep-
resentation on the board of a city-run devel-opment agency before. The commission gave Clemons a list of three priorities, which includ-ed CRA representation.
The CRA develops areas that need help. 
Prior projects have included the DNA Bridge, Depot Park and 352Walls.
Alachua County Commissioner Ken Cor-nell said the county should have the option of board representation proportional to the fund-ing the agency receives.  
“I’m a ﬁ  rm believer in our Founding Fa-
thers’ ‘no taxation without representation,’” Cornell said. “This is a way for the county to have representation.”
Gainesville City Commissioner David Arre-
ola staunchly opposes the bill, which was ﬁ  led without the City Commission’s knowledge, he said.
Arreola argues the bill leaves the door open 
for the county to take majority control of the board to inﬂ  uence certain policies. He feels the county went behind the city’s back, he said.
“It’s a poison pill,” he said. 
The ﬁ  nal hearing for the bill was delayed 
until after a Feb. 12 meeting between city and 
county commissioners. 
Cornell hopes for compromise, but Arreola 
refuses to negotiate policy.
“If we’re going to reach a compromise, 
it is going to be on representation going for-ward and that new board will make the policy changes,” Arreola said.City and county commissions 
at odds about agency seats4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
IS THE FIRST TIME THE 
COUNTY HAS OFFERED 
A SECOND ROUND OF 
VACCINES SINCE 2009.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Public 
School students will be able to 
receive free ﬂ  u shots for the sec-
ond time this school year start-
ing Wednesday.
The Alachua County Health 
Department administered ﬂ  u 
shots in September but offered 
students a second round of vac-cines because of the illness’ se-verity this season, said Alachua County Health Department ad-
ministrator Paul Myers. 
It is the ﬁ  rst time the county 
offered a second round since 
2009. Vaccines will be admin-
istered to younger students ﬁ  rst 
and then to older students until Feb. 23.
ACPS spokesperson Jackie 
Johnson contacted the health department Friday, the same day the ﬂ  u virus shut down 
Gulf County Public Schools in 
Florida’s Panhandle, according to the Sun-Sentinel. The health department proposed offering a 
second round of vaccines.
“This is really the easiest 
way for kids to get their ﬂ  u 
shot,” Johnson said. 
Myers said parents and stu-
dents should get vaccinated im-mediately and stay home if sick. The ﬂ  u season is expected to last another month.
Elementary-school children 
are especially susceptible to the ﬂ  u and remain sick for lon-ger periods of time, Myers said. During this ﬂ  u season, school 
clinic visits have increased by 
50 percent, he said.
“Studies have shown that if 
you vaccinate a signiﬁ  cant per-
centage of children, then you 
can protect the community as a whole,” he said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgSchools give second 
round of flu vaccines By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
When Shir Ibgui and Jamie 
Wilkinson met, the ﬁ  rst thing Ibgui 
asked for wasn’t Wilkinson’s name 
or major, it was her shoe size. 
“I was kind of, like, taken 
aback,” Wilkinson said. 
Ibgui is used to towering over 
most girls, so when she saw Wilkinson, also 6 feet tall, she was thrilled about ﬁ  nally having some-
one to share a wardrobe with, she 
said. 
Ibgui and Wilkinson immedi-
ately bonded over their height but later discovered their shared love of food, travel and wellness. In 
September 2016, the UF alumnae 
turned their hobbies into a brand and launched the lifestyle blog, 
“NOT UR AVG.” With more than 
28,000 blog views since its launch, the pair share travel tips, food rec-
ommendations, ﬁ  tness guides and 
glimpses into their everyday lives. 
“Our blog is not just about fash-
ion, it’s not just about food,” Ibgui said. “It has a lot of depth to it.”
“NOT UR AVG” was a natural 
extension of the photos, stories and tips Ibgui and Wilkinson have been sharing with their friends and fami-ly for years, Ibgui said. After study-ing abroad the summer before their junior year — Ibgui in Paris and 
Wilkinson in Madrid — they real-
ized people frequently asked them for travel guides and food recom-
mendations. 
It wasn’t until the summer be-
fore their senior year the pair sat at a rooftop bar in New York City with 
a laptop and cocktails in hand and created the ﬁ  rst post on “NOT UR 
AVG,” Ibgui said. 
Since graduating from UF in 
April 2017, Ibgui and Wilkinson have lived on opposite sides of 
the world. Ibgui is completing her master’s degree in international 
business in Tel Aviv, Israel while 
Wilkinson pursues a master’s de-gree in interior design from the 
New York School of Interior De-
sign.
Keeping a blog together from 
more than 5,000 miles away re-quires hard work and sacriﬁ  ce, Wilkinson said, but it also gives 
them an opportunity to show read-
ers different parts of the world.
Every Tuesday, the friends doc-
ument their entire day via Insta-gram Story. Due to the seven-hour time difference, as soon as Ibgui 
signs off from Tel Aviv, Wilkinson picks up with the start of her day in 
New York. They’ve coined it “two-sided Tuesday.” 
“I think we’re different from 
the average blogger because we’re sharing our experiences from half-
way around the world from each 
other,” she said. 
The team has plans to grow the 
blog, Wilkinson said. Currently, they’re trying to create more You-Tube videos for their channel and 
post more frequently on their blog. 
Michal Paniry, a UF psychol-
ogy sophomore, has been a de-vout “NOT UR AVG” reader since 
it launched, she said. Their blog is different from other lifestyle 
websites because it gives readers 
an intimate look at their lives, the 19-year-old said.
“I like how they really make you 
a part of their life,” she said. 
Paniry believes “NOT UR AVG” 
has more to offer than travel tips and glamorous pictures. The 6-foot authors spread a message of conﬁ  -
dence and self-acceptance. 
“They can be inspirations for 
other people,” she said. “It’s kind of like being conﬁ  dent in the skin 
that you’re in.” 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgUF alumnae bond over blogBy Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nearly three years after being es-
tablished at UF, Gamma Phi Beta will 
have its $10.5 million house completed in August.
The three-story housing develop-
ment, which is located at 1251 SW Ninth Ave., began construction in Fall 2017, said Nicole Schroeder, housing and facilities administrative assistant at Gamma Phi Beta International Sorority.
Jack Causseaux, director of UF So-
rority and Fraternity Affairs, said the Gamma Phi Beta house is considered off-campus based on its location. Caus-
seaux said a new housing develop-
ment for an organization typically costs between $4 million and $8 million to build. 
UF’s Gamma Phi Beta chapter was 
established in October 2015. Planning stages for the house began about a year later, Schroeder said. Gamma Phi Beta Facilities Management Company purchased the land for the house and ﬁ  nanced it. UF is not funding the con-struction. 
Gamma Phi Beta’s building will be 
about 24,000 square feet and house 71 members of the chapter in double and triple-style rooms, Schroeder said.
“Living in a chapter facility allows 
the opportunity to bond with sisters and a place where members can gather and create memories,” Schroeder said.
In addition, the house will also fea-
ture several study lounges, TV rooms and a three-room suite for the facility di-rector, she said. Members will also have scooter and bike parking available, and the building will be accessible to people with disabilities. 
Rachel Crowley, a UF health educa-
tion and behavior junior and member of Gamma Phi Beta, said a house will 
allow their chapter to be more involved 
in the Greek community.
“I think it will bring us even closer as 
a sisterhood,” the 20-year-old said.  
Having a house for the chapter will give members the opportunity to host meetings and events, as well as invite friends in other chapters to meals and 
tell them more about Gamma Phi Beta, 
Crowley said.
“I can’t wait to have a place that we 
can really call our own,” Crowley said.
A new house will enable the sorority 
to offer more bids for students wanting to join Greek life, Causseaux said.
Gamma Phi Beta is not the only 
Greek organization which will get a 
new home soon.
A lot by Hume Hall has also been 
designated for Greek housing but has 
not been purchased or leased yet, Caus-seaux said. Greek Affairs is having con-versations with Greek organizations about the space. 
After Pi Kappa Phi’s house was de-
molished in June, its new house is on 
track to reopen by Fall, Causseaux said. 
Reconstruction for the house, located at 11 W. Fraternity Row, costs $4.7 mil-lion, according to Alligator archives.New houses for Greek chapters coming to campus 
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Since September, Michell Her-
nandez has been counting down the days.
The UF microbiology and cell 
cience sophomore immigrated to the U.S. from Mexico when she 
was 3 years old and has lived and 
studied here under Deferred Ac-tion for Childhood Arrivals. Now, the 20-year-old’s future is ﬁ  lled with uncertainty as the end of DACA looms closer. 
“I can’t continue living with a 
countdown in my head, with my days being numbered,” she said.
In September, President Donald 
Trump announced the end of the DACA, legislation that allows peo-ple brought to the U.S. as children to work and attend school without fear of deportation. Trump said it would be phased out by March, ac-cording to NPR.
UF President Kent Fuchs joined 
Volusia County Sheriff Michael Chitwood and Dean Inserra, pas-tor of City Church Tallahassee, in a press call Thursday to encour-age Congress to pass permanent legislation that protects Dreamers. Fuchs said he not only wants to 
see protection for undocumented 
students but also legislation that gives them a pathway to citizen-ship. 
“These are some of the world’s 
very best individuals in terms of their achievements so far and also their potential,” he said. 
To advocate for Dreamers, 
Fuchs has reached out to federal leaders who can promote the rein-statement of DACA or a pathway to citizenship. The Student Affairs ofﬁ  ce has also compiled a list of resources for DACA students on its 
website. 
Fuchs believes a pathway to 
citizenship for undocumented im-
migrants pursuing a degree in the U.S. would be beneﬁ  cial in every aspect.
“It’s in the best interest not only 
of those students, not only of the university, but it’s in the best in-terest of the state of Florida and, indeed, our nation,” he said. 
Hernandez hopes other people 
see the importance of passing leg-islation. She was pleased to see Fuchs use his position of inﬂ  uence 
to advocate for undocumented im-
migrants, but she feels UF and the nation, as a whole, have a long way to go to protect the Dreamers. 
“It’s really wild to feel like 
you’re not really human,” she said. 
@jessica_giles
jgiles@alligator.org
UF President Fuchs urges Congress to protect Dreamers1251 SW 
9th Avenue
         SE 16th Ave
       S Main St
    S M ain St
        Depot Park Ave
    SE 16th Ave     Hull Rd   NW 8t h Ave         NW 8t h Ave
   SW 20th Ave     
 SW 20th Ave
   Hull Rd
     
 
 
 NW 62nd St 
 
 
     SW Williston Rd        SW Williston Rd      
 
        
 
 
SW 23rd Terrace           Museum Rd                                              Museum Rd
 
                    Gale Lemerand Dr
 
    SW 35th PlUnion Rd
  Diamond Rd
    SW 9th Rd                                                 SW 11th St
  Archer Rd                                  Archer Rd  Waldo Rd
       
 
W Newberry Rd 
 
     W. University Ave        W. University Ave
  SW 34th St       SW 34th St   
  
 
SW 34t
h S
t
      SW 13th St                                           SW 13th St
Sweetwater 
Wetlands ParkBiven’s Arm
Nature ParkLake AliceMark Bostick
Golf CourseLoblolly Woods
Nature Park
Clear Lake
Nature Park
Split Rock
Conservation Area
Kanapaha
Botanical GardensForest
Park
Lake
KanapahaClear Lake
Harmonic
WoodsFlavet
Field
Hume
Biven’s ArmBoulware Springs
Nature ParkNorman
FieldPlaza of the
Americas
Depot Park
Natural Area 
Teaching Lab
Construction for Gamma Phi Beta’s house, located on 1251 
SW Ninth Ave., is set to be completed in August. The $10.5 million house will feature several study lounges, TV rooms and a three-room suite for the facility director. 
1251 SW 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Hanna Gibson
Alligator Contributing Writer
At age 12, Jerome Elam 
took a bottle of sleeping pills 
and vodka, laid down in his 
mother’s rose garden and 
waited to die. A victim of human trafﬁ  cking, Elam felt worthless and hopeless.
“It took me taking my own 
life for me to get noticed,” he said. 
Elam, now 54 and presi-
dent of Trafﬁ  cking in America 
Task Force, told the story of 
his childhood at UF’s second annual Human Trafﬁ  cking Symposium in Pugh Hall, 
where he was one of eight 
speakers Tuesday night. 
The event’s goal was to in-
form the Gainesville commu-nity about how widespread 
human trafﬁ  cking is, said Lo-
gan Leonard, vice president of Gators Against Human Traf-ﬁ  cking. 
About 50 people attended 
the event hosted by Gators Against Human Trafﬁ  cking and the Graham Student Fel-lows.
Elam said he was molest-
ed, used for child pornogra-phy and trafﬁ  cked in a pedo-phile ring 10 to 12 times a day 
starting when he was 5 years 
old. Despite trying to tell 10 people, including his doctor, the abuse lasted for seven years.
After his suicide attempt, 
Elam said he decided to start helping other victims, espe-cially male and LGBTQ+ vic-
tims. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney 
Frank Williams, another 
speaker at the event, said Gainesville is not exempt 
from human trafﬁ  cking. He’s 
lived in the city since 1998 and has prosecuted 18 human trafﬁ  ckers in the past three 
years. 
At the event, he said 
people often have miscon-
ceptions about trafﬁ  cking victims. They are frequently 
children raised in sexually 
abusive households who nor-malize the crime and forced prostitution as adults.   
“There are human beings 
involved in this with emo-tions and feelings who don’t elect this life,” Williams said.
Madison Smith, a 21-year-
old political science junior, said she attended the event because her mom is involved in anti-human trafﬁ  cking 
work, and she wanted to get 
more involved herself.
Smith said hearing the 
stories of male victims was impactful because previously 
she only thought about traf-
ﬁ  cking victims as females. Listening to the stories made her want to get more involved 
in anti-human trafﬁ  cking ef-
forts in Gainesville.
“There is a lot of preven-
tion that we, as a Student Body, can do if we are more 
aware,” she said.Human traﬃ   cking 
victim speaks at UF
By Irfan Kovankaya
Alligator Contributing Writer
Soha Samla doesn’t typically wear 
her Islamic hijab, but she wrapped a 
tan one around herself Wednesday to feel closer to God for the day. 
Samla was one of about 80 people 
who tried on hijabs of various colors and patterns, some for the ﬁ  rst time. UF’s Islam on Campus put on the “Hijab-a-Thon” to kick off Islam Ap-preciation Month, said coordinator Sana Nimer. They invited students 
of all religions to wear a hijab for the 
day and take it home.
“Islam is not this big, scary 
boogeyman that people want to make it out to be,” Nimer said. “If you come talk to us, hopefully we can help you understand that and get 
rid of some misconceptions.”
The hijabs were donated by in-
dividuals and businesses, such as 
Haute Hijab, Abaya Addict and Hijab Culture, Nimer said.
Although the event wasn’t held 
last year, the club wanted to revive it to educate more students on Islam, said club member Rashhan Siddique.
“Islam itself abolishes that con-
cept of oppression, of oppressing women and oppressing people in general,” the 23-year-old UF electri-cal engineering senior said. 
The rest of the month includes an 
Islam Fair, a public prayer, a slam poetry event and other activities, Nimer said.
The event ended with a dinner and panel in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom for everyone to discuss their experiences. 
The panel’s guest speaker was Na-
dine Abu-Jubara, who is a co-owner of Verona Collection, a modest fash-ion company for Muslim women.
Samla, a 19-year-old tourism, 
events and recreation management sophomore, said she was excited to partake in and organize the event be-cause it wasn’t held during her fresh-
man year.
“There are a lot of people out 
there that think Muslims are mon-
sters under the scarf,” she said. “I want (students) to be able to wear it and realize ‘I’m still myself. I just have something wrapped around my head.’”Students of all faiths wear hijabs, 
begin Islam Appreciation Month
Irfan Kovanyaka/Alligator
Ashma Ganaishlal, a 20-year-old UF psychology and sociology junior, gets her head wrapped in a hijab by Sana 
Nimer, chairperson for Islam on Campus Islam Appreciation Month, on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday morning.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
Ah, ﬂ  u season. The undesirable yet familiar scents of hand 
sanitizer and DayQuil ﬁ  ll the air. Snifﬂ  ing noses and phlegm-
ﬁ  lled coughs can be heard all throughout campus.
“Thank goodness I got my ﬂ  u shot back in August,” you 
think to yourself, as you blow your nose for the fourth time that 
morning. Little do you know, the ﬂ  u was still able to inﬁ  ltrate 
your immune system and wreak havoc on your body.
Within a few days, you’re bedridden and whining to your 
roommates about how awful you feel. “Can you please brew me some tea?” They’ve heard this phrase about six times a day lately. 
Sick of your incessant whining, one of your roommates de-
cides it’s time you go to the Inﬁ  rmary. Of course, however, the Inﬁ  rmary leaves you on read and won’t call you back. Your 
roommate suggests you visit the MinuteClinic, and you start 
your trek to CVS Pharmacy.
As you sit in the chairs outside the examination room, you 
grab a few pamphlets to read. One about exercise, one about blood pressure and another about family planning. As you open the ﬁ  rst pamphlet in an attempt to entertain yourself, you real-ize the words inside don’t match the cover. The content reads...
Darts & Laurels
In South Africa, there is an issue not many of us are talking 
about. The city of Cape Town is running out of water and ex-pected to run out completely by mid-April. Devastating satellite images showing the dangerously low water levels in the city’s main water reservoir can be seen on CNN’s website. 
According to CNN, drought, population growth and climate 
change are all fueling the drought. As of Thursday, Capetonians were restricted to just 50 liters, or about 13 gallons, of water each day. 
It is both infuriating and unintelligible that people in the 
world still refuse to recognize climate change as a real issue when calamitous examples like these are happening all over the world. To the deniers holding us back from making strides in 
eradicating climate change, we award our ﬁ  rst dart.
On campus this week, we saw positive movement in the 
battle for free access to menstrual products. The UF Student Health Care Center installed menstrual product dispensers on 
the wall of the Inﬁ  rmary lobby Friday. The four dispensers pro-
vide free pads, tampons and condoms to students.
The change was suggested by Chase Werther, the UF philos-
ophy and political science junior who founded Gators Matter, Period., a movement to advocate for free menstrual products on campus. To Werther, we award our ﬁ  rst laurel.
This year, the Grammy Awards left us disappointed. We 
have to be honest though, we weren’t too surprised — the be-havior the award show exhibited this year is one we have seen year after year.
The award show notoriously grants awards to the safest 
nominee, and this year was no exception. Bruno Mars won 
Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Album of the Year. 
He was a safe, proﬁ  table and family-friendly option. Sure, he’s talented, but he has very little to say when it comes to mean-ingful topics.
Artists like Kendrick Lamar and Kesha, in our opinion, were 
robbed this award season. Thus, we give a dart to the Record-
ing Academy voting members, who get to vote on the cat-egories. We are sick and tired of seeing the safe option picked every time. It’s 2018. It’s time to branch out.
On a more positive note, we saw something beautiful on 
our campus this week. To kick off Islam Appreciation Month, students of all religions were invited to wear a hijab for the day and to take it home. Nearly 80 students were able to wear hijabs for the ﬁ  rst time and given the opportunity to appreci-ate Islamic culture. We would like to award our last laurel to 
UF’s Islam on Campus for putting on such a great event and promoting diversity and culture on our campus.Column
Let’s talk about protecting endangered species
Manatees are as much a part of Flor-
ida’s identity as oranges and Mick-ey Mouse. Picture, for a moment, 
a manatee ﬂ  oating effortlessly be-
neath the water’s surface, looking 
for a patch of vegetation to munch on before it innocently moves through a precious Flo-
ridian body of water. Pretty majestic, right?
Manatees got lucky. Their conservation 
required minimal adjustments to the ways 
Floridians and tourists enjoy boating hobbies. Unfortu-nately, most endangered species aren’t as fortunate.
As humans continue to develop land in order to meet 
demands for our own species, territory clashes will oc-cur with animals that have established their niches long before we showed up. Protecting these animals can cost 
millions of dollars and allow the government to unfash-
ionably inﬂ  uence the use of private property.
People often resist changing for animals if it will alter 
their own livelihood, but unpopular policies for the sake of species protection are currently adhered to by the 
enforcement of law. Unfortunately, Congress may soon 
change the government’s stance on endangered animals.
According to the Center for Biological Diversity, 
the Endangered Species Act was legislatively attacked 
more than 60 times in 2017. Those attacks focused on 
defunding attempts to enforce laws that protect endan-gered species but also impede on land development. The President Donald Trump administration now considers economic analysis when deciding whether to save an 
animal, and an economic value on living things is some-
thing scientists can’t seem to effectively refute.
Endangered animals should be protected because 
this Earth is not just ours. We share it with other living 
things, and it’s their home just as much as it is ours. Sci-
entists shouldn’t have to use another argument to save these animals, but under the current administration, sci-entists will have to push for the protection of many endangered animals without the law behind them. The best solution is to argue in 
terms people will understand and care about.
An exemplary success story is the relation-
ship between the Ecuadorian brown-headed 
spider monkey and cacao farmers. With only 
250 of the monkeys estimated to be left on 
this planet, this monkey is one of the most endangered primates on record. The prob-
lem was, in an effort to plant more cacao, locals to the Chocóan rain forests had been cutting down trees that 
provided a home for the spider monkeys. These farmers 
performed backbreaking labor just to survive, so why would they care if a monkey is losing its habitat? Realiz-ing the farmers were driven by making money, scientists 
brought in Samuel von Rutte, an expert in fermenting 
cacao, to lead training sessions on how to grow more valuable cacao without cutting down trees. Since then, farmers have tripled their proﬁ  ts from $1.50 to $3.50 per kilo, and scientists are already seeing optimistic signs 
for the spider monkey’s future. Scientists only became 
successful once they merged conservation with the val-ues of the farmers.
It would be ideal for everyone on earth to see an al-
truistic purpose to share the planet with other animals, but more endangered animals risk the possibility of becoming extinct as scientists wait for this miraculous paradigm shift. No one wants to see an animal disappear forever, but people will still value personal matters over 
the life of another living thing. Scientists must change 
their argument to terms people care about in order to save endangered animals.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental engineering 
junior. His columns focus on science.
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
With award season closing in on 
us, it’s that time of the year when we 
look back on all of the entertainment that graced our screens in 2017. Noth-ing very obvious changed this year in 
cinema; the box ofﬁ  ce was still domi-
nated by "Star Wars" and whatever new superhero releases there were, and the Oscar nominations for Best Picture still consisted of ﬁ  lms which the majority of people didn’t see. 
There was one statistic, however, that star-
tled me when I read it: “Christopher Nolan’s ‘Dunkirk’ is the only live-action ﬁ  lm in the top 
25 worldwide box ofﬁ  ce of 2017 to be original — 
not an adaptation, remake or sequel.”
As crazy as that fact sounds, what makes it 
even wilder is “Dunkirk” was still based on a historical event, a non-ﬁ  ction ﬁ  lm with events written largely by history, not screenwriters. Even the sole “original” ﬁ  lm in the top 25 was still based on a story that already existed.
Today, it seems like only animated movies 
are consistently putting out new and original stories. A top-tier animation studio like Pixar knows fans love sequels to massive franchises (“Toy Story,” “Finding Nemo,” “The Incredi-bles,” etc.) but does a good job at spacing out sequels between original releases, like “Coco,” the beautiful top animated ﬁ  lm of this year.
The rise of this trend toward remake/adap-
tation/sequel mania started a few years ago, 
probably around the time Marvel/DC superhero 
movies were beginning to skyrocket in popu-larity, perennially annihilating the box ofﬁ  ce and trampling any poor ﬁ  lm to release within a month of them.
Once sequels to these superhero hits started 
being churned out, studios quickly realized peo-ple were enjoying following the same characters and their story developments. Superheroes like 
Thor, Iron Man and Captain America had the 
charm and likability to appeal to the masses, get them hooked. And leave them begging for more whenever the credits of one chapter rolled. Post-credit scenes and the “Avengers” movies created this seemingly never-ending chain of content, a sprawling web of dynamic characters and stories that all begin to work into one decade-spanning picture.
Other studios quickly caught on 
to this trend of familiar faces be-ing more popular than new ones, as 
they began to look toward the past 
for any popular story to revive. It is easy to see why people are attracted to adaptations/remakes/sequels, as recurring and familiar characters are somewhat comforting, like revisiting 
an old friend in some way. Following a story or plot you already know and love is much easier than having to learn a new set of characters and 
background lore each time you enter a theater.
Is this current drought of new and original 
stories a problem? I don’t think so. It’s just mild-
ly disappointing for anyone who doesn’t mind learning new characters and unique stories with each trip to the movies. The idea of a complete story being told in two hours with no intention to milk it out in the future appears to be an art form lost on the general public.
What concerns me, however, is the movie-
making industry, being the proﬁ  t-driven busi-ness it is, will one day no longer ﬁ  nd inde-pendent, stand-alone ﬁ  lms worthwhile in the current landscape of capes, CGI and explosions. The independent, stand-alone ﬁ  lm is what typi-cally receives the award nominations when all is said and done, and I ﬁ  nd comfort in this still be-ing the case. “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, 
Missouri,” which won Best Picture at the Gold-
en Globes, was one of the most thoughtful and entertaining stories I’ve seen in recent years, and I love it is getting the attention it deserves.
The problem isn’t necessarily adaptations or 
remakes. “Call Me By Your Name” was the most aesthetically beautiful ﬁ  lm of the year and it was based on a novel by the same name. The con-cern is that such unique ﬁ  lms might one day not 
receive the recognition they deserve, as studios 
and award committees start to view them as less worthy than those that dominate the box ofﬁ  ce.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His columns focus on entertainment and music.In a year where protest and 
deﬁ  ance were highlighted in 
Hollywood, the Grammys, as 
always, have played it safe. Al-though the Time’s Up movement has focused more on actresses and directors, sexual harassment and assault has touched the music industry, too. This year, artists have released numerous songs about politics and activ-
ism, but this risk-taking was not recognized. 
Bruno Mars left the Grammys with a 
mountain of awards, and while his win 
was historic, helping him become the ninth artist to win six or more Grammys in the same ceremony, groundbreaking artists like SZA and Kesha left empty-handed. Songs like “24K Magic” and “That’s What I Like” are catchy and fun, but that does not make 
them worthy of an award sweep. Mars is 
a great performer, as evidenced by his per-formance of “Finesse” with Cardi B, and I don’t mean to detract from his skill, but this is part of a pattern where certain artists are shut out because their songs may not be as upbeat or easy to listen to.
The best performances come from the 
hip-hop and rap artists, but they are con-
tinually under-awarded at the Grammys in 
the general categories such as Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Album of the Year. Some artists, like Frank Ocean, re-leased music during the eligibility window but did not submit their music for consider-ation. Despite his numerous nominations, Jay-Z did not win anything. Last year, Beyonce’s “Lemonade” lost to Adele. His-
torically, black artists have not been given 
enough credit for their contributions, even though they have been the ones to pioneer new genres and dance styles. 
Both in terms of content and genre, the 
Grammys do not like things that are new, either Kendrick Lamar’s socially conscious lyrics or Kesha’s tale of overcoming abuse. While I love Mars’ songs, I can also see that giving them the awards was the easy choice: it doesn’t of-
fend anyone. It’s true that Mars 
is talented and his win is still revolutionary for artists of col-or, but Bruno Mars himself ac-knowledged to Latina Magazine that “black music” spans many genres, including rock, jazz, rhythm & blues and hip-hop, and acknowledged the heavy in-
ﬂ  uence of black artists on his music. The Grammys are just edgy enough to be part of the resistance by including Former Sec-retary of State Hillary Clinton in the award ceremony, but they’re not willing to take steps that truly matter like giving black art-ists the awards and credit they deserve. 
There’s genre diversity in the nomina-
tions, but not in the awards — Mars swept 
all general categories except best new art-
ist. Even in categories where women and people of color were nominated, the awards skewed to white men like Ed Sheeran. It’s ironic that a song by a man about a wom-an’s body won a Grammy over a song about a woman overcoming abuse. The Grammys seem to have been awarded in a vacuum, without regard for any kind of broader cul-
tural context. 
Unless the Grammys start reﬂ  ecting the 
cultural impact of music, they will start be-
coming irrelevant. The Grammys included an important speech advocating for the Time’s Up movement by Janelle Monae and a powerful tribute to dreamers from Ca-mila Cabello, but it seems the distribution of awards itself leaves a lot to be desired. 
Instead of inviting Clinton, who it was re-
cently revealed covered up for an advisor who committed sexual harassment, to par-ody "Fire and Fury," perhaps the Grammys should have focused on the reckoning in Hollywood. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her columns focus on 
race and culture.
There is a drought of new and 
original stories in Hollywood movies Ignoring black artists will make 
the Grammy Awards irrelevantColumn Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
to see their friend’s defaced home.
The white garage door was spray painted 
in red with phrases like “go back to Africa,” 
and “white power,” as well as a drawing of a swastika, she recalled. 
“My mom wanted me to learn about racism 
and that it really is still alive,” she said. “It’s important that my parents made it a priority to bolster my own awareness of colorism.”
Later, when she was 15, Moodie boarded a 
plane from New York and sat next to an elderly white woman.
“You don’t belong here,” the woman said 
to Moodie. 
Nobody heard what happened except for 
a flight attendant, who chose to ignore the woman’s comments. In that moment, Moodie needed an ally.
“The biggest problem is when people are 
complicit with things they don’t agree with,” Moodie said. “It’s only when you step out of that fear boldly that change starts to happen.” 
Moodie, who is running with Challenge 
Party, said her experiences with discrimination have been disheartening, but they’ve made her stronger as an individual and as a candidate. Moodie resigned from her position with Impact 
Party as Senate president pro tempore in Janu-
ary, saying the party and SG didn’t value the voice of minorities. 
“‘The time is always right to do what’s 
right,’” Moodie said, quoting Martin Luther King Jr. “I want to be able to start to crack that glass ceiling.” 
Student Body Treasurer Revel Lubin said 
running for Student Body president is a call-
ing — and would have been whether he was 
black or not.
To Lubin, the presidential candidate with 
Inspire Party, being a black candidate is about being an example for all people.
“It doesn’t matter the obstacles you’ve been 
through in your life. As long as you stand for truth and you stand for something bigger than yourself, there’s nothing you can’t accom-plish,” Lubin said.
Lubin’s positive attitude carried him 
through situations in which he was discrimi-nated against — like one night in 2015, his freshman year, when he found himself sur-rounded by five Gainesville Police Department 
cars outside a TGI Fridays. 
“Keep your mouth shut,” one of the officers 
said. 
The owner of the restaurant had called the 
police and said Lubin, a black, 6-foot-3-inch 
male in a white T-shirt and baseball cap, fit the description of the suspect.
After the owner of the restaurant came out 
and told the police Lubin wasn’t the suspect, 
the officer told Lubin and his friends to leave 
and not come back.
“I was just always reminded of my race,” 
Lubin said. “I was always reminded that things like that can happen.”
Officer Ben Tobias, a GPD spokesperson, 
said there’s no kind of documentation of any kind of contact with Lubin. 
Senate President Ian Green, Impact’s presi-
dential candidate, said black parents every-where are used to having the conversation about race with their children. His talk came when he was 11. 
That year, Green sold cups of lemonade 
to buy his mom a candle from Bath and Body Works for Mother’s Day. 
When Green went to purchase the gift at 
an outdoor mall close to his home in Atlanta, 
an older couple passed by him and the woman 
grabbed onto her partner. Green remembered being confused — it was May, the woman couldn’t have been cold and grabbing the man for warmth. He said it bothered him the entire day. 
“I went back and told my parents what I 
experienced and that’s when we had a talk,” Green said. “That’s when I really realized what 
it meant to be black in America.”
He sees the opportunities for minority stu-
dents in SG only continuing to grow, he said.
“It was a badge of honor to prove people 
wrong and to show what can truly be done,” 
he said.
Despite the progressive appearance of 
Spring’s SG election, Patricia Hilliard-Nunn 
hopes students will focus more on the candi-
dates’ ideas and policies than gender and skin color.
Hilliard-Nunn, a UF professor of African 
American Studies, said SG has a history of re-branding itself while the same groups of people make decisions and serve the same fraternities and clubs behind the scenes. 
She said in every election, students should 
be questioning the candidates’ track record, and priorities far outweigh skin color.
“What party are you in, and who’s pulling 
the strings,” she said. “That will often let you know what that president will do regardless of what you look like.” 
Samuel Taylor, who became UF’s first 
black Student Body President in 1972, still re-members the hand-me-down textbooks. 
Lincoln High School, still an all-black school 
when Taylor attended in the early ‘60s, got all of its books from then all-white Gainesville 
High School. 
The racial disparity followed him from all 
the way through his doctorate in 1973, he said. Only 12 students at UF during his first year as 
an undergraduate in 1964 were black. He was one of them.
To now see three black candidates vying for the position he once held feels like a milestone, Taylor said. 
“That wouldn’t even have been practical to 
aspire to when I came along; it was beyond the experience that we lived in the South at that time,” Taylor, 69, said. “This is a marker of 
the progress — significant progress — we’ve 
made.” 
All three candidates have ideas to help 
recruit and retain more black students. They want UF to be a strong example for other schools and to show the benefits of diversity. 
They want to be seen as more than their 
race. They want to be seen as students, leaders and friends.
“The way that that happens is when we 
open the doors and make history the norm,” Moodie said. 
     @hoffdavid123
     dhoffman@alligator.org
   @Christina_M18
      cmorales@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 8They want UF to be an example of the benefits of diversity
Elizabeth Shurik / Alligator File Photo
The last black UF Student Body president, Jamal Sowell, who won the 2004 UF 
thanks supporters after winning the election in March 2004.
Alligator File Photo
Samuel T aylor, UF’s first black Student Body president, poses for a political advertisement run in the Alligator in 1972.
Susan Gardner / Alligator File Photo
Pamela Bingham, UF’s first and only black female Student Body president, sits at her desk in the Reitz Union in 1986.
•   •   •FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
FUN AND
FITNESS
2018
Help students gain a healthy perspective by advertising in The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is  
dedicated to giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.
Contact Your  
Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline: Wed., Jan.  31
Run Date: Wed., Feb. 7
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, BaseballBy Stephanie Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
They were doubted, humiliated and vic-
timized with the question, “What were you 
wearing?” 
Now, sexual assault survivors are re-
sponding.
An art exhibit coming to UF will display 
recreations of the outﬁ  ts sexual assault 
survivors wore on the day of their assault. 
The installation is asking UF students for anonymous submissions describing the 
outﬁ  ts survivors wore. Then, the outﬁ  ts will be created based off the three to ﬁ  ve 
sentence description, said Rita Lawrence, 
UF’s interpersonal violence prevention co-ordinator. 
“We don’t want to put any more burden 
on (the victims),” she said. “We want to take on that burden as prevention people, and we’ll look at the narrative and recre-ate it.”
Deadline for submissions is March 9. Dropboxes for submissions are located in GatorWell, University Police’s Ofﬁ  ce of Victim Services and the Center for Gender, 
Sexualities and Women’s Studies. 
Students can also submit online on Ga-
torWell’s website. 
The “What were you wearing?” exhibit 
will run from April 2 to April 30 on the 
third ﬂ  oor of Ustler Hall, Lawrence said. 
It will be hosted by Sexual Trauma Inter-
personal Violence Education, or STRIVE, at GatorWell and the American Medical Stu-dent Association. 
Stephanie Kaufman, a 19-year-old UF 
exploratory science and engineering fresh-
man, said this exhibit may help others un-
derstand the deﬁ  nitions of sexual assault and victim blaming, and how to respond to it. 
“You shouldn’t be worried that some-
thing is going to happen to you because of what you’re wearing,” she said. Exhibition to feature clothes worn by sexual assault survivorsWill Clewis / Alligator Staff 
Students skate around the checkered roller rink while jamming to ‘80s music at the 
free Rollin’ Back to the ‘80s event Wednesday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff 
From left: UF students Melinda Hebert, an 18-year-old business administration freshman; Kelly O’T oole, an 18-year-old telecommunication freshman; Lianne Dcruz, an 18-year-old accounting freshman; Megan Pirino, an 18-year-old advertising freshman, and Barry Dever, a 19-year-old theatre sophomore, make denim patches at the Rollin’ Back to the ‘80s event Wednesday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Rockin’ and rollin’: Students celebrate ‘80s culture 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff 
A CUP OF COCOA
Friends Alexia Cepeda (left) and Citlali Barragan (right) converse while enjoying the “U Matter, We 
Cocoa” event, which featured student involvement opportunities, prizes and hot cocoa on Wednesday afternoon on Turlington Plaza.
By McKenna Beery 
and Sofia Arriaga
Alligator Contributing Writers 
When UF associate history pro-
fessor Paul Ortiz told Haitian stu-
dents their country was the first in the Caribbean to gain indepen-
dence, they were “flabbergasted.”
It is reactions like these and 
Ortiz’s own childhood of never learning about his grandfather’s country, Mexico, that inspired him 
to publish a book Tuesday. 
The book, “An African Ameri-
can and Latinx History of the Unit-ed States,” describes how Latin 
American, Caribbean and African 
history has influenced the U.S. since the American Revolution.
“It’s a reinterpretation of Amer-
ican history,” Ortiz said. “U.S. his-
tory is too nationalistic.”
Ortiz said American history 
tends to focus on Europe’s effect on the U.S., ignoring Latin Amer-ica and Africa. His book breaks 
that mold. 
During his book launch 
Wednesday night, Ortiz read sev-
eral passages out loud to about 70 
people at Third House Books & 
Coffee, located at 113 N. Main St. 
Gainesville resident Michelle 
Ott asked Ortiz why the title in-
cluded the “X” at the end of “Lat-
in.” Ortiz said it is a non-gendered way of describing someone from 
Latin America. 
Some of Ortiz’s former stu-
dents attended the book launch, 
like UF alumna Lauren Krebs. She said she finally wanted to see the 
book Ortiz has been working on 
for years.  
“It brought the community to-
gether to listen (to) and engage 
with the important history of Afri-can American and Latinx peoples 
that has been excised from the of-
ficial histories for so long,” Krebs, 27, said.UF professor’s US 
history book includes Africa, Latin America BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10                    
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14THE FLOOR STORE AT THORNEBROOK
2441 NW 43rd Street, Suite 18
$10.00/ Hour Sales cleck
Apply in person                           2-5-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
Experienced Musicians Wanted
- Keys and Guitar - Musicians needed to 
play Sundays at local church. Will be
paid for their time based on experience
and skill. Call (352) 371-9646. Address:
7003 NW 39th Ave, Gainesville, FL.
2-2-18-5-14
ATTENTION INDIVIDUALS WITH GRITResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-14-18-10-14
HOUSE/DOG-SITTING OPPORTUNITYMay 28th - June 22nd. 2 acres in McIntosh, FL (16 miles south of Gainesville). 5 dogs $900 plus bonus if job done well. Please call 352-207-2717    2-5-18-5-14
Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Stoa Editorial Services
Quality edits, reasonable ratesAndrew@stoaeditorial.com     2-2-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, 
perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit 
our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    
1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Progressive talk radio is on
WGOT 100.1 FM
along with indie rock, punk, jazz, electronica, 
folk and more. Visit wgot.org     2-9-18-4-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 
ACROSS
1 __ Lake, village
near Lake Placid
8 Skedaddles
15 Somewhat off
16 “Choose!”17 Come through
18 Poker holding
19 A or O20 Easy pace22 Clipper trio23 “Ninja Scroll”
genre
25 Domain
introduced in2001
26 Rod Stewart’s
“__ May”
29 Shuttle site31 Affirmative act34 Outlying
community
35 Tesla, e.g.36 “Not a chance”37 “Zorba the
Greek” Oscarwinner Kedrova
38 Bottom of a food
chain?
39 Abruzzi bell town40 Fertile soil41 Picasso output42 Mar. honoree43 “r u kidding?!”
44 Team that pulls
for you
45 Like an earworm
46 Peugeot’s 208 or
308, e.g.
47 Tony winner
Menzel of“Wicked”
49 Feature of many
a Hawaiianrestaurant
52 Cast off53 Olympian queen57 Lock-picking tool59 Bar exhortation ...
and a hint to howto answer fivepuzzle clues
61 Highest62 Consoles63 Bun seeds64 Request at a bar
DOWN
1 Actress
Thompson
2 Doomed
shepherd
3 Irk4 Tequila, triple sec
and lime juice5 Sweet Potato
Awareness Mo.
6 Emperor relative
7 Jewel box item8 Eight bits9 “Ick!”
10 Champagne and
orange juice
11 Utah’s state gem12 Mmes. across
the Pyrenees
13 Down but not out14 Rocky hills21 Bourbon, water,
sugar and
garnish
24 Bird’s bill
25 Bonehead26 __ Yello27 Assumed truth
28 Soviet labor
camp
30 Oklahoma tribe
31 Sometimes
offensive, briefly
32 Dr. Phil was her
frequent guest
before getting his
own show
33 Eros or Eos35 Real estate parcel36 Whiskey, sweet
vermouth andbitters
38 Dress style42 __ Salvador
44 White rum,
sugar, lime juice,soda water and
garnish
45 Pomelo relative
46 Beta follower
48 Playground
comeback
49 Amphibious
assaulttransports, forshort50 Botanical balm51 Bites playfully52 911 response 
gp.
54 Kitchen gadget
brand
55 One with second
thoughts
56 Abbey area
58 British author’s
conclusion?
60 Terre dans la
mer
By Stu Ockman©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/02/1802/02/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 2, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Rankles
5 Go higher
10 Burgoo or ragout
14 Harvest15 Speeder spotter
16 Dance for a lei
person
17 Cornstarch brand
in a yellow-and-
blue container
18 String in a kids’
song
19 African antelope20 Really cheap23 Baltimore’s __
Harbor
24 Enjoy Vail25 Podded plant28 Fountain output32 Sully34 Rest area freebie37 Precisely40 Mother Nature’s
balm
42 “The Glass Lake”
writer Binchy
43 Trillion: Pref.44 Worthless item47 “Mamma Mia!”
number
48 Slow movement
49 Move through
muck
51 Kennedy twins?
52 Luthor of the
comics
55 Infield fly59 Economic factor
that affects three
puzzle answers
64 Naan relative
66 Demand and
obtain, as
vengeance
67 Adopt-a-Pet pet
68 “Dilbert” intern69 Comparatively
friendly
70 Geek Squad
client
71 LGBT Pride
Month
72 2017 A.L. MVP
José Altuve, forone
73 Zip
DOWN
1 Kirkuk native2 “Seinfeld”
episode, now
3 See 53-Down4 Reproductive
bodies
5 Hudson Bay
nation
6 Bear’s home
7 One may be
called bright
when it isn’t
8 “Downton Abbey”
figures
9 Forest babbler
10 Christian
Louboutin
creation
11 Tolls are taken
on them
12 Bridge expert
Culbertson
13 Candle stuff
21 Easy gait
22 Tubular pasta
26 Summer month
in Uruguay
27 Book with 
11-Down
29 St. Paul’s feature30 Minimally31 Drops, as pounds33 Part of ACA34 Scott Joplin’s “__
Leaf Rag”
35 Literary middle
name
36 Goes all out38 Downright nasty
39 “Finding Dory”
character
41 __ salad45 Club sport46 “Around the
Horn” channel
50 Strait of __:
Persian Gulfoutlet
53 With 3-Down,
justice since 2010
54 Graph line56 Hesitation57 Unmitigated
58 Chemical prefix?
60 Maker of LeBron
15 basketballshoes
61 Delicate handling
62 Pastry prettifier
63 Other, in España64 British rule in
India
65 The Cowboys of
the Big 12 Conf.
By Mark McClain©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/01/1802/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 1, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Money, resources 
1.  Carriages, carts5.  Move smoothly 
2.  Pilot6.  Egg ____
3.  ____ radiation 7.  Play
4.  PreacherAHWLET
GOWNSADEGIL
METIR
ATAVRIO
AMHLTERRICLFO
RCICLE1
5ANSWERS: 1A-Wealth  5A-Glide  6A-Timer  7A-Frolic
1D-Wagons  2D-Aviator  3D-Thermal  4D-Cleric  B-Goldie Hawn2-2-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actress was born in Washington, D.C., 
on Nov. 21, 1945.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 23 Rides 20 Events/Notices
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.Coach Gregg Troy and the 
Florida swimming and diving teams will be in Alabama this weekend to compete in the Auburn Invitational.Pro Sports Roundup: Grifﬁ  n debuts for Detroit
Five-time NBA All-Star Blake Grifﬁ  n recorded 24 points and 10 rebounds in 
his debut for the Pistons on Thursday. The Pistons defeated the Grizzlies 104-102. In other hoops news, Victor Oladipo, Aaron Gordon, Dennis Smith Jr. and 
Larry Nance Jr. were announced as this year's dunk contest participants.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
When a person thinks of 
the word “doctor,” certain syn-
onyms might come to mind: 
safety, comfort, healing. From 
now on, when people think of the name Larry Nassar — a man once admired and renowned 
by gymnasts around the world — the only image that will ap-
pear is one of pain and distrust. 
 The 
former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University doc-tor was sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison on charges of sexual abuse. Over 265 women 
have spoken out on the doctor’s 
abuses, including Olympic med-alists Aly Raisman and Gabby Douglas.
At UF, the topic hangs like a 
heavy cloud over the school’s gymnastics program.  
“It has generated a lot of 
discussion on our staff,” said 
Stacey Higgins, Florida’s assis-
tant athletic director for sports health. “We all keep question-ing, ‘How did this happen?’"
Higgins said that she and 
her colleagues take sexual ha-rassment, abuse or any type of 
concern raised by a UF student 
seriously.
“We make it known to our 
staff and to everyone that we’re not gonna cover anything up,” 
Higgins said. “We’re gonna 
report it. We’re gonna let the proper people investigate it.”   
If Higgins or anyone else on 
UF's athletic training staff are informed of a colleague behav-ing inappropriately, the person to contact is executive associate athletics director for administra-
tion Lynda Tealer. 
Tealer said the most impor-
tant part of reporting an issue 
or a concern is making sure stu-
dents know all of their options. 
This includes reporting an 
incident to a trusted adult, who 
is then obligated to follow up with a supervisor before the complaint goes to the univer-
sity’s Title IX coordinator, the 
university police or the dean of 
students ofﬁ  ce. 
“There aren’t speciﬁ  c rules 
about protecting people in a 
speciﬁ  c sport,” Tealer said. 
“There’s standards of practice  Florida gymnasts come together over Larry Nassar scandal
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The Florida gymnastics team was rattled after learning that former T eam USA doctor Larry Nassar sexually 
abused over 265 of his patients.
The Florida fan base is con-
fused right now. And rightfully so.
After rising as high as No. 5 in 
the AP poll on Dec. 4, the men’s basketball team has been consis-tently inconsistent.
An 81-60 walloping of Baylor 
on Jan. 27 followed by an ugly 72-60 road loss to a mediocre Georgia team on Tuesday perfectly encapsu-lates how the season has gone for the Gators — hit or miss.
And I’m talking airball-that-hits-an-old-
man-sitting-in-the-second-row-directly-in-the-face type of miss.
Despite the season’s mishaps, I still have 
conﬁ  dence that the team will turn it around.
In fact, they’ll play so well down the 
stretch, I believe that this Florida team will win the SEC Tournament.
Controlling the boards has 
been a constant problem for coach Mike White’s Gators. They rank 11th in the conference in rebounds per game.
Much of those struggles stem 
from the team’s lack of size and depth in the frontcourt. But when redshirt senior center John 
Egbunu returns from his knee injury in the next few weeks, that issue will be partly re-solved.
And if sophomore Gorjok Gak and red-
shirt freshman Dontay Bassett continue to develop as the season progresses, consider the Gators A-OK.
While Gak and Bassett have combined 
for just 3.5 rebounds per game, both have Worried about the Gators recent 
losses? I'm not. They'll be aight.$ky Dolla $ign / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebronMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Mike White walked into the media room of 
Stegeman Coliseum on Tuesday not sure how 
to answer questions about his team’s shooting woes at the end of a 72-60 loss to Georgia.
“I’m just disappointed,” White said. “We’ve 
shown more ﬁ  ght than that.”
For a team that held a three-point lead mid-
way through the second half, that ﬁ  ght White referred to appeared to be present. In the ﬁ  nal 10 minutes, however, it all disappeared. 
The Gators made just three of their last 20 
attempts from the ﬁ  eld, falling victim to an in-crease in pressure from the Bulldogs’ defense. Florida shot nine three-pointers during that stretch, making only one of them courtesy of forward Keith Stone.
“They’re one of the best defensive teams in our league,” guard Egor Koulechov said. “At the same time, it’s up to us to make some shots, too. In the second half, we just didn’t.”
Florida has potential to be one of the top 
shooting teams in the SEC, as proven when it shot 60.7 percent from beyond the arc and 51.6 
percent from the ﬁ  eld against Texas A&M on 
Jan. 2. However, when it struggles to score, it affects the team as a whole, as shown against Georgia.
UF will look to move past its poor shoot-
ing performance at the end of the game against UGA when it plays Alabama on Saturday at 4 p.m. at the O’Connell Center. 
While the Crimson Tide doesn’t shoot par-
ticularly well — it averages 73.8 points a game, good for a share of 10th in the SEC — it has one of the top young talents in the conference. 
Guard Collin Sexton ranks third in the SEC  UF hoping to bounce back on 
Saturday against Crimson Tide
SEE MEN'S BBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16Nassar
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The year is 2009. The month is 
February.
Barack Obama has just been 
sworn-in to the Oval Office, the top 
song on the Billboard 100 is Flo Ri-
da’s “Right Round” and the Florida State women’s tennis team has just defeated Florida for the first in pro-gram history.
Nine years later, the match still 
stands as the Seminoles only vic-tory over the Gators.
Florida enters Saturday’s con-
test against Florida State at 7 p.m. in Orlando holding a 55-1 all-time series lead.
The last time UF (2-0) and FSU 
(2-2, 1-0 ACC) squared off in a dual meet was in 2015, when the Gators defeated the Seminoles 6-1. De-spite the lopsided history between the two programs, coach Roland 
Thornqvist isn’t looking past Flor-
ida State.
“I think this is one of their bet-
ter teams,” he said. “There’s gonna be some fireworks.”
Freshman Victoria Emma said on Sunday that she doesn’t view FSU as much of a rival.
Senior Josie Kuhlman sees it dif-
ferently.
“Florida State, obviously, is a big 
in-state rival against the Gators,” 
Kuhlman said. “We’re hoping for a 
really big crowd, and we’ll be able to use that atmosphere to our ad-vantage.”
The Gators performed well on 
neutral ground during their cham-pionship season last year, going 11-1. The Seminoles only played four matches on neutral ground last 
year, going 3-1.
While the pressure of their na-
tional championship defense looms 
over the freshmen on the team, there will be an added element of pressure on Saturday.
“We have just been telling them 
to have fun and enjoy it,” Kuhlman said of the freshmen.
Videos posted to FloridaGators.
com contributed to this report.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFlorida looking to continue dominance over Florida StateWOMEN’S TENNIS
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Senior Josie Kuhlman called Florida State “a big in-state rival” ahead of Florida’s match with the 
Seminoles on Saturday in Orlando. “We’re hoping for a really big crowd, ” she said.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer  
Tied at 5-5 in a decisive third 
set, Johannes Ingildsen had a chance to keep the Gators alive. 
But in front of almost 2,000 
fans, the freshman fell short in the match’s final two games. In last year’s contest against Florida State on March 10, the Florida men’s tennis team fell in a 4-2 upset, ending with Ingildsen’s 7-5 third-set loss on the No. 4 court.
On Saturday at 7 p.m., the No. 8 
Gators (3-0) and No. 22 Seminoles (9-1) will revisit their historic ri-valry at Orlando’s USTA National Campus — the largest tennis com-plex in the United States.
Ingildsen, now a sophomore 
who sees himself as a leader on the team, says this weekend’s match brings a lot of excitement.
“We lost last year in a huge 
match, a huge battle,” Ingildsen said. “Everyone is fired up to get revenge.” 
Ingildsen holds the No. 7 sin-
gles ranking in the nation and plays UF’s No. 2 singles court be-hind junior Alfredo Perez, who is ranked No. 8. The two are a com-bined 4-0 this year in singles play. 
In doubles, Perez and Ingildsen 
boast the nation’s top ranking and are finding a rhythm after three dual matches.
In practice this week, the 
Gators’ plan was simple.
“The goal is for the guys to try to get better individually each day,” assistant coach Tanner Stump said.
The coaching staff is also look-
ing for high energy, especially when the team travels away from home. Without the comfort of the Ring Tennis Complex and its Gainesville crowd, the Gators will have to rely on each other to keep the competitive spirit high.
Stump doesn’t think that’ll be 
a problem.
“It’s really difficult to put us 
away,” he said. “Whether its peo-ple cheering for them or against them, I think they’ll love it.”
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgGators face Seminoles on Saturday 
in rematch of last year’s upset loss
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Johannes Ingildsen is ready to face Florida State again after 
last season’s 4-2 loss. “Everyone is fired up to get revenge, ” he said.
TRACK AND FIELD
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
After impressive performanc-
es from Florida’s men’s and 
women’s track and field teams 
last week at the Razorback In-
vitational, the Gators’ throwers 
are in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
to compete in the Bayou Bengal 
Invitational today.
Heading into UF’s fifth meet 
of the 2018 indoor season, its men’s team sits comfortably at 
the top of the rankings at No. 
1, while the women’s team re-
mains at No. 5 for the second 
straight week.
Senior thrower Lloydricia 
Cameron is one of six Gators competing in Baton Rouge and 
is coming off a season-best shot 
put mark of 17.33 meters two 
weeks ago at the Clemson Invi-
tational. However, Cameron is 
not content with where she is at 
this point in the season.
“I don’t feel like I’m fully 
there,” Cameron said. “But I feel like I’ll be ready for SECs 
and nationals.”
Redshirt junior AJ McFarland 
will also be competing today af-
ter breaking his own school re-
cord in the weight throw (21.74 
meters) two weeks ago in Clem-
son. McFarland will be joined in 
the men’s weight throw by red-
shirt sophomore Anders Eriks-
son and freshman Thomas Mar-dal, who rank 17th and 19th, respectively, on the national descending order list.
Last week’s showing in Ar-
kansas landed two Gators with 
SEC weekly honors.
Senior Keandre Bates was 
named Men’s Field Athlete of 
the Week on Tuesday after post-
ing the top triple jump mark 
in the nation at 16.48 meters. Bates also holds the country’s 
third-ranked long jump mark 
and is the only Division I jump-
er ranked in the top five nation-
ally in both the triple jump and 
long jump.
Freshman Benjamin Lobo 
Vedel was named Men’s Fresh-man of the Week after he post-
ed the fourth-fastest time in the 
nation (46.14 seconds) in his 
400-meter debut. Vedel is the 
fastest freshman in the country 
by 0.27 seconds and is the fast-
est freshman in the SEC by 0.41 
seconds.
Coach Mike Holloway said 
that his team’s progression over 
the past few weeks has been 
pleasing, but its mental pre-paredness moving forward will 
be the challenge.
“We’re at a tough part of the 
season,” Holloway said. “We 
don’t want to make the mistake of resting now.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgUF sends throwers to 
Louisiana for Bayou Bengal Invitational16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2018
shown promise defensively. Bassett is con-
tinuing to look more and more comfortable on the court, and his discipline has improved as well.
The return of Egbunu also helps the team 
offensively. Lately, we’ve seen the Gators’ scoring attack grow stagnant when it can’t ﬁ  nd a lane inside and is forced to throw up contested shots on the perimeter.Egbunu’s wide frame and lob-catching 
ability will create a stronger inside presence the team has lacked with thinner bodies like Gak and Kevarrius Hayes. While Egbunu isn’t 
an offensive pillar, you can bet he’ll be on the 
receiving end of a few alley-oops.
The addition should attract more defensive 
attention in the paint and create opportunities 
for Florida’s top-tier shooters.
Finally, we’ve seen what this team can do 
when it’s knocking down threes. Non-confer-ence wins over Gonzaga and Cincinnati — two teams still ranked in the top-15 — show-cased how hard it is to stop Florida’s offense when the outside stroke is working.
And strong SEC victories over Kentucky, 
Texas A&M and Mississippi State further bol-
ster the argument that the Gators can beat any 
team on any given night.
They can also lose on any given night.In the 2016-17 season, the roster truly 
locked in on its goal: committing to defense 
and chipping away on offense.
This year, White might have to ﬂ  ip that lesson around: taking smart shots and ﬁ  nd-
ing a rhythm while establishing a defensive groove as the game progresses.
There’s still a handful of SEC games left to 
play, and Florida must learn a lot in that short 
span to achieve its goals.
It will, and come early March, the Gators 
will ﬂ  y out of St. Louis, Missouri, as 2018 SEC 
Champions.  
 
Skyler Lebron is a sports writer. Contact 
him at slebron@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Lebron: Gators will win 2018 Southeastern Conference tourneythat physicians are held to, our athletic trainers are 
held to, massage, physical therapists, all of that.”
Though Nassar’s actions have affected gym-
nasts across the nation, some athletes, like Florida senior Rachel Slocum, are using Nassar's wrongdo-ings as an opportunity to learn. She studies health 
education, a major that has made her more aware 
of issues that take place in the health science ﬁ  eld, such as sexual harassment and sexual assault.
“As I further my career, I’m gonna make sure 
policies and stuff are put in place so stuff like this doesn’t happen again,” Slocum said.  
When the Gators take on No. 17 Auburn tonight 
in the Auburn Arena, they will continue to carry the same family-oriented positivity they compete 
with every week.
“It’s a very trying time for our sport,” coach 
Jenny Rowland said. “But I truly feel that we’re 
such a strong community that it will be able to 
shed a very positive light again on that level of 
gymnastics.” 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org.GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14UF faces Auburn 
tonight at 7 p.m.
with 18.7 points per game and runs a large por-
tion of Alabama’s offense with 3.2 assists per game.
He’ll be a tough matchup for UF guard Chris 
Chiozza. While Sexton is a better scorer, Chiozza 
averages more assists per game (6.1), rebounds 
per game (4.2) and steals per game (1.9).
Alabama holds a slight advantage on defense, 
edging out Florida in rebounds and blocked shots. 
Crimson Tide forward Donta Hall (6.8) and 
guard Dazon Ingram (6.2) lead the team in re-bounds, while Hall leads the team in blocks per game (2.3). The Gators will rely on Stone and center Kevarrius Hayes to limit the Crimson 
Tide’s productivity on the inside.
Both Florida and Alabama are coming off 
tough losses where they trailed for most of the 
game. The Crimson Tide fell to Missouri 69-60 on Wednesday, a team the Gators beat 77-75 on Jan. 6. 
Following a disappointing loss to Georgia, 
White wants to see his players answer back with a better performance on Saturday.
“We got to be as fresh as we can be,” White 
said. “Maybe we can get a guy or two to really step up in terms of throwing their bodies around and getting us some hard rebounds.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org MEN'S BBALL,  from pg. 14Florida fell to UGA by 12 points on Tuesday
Nate Bustamante / Alligator Sports
Mike White wants to see his team step up its physicality against Alabama on 
Saturday. "Maybe we can get a guy or two to... (get) us some hard rebounds, " he said.
