We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Retired UF professor hiking the Appalachian Trail
He’s asking for a penny donation for every mile, pg. 5
Check out this week’s The Avenue section
Read about the story behind First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany, pg. 8GATORS FACE JACKSONVILLE TONIGHT
The game was originally scheduled for Tuesday but wa s 
postponed due to rain, pg. 14Staff Report
Gail Johnson walked into First Magnitude 
Brewing Company with her arms raised to si-
lence the crowd of about 60 supporters who 
were still watching voter results pour in.
“My opponent just conceded,” yelled John-
son, who was elected for the City Commission 
At-Large Seat 1 on Tuesday night. Johnson is the 
ﬁ  rst black woman to be elected citywide in at 
least 21 years, said TJ Pyche, the director of out-reach for the Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce.  
Johnson beat her opponent, incumbent 
City Commissioner Harvey Budd, by a nearly 
30-point lead. However, the race was so close 
between District 1 candidates incumbent City Commissioner Charles Goston and challenger Gigi Simmons that a runoff will be held May 1. 
In the end, Simmons led by 85 votes. From the moment the early votes were count-
ed, Budd said he knew he had lost.
“When I walked into the big room and saw 
the screen, I knew,” the 70-year-old said. “I’m 
an accountant.”
About 64 percent of voters chose Johnson 
over the nearly 36 percent that voted for Budd. At about 7:30 p.m., Budd stepped outside of 
Heartwood Soundstage, where his watch party was hosted, and called his opponent to concede.
“He said he is going to make my transition as 
easy as possible, and that I’m going to make a great addition to the commission,” Johnson said. 
Simmons clutched her mother’s hand and 
peered up at the screen in Cypress and Grove Brewing Company as the votes rolled in. Each 
time the page refreshed and she inched ahead 
of Goston, the room, ﬁ  lled with about 50 of her supporters, would swell with cheers.
“I was the underdog, so to get to this point, I 
feel blessed,” Simmons said.
Election workers counted 11,165 votes, cast 
by about 13 percent of registered voters, after polls closed at 7 p.m. More than half the votes were from mail-in and early voting. Voter turn-
out was 2 percent higher than in 2015, when the 
same seats were up for election. 
Despite leading Goston the entire night, Sim-
mons didn’t earn the 50 percent of votes plus 
one she needed to avoid a runoff. As the num-
bers ticked upward, the reality of the runoff be-gan to dawn on her campaign. Simmons had 
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator staff writer 
Dan Mullen could only afford one bottle of 
Gatorade a week during his ﬁ  rst coaching job. 
He would add a splash of the energy drink 
to his cloudy New York tap water to disguise 
the taste. He slept on the ﬂ  oor and walked to his job at Wagner College in New York. In four years, he made $16,000. Total. 
As the new Florida Gators head coach, Mul-
len will make about $6 million per year, ac-cording to the Florida Times-Union.
“Now, I’m fortunate,” he told the crowd of 
about 200. “I can afford Gatorade.”
Mullen, who was hired as the new head 
football coach in November, spoke Tuesday night in the University Auditorium for Accent Speakers Bureau’s third event with the Univer-sity Athletic Association. Mullen was not paid to speak, said Shelby Buchanan, the Accent chairwoman.
“We want to give students a more personal 
connection to the people who are coaching our teams,” she said.
In head-to-toe orange and blue and wearing 
his visor from practice, Mullen answered ques-tions about recruiting, his expectations for Fall and former Gators football player Tim Tebow, 
who he coached as the Gators’ offensive coor-
dinator. He also discussed the importance of being 
well-rounded and trying different things. He demonstrated positions one through ﬁ  ve in 
ballet to show his dance knowledge.
“I coach football to make a positive impact 
on young people’s lives,” Mullen said. “That is 
the ultimate reward you can have.”
Emma Broadbent, a UF environmental sci-
ence sophomore, said she’s excited about what Mullen can bring to the team. Broadbent, who said she’s been a Gators fan since birth, wants to see the team become National Champions 
again. 
“The Tennessee moment made me real-
ize we have the skill with the players, but the 
coaches aren’t utilizing it,” the 19-year-old said.
Nathan Larubbio, an 18-year-old UF sports 
management freshman, said he’s been a Gators fan his whole life. He’s yelled and cried watching games.
He remembers better years, when Tebow 
was quarterback and Mullen was helping to coach. He hopes Mullen can bring back those days.
“The last few years have been torture for 
me,” he said. “I’m excited for them to go away.” 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgVOLUME 112 ISSUE 70
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
UF football head coach Dan Mullen talks about his coaching career and UF’s football 
program with moderator T ed Spiker at the Accent Speakers Bureau event Tuesday night. About 200 people attended the free event at the University Auditorium. Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Gail Johnson, 40, celebrates winning City Commission At-Large Seat 1 after getting off the phone with her opponent, Harvey Budd, who conceded, inside First Magnitude Brewing Company. She won with about 64 percent of the vote.
Gators football coach demonstrates ballet, talks careerDistrict 1 goes to runoﬀ  , 
Johnson wins At-Large seat
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 3
GATORS FACE JACKSONVILLE TONIGHT
The game was originally scheduled for Tuesday but 
 w
a s 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
HIGH  68° LOW  39°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Sikhism at UF
The UF Sikh Students Association 
will host a Turban Day event to-day from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on Turlington Plaza. The event aims to make UF students aware of Sikhism and offers a chance to do something out of the ordinary by experiencing someone else’s 
culture. As part of the event, the 
members of the Sikh Students Association will help tie turbans around students’ heads. For more information, call 352-877-0407.
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights WorkshopsThe Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. Thursday at Cone Park Library Branch, located at 2801 E. University Ave., and 5:30 to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road Library Branch, located at 3020 SW 75th St. Attorneys from the Josiah T. Walls Bar Association and law students from the Levin College of Law will provide one-on-one assistance to those who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in applying to have their civil rights restored. These presentations are free and open to the public. Registration is not required. For more infor-mation, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Libraries closed for Easter
Alachua County Library District will be closed for Easter all day April 1. All branches will be closed. Book drops at branches and online services through the Library District’s eBranch ata-clib.us will be available. All 12 branch locations and two book-mobiles will resume their regu-lar schedules April 2. For more information, visitaclib.us or call 352-334-3900. 
Take Back the Night
Strive UF will hold a Take Back the Night March and Rally Against Sexual Violence from 5:30 to 9 p.m. April 4 on the Plaza of the Americas. Survivors are invited to speak on the nature of their sexual assault and recov-ery. Free T-shirts or tank tops are available for the first 300 march-ers. For more information, call 352-273-4450.
Fulbright Awareness Month
The UF International Center will hold Fulbright Awareness Month until April 12. Multiple informa-tional sessions for students, schol-ars, faculty and staff will provide opportunities to learn about the Fulbright application process and hear about the experiences of 
past scholars and students. This 
year, information sessions will be 
led by Peter VanDerwater, the di-
rector of outreach at the Council 
for International Exchange for 
Scholars in Washington, D.C. To 
schedule an individual consulta-
tion with VanDerwater, email 
canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. For 
more information, visit interna-
tionalcenter.ufl.edu.
National Library Week
During National Library Week, 
April 8 to 14, Alachua County Library District will join libraries 
nationwide to celebrate the many 
ways libraries lead their commu-
nities with the transformative services, programs and exper-tise they offer. Celebrations in-
clude National Library Workers 
Day on April 10 and National 
Bookmobile Day on April 11.
Ninth Annual Peace Poetry 
Contest and Fourth Annual 
Peace Scholarship Application 
PeriodVeterans for Peace, Gainesville Chapter 14 is accepting Peace 
and Social Justice Poems from 
all Alachua County K-12 students 
for the ninth annual VFP Peace Poetry Contest. VFP is also ac-
cepting applications for three 
Peace Scholarships that VFP 
awards to high school seniors 
entering college, or students al-ready in college or trade school 
who are planning careers in pur-
suit of a more equitable, peaceful 
and just world. For more infor-
mation, visit vfpgainesville.org/. 
Alive Church to host Easter event 
at the Phillips Center
Alive Church will be hosting its 
first Easter Celebration at the Phillips Center for Performing 
Arts located at 3201 Hull Road 
on April 1 with two services: 9:30 
and 11:30 a.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
AP NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Emails show FEMA silent amid 
chaos after Hurricane Maria
WASHINGTON — As hundreds 
of people stood in line for food 
and many went hungry dur-
ing the days and weeks after 
Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, 
Walmart Inc. and local super-
markets threw out tons of spoiled 
meat, dairy and produce.
Emails and text messages made 
public Tuesday in a letter sent by the top Democrat on the House oversight committee de-
scribe frantic efforts by officials 
at Walmart and the Puerto Rican 
government to get fuel for gen-erators to prevent food from go-ing bad.
From the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency came only 
silence.
Supreme Court questions crisis 
pregnancy center law
WASHINGTON — A skeptical 
Supreme Court took aim Tuesday at a California law that forces an-ti-abortion crisis pregnancy cen-
ters to provide information about 
abortion.
A ruling striking down the law 
could doom similar laws in Hawaii and Illinois, and also call 
into question laws in other states 
that seek to regulate doctors' 
speech.
Both conservative and liberal jus-tices raised questions about the 
California law, which took effect 
in 2016. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 70
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
®Monday, March 12 - Wednesday, March 21
10 a.m. - 5 p.m.
University of Florida: Hub • Turlington • Little • Sorority Row
LifeSouth donor centers at: 1221 NW 13th St. • 4039 W. Newberry Rd.
All blood donors will receive:• An awesome t-shirt • Spirit points toward Dance Marathon • Points toward Dance Marathon Cup • Double spirit points for donating at a LifeSouth center
about 48 percent of the vote compared to Gos-
ton’s 45 percent. Tyra “Ty Loudd” Edwards’ got 6 percent. 
Edwards and 15 close supporters and 
friends watched her opponents’ battle it out in the polls from her campaign party at Xclusive Night Club.
“It’s not over,” Edwards said. “The hard 
work has just begun.” When Simmons stepped forward to thank 
her team and announce the runoff, her cam-paign party erupted in applause. 
“I’m charged, and I’m energized. I”m not 
stopping. We’re going to win this thing,” Sim-mons told her supporters.
The last time District 1 saw a runoff elec-
tion was in 2015. Goston, who won the last 
runoff, said he will do what it takes to win this 
one too.  
After the runoff was announced, he took 
shots at the Gainesville Sun, which he said published false information about him and Gigi Simmons, who he feels has nowhere near enough experience in government to take his 
seat. 
“If they want to play it this way, let’s play 
it this way, OK?” he said. “I like getting down 
and dirty. It don’t bother me.” 
When the runoff became ofﬁ  cial, an uproar 
of cheers from Goston’s volunteers ﬁ  lled the dimly lit, wood-tiled Warehouse Lounge. One volunteer, shocked by the applause, asked “What happened?”Debbie Martinez, a 67-year-old event coor-
dinator for Goston’s campaign, shouted a re-sponse.  
“We get to work our a** for three weeks.” 
Staff writers Jessica Giles, David Hoffman, 
Christina Morales and Amanda Rosa contrib-
uted to this report. Contributing writers Jessica 
Curbelo and Rachel Porter also contributed to 
this report.  Two District 1 candidates will face of in a runof election
ELECTION,  from pg. 1
Kayla Turner / Alligator 
Charles Goston celebrates his past years in ofﬁ  ce and a contested race for District 1 City 
Commissioner at The Warehouse Restaurant and Lounge, located on Main Street.Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff 
Harvey Budd and his wife, Ilene Silverman-Budd, watch the results of the City Commision election with fellow supporters. He lost to Gail Johnson by nearly 30 points.4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBy Katherine Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nakishia Sullivan has been labeled as an 
Alachua County felon since she was convict-
ed for aggravated battery and assault charges 
in 2010. 
She served about four years and was re-
leased April 4, 2014. But she still can’t vote or serve on a jury, even though she now 
holds a full-time job caring for the elderly. 
She’s ready to have a voice again. 
“After you go to prison, you already paid 
your debts to society,” said Sullivan, 33. “It 
shouldn’t be held against us no more.”
Local lawyers and UF Levin College of 
Law students have been donating their time 
to help felons like Sullivan regain their rights. Both the Alachua County Library District and the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association 
have hosted the “Law in the Library: Resto-
ration of Civil Rights Workshops” over the Fall and Spring. The next one is 4:30 to 6 p.m. Thursday 
at the Cone Park Branch, 2801 E. University 
Ave.
The program has about 45 volunteers 
from the law school and Josiah T. Walls Bar 
Association, who sit down one-on-one with 
felons to discuss how to restore their civil 
rights in Florida, said Brianna Williams, an administrative assistant director for the proj-
ect. 
“We tell them how to go beyond just what 
is required to beef up their application and 
hopefully show that they have turned their lives around,” the 23-year-old second-year UF law student said.
About three to six participants attend 
each workshop, Williams said. The current 
process in Florida requires a felon to com-
plete their prison sentence and have no other pending charges, Williams said. 
The felon then must wait ﬁ  ve or seven 
years, depending on their charge, to petition for clemency, which allows for the restora-tion of civil rights, to the state’s Ofﬁ  ce of Ex-ecutive Clemency, Williams said. 
They must also pay restitution, payment 
by an offender to the victim, before they can apply to have their rights restored, Williams said. If clemency is granted, they will regain 
the right to vote, can sit on a jury and run for 
elected public ofﬁ  ce. 
This November, Floridians will vote to 
decide if that process should be shortened, Williams said. The amendment, if passed, 
will grant the right to vote back to felons af-
ter they complete their sentence, excluding those convicted of murder or sexual offenses. 
Meshon T. Rawls, UF law professor and 
organizer of the Law in the Library series, said the program helps participants move 
forward in their lives to become “full-ﬂ  edged 
citizens.” 
“It’s a dignity issue,” Rawls said. “Once 
they have done what the judges have asked 
them to do, they want to be able to have that 
chance.”UF law students, attorneys help felons restore voting rights 
HOW TO VOTE ON FLORIDA 
FELON VOTING RIGHTS:
• The Voting Restoration Amendment 
(Amendment Four on the ballot) aims to 
restore the voting rights of Floridians with 
felony convictions after they complete all terms of their sentence including parole or probation. 
• The amendment would not apply to those convicted of murder or sexual offenses, 
who would continue to be permanently 
barred from voting unless the Governor and Cabinet vote to restore their voting 
rights on a case by case basis. 
• Sixty percent of Florida voters would need 
to vote yes on the amendment to make it 
law.
• Voter registration date for general election: Oct. 9.  General election date: Nov. 6.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sabrina Conza
Contributing Writer
UF’s international programs have been 
named one of the top in the nation. 
UF and four other universities received the 
2018 Senator Paul Simon Award for Compre-
hensive Internationalization on March 13, said 
Leonardo Villalón, dean of the UF Internation-
al Center.
The award recognizes and encourages 
universities’ efforts to increase international awareness in students and faculty, Villalón said. The other schools that got the award this year are Babson College, St. Lawrence Univer-sity, Stony Brook University and Texas Tech University.
NAFSA: The Association of International Educators, a non-profit organization for pro-fessionals in international education, has been 
giving out the award since 2009. A maximum 
of five universities receive it every year.
Villalón said the non-profit is the most 
prestigious organization for international awareness in the U.S. This is the first year UF has gotten the award, Villalón said.  
“It’s one more feather in our cap as we rise 
to be a top-five university,” he said. 
NAFSA looks at the documentation and 
planning of international programs, spe-cifically innovative and creative approaches, Dorothea Antonio, deputy executive director of knowledge development for the association for NAFSA, wrote in an email. 
Villalón said he believes UF’s initiative cre-
ated in 2014 called “Learning Without Bor-ders” contributed to receiving the recognition. It is a five-year quality enhancement plan de-signed to further internationalize the under-
graduate studies. 
One portion of the program allows under-
graduate students to add an international as-
pect to their studies such as studying abroad and foreign language programs, Villalón said. 
UF has about 6,500 international students, 
Villalón said. International education is impor-tant because students will work in an interna-
tional environment after graduating, so they 
need to start thinking about the world on a global scale instead of just the U.S.  
“We want to help students develop their 
understanding about the world to make them more competitive in the global market and also to make our students better global citi-zens,” he said.
Antonio said UF won the award because the university provides funding for study abroad and has incorporated global learning 
into its curriculum.
“The University of Florida was selected this 
year for its outstanding innovation,” she said.
Yue Yu, a UF second-year pharmacy gradu-
ate student, said she sees a lot of international 
aspects in her pharmacy graduate program. Yu is a 24-year-old UF international student from China.
Some of these aspects include various 
study trips, such as an Australia trip that Yu is attending this summer. There are also joint-programs with schools in other countries where students can collaborate on research projects, she said. 
“The school is a huge university, and it’s 
being even more internationally recognized now,” Yu said.
UF’s international programs recognized nationallyBy Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer
Heavy rain didn’t stop candidates 
for City Commission from last-min-ute campaigning efforts to secure votes before Tuesday’s election.
Registered Gainesville voters 
in all 36 precincts cast their ballots Tuesday for an At-Large 1 candi-date, deciding between Gail Johnson and incumbent Harvey Budd. Dis-trict 1 residents in nine precincts in downtown and east Gainesville had the options of voting for incumbent Charles Goston, or challengers Gigi Simmons and Tyra “Loudd” Ed-
wards for the District 1 seat.
During early voting, 6,283 ballots 
were cast — 3,742 votes by mail and 
2,540 at the polls, according to the Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-tions. By Tuesday night, Johnson won the At-Large position with 64.26 percent, or 7,112 votes.
After none of the District 1 candi-dates won at least 50 percent of the vote, a runoff race between Simmons and Goston will be held May 1.
Below is a breakdown of how 
much money each candidate raised and spent. 
In the At-Large 1 race, Budd 
spent $36,746 on his campaign for re-election, about $8,000 more than his opponent Johnson, according to a campaign financial report com-piled by the Supervisor of Elections. 
Most of that money went toward 
fliers, robocalls, campaign manage-ment, yard signs and other advertis-ing, he said.
Budd said he raised $30,000 from 
the public and contributed about $6,000 of his own money.
“You should be able to put your 
own money in it to be successful,” 
he said.
His team made calls Monday 
night, he said.
His opponent, Johnson, spent the 
weekend making phone calls and 
knocking on more than 1,200 doors, she said.
“It’s that last-minute push before 
Election Day, so we’re going to be 
doing that all up until the polls close 
tomorrow,” she said.
Johnson spent $28,541 on her 
campaign, which included food for volunteers, campaign consultation and events, according to the finance report. She raised $33,799 for her campaign and $400 in non-monetary contributions.
“It takes a lot to run a campaign,” 
she said. “There’s printing costs, there’s the website, there’s really getting your message out to the vot-ers in any way possible, and that takes many forms.”
For District 1, incumbent Charles 
Goston spent $7,701 on his cam-paign for items including signs, 
printing fees, robocalls and mail ad-
vertisements, he said.
“Finally the residents of District 
1 have somebody they know won’t sell them out, and that’s me,” he said.Gainesville resident Doug Ber-
nal filed a complaint against Goston with the Florida Elections Commis-
sion, according to a Gainesville Sun 
article. The complaint argues Goston sold himself a campaign ad in his publication Black College Monthly for a reduced price, a violation of state law. It also argues that he vio-lated a county ordinance by giving himself a non-monetary contribution of a value greater than $250.
Goston said he hasn’t violated 
any laws during his campaign, and his campaign treasurer would never allow a mistake like that.
“All they wanted to do was smear 
me,” he said. “I’m doing everything by the book.”
Simmons spent the most money 
on her campaign out of the District 
1 candidates: $8,364. The money 
was used for things like postcards, campaign consultation, T-shirts and signs, according to her finance re-port.
Simmons, along with John-son, received a $100 contribution from County Commissioner Rob-ert Hutchinson. Simmons said she 
didn’t know he planned on contrib-
uting to her campaign.
“I have all kinds of people that 
like my message,” she said.
Tyra “Loudd” Edwards’ cam-
paign has spent $1,300 on advertis-ing, including yard signs, videogra-phy and buttons, according to her finance report.
Edwards spent the final days be-
fore the election visiting the homes of District 1 residents, said campaign manager Jessica Martini. Martini believes it was the word-of-mouth among the community that helped her campaign grow.
“We know that we’re probably 
the underdogs, but I think that her 
message has really resonated with 
people,” Martini said.
jgiles@alligator.org 
@jessica_giles_ 
At-Large candidates spend most on campaign, reports show  
HE HAS RAISED 
$1,296 SO FAR. 
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Art Donovan’s mother has 
wanted to hike the Appalachian Trail since 1968. 
Now turning 91 this year and 
suffering from Alzheimer’s, a pro-
gressive neurodegenerative dis-
ease that causes mental deteriora-tion, it’s a dream she will never realize. 
Instead, her son has embarked 
on a journey to do it for her and everyone else who is living with Alzheimer’s. 
Donovan, 62, a retired UF pro-
fessor in the College of Veterinary Medicine, began what could be an eight-month journey along the entirety of the Appalachian Trail to raise money and awareness for his mother’s disease. He began his 2,190-mile trek on Feb. 28 in Geor-gia and will conclude in Maine, he said. Donovan is asking people to contribute one penny for every mile he walks. As of press time, he has raised $1,296. 
“I’m doing it for her and all 
those people in the future who could get this disease,” he said. 
Despite all his preparation, like 
researching the trail, hiking around Gainesville and dehydrating food that his wife, Patti Gordon, mailed 
him along the way, nothing could 
prepare him for the grueling reality of the trail, he said. 
Half the days are beautiful; the 
other half he hikes through rain or snow. Some nights when he stops to record the day in his trail jour-nal, his hands are too frozen to write, he said. So he records the 
entry on his phone to later tran-
scribe. 
Armed with mementos like his 
wife’s wedding ring and his “Art Donovan’s never quit playlist,” he manages to put one foot in front of the other for as many as 14 miles a day, he said. 
Along the way, he sees college 
students, senior citizens and new-lyweds, he said. The like-minded people and stunning views help him stay motivated. 
“You look up and there’s an un-believable vista — just incredible,” he said.  
His wife has been his biggest 
supporter since he began, mailing him food and care packages every five days and tracking his progress through a GPS. She misses their daily conversations but knows the 
weight of the disease drives him. 
“I’ve just seen it just take peo-
ple’s loved ones away. They’re 
there, but they’re not there. It’s very sad,” she said. 
Sydney Modrow, 21, a UF 
neurobiological sciences senior, watched the disease affect her grandmother’s life when she was 
growing up. 
“I watched the whole progres-
sion, and it was just so sad,” she 
said. 
Modrow is thrilled to see some-
one going to such great lengths to raise awareness for Alzheimer’s. 
“I think it’s like the perfect way 
of raising awareness by also do-ing something that is battling Al-zheimer’s,” she said. 
@jessica_giles
jgiles@alligator.org
Retired UF professor hikes Appalachian Trail for Alzheimer’s
Courtesy to The Alligator
Donovan, 62, a retired UF professor, is enduring what could be an 
eight-month journey along the Appalachian Trail to raise money and 
awareness for the neurodegenerative disease Alzheimer’s.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
There’s an old adage that goes, “If you’re not paying for 
it, you are the product.”
In social media, notably Facebook, this is especially 
true. Facebook wants your data. It wants to know what topics you post about, what type of content you click 
and what keeps you coming back. Who are your friends, and what do they like? What about your family? In all of these small facts they collect, it paints a picture of the person behind the proﬁ  le. 
But what happens when the company allows third parties to 
see your information? What happens when a stranger gets ac-cess to who you are, your likes and dislikes, and your strengths 
and weaknesses?
What happens when that information isn’t secure?
This weekend, The New York Times and The Observer of 
London reported Cambridge Analytica, a British data analysis 
ﬁ  rm with ties to wealthy Republican donor Robert Mercer and 
political adviser Stephen Bannon and was hired by the Trump 
campaign, “harvested private information from the Facebook 
proﬁ  les of more than 50 million users without their permission.”
This information is not new. In 2015, The Guardian revealed 
Cambridge Analytica had used private information from the so-cial network. That year, Facebook put out a statement saying it would investigate how the information had gotten out. But by then it was too late. Cambridge Analytica had all it needed to build virtual proﬁ  les of American voters. 
According to The New York Times and The Observer, the 
company used the data to target certain groups for digital ads and fundraising appeals, ﬁ  gure out who is likely to vote and buy $5 million in television ads. 
But only 270,000 of the 50 million users had consented to 
have their data collected. The information was so personal, Aleksandr Kogan, the man who had collected the data for “aca-demic purposes” from Facebook, told Cambridge Analytica they could pinpoint a user’s IQ, religion and life satisfaction. 
We encourage readers to delve into the investigation. Social 
media users need to be aware of how information is collected through social media platforms they may be trusting. Should you be using Facebook Messenger to pay a friend or send logins or passwords to other sites? Not without knowing all of the conditions. You should know where that information is going. If Facebook was trusting enough to allow a University of Cam-bridge psychology professor to do whatever he wanted with the 
information, it’s hard to imagine where the line is drawn. 
Why didn’t the company make sure all of the data was delet-
ed after ﬁ  nding out about the leak? Who is responsible for this 
data leak? There are questions the company has yet to answer. 
More importantly, companies like Facebook have to be 
transparent with the public. After the 2015 article from The Guardian, Facebook did not publicly acknowledge to users that private information had been breached. Yes, it is a private com-pany — but it handles personal information we entrust it with. 
It’s information users may not even be aware they’re handing 
over.
We must demand transparency. But it starts with awareness. You should be more 
concerned about the 
Facebook scandal 
Column
Romantic comedies: We all know them, but 
not everyone loves them.
Whether you’ve watched one or 500 of 
these perfectly imperfect, expertly curated love stories, you could probably recite the 
narrative structure in your sleep.
Movies with the rom-com label typically fol-
low a speciﬁ  c formula. They feature two strangers who are bound to fall in love but are stopped by some sort of obstacle. Against all odds, they ﬁ  nd a way to be together. The ensemble cast typically includes the best friend, the parental ﬁ  gure who offers ad-vice, a side character who provides comic relief and lots of coincidental situations that seem way too good to be true.
Critics of rom-coms tend to argue against shallow, one-
sided characters, scenarios that would never happen in real life and the stereotypical happy endings, themes and narra-tives that aren’t exactly the most groundbreaking.
Each genre of ﬁ  lm, whether it be comedy, horror or any-
thing in between, tends to conjure up stereotypes of its view-ers. Because rom-coms are often generalized as meaningless ﬂ  uff, it seems as though some people try to hide the fact that they’ve watched a romance ﬁ  lm and will go to extreme 
lengths to deny the fact they might have actually enjoyed it.
In my ﬁ  lm analysis class, when my professor asked if any-
one watched romantic comedies, only a few raised hands, 
and the room was ﬁ  lled with blank stares. It wasn’t until the online discussion board posts that students owned up to their rom-com-watching habits as if they were confessing to illegal activity.
The reality is that our ﬁ  lm genre preferences reﬂ  ect so-
cietal values of the time. Romantic comedies hit their peak 
era in the late ’80s through the mid-2000s — and since then, 
there’s been a decline in the number of rom-coms being pro-duced. Think about it: When was the last time you heard of a new movie that ﬁ  t the rom-com mold?
What’s caused this rom-com drought, and what does this 
say about society and how people’s values have shifted? Are we fed up with love stories and happy endings?
One reason for the recent pause in rom-com ﬁ  lm produc-tion is because the post-9/11 era has led audiences to crave hero ﬁ  gures who can save the world and restore order in a land of confusion and destruc-tion. Eight out of the top 10 highest-grossing ﬁ  lms of 2017 were action and adventure ﬁ  lms centered 
around a hero character, according to IMDB.
Aside from the superhero movie boom, I think 
the slump in romantic comedy production stems 
from changing views about love, relationships and gender norms. 
Despite the genre’s stigma of being exclusively 
fun and frilly, it has (and has always had) the ability to make commentary about society and culture. 
For example, in the 1988 ﬁ  lm “Working Girl,” Melanie 
Grifﬁ  th’s character, Tess McGill, paints a portrait of urban, corporate women at the time. In the 2008 movie “Baby Mama,” with Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, humor is used to tell a story of surrogacy, showing not every relationship nor romantic situation is cookie-cutter.
Today, screenwriters, producers and directors who dare 
to create a story about modern love must consider a plethora of societal and technological factors that were unimaginable in the ’80s, let alone a decade ago. We now have things like 
Snapchat, Tinder and the legalization of same-sex marriage 
in the U.S. These all came long after the peak period of rom-com production but have the power to be heavy inﬂ  uencers on today’s society. 
Are today’s ﬁ  lmmakers wary of delving into the waters of 
rom-com production for a modern, socially conscious audi-ence who may not buy the boy-meets-girl storyline? Or is Hollywood just too afraid to veer from the action-packed ﬁ  lms that create box ofﬁ  ce booms and fulﬁ  ll people’s longing 
for a hero?
As societal norms continue to mold the ﬁ  lm industry and 
our perceptions toward love stories, I hope audiences will 
recognize and embrace the storytelling power of romantic comedies.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. Her column fo-
cuses of human behavior and sociology.Let’s embrace the power of romantic comedies
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/31/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020It’s 2018, and for some reason, men are 
still dictating what constitutes good taste. This is a well-kept secret, but it’s evident in the way we as a society talk about en-tertainment. Work produced by women, 
or with women in mind, is cast away — cat-egorized — as less valuable. 
Books that reﬂ  ect women’s lives, quests 
for love and pursuits of happiness? They’re re-ferred to as “chick lit,” and you can ﬁ  nd them in a special, possibly pink section of book-stores or corners of the internet. Books that represent the deep feelings of men? They’re 
called books. Movies that star female charac-
ters and depict experiences many women can relate to, while entertaining millions, are given a cute, rhyming name: “rom-com.” You can’t 
say the same for most movies starring men. 
That brings me to reality television. There’s 
much to be said about the ﬂ  aws of this genre, 
including the valid argument that it often doesn’t represent reality at all. It has the ten-
dency to be cliché, and some of it is poorly pro-duced. But none of these low points 
change the fact that it is highly en-tertaining. It draws in millions of people, most of whom are women, and spoiler alert: It’s considered by society to be trash. We’re told it’s a waste of time, and if we spend time watching it anyway, we’re tasteless. 
Women aren’t innocent in en-
abling this phenomenon. In fact, many of us rush to apologize for our enjoy-ment of reality television using coded lan-guage. “It’s my guilty pleasure,” we’ll laugh 
when we bring up our shows, sometimes ac-
cidentally, in conversation. “I just hate-watch it!” we too often exclaim. 
Our aversion to admitting we watch real-
ity shows because we ﬁ  nd them entertaining 
isn’t completely our fault. We live in a society 
that tells us our opinions of what is and isn’t interesting are invalid. We’re told if something appeals to women, it’s less important than 
something that appeals to men. All of this has led us to think 
that if we’re smart, successful and 
feminist, we can’t also be enthralled with the lives depicted on “The Real Housewives” and other reality shows. We think we have to pick a side because we’re told these two ideas are mutually exclusive. We’ve internalized what our patriarchal society states clearly: Women’s in-
terests are frivolous. 
But if money talks, how can that be true? 
Bethenny Frankel, of “The Real Housewives 
of New York,” made $8.5 million in 2016, ac-
cording to Forbes. The website also said Kim Kardashian West raked in $45.5 million last year. 
And what about the money the shows 
bring to the networks that create them? The most recent three-hour ﬁ  nale of “The Bach-elor” earned a 2.2 rating in adults between the ages of 18 and 49 and 7.8 million view-
ers, according to Variety. For many women, “The Bachelor” is a lens for us to view the bad 
relationships we’ve all had and the question-able choices we’ve all made. At the same time, it’s a way for feminists to come together, both online and in person, to call out the show’s outdated gender roles, the egregious lack of diversity and the ways that reality television pits women against each other. We’re allowed to condemn parts of it and campaign for the show to do better while also investing time in it. The NFL is extremely problematic, and men are allowed to condemn those problems while still watching and playing football. 
Let’s call this divide of trivial women’s en-
tertainment and profound entertainment for what it is: sexism. In the words of Kylie Jen-ner, it’s time to start “realizing stuff,” and call-
ing out this belittling rhetoric when we see it, 
hear it and even say it is a good play to start. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column focuses on feminism. 
Stop telling women feminism and reality television are mutually exclusiveColumn
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.org
On March 14, Stephen Hawking 
passed away. He received a lot of attention on social media, complete with lots of praise for what he ac-complished. Hawking was a theo-
retical physicist who studied black holes and time. He was famous for applying Einstein’s theory of relativity and quantum mechanics to the beginnings of time, which he predict-ed was a singularity that exploded (in other words: the Big Bang). He was also famous for his work on the nature of black holes.
When I saw Hawking died, I had to re-
search what his scientiﬁ  c ﬁ  eld was to know what he had accomplished. I knew he had written “A Brief History of Time,” though I’ve never read it. Science does not come naturally to me. Although it sounds fascinating, when I begin to read it, my mind becomes foggy.
However, from what I can tell, Hawking’s 
theoretical physics and his celebrity status didn’t seem to be the most natural pairing. Hawking struggled with ALS for most of his life and was conﬁ  ned to a wheelchair. In that respect, he became a symbol of triumph — of overcoming one’s limitations. This I can understand. He somehow was able to continue his work, have a family and keep a devilish sense of humor while at the same time ﬁ  ghting ALS. Hawk-ing was an inspiration to us all.
I was wondering, as I read some 
of my Facebook friends’ posts and saw some of the tributes, if people generally were familiar with what Hawking did — with his work on time and black holes. If they were, why was it of celebrity caliber? If they weren’t, why was Hawking a celebrity?
Maybe Hawking was a cultural icon be-
cause of his personality. He was very funny and had been on a few episodes of "The Simpsons" and "The Big Bang Theory." His life was a compelling story, as “The Theory of Everything” demonstrated. Maybe Hawking as a person was more important to us than his work.
I think most of my friends who grieved him were in the same position as I was: They were part of the scien-tiﬁ  c lay people who can only digest science through entertaining vid-eos and shows, like “Planet Earth” or “Cosmos.”
I doubt most people outside of 
the scientiﬁ  c community under-stood what Hawking did and the signiﬁ  cance of his work; even after 
some research, I still don’t understand it. 
What our culture admires is often strange 
to me. We love science; we’re an empiri-cal era who won’t believe something unless there’s facts and ﬁ  gures to back it up, so we say. But if we had sat down before Hawking sadly died and asked him to explain (without dressing it up) some of what he did, a lot of us would have fallen asleep or been utterly lost. What we love is not science per say but popu-lar science, which can be a very helpful thing in its own right. Neil deGrasse Tyson, the host of “Cosmos,” has dedicated himself to mak-ing science capable of being digested by the public. That is an admirable thing to me.
Our love of science, though, is different to 
me than our love of sports or entertainment. We can understand the basics of basketball or what an actor does without straining our minds. Science is not like that. It is its own academic discipline with its own method and language that most of us do not understand or speak. What we think is science is only a popular, digestible expression of what science truly is.
This is fascinating to me. We revere some-
thing we struggle to comprehend. We revered Hawking, though his work can only be truly understood by fellow theoretical physicists and scientists. Maybe we revered him not for his work but for him as a person. There’s plenty to celebrate on both sides.
Regardless, our love of science seems to 
not be so scientiﬁ  c. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English Junior. His 
column focuses on popular culture.
We loved Stephen Hawking as a person, even without understanding his scienceColumn
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
SuicideGirls:
The raunchy burlesque show comes to Gainesville 
(pg. 9)Bumpin Uglies: 
A Q&A with Brandon Hardesty before Badﬁ  sh Sublime tribute show (pg. 9) WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer 
Christine Denny’s orange-and-
blue ﬂ  annel stuck to the edges of 
her forearms, soaked from Gaines-
ville’s afternoon Monday shower.
She nudged up the center of her 
horn-rimmed glasses and said with 
a smile, “We are Gator-owned, Ga-
tor-brewed.”
Denny, a UF alumna and full-
time president of First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, said she and her husband, John, the head brew-
er, always had one dream.
“We’d always said ‘One day we 
want to open a brewery’,” she said. 
“And then our good friends Wells 
and Meg said if you guys are seri-
ous, let’s do this together.”
So, they did.Three and a half years ago in 
2014, the two married couples 
came together and opened the 
doors to First Magnitude, a fam-ily-friendly, 15-barrel production 
brewery with a tap room and an 
outdoor beer garden in the town they call home.
This venture did not come with-
out sacriﬁ  ce.
Denny said at the time the four 
co-founders had professional ca-reers and small kids, but they knew together they would make a really 
great team.
“So, getting into that was a big 
jump, but it was one that we were 
really conﬁ  dent, in our skill sets, 
that we would be able to do,” she 
said.
Denny said she left her job as 
the vice president of Normandeau Associates Inc., an environmental 
science consulting ﬁ  rm, and John 
retired from his role as the assistant director of the Honors Program at 
UF while their kids Ella and Tyson 
were still 9 and 5 years old.
“That’s what we did,” she said. 
“We came together as four friends 
and opened the brewery, and it’s 
been fun.”
Coming up on its 10th anni-
versary, Swamp Head Brewery, the ﬁ  rst production brewery in 
Gainesville, ended up laying a nice 
path for First Magnitude to follow while getting off the ground, she said.
“They basically opened the door for people to really be excited about other Gainesville breweries,” she said.    
In fact, she added, she believes 
it’s this collaborative spirit that keeps the love for craft beer alive everywhere. 
“It’s one of those industries 
where we understand that every-
body rises together,” she said. “So 
you really want to support each other and encourage each other because the more high-quality craft 
beer is out there, the better for ev-
erybody.”
First Magnitude currently of-
fers ﬁ  ve core beers year-round, with several seasonal brews dis-
tributed to local restaurants, and 
a constantly changing ‘pilot batch’ — a home-brewed batch of various beers that usually ﬁ  ll about 18 taps 
at the brewery.
Therefore, she said the beer list 
is bound to change even several 
times during the week.
“Beer is a bit like blues music,” 
the website says.  
John does a lot of the brewing, 
Denny said. Even so, all of the co-founders share a great love for the 
art and the science behind craft 
beer.
Even though beer is always 
made from the same four ingredi-ents: water, malt, hops and yeast; 
the combinations are endless, she 
said.
“It’s a creative process, but it’s 
also very precise to make good 
beer,” she said.
At First Magnitude, she said 
they can create anything from her 
favorite brew, a hoppy Ursa India Pale Ale, named after the bright-
est stars in the sky, to something 
as unique as the banana-ﬂ  avored Wakulla German-Style Hefewei-zen, named after Florida’s largest 
ﬁ  rst magnitude spring.
Reﬂ  ective of their mission, Den-
ny said the brewery’s motifs, from 
the names of the beers to even the artwork on the walls, draws atten-
tion to the beauty and conservation 
of Florida’s outdoors.
“The name First Magnitude 
comes from the fact that this area 
of Florida has the highest concen-
tration of fresh water springs any-where on the planet,” she said. “If you look up at the sky at night, the brightest star you see with your eyes is a ﬁ  rst magnitude star.”
Denny said when opening, they 
imagined the brewery as not only 
a gathering place for the commu-
nity, but a platform for any charity across Gainesville to promote their cause while they promote theirs.
She scrolled through her can-
dy-color spotted Google calendar, booked tight with events Tuesday through Sunday from all sorts of groups across Gainesville.
One of her favorite events hap-
pened last Saturday, she said.
The fourth anniversary of the 
Clean Creek Revival had 100 volunteers spend their Saturday 
morning picking up 6,590 pounds 
of trash out from creeks in the local neighborhood.
“That’s what’s sitting in that 
dumpster out front,” she said.
The group then came back to 
First Magnitude for an afternoon of celebration and continued to raise funds for other local causes.
“That’s core to what we want to 
be doing; we want to be engaging people in community initiatives and also connecting people with 
the springs,” she said.Behind The Business: First Magnitude Brewing Company 
Courtesy to The Alligator
With ﬁ  ve main beers, multiple seasonal brews and a 
consistently changing ‘pilot batch, ’ First Magnitude always switches things up. Photo by Geena Hill / Courtesy to The Alligator
Located just south of Depot Park at 1220 SE Veitch St., First Magnitude Brewing Company creates delicious beer while giving back to the community. Built with craft beer, conservation and charity in mind
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer 
Fans of the band Sublime can belt 
out the lyrics to their favorite songs 
Monday as famous Sublime tribute band Badﬁ  sh performs at High Dive.
Emma Moscardini, a 21-year-old UF 
psychology graduate student, said she is looking forward to seeing Badﬁ  sh live for the ﬁ  rst time and was inspired to go due to her love of Sublime’s long-lasting music.
“I think Sublime resonates with the 
angsty teen in all of us without being as intense as bands like Bullet for My Valentine,”  Moscardini said.
Whether your favorite song is 
“Wrong Way,” “Santeria” or “What I Got,” there’s no doubting that Sublime’s music has a way to resonate with fans even decades after the songs have been released.
Brandon Hardesty plays guitar and 
sings vocals in the band Bumpin Uglies and credits the late Bradley Nowell, the 
founder of Sublime, as the reason be-
hind the band’s classic sound.
“Bradley wrote really relatable lyrics 
about being in his early twenties. Not everyone can relate to the SoCal set-ting, but most people can relate to that period of wildness and curiosity. It’s timeless in my opinion,” Hardesty said. “Also, hip-hop beats will forever make 
people’s butt move. You can count on 
death, taxes and that.”
Bumpin Uglies, which consists of 
Hardesty, Dave Wolf on bass, TJ Has-lett on drums and Chad Wright on keyboard, is a popular Maryland-based 
band that uniquely blends ska, reggae and punk to create its own electrifying 
sound. Bumpin Uglies will be playing alongside Badﬁ  sh at the High Dive this Monday.
I was able to talk to Hardesty about 
the upcoming show and the band’s mu-sic. Read on for more.
Q: How would you best describe 
your band’s sound? Who are your inﬂ  u-
ences and how do they make an impact 
on your music?
Hardesty: We’re lyrically driven 
ska, punk and reggae, seasoned with el-ements of dub, folk and hip-hop. I can’t speak for the other guys, but I’ve been super inﬂ  uenced by Sublime, Scientist, Joe Pug and Jason Isbell.
 Q: Can you describe the meaning 
behind the name Bumpin Uglies and how it came about?
H: Me and a buddy came up with it 
when we were 21 because we thought it was funny. If I’d known I was gonna be doing this more than 10 years later, I would have put more thought into it.
Q: How would you best describe 
your song writing process? Is it collab-
orative?  Is there a certain theme your 
songs usually have?
H: I write all the lyrics myself. I tend 
to write a lot about love and depression. The vibe changes based on my perspec-tive at the time, but those are two of the things that tend to get my creative juices ﬂ  owing.
Q: Are you excited to perform with 
Badﬁ  sh? Are you a fan of their band? What song by Sublime are you most ex-cited to see them cover?
H: I am! Sublime is the whole reason 
I got into this genre of music, and Bad-ﬁ  sh murders their catalog. I really like “Seed” and “Garden Grove.”
Q: How have you been preparing 
for the concert? Any songs you’re most excited to play for your fans? Are you nervous? 
H: I don’t really get nervous any-
more. I’m more comfortable performing than I am doing pretty much anything else. We’ve got a new album coming 
out on April 6 called “Beast From the 
East,” so we’ll be playing a lot of the new material from that.
Q: Your band is from Annapolis. 
Have you been to Gainesville before? Is there anything in Gainesville you want to see/do while you’re here? 
H: We have! We’ve played the High 
Dive a handful of times now. Can’t wait 
to hang out with our friends in Morning 
Fatty. They are all very handsome and let us stay at their house when we’re in town.
Q: What do you hope the future 
holds for your band? Any dream tours or collaborators you’d love to work with? 
H: I’d love to do a summer amphi-
theater tour with Slightly Stoopid and Rebelution. It would be super dope to link up with The Movement or The Skints as well. I write a lot of folk mu-sic as well, and I’m in the process of recording some of those songs. I’d love to get Jason Isbell to produce a session for that.
The 18-and-over Badﬁ  sh concert, 
which will also feature Bumpin Uglies and Skunkape, starts at 7 p.m. with tick-ets $16 in advance and $18 at the door. Tickets can be purchased at ticketﬂ  y.com, Hear Again Records, High Dive box ofﬁ  ce or High Tides.
Q&A: Bumpin Uglies to open for Sublime tribute band
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
This will be one of multiple Florida shows for 
Badﬁ  sh in March. 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
The SuicideGirls Blackheart Burlesque tour-
ing group will bring their sexually charged, cult-classic show to the High Dive stage Thurs-day night.
Doors for the late-night show open at 9 
p.m., with the show beginning at 10 p.m. Tick-ets for the performance are available at Tick-etﬂ  y.com, but they are going fast. Advance purchase standing tickets are already sold out. Standard seating tickets are available for $38, and seating in the ﬁ  rst two rows will set you back $65 a ticket.
Attendees may also purchase a VIP package 
for an additional $60, allowing them to spend an hour with the SuicideGirls in advance of the show, take pictures and have an item signed.
The SuicideGirls Blackheart Burlesque 
show incorporates comedy, music and danc-ing with pop culture and a bit of nudity. Some themes within the show include “Star Wars,” “Rick and Morty,” “Game of Thrones,” “West-world” and more.
“(Burlesque) is a celebration of the art of 
tease…. You’re not just naked, you’re not just taking your clothes off. You’re doing it through a parody of sorts. There’s a character you’re playing,” performer Sunny Suicide said.
Burlesque dancing is nothing new; the idea 
of a comical strip-tease show has been a popu-lar niche art form for decades. Sunny said dur-ing the economic crisis of the Great Depression, it was the light-hearted burlesque shows that saved Broadway theatre from going under.
The SuicideGirls have taken that tradition 
and thrust it into the modern age for a new audience, while still nodding at the past in various ways.
“It’s sexy. It’s silly. It’s beautiful. It’s highly 
choreographed and highly entertaining. It’s a form of entertainment you aren’t likely to see many places,” said SuicideGirls founder Missy Suicide.
The burlesque touring group has performed 
around the world on and off since 2003 as a branch of the SuicideGirls website.
SuicideGirls describes itself as an online 
community devoted to the celebration of alter-native beauty standards. The nearly 17-year-old site’s content features thousands of “mod-els” and “hopefuls” sharing sexually charged 
photos with their members-only community.
“SuicideGirls features nude, pinup style 
photos of women with piercings and tattoos, 
crazy colored hair, girls of all body types re-
ally…. It was a way that we could come to-
gether and be appreciated and appreciate other 
women for their own unique style and beau-
ty,” Missy said.
Through traveling with the Blackheart Bur-
lesque tour, Sunny said she is constantly re-minded of the impact of the SuicideGirls online 
community by the fans that she meets.
“Not only do we get feedback online, but 
daily we meet women and men alike who are 
like, ‘Thank you. Thank you for being a real 
woman. Thank you for celebrating real wom-
en.’ I get emails from women personally say-
ing, ‘Oh my gosh! Thank you so much for be-ing on a stage with cellulite and shaking it like that, because I didn’t like my butt, and now I 
do, and I want to celebrate it,’” Sunny said.
Missy is dedicated to nurturing a commu-
nity that is open, empowering and respectful 
for all members. With more than 3,000 ofﬁ  cial 
SuicideGirls coming from every continent, in-
cluding Antarctica, Missy said any girl logging 
in is likely to ﬁ  nd a woman who looks like her.
“That’s an infectious, contagious sort of 
sentiment. Women, they feel empowered and 
they feel beautiful because they see women 
who look like them, feel beautiful and empow-
ered and comfortable and conﬁ  dent,” Missy 
said.SuicideGirls Burlesque show to hit Gainesville Thursday 
Courtesy to The Alligator
The SuicideGirls, who have toured worldwide, will take their show to High 
Dive on Thursday.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
With Spring Break a thing of the 
past and ﬁ  nals on the horizon, just six 
weeks remain until another semester 
comes to a close. Luckily for students 
and locals alike, there’s still plenty to do in Gainesville before we head home for the summer. In addition to 
the other events we’ve covered this 
week, here’s where to spend your weekend.
Sprang Break @ The Atlantic –  
                     March 23 
Spring Break may be over, but 
Sprang Break is just beginning at The Atlantic. Hosted by Tonight’s 
The Night GNV, this tropical-themed 
event will bring Florida bands Pearl & The Oysters, Cabo Boing and Dirt-Bike to perform at 9 p.m. Channeling breezy yet experimental sounds that 
don’t take themselves too seriously, 
each of these bands will bring their own ﬂ  are to the show. Entry is $5.
TEDxUF @ Hippodrome State 
Theatre – March 24 
In a move downtown, TEDxUF will 
be held from noon to 5 p.m. Satur-
day at the Hippodrome. The theme is 
expectations, and each speaker will explore how our expectations inﬂ  u-ence everything around us. For those that didn’t get tickets, there will be 
a live stream at Bryan Hall, located 
at 1384 Union Road. After the event concludes, head over to High Dive for the ofﬁ  cial after party from 8 p.m. 
to midnight where local performers 
will bring their talents to the venue. Tickets are $8 and available at High-DiveGville.com.Spring Garden Festival @ 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens – 
March 24 and 25
From 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday 
and Sunday, Kanapaha Botanical Gar-dens will host its Spring Garden Fes-tival. The event features around 150 
vendors “offering plants, landscape 
displays, garden accessories, arts and crafts, educational exhibits and, of course, foods,” according to the 
Facebook event page. Admission is 
$8 for adults and $5 for children ages 3-13, with a $2 discount for Kanapaha members.
Sofar Sounds Gainesville – 
March Show @ Secret Location – 
March 27
Although not this weekend, this 
event is absolutely worth attend-ing. Sofar Sounds, a new concept for Gainesville, will host its second show March 27. With a secret lineup and location announced on the day of the show, those who want to attend can apply for a ticket lottery on sofar-sounds.com/gainesville. If selected, 
attendees can purchase one or two 
tickets and will be informed of where to go that day. Once there, concert-goers experience performances from three artists in a no-phone, no-talking environment. Last month’s perform-
ers included talented locals ﬂ  ipturn, 
Sooza and Ricky Kendall. Make sure to sign up soon; the lottery closes ﬁ  ve days before the event.The best events to spend your weekend at in Gainesville
LOCAL
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Atlantic’s Sprang Break 
will bring various experimental performers from around Florida to perform. Between concerts, nature and TEDxUF, there’s plenty to do BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR 
BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  
352-256-8370,352-246-8645
3-23-18-6-2
Several cute & clean houses & apts.for August in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. From $525/mo.Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     3-26-17-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Columbia Tiger Sharks summer competi-tive swim team is seeking qualified part-time Assistant Coaches for the 2018 summer swim season. This is an hourly position with work opportunities between 10-15 hours per week. Coach candidates must be knowl -
edgeable and passionate about working with young swimmers. Coach candidates will work in partnership with the Head Coach and other assistant coaches. Coach can-didates are expected to be available for all practices for their assigned practice group, ranging from 4 practices per week. Coach candidates should also be available to attend meets during the season.
● Hours:
M-Th afternoons 4:30p-6p (through the end of the public school calendar -ending May 31st)M-Th mornings 7:30a-9a (June 4th-end of the season), Saturdays on meet weekends   (rotating)
● Location: Jarod Allison Aquatic Complex
● Starting Date:  May 7th - July 28th● Pay: Hourly- competitive; negotiable 
based on qualification and experience.
Responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
● Create, plan, and run practices ● Work under the direction of the Head 
Coach.● Attending all practices and scheduled 
meets as needed● Assist other coaches as needed.● Stay up to date with the latest sci-
ence, technology, and procedures of USA Swimming.● Teach good technique● Communicate effectively with swimmers 
and parents Qualifications:● Previous competitive swimming/ coaching 
experience preferred.● Must have all USA Swimming certifications 
and coaching requirements or be able to ob-tain within 30 days of being hired.● Mature judgment, reliability, availability, 
and ethical behavior including punctuality, confidentiality and the ability to function ef-fectively in a multitask environment. 
Interested? Please contact:
Stephanie Kendron, President,at columbiatigersharks@gmail.com      3-21-18-1-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
Apply in Person
Cooks, Management, Waitresses
3-23-17-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 159404 or 160560 at www.gatordining.com     3-23-18-6-14
Psyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
1. ASTRONOMY: How large is 
Jupiter’s giant “red spot”?
2. U.S. STATES: Which is the only 
U.S. state that begins with the letter 
“p”?
3. HISTORY: Who was the last man 
to walk on the moon?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: The 
average person speaks how many 
words in a day?
5. MOVIES: In the movie “The Wiz-
ard of Oz,” what did the Tin Man want from the wizard?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
guanaco?
7. BIBLE: In the Old Testament, 
who was Abraham’s first wife?
8. GEOGRAPHY: What two states 
border Lake Tahoe?
9. WEATHER: What was the fastest 
wind speed ever recorded?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was 
the first U.S. president to declare war?
Answers
1. Twice as big as the Earth2. Pennsylvania3. Eugene Cernan4. 7,000 to 20,000 words5. A heart6. A camelid native to South America7. Sarah8. Nevada and California9. 253 mph wind gust registered on 
Barrow Island, Australia
10. James Madison
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 19, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-21-25-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Jordan’s capital
6 Amounts to
11 Cleveland
hoopster
14 Tour leader15 Popcorn brand
whose logoresembles a
movie marquee
16 Corrida cheer
17 *Many a museum
piece
19 “MSNBC Live”
co-anchor Velshi
20 Big Dipper’s
constellation
21 Birth-related23 Couple of gags?24 Tied-on protectors
25 Without
28 Not even close30 Vise features31 British nobles32 Roger Federer’s
org.
35 French buddy36 *Choice spot at
the opera
38 Pi follower39 Stood for office
40 Powerful
Japanese dog
41 Black bird or
black cat, to
some
42 Go round and
round
44 Messed (up)46 Obtain48 Is not misused?49 Very serious, as
a water shortage
50 Blunder55 Humanities degs.56 Words to a
server ... or a hintto the first wordsof the answers tostarred clues
58 “The Book of __”:
2010 DenzelWashington film
59 Exorbitant
interest
60 Ceremonial place
61 Fond du __,
Wisconsin
62 Closed
63 Braid
DOWN
1 Twittering
2 “Studies in the
Sierra” writer John3 Fitbit unit
4 Much of the
Sunday paper
5 Spruce (up)
6 Walking sticks
7 Penta- plus
three
8 Cup-a-Soup
direction
9 Pewter
component
10 Footpath aid
11 *Family crest
12 Poe’s middle
name
13 Concealing
accessories
18 “Probably not”
22 “Wanna go out?”
response
24 Protagonist of
Auel’s “Earth’s
Children” novels
25 Somewhat 
open
26 Auburn rival,
familiarly
27 *Ellington genre28 Squander29 Surface product
31 Bright word in a
dark theater
33 You, back in the
day34 Koi habitat
36 Kansas City
cuisine
37 Not bad
41 Fly off the shelf
faster than
43 To date
44 Struggle with
sisters?
45 400 meters, on
many tracks
46 It has one hump
or two47 Florida’s __
National Forest
48 Binder for some
paints
50 2017 FX
miniseries
subtitled “Betteand Joan”
51 Spacious lot
52 Part of TTFN
53 Actor Morales
54 Cheeky57 QVC sister station
By Mark McClain©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/21/1803/21/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 21, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Affectionate
sideline greeting
6 “I understand
now!”
9 Mud bath
coverings
14 Gal pal, in
Genoa
15 Searchlight used
by Gotham police
17 One changing
pitches
18 “Are you
declining?”
19 “Tell me!”
21 Response to a
tasty treat
22 Understand23 “Va-va-__!”24 Long Island town26 Dog-tired
28 605, to Seneca
30 Stop, to swabs
33 Circle segment
34 “Humble” home36 “Why would __?”37 Dealer’s query39 Class with
smocks
40 Punctuation in
many lists
42 Sign of disuse43 Like yoga
teachers
45 Many a craft
beer, for short
46 Online box filler48 Cough up the
cash
49 Enterprise rival50 KitchenAid
appliances
52 __ colada: rum
drink
54 Old vitamin bottle
no.
57 Shiba __ :
Japanese dog
58 Scored well
under par, in golflingo
61 Bart Simpson’s
“Holy cow!”
64 “Love Me Like
You Do” singerGoulding
65 Apple Store
support station
66 Preps, as
potatoes
67 Icon tappers68 Bashful69 Risky
rendezvousDOWN
1 Fashionable
Kentucky Derby
array
2 “My turn to bat”3 Handheld cleaner
4 Spotted wildcat
5 Thomas of “That
Girl”
6 Somewhat
7 Polishes off8 Legal dept.
staffers
9 2006 cop drama
set in Florida
10 Star’s rep.
11 Hose mishap
12 Welles’ “Citizen”13 Schedule
opening
16 Six-time Super
Bowl coach Don
20 Website with film
profiles
24 Hosp. fluid-
administrationmethods hidden
in 3-, 9-, 31- and
34-Down
25 __ Alto, Calif.26 Tampa __
Buccaneers
27 Slowly wear away29 West Virginia
natural resource31 Reagan Library
site
32 Allegro, largo,
lento, etc.
34 Like much Norton
software
35 Bluesy James38 Japanese golf
great Aoki
41 Remote batteries
44 Promote
aggressively
47 Dunham and Olin49 Buck horn51 Anesthetizes
53 Bumbling54 Sauce brand with
an accent on itslast letter
55 Salon colorings
56 OXY 10 target
58 Suspicious (of)59 Art store buys60 Wild or Old area62 Balloon filler63 Scrooge’s scoff
By C.C. Burnikel©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/20/1803/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, March 20, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Broadly
1.  Amicably 5.  Fix up, modernize 
2.  Let down6.  Script direction 
3.  Outhouse 7.  Myth
4.  BudLWDIEY
AYLMWRFTIER
DASEI
FEADLET
INLAETRGLEDNE
EDNFIRANSWERS: 1A-Widely  5A-Refit  6A-Aside  7A-Legend
1D-Warmly  2D-Deflate  3D-Latrine  4D-Friend  B-My Fair Lady3-21-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Almost all of Audrey Hepburn’s 
singing was dubbed in this film. BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFormer Heisman winner 
Danny Wuerffel and several other former Gators are set to compete in the American Flag Football League U.S. Open Championship starting this April.Gators in the NBA Roundup
Three former UF men's basketball players saw time on the court in NBA 
games on Tuesday. Oklahoma City Thunder guard Corey Brewer scored 
11 points, Boston Celtics forward Al Horford scored five points and Dal-las Mavericks forward Dorian Finney-Smith scored five points.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Bright rays of sunshine, a nice breeze and a partly 
cloudy sky engulfed Gainesville on Tuesday evening, 
right around the time Florida’s baseball team was supposed to have its first pitch. But a horrendous forecast earlier in the day forced UF to postpone its 
game against the Jacksonville Dolphins.
Now, the two teams will hit the diamond tonight 
at 6 on the grounds of McKethan Stadium. Freshman 
Hunter McMullen (0-0, 1.86 ERA) will get his first 
start of the season for UF while the Dolphins will 
throw out senior Spencer Stockton (1-2, 3.12 ERA).
Florida (18-4) and Jacksonville (13-8) split the 
season series in 2017, with each team winning at its 
own stadium.
Last year in Jacksonville, UF watched its bullpen 
implode in the bottom of the ninth inning, giving up 
all three of the Dolphins’ runs in the final frame for 
a walk-off loss.
This year, Florida’s bullpen is trending up, but it 
is still struggling to find consistency from its relievers.
UF closer Michael Byrne has a perfect 0.00 ERA in 
11 appearances this season, and McMullen — who is making his first career start tonight — has looked stout coming out of the pen this season with his 
aforementioned sub-2.00 ERA
But other relievers are still trying to find their 
swagger.
Sophomores Nick Long and Andrew Baker have 
been up and down in their outings this season. They 
both have ERAs above 4.00, combining for seven UF reschedules Jacksonville game for tonight following rain out
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Florida's baseball team will host Jacksonville tonight at 6 after the game was postponed Tuesday due to rain. Freshman 
Hunter McMullen will start for the Gators, while senior Spencer Stockton gets the nod for the Dolphins.
As cliché as it sounds, it was an up-and-down season for the Flor-ida men’s basketball team. There were peaks and valleys. Highs and lows. There’s plenty of ways 
to say it, but it really is that simple.
But today is not a day to dwell on things 
that went wrong. Today I’m focusing on the bright side. Good vibes, stuff like that. Anyway, let’s look at the four most memo-rable storylines of the Gators’ 2017-18 season.
 New arrivals adjust quicklyWhen you think of new players having instant suc-
cess on an SEC men’s basketball team, Kentucky coach John Calipari’s one-and-done system comes to mind. 
For Florida, it was a little different. Redshirt junior 
guard Jalen Hudson led the team in scoring during his first season in Gainesville. The Virginia Tech trans-fer averaged 15.5 points per game and could declare for the 2018 NBA draft after having a breakout year, should he wish to do so.
Then there was Egor Koulechov, a graduate trans-
fer from Rice who earned the nickname “3Gor” for his knockdown-tendencies from long range. He burst onto the scene in UF’s season opener, scoring 34 points vs. Gardner-Webb. Overshad-owed by his shooting abilities was his prowess on the boards. At 6-foot-5, Kou-lechov led the team with 6.4 rebounds per game this year.
 Chiozza sets UF assist recordFor a guy generously listed as 6-foot on 
Florida’s roster, Chris Chiozza had a re-
markably productive career in a sport filled with the tallest athletes around. 
Chiozza will always be remembered for his buzzer-
beater against Wisconsin in the 2017 Sweet 16, but more impressive in my eyes is Chiozza’s sole owner-ship of UF’s all-time career assist record. It came dur-ing an 80-67 win over Kentucky on Senior Day when forward Keith Stone nailed a three from the left wing in the first half. The crowd was already raucous — the triple put the Gators up 28-17 over the rival Wildcats — but the standing ovation that came immediately after was for Florida’s newly crowned assist king. Chiozza finished his college career with 571 dimes, good for seventh all time in the SEC record book.
Memorable storylines from UF men's hoops seasonHuang Story Short / Opinion SOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
After dropping two games 
against Georgia over the week-end, Florida’s softball team (23-3) will take the field at Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium tonight at 6 against South Florida (22-12).
Coming off its lowest point so 
far this season — losing to Geor-gia by 10 runs on Saturday for the program’s worst defeat since 2011 — UF is hoping to bounce back against the Bulls.
Florida previously beat USF 
11-1 earlier this season at the USF-Wilson DeMarini Tourna-ment in Tampa, but after a tough weekend against Georgia in Ath-ens, the Gators will need to focus on these three things if they want to beat the Bulls again tonight:
 Improved defensive playA lack of communication 
in the outfield against Geor-gia showcased Florida’s defen-sive efforts at their worst. Plays were mishandled and moments of chaos ensued on the diamond as Florida recorded its most er-rors over a three-game span since mid-February.
The team’s downfalls showed Gators hoping to bounce 
back from Georgia series 
tonight against USF Bulls
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuangSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s swimming and diving 
team’s senior class, with 51 All-American 
honors among it, has one more chance at NCAA glory.
The No. 4 Gators are in Minneapolis this 
week for the NCAA Championships, which begins today at 11 a.m. and concludes Satur-day night.
UF, fresh off its sixth straight SEC title, has 
ﬁ  nished third in the NCAAs in three of the last four years. Coach Gregg Troy has also led the program to a top-10 ﬁ  nish in the meet every 
year since he was hired in 1999.
However, the Gators have never won a na-
tional championship over that span.
Senior Caeleb Dressel has a chance to be-
come the most decorated men’s swimmer in Florida history. Dressel has amassed six in-
dividual NCAA titles during his career, sec-ond only to Ryan Lochte’s program record of seven. The 21-time All-American will look to defend his titles in the 50 free, 100 free and 
100 ﬂ  y in Minnesota.
Dressel can also make NCAA history this 
week. If he wins the 50 free, he will become 
the ﬁ  rst male to win a national title in the event four times.Fellow senior Mark Szaranek is the only 
other defending NCAA champion competing in the meet for Florida. The 14-time All-Amer-ican will look to defend his title in the 200 IM.
In all, 17 Gators will compete this week, 
including six seniors.
 @samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgSEC champion Gators look to carry momentum into NCAAsBy Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
After ﬁ  nishing ﬁ  rst in its previous two events, 
the Florida women’s golf team capped off a lack-luster outing at the Evans Derby Invitational in Auburn, Alabama, on Tuesday afternoon.
The Gators ended the tournament tied for 
sixth place in the 12-team ﬁ  eld, going 3 under in the event’s ﬁ  nal round to improve its ﬁ  nal score to 2 over.
Sophomore transfer Sierra Brooks helped the 
cause by shooting 2 under in her ﬁ  nal 18 holes, a performance led by three birdies and only one bogey.
She ﬁ  nished with an overall score of 6 un-
der, good enough for a tie of ﬁ  fth place on the 
individual leaderboard. This marks Brooks’ third 
straight tournament with a top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nish.
Five slots below Brooks was sophomore Mar-
ta Perez, who tied for 12th place. Perez improved her score in each of the three rounds, shooting even par on Sunday, 1 under on Monday and 2 
under on Tuesday.
Freshman Addie Baggarly ﬁ  nished below 
Perez. Baggarly carded an even par on Tuesday, 
putting her in a tie for 35th place with a ﬁ  nal score of 4 over.
Senior Taylor Tomlinson followed Baggarly 
with a ﬁ  nal score of 7 over after shooting 1 over on Tuesday. Tomlinson ﬁ  nished tied for 41st.
Florida’s ﬁ  nal golfer in its lineup, sophomore 
Carlotta Ricolﬁ  , is probably happy to see the tournament come to a close. Ricolﬁ   struggled throughout the event, shooting a woeful 21 over on Tuesday to bring her ﬁ  nal score up to 50 over.
She ﬁ  nished in last place out of the 74 golf-
ers who competed in the tournament, ending the ﬁ  nal round 22 strokes behind 73rd-place ﬁ  nisher Sandra Salonen of Florida State.
Also competing for the Gators individually 
was freshman Lauren Waidner, who shot 4 over on Tuesday. This was a vast improvement for Waidner, who went a combined 20 over on Sun-
day and Monday. She ﬁ  nished with a ﬁ  nal score 
of 24 over for 72nd place in the ﬁ  eld.
Florida’s ﬁ  nal team score of 2 over was 30 
strokes behind ﬁ  rst-place Arkansas, which shot 28 under. Duke came in second at 19 under, while Alabama ended the day in third at 14 un-der.
“Happy to see us improve today, but (we) 
certainly have some work to do over the next 
few months,” UF coach Emily Glaser said in a 
release. “Arkansas set a high bar this week.”
Florida entered the Evans Derby Invitational 
having won its previous two events — the Sun-Trust Gator Invitational on March 11 and the All-State Sugar Bowl on Feb. 20. UF’s next tourna-ment is the Liz Murphy Collegiate Classic, which starts on April 13 in Athens, Georgia.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgUF’s win streak comes to a close at Evans Derby InvitationalBy Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
After opening Big East play with an 
11-10 road victory over Vanderbilt on Sunday, the No. 6 Florida lacrosse team will take on Towson in a non-conference 
match today at 6:30 p.m. at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium.
Florida’s offense was lackadaisical in 
its victory over the Commodores, record-ing a season-low in goals, but UF’s stiﬂ  ing defense held off a late push from Vander-bilt to come away with the win.
When the Gators (6-2) take on the No. 
14 Tigers (5-2) tonight, they could be with-
out some of their key contributors. Senior 
defender Aniya Flanagan has missed Flor-ida’s last two games, while junior attacker Lindsey Ronbeck suffered a knee injury against Navy on March 13, forcing her to miss UF’s matchup with Vanderbilt.
Sophomore Madisyn Kittell and junior 
Caroline May started in place of Ronbeck and Flanagan, respectively, against the 
Commodores. Kittell has ﬁ  ve goals on the 
year, while May — a former midﬁ  elder — recently switched to defense after missing most of last season with a torn meniscus.
But without Ronbeck, the Gators’ sec-
ond-leading scorer, it will likely be another defensive showdown.
UF goalkeeper Haley Hicklen ranks 
ﬁ  fth in the nation with 11.75 saves per 
game, while Tigers goalkeeper Kiley Keat-
ing boasts a save percentage of .456.
Towson’s defense is also tied for 12th 
in the NCAA in goals allowed, giving up only 9.29 goals per game.“(Towson is) disruptive on the defen-
sive end of the ﬁ  eld,” Gators coach Aman-da O’Leary said in a release, “so we have to make sure to value ball control.”
So far this season, Florida has struggled 
in the draw circle. The Gators were domi-
nated on draws by Navy, losing the battle 
26-11, forcing them to go on a late offen-sive surge to win the game.
O’Leary said after the victory that draw 
controls would be a big focus for the team moving forward, and it performed much better in the circle against Vanderbilt, win-ning 13 draw controls to the Commodores’ 10.
Towson has not been strong on draws 
this year either. It is tied for 79th in the country through seven games, giving Florida a likely advantage heading into to-night’s action.
On offense, the Tigers are led by senior 
midﬁ  elder Emily Gillingham, who has 21 goals this season. The Kitchener, Ontario, native played the best game of her career 
earlier this season on Feb. 18, notching 
seven goals in a victory over Georgetown.
Towson will be the sixth ranked oppo-
nent Florida has faced this season, as well as its ﬁ  nal non-conference opponent be-fore the team hits the meat of its Big East schedule.
“Focusing on all the little things will be 
crucial for us to beat a very talented Tow-
son team,” O’Leary said. “We’re excited 
for the opportunity to play in a night game at home in front of our fans.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFlorida taking break from conference play to face Towson
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
UF goalkeeper Haley Hicklen is ﬁ  fth in the country with 11.75 saves per game. Hicklen and 
the Gators are hosting T owson today at 6:30 p.m.
UF’s win streak comes to a close at Evans Derby Invitational
SEC champion Gators look to carry momentum into NCAAs
@THEChrisOB
day and Monday. She ﬁ  nished with a ﬁ  nal score 
Florida’s ﬁ  nal team score of 2 over was 30 
strokes behind ﬁ  rst-place Arkansas, which shot 
28 under. Duke came in second at 19 under, 
while Alabama ended the day in third at 14 un-
“Happy to see us improve today, but (we) 
certainly have some work to do over the next 
few months,” UF coach Emily Glaser said in a 
release. “Arkansas set a high bar this week.”
Florida entered the Evans Derby Invitational 
having won its previous two events — the Sun-
Trust Gator Invitational on March 11 and the All-
State Sugar Bowl on Feb. 20. UF’s next tourna-
ment is the Liz Murphy Collegiate Classic, which 
UF’s win streak comes to a close at Evans Derby Invitational
Gators Final Scores
T-5th Sierra Brooks (-6)
T-12th Marta Perez (-3)T-35th Addison Baggarly (+4)T-41st T aylor T omlinson (+7)72nd Lauren Waidner (+24)74th Carlotta Ricolﬁ   (+50)LACROSSE
WOMEN’S GOLF
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2018
earned runs in 13.2 innings pitched.
The same talk of triumph and 
head-hanging also goes for a duo of 
Florida freshmen. Jack Leftwich and Jordan Butler have all had their share of solid outings, but have hit a few bumps as well. 
Leftwich has been the deﬁ  nition 
of hot and cold, tossing three hitless innings and striking out six against the Miami Hurricanes on Feb. 24. But 
just two appearances later, Leftwich 
was rocked for ﬁ  ve hits, four walks and six runs against UCF during a mid-week start.
The same goes for Butler. The 
freshman threw a combined eight scoreless innings in wins against North Florida on Feb. 27 and Stony Brook on March 3.
However, in his next two ap-
pearances, Butler was tagged for six earned runs in 7.2 total innings pitched against UCF on March 7 and Florida State on March 13.
As of now, Florida has been car-
ried by its offense in the early stretch 
of SEC play. Going into tonight’s 
game, it could be more of the same as the bullpen tries to ﬁ  nd its groove.
Florida will host both games 
against the Dolphins this season, with 
the second matchup scheduled for 
April 17 at 6 p.m. The Dolphins (13-
8) come into Gainesville on a three-
game winning streak after sweeping 
Fairﬁ  eld last weekend.
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14UF faces JU twice this year
as their national ranking 
dropped from No. 2 to No. 6 
going into tonight’s matchup 
against South Florida. While the ugly performances against Georgia this weekend don’t de-ﬁ  ne their season thus far, the Gators will need to be better de-fensively against the Bulls.
More opportunities for 
Chronister
Few teams in the country 
have as talented a pitching rota-
tion as Florida.
Its top three pitchers — ju-
nior Kelly Barnhill, senior 
Aleshia Ocasio and sophomore Katie Chronister — have all proven to be an asset to the team so far this season. 
However, Barnhill and Oca-
sio have carried most of the workload, totaling a combined 21-3 record over the course of 26 games. They’ve also tossed 137 of the Gators’ 160.2 innings pitched this season.
While Barnhill and Ocasio 
have two of the best ERAs in the country at 0.56 and 1.01, respectively, they struggled in this weekend’s losses against Georgia, allowing a combined six earned runs in 8.1 innings pitched.
Chronister has been solid 
this season, notching a 1.47 ERA, but has only been in the circle for 14.1 total innings. Chronister could contribute more if given the opportunity by Florida coach Tim Walton.
 Consistency at the plateDespite Florida's offense get-
ting off to a strong start this sea-son, it struggled against Geor-gia, averaging 3.3 runs.
Junior outﬁ  elder Amanda 
Lorenz tops the roster with a batting average of .438, fol-lowed by senior third baseman Nicole DeWitt, who is hitting .343. The California natives are tied at ﬁ  ve home runs apiece so far this season and could have a big impact tonight against USF.
 @faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
SOFTBALL,  from pg. 14Barnhill, Ocasio have 21 wins combinedDylan Dixon / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza (11) setting the record for most career assists in Florida history was one of the top moments for UF's men's basketball team this season.
Frontcourt developmentThe Gators men’s basketball 
team would never use this as an excuse, but half of its frontcourt 
rotation basically missed the en-
tire season. Center John Egbunu 
and forward Isaiah Stokes sat out every game with ACL injuries, while forward Chase Johnson only suited up four times due to 
lingering concussion symptoms.
Enter center Kevarrius Hayes 
and Stone, who were thrown 
into the ﬁ  re but gained valuable experience.
Hayes stands two inches 
shorter and 40 pounds lighter than would-be starter Egbunu. Still, Hayes set career highs in re-bounds per game (5.0) and min-
utes per game (23.2) while re-
cording a career-high 2.1 blocks per game, good for the ﬁ  fth-best 
mark in the SEC.
Stone also had a career sea-
son as he took on a bigger role. The sophomore tripled the num-ber of double-ﬁ  gure scoring games he had from one year ago, including a career-best 23 points against Ole Miss on Jan. 13. He ﬁ  nished the season strong, av-eraging 12.7 points and 7.7 re-bounds in the postseason.
Sweeping Kentucky
The last time Florida swept 
Kentucky in the teams’ regular-
season series was 2014. During that year, the Gators romped 
through the SEC and marched 
to the Final Four with little difﬁ  -
culty. While they lost to eventual champion Connecticut in the Final Four, they did handle the 
Wildcats two times that season.
Fast forward to 2018 and Florida did it again. No, not the 
Final Four — UF’s most recent postseason seems like it never quite got started.
But the team did beat Ken-
tucky. Twice.
The ﬁ  rst time wasn’t easy. A 
two-point halftime lead proved to be the difference in Florida’s 66-64 win at Rupp Arena.
The second win was equally 
exciting for different reasons. As mentioned above, Chiozza set 
UF’s assist record on Senior Day, 
which happened to be against 
the Wildcats. Aside from the milestone for its starting point guard, Florida also built up a 
15-point advantage at the break, 
setting up an eventual 80-67 vic-
tory.
Andrew Huang is a sports 
writer. Contact him at ahuang@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14