We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Pie a politician
UF Student Body President and a Florida State Representative 
go head-to-head for a fundraising campaign, pg. 8
Going batty
UF lets donors name bats in the Bat Houses, pg.9Florida’s keys to victory
Football beat writer Alanis Thames breaks down what the 
Gators need to accomplish to pull off the upset against UGA in 
Jacksonville, pg. 14FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 28
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
DM at UF hosts Moralloween
Three-year-old Ezra Sleeper jumps out and scares guests at a makeshift haunted house set up for 
Moralloween Wednesday night. The haunted houses at Moralloween, an event organized by Dance 
Marathon, gave kids the chance to scare adults. See page 8 for another photo of the event.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THE 
COMMITTEE HAS APPROVED 
FEES SINCE 2014.
By Alyssa Ramos 
and Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writers
UF students may see an increase in fees in 
the 2019-2020 school year.
The local fee committee approved a motion 
to recommend an increase in the overall health 
fee for the Disability Resource Center, the Dean 
of Students Ofﬁ  ce and the Activity and Service Fee. The seven-member committee rejected a 
proposal to increase athletic fees.
This is the ﬁ  rst time the committee has 
agreed to increase fees since 2014, said Kim 
Pace, the assistant vice president for Student 
Affairs.
The committee approved a 3 percent in-
crease of about 57 cents per credit hour for the 
A&S Fee, which allocates money to the Reitz 
Union, Student Government and Student Ac-
tivities and Involvement. After the increase, 
the fee will total to 19.63 cents per credit hour.
The recommended fee increases will be 
sent to UF President Kent Fuchs who will then 
present the recommendations to the Board of Trustees, which may meet in December for ﬁ  -
nal approval.
“All of those fees are a necessity that will 
impact the lives of students,” said Student 
Body Vice President David Enriquez.  
The 3 percent increase would maintain sta-
ble facilities for students, said Emily Dunson, 
the chair of the SG budget and appropriations 
committee. She said there is not any ﬂ  exibil-
ity in the SG budget, and a fee increase would 
help them get money from an alternate source 
to keep up with UF’s development.
“It’s a not a wish list — it’s a needs list,”  
Dunson said.
The committee also approved a 9 cent fee increase for the Disability Resource Center and 
5 cent increase for the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. 
The center said it can now hire a new position 
and allocate money for outreach and program-
ming.  
The center’s aim was to fund assistive tech-
nology, such as live captioning and interpre-
tive services, disability advocacy training and 
a UF Collegiate Summit, which aims to connect 
students across the state with disabilities, said 
Gerry Altamirano, the program director of the 
Disability Resource Center.
The Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce also received 
approval for a 5 cent increase that would go to-Student fees may slightly hike next year
SEE FEE, PAGE 3
SHE WILL SPEAK AT THE 
UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM 
AT 7:30 P .M. NOV . 6.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Don’t wait until the last minute 
to cast a ballot because U.S. Olym-
pic gold medalist Aly Raisman is 
coming to campus on Election Day. 
The gymnast and #MeToo activ-
ist will speak at 7:30 p.m. Nov. 6 in 
the University Auditorium. Doors 
open at 6:30 p.m., Accent Speakers 
Bureau Chair Gregory Wolf said.
Though they fall on the same 
day, the speaking engagement is 
not related to Election Day, Wolf 
said. Wolf declined to give the cost 
of Raisman’s speaker’s fee. 
Students can pick up tickets at 
the Student Government suite on 
the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union 
between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Nov. 5 or between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
Nov. 6, Wolf said. Students can 
pick up one ticket per Gator 1 Card 
they bring, and they can have two 
cards.
Tickets not claimed will be 
available at the University Audito-
rium before the show, Wolf said. 
The event will include a mod-
erated Q&A followed by a student 
Q&A, Wolf said. The moderator 
has not been announced.
Megan Cantor, a 21-year-old 
UF sustainability studies senior, 
said she watched Raisman com-
pete in two Olympic games and 
also watched as she testiﬁ  ed about 
being molested. She said it is em-
powering that Raisman can open 
up about her experiences. 
“She’s not afraid to talk about 
it and get justice for it,” she said. 
“She’s a role model.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgOlympic gold medalist Aly 
Raisman to speak at UF
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Amanda Rivera has been follow-
ing Democratic gubernatorial can-
didate Andrew Gillum’s campaign 
since the primaries and will ﬁ  nally 
get to hear him speak today.
Gillum is hosting a march from 
Turlington Plaza to the Reitz Union starting at 2:30 p.m.
Rivera, a 21-year-old UF political 
science and psychology senior, said 
she already voted for Gillum at the 
Reitz Union Monday because of his 
gun-control platform but will still 
march to the polls. 
“I really want to go and see the 
kind of turnout Gillum is bringing,” 
Rivera said. Gillum will be speaking about 
his platform and the importance 
of voting, campaign spokesperson 
Kevin Harris wrote in an email.
The event will encourage early 
voting in Florida, Harris said. The 
Reitz Union opened as an early vot-
ing location Monday.
“We want to draw attention to 
how quick and easy early voting can be,” he said.
The Alachua County chapter of 
Moms Demand Action, a biparti-
san gun reform advocacy group, 
endorsed Gillum’s candidacy and 
is volunteering at the march, said 
spokesperson Margaret Hamer. The 
group is asking students to wear red 
to raise awareness for gun reform. 
Hamer said she is excited for students to hear Gillum’s speech 
and show support.
“It’s really a fantastic opportu-
nity to come out and see a really 
electric and exciting speaker who 
has fantastic ideas for places like 
the University of Florida,” she said. 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgGovernor candidate Andrew Gillum to lead march on campus todayT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
HIGH  82° LOW  58°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gay Movie Night – Friday
The Pride Community Center, at 
3131 NW 13th St., is showing the 
movie “Pride,” which is inspired 
by a true story, at 7:30 p.m. 
Friday. It is based in the sum-
mer of 1984, Margaret Thatcher 
is in power in England, and the 
National Union of Mineworkers 
is on strike, prompting a London-
based group of gay and lesbian 
activists to raise money to sup-
port the strikers’ families. Initially 
rebuffed by the union, the group 
identifies a tiny mining village in 
Wales and sets off to make its 
donation in person. As the strike 
drags on, the two groups discover 
that standing together makes for 
the strongest union of all. Gay 
Movie Night is on the last Friday 
of every month and is a free ser-
vice of the Pride Community 
Center of North Central Florida. A 
$2 donation is requested to help 
pay for snacks.
GatorNights - Friday Night Frights
GatorNights will have a haunted 
house and a costume contest to-
day. There will also be a tarot 
card station, Halloween games 
and ice cream. A spooky scaven-
ger hunt will take place around 
the Reitz Union. “Hereditary” 
will be shown at 8 p.m. and 10:45 
p.m. in the Auditorium, where 
popcorn and soda will be offered. 
GatorNights is always Friday and 
always free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Card from 8 p.m. 
to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents in order to participate and 
are allowed to bring one guest.
Bicycle Ride to support Breast 
Cancer Research, Sunday
The Pink Pumpkin Pedal-Off is 
a charity bicycle ride to raise 
funds to support local research 
on treatment-resistant breast can-
cers. Ride distances are 10, 22, 40 
or 62.5 miles. All rides begin and 
end at the Cancer and Genetics 
Research Center at UF. Register at 
pinkpumpkinpedaloff.org. 
Gators for Underrepresented 
Voters
Gators for Underrepresented 
Voters and several sponsors are 
screening a showing of the short 
film “Let My People Vote” from 
6-8 p.m Tuesday in the Reitz 
Union Senate Chamber. The 
presentation of the film will be 
followed by a discussion with 
civil rights experts and formerly 
incarcerated activists who are 
disenfranchised under Florida’s 
current policy. Follow Gators 
for Underrepresented Voters on Facebook for more information.
First Magnitude beer launch 
Thursday supports butterfly 
conservation
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History and First Magnitude 
Brewing Co. will host a fundraiser 
to help support butterfly conser-
vation from 5-8 p.m. Thursday. 
First Magnitude will release a 
new beer made with blueberries 
and pomegranates called “Atala 
Pale Ale,” highlighting the rare 
Atala butterfly. The suggested do-
nation of $10 includes $1 off all 
beers. A $15 donation includes 
a signature glass and $1 off all 
beers. T-shirts, pins and six-packs 
will also be available for pur-
chase. All proceeds will directly 
support imperiled butterfly recov-
ery efforts in Florida. For more 
information, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/event/atala-ale or call 
352-273-2022.
Florida Museum to host ‘The 
Lost Bird Project’ beginning 
Thursday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will display “The Lost 
Bird Project,” which includes 
five cast-bronze sculptures of the 
extinct Carolina parakeet, great 
auk, heath hen, labrador duck 
and passenger pigeon, starting 
Thursday. Artist Todd McGrain 
created the statues as a tribute to 
endangered and extinct species. 
Ranging from 4 to 6 feet in height, 
the sculptures were permanently 
placed where each bird was last 
seen in the wild, ranging from 
Fogo Island, Newfoundland, to 
Okeechobee, Florida, with travel-
ing exhibits of the same figures 
touring nationally. For more in-
formation visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/event/lost-bird or call 
352-846-2000.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of individuals 
who desire to recover from eat-
ing disorders. If you feel guilty 
about eating, are at times un-
able to start or stop eating even 
when you want to or if you feel 
disgusted or powerless over your 
eating, this group may be for you. 
Everyone is welcome regardless 
of age. For times, locations or 
more information, please email 
GainesvilleEDA@gmail.com or 
text/call 954-319-6365. You can 
also visit www.4EDA.org for 
more information. 
Apply Now for 2019-20 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. Students can now file a 2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s “On-Time” 
deadline to receive the results of 
students’ 2019-20 FAFSA from 
the federal processor is Dec. 15. 
Apply before Dec. 15 to ensure 
that the federal processor has 
time to analyze and send the re-
sults of the FAFSA to UF Student 
Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, first 
serve basis, so it is recommended 
to apply as early as possible to 
be considered for the most aid. 
The 2019-20 FAFSA will be avail-
able on a new phone app called 
myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
In an editorial published on 
Wednesday, the endorsement 
misquoted Amendment 11. The 
amendment, if passed, would 
get rid of language in Florida 
law that states “aliens ineligible 
for citizenship” cannot own 
property. 
On the front page of 
Wednesday’s paper, the wom-
an in the photo is wearing a 
Wonder Woman costume. The 
story accompanying the photo 
said she was wearing a differ-
ent superhero costume.
In an article titled "Father, 
daugher arrested during drug 
task force investigation" in 
Wednesday's paper, the story 
misstated the charges. Kimberly 
Smith was arrested on charges 
of drug and drug equipment po-
session and keeping drugs in a 
place of residence. Bruce Smith 
was arrested on charges of bat-
tery on an office, possession of 
a weapon by a felon, drug po-
session and keeping drugs in a 
place of residence. The Alligator 
reported differently.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 28
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
BREAKDOWN OF FEES:
Disability and Resource Center
Current Price: 4.5 cents per credit hour
Requested: About a 3 percent increase to about 9 cents 
per credit hour
After Increase: 14 cents per credit hour
Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce 
Current Price: 15 cents per credit hour
Requested: About a 33 percent increase to about 5 cents 
per credit hour
After Increase: 20 cents per credit hour 
Activity and Service Fee
Current Cent per Credit Hour: 19.06 per credit hour
Requested: About a 3 percent increase to about 57 cents 
per credit hour
After Increase: 19.63 per credit hour ward hiring a new case man-
ager that would help address 
the increased trafﬁ  c for the of-
ﬁ  ce’s Care Team.
The amount of U Mat-
ter, We Care cases have tri-
pled over the past year, said 
Heather White, the associate 
vice president of the Dean of 
Students. Factors such as Hur-
ricane Michael, political ten-
sion, controversial campus 
events and immigration policy 
changes have added to the in-
crease of students needing to 
be seen. The case manager ra-tio last year was 396 students 
to one advisor, but this year, 
the ratio nearly quadrupled 
at 1,452 student cases to one 
advisor.
The Dean of Students Of-
ﬁ  ce also covers the Field and 
Fork Pantry, White said. More 
than 30 percent of students 
experience food insecurities, 
with an extra 4,000 visitors 
utilizing the Pantry in compar-
ison to last year’s totals.
Four out of the seven com-
mittee members failed a mo-
tion to increase athletic fees 
upon request of the University 
Athletic Association, which asked for a $1 increase to its 
current fee of $1.90. The UAA 
said the request would go to-
ward implementing mobile 
ticketing and WiFi access in 
the football stadium. The UAA 
has had the same fee since 
1992.
Student members sitting 
on the committee argued that 
students may not feel inclined 
to pay the extra dollar in fees.
The committee agreed 
that in order to maintain UF’s 
ranking as a top eight public 
institution, it is imperative to 
expand accessibility and allow 
UF to compete with compa-rable universities.   
During deliberations, En-
riquez said these requests 
were modest and conserva-
tive.
“When it comes to the is-
sue of mental health and mak-
ing sure students are being 
taking care of, there’s a tre-
mendous risk when we don’t 
provide the resources to our 
students,” Enriquez said.
@LysKRamos
@danacassidy_
aramos@alligator.org 
dcassidy@alligator.orgFEE,  from pg. 1Fuchs will review the possible fee increase.THE EVENT FEATURED A 
PORTABLE PLANETARIUM 
AND STUDENT SCIENCE 
EXPERIMENTS.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
For Chloe Winant, science is 
more than what is in a textbook. 
That’s why she created the Fam-
ily Science and Robotic Night four 
years ago.
More than 500 people attended 
Howard Bishop Middle School’s 
science engagement fair Thursday 
night, said Winant, a 28-year-old 
Howard Bishop science teacher and 
organizer of the event. 
Strutting around with pink 
duct tape on her forearm and gray 
Crocs on her feet, Winant ran the 
event with student science experi-
ments, a robotics competition, an 
indoor planetarium and 20 commu-
nity presenters such as Hands On Gainesville and the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. It cost about 
$1,000 to put on the event, which 
was funded by a grant Winant ap-
plied for. 
“She’s my hero,” said Amaya 
Hartel, the mother of 12-year-old 
Lander, a seventh-grade student.  
Howard Bishop Middle School, 
located in northeast Gainesville, 
has a majority of students on free 
or reduced lunch, Winant said. 
The neighborhood pulls in students 
whose parents are afﬁ  liated with the 
university or are bussed in through 
a magnet program.
“Community likes being with 
community,” Winant said. “I think 
it’s really important for the commu-
nity to engage in events like these 
because it sends a message to our 
students that people outside of the 
school are interested in them.”
Hunter Hazeen, an 11-year-old 
sixth-grader, did not conduct his 
own science experiment but helped 
his peers collect data for their proj-
ects and came out to support them. “It’s fun ﬁ  nding new things and 
logging them as your own, not just 
learning about them,” Hazeen said.
Though he won’t turn 12 for 
another day, he already knows he 
wants to be a herpetologist, some-
one who studies reptiles, when he 
grows up. 
“They let us know what’s around 
us,” Hazeen said. “We wouldn’t 
know what an indigo snake is with-
out herpetologists.” 
When running the mobile Star-
Lab, a portable planetarium, John 
Della Costa, a 21-year-old UF astro-
physics senior, said he enjoys the 
questions students ask him, espe-
cially about his research on black 
holes.
“It’s kind of like a virus,” Della 
Costa said. “You’re going around 
teaching these kids about science so 
maybe one day they can be in your 
college shoes teaching other kids 
about science.” 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgMiddle school students use robots at science fair
Hannah Beatty / Alligator Staff
Amaya Hartel and her son Lander, 12, work together on an 
experiment about infrared consumption on mobile devices at the 
fourth annual Family Science and Robotics Night. 
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are investigat-
ing the murder of a man found dead 
Tuesday night in East Gainesville.
Michael Brooks, 27, of Durham, 
North Carolina, was found dead 
in a vacant lot on the 600 block of Northeast 15th Terrace, according 
to a press release. Police believe he 
was murdered.
It is unknown why Brooks was 
in Gainesville, the release said. 
Police have not released details 
about how or when Brooks died, 
said GPD spokesperson Jorge Cam-
pos at a press conference Wednes-day afternoon.
“Typically in an investigation, 
we look at the whereabouts of 
where the victim was prior to them 
being found in the state they’re 
found, so the detectives are scour-
ing through as much information 
as possible,” Campos said.
Residents walking through the 
lot to cut from one neighborhood 
to another called the police when they found Brooks lying on the 
ground, Campos said. 
This is the ninth murder the 
GPD has worked on since Jan. 1, 
2017, Campos said. The previous 
eight murders all ended in arrests.
Brooks’ case is rare because 
there have not been any acquain-
tances or witnesses with informa-
tion, Campos said.
“There was usually information that came about very quickly,” he 
said. “This one’s out of the norm.”
Anyone with information can 
call the lead detective, Ken Davies, 
at 352-393-7656. To remain anon-
ymous, people can call Alachua 
County Crime Stoppers at 352-372-
STOP.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgPolice investigating murder after body found Tuesday
The man was found in a vacant lot.SIX STUDENTS HAVE BEEN 
AWARDED A TOTAL OF 
$6,000. 
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
While Florida Panhandle resi-
dents apply for FEMA aid, UF stu-
dents can apply for Aid-a-Gator. UF 
students, faculty and staff can ap-ply for up to $1,500 in emergency 
ﬁ  nancial aid in light of the effects 
of Hurricane Michael through UF’s 
Aid-a-Gator program, Zack O’Neill, 
the UF assistant director of state 
programs, scholarships and stu-
dent employment.
“It’s most important that they’re 
aware the option exists,” O’Neill 
said. “It’s an important avenue to 
take that will not put them in a 
dangerous ﬁ  nancial need.” The Student Financial Affairs 
ofﬁ  ce has received 10 applications 
and awarded a total of $6,000 to 
six students, Margot Winick, a UF 
spokesperson, wrote in an email.
The program began last year 
days after Hurricane Irma hit North 
Central Florida. Last Fall, 438 stu-
dents applied and received a total 
of $209,739 from the program, 
Winick said.
To apply, students must demon-strate ﬁ  nancial need, provide doc-
umentation and ﬁ  ll out an online 
application. There is no designated 
time frame and faculty and staff, 
including graduate students, can 
also apply, O’Neill said. 
Anthony Le, a 21-year-old UF 
nursing senior, was born and 
raised in Panama City, an area se-
verely impacted by Hurricane Mi-
chael. Le said he has friends who 
lost their homes and their cars.“It’s really good that they’re 
very mindful of the students,” he 
said. “I know some people might 
not have the ﬁ  nancial means to 
support themselves without their 
parents.”
 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgUF provides ﬁ  nancial relief to students post-Hurricane Michael4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
POSITIONS INCLUDE 
TEACHING AREAS SUCH 
AS MUSIC BUSINESS AND 
PERFORMANCE SOMATICS.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF College of the Arts is moving 
toward a new age with 19 new faculty 
members next year. 
On Thursday, the college announced 
it would hire new faculty members for 
the 2019-20 academic year. Four of the 
positions will be replacements and the 
other 15 are new faculty positions, said 
Brandon McKinley, the college’s public 
relations and partnership specialist.
Some of the new positions include as-
sistant professors in music business, per-
formance somatics and digital arts and 
science with a specialization in science 
and engineering, McKinley said. The UF 
College of the Arts currently has 120 fac-
ulty and 30 staff members.
“As an alumnus of the college, it’s re-
ally exciting to see the entire faculty and staff develop something that’s going to 
propel us into the future and allow stu-
dents to tackle tomorrow’s problems,” 
McKinley said.
The 19 positions are part of the UF 
Faculty 500 Initiative, a goal the universi-
ty has to hire 500 new faculty to continue 
to move up on the list of top 10 public 
universities by improving the student-to-
faculty ratio, McKinley said. Funds for 
the new positions come from the Ofﬁ  ce 
of the Provost. 
There isn’t an estimated cost of how 
much these positions will be paid. 
Each of the 19 positions will be as-
signed to various search committees. 
Three to ﬁ  ve faculty members from the 
College of the Arts and one provocateur 
— someone who ensures the applicants 
are qualiﬁ  ed and able to assist students 
in discovering how the arts can inﬂ  uence 
society — will sit on each committee, 
McKinley said.
The committee and provocateur will 
adhere to a “meta-narrative,” an over-
arching theme to seek faculty who identi-
fy as change-makers to help students po-sition themselves to become artists and 
researchers and make effective changes 
in the world, McKinley said.
“We’re looking for who can educate 
students in a way that can approach the 
ever-changing context of our society us-
ing technical art skills and scholarly art 
analysis,” McKinley said.
The curriculum for the positions will 
be developed and established next year, 
said Tiza Garland, the associate director 
of the UF School of Theatre and Dance 
and a search committee member.
It is essential to recognize that shifts 
in the arts can lead to shifts in technol-
ogy, the environment, politics and the 
media, Garland said. The nature of the 
subject is embedded in culture and is 
what unites people.
“Art is a means of building bridges be-
tween various aspects of our community 
and bringing diverse groups together,” 
Garland said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF College of the Arts brings in 19 new faculty positionsShelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Alissa Adam, a 21-year-old UF women’s studies and African American 
studies senior, reads off some of the myths and facts of domestic 
violence during the “My Costume is Not Consent” tabling event 
Wednesday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas. This event was 
hosted by the UPD Ofﬁ  ce of Victim Services. Volunteers like Adam 
represented 11 other organizations that deal with domestic violence 
and its effects in the Gainesville area.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
More than a month after three pit bulls 
killed a woman’s emotional support dog, 
Alachua County declared them dangerous.
After the declaration Tuesday, Nathaniel 
Thomas Pettiford, the 42-year-old pit bull 
owner, must buy a $500,000 insurance pol-
icy for each dog and put a sign on his fence 
to warn people about the dogs in order to get 
them back, according to a press release from the Alachua County Com-
munications Ofﬁ  ce. 
Pettiford’s dogs must 
be sterilized and micro-
chipped at the animal ser-
vices shelter, the release 
said.
The three pit bulls es-
caped from Pettiford’s 
home on the 5800 block of 
Northwest 29th Terrace and attacked Linda 
Swinburn and her dog, Bella, on Sept. 22. Bella died in Swinburn’s arms and Swinburn 
suffered injuries.
Pettiford can still reclaim his dogs from 
Alachua County Animal Services, the re-
lease said.
“This gives him another chance to get 
dogs,” Swinburn said. “There is no justice 
for Bella if he continues to get second chanc-
es.”
In April, one of the pit bulls threatened a 
neighbor walking down the street, according 
to Gainesville Police. Two months later, an-other neighbor was chased onto her porch.
Pettiford was charged with inﬂ  icting in-
jury and animal cruelty after the attack. He 
could not be reached for comment.
Swinburn said the community is in dan-
ger as long as the dogs are alive.
“I made a promise to Bella when I adopt-
ed her to protect her,” Swinburn said. “She 
was killed in my arms, and I will continue to 
ﬁ  ght and be her voice.” 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgPit bulls involved in fatal dog attack classiﬁ  ed as dangerous
Bella
By Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
For Alyssa Chavez, the scariest 
part of Halloween is the unwanted 
attention she might receive while 
dressed in her costume.
Chavez, an 18-year-old UF com-
puter science freshman, said people 
have grabbed her and taken photos 
of her without her consent while in 
costume at comic conventions. 
“All we’re trying to do is go out 
and have fun in our costumes with-
out people harassing us,” she said.
Chavez spoke with ofﬁ  cers and 
support groups at “My Costume 
is Not Consent,” an event about 
consent and Halloween costumes 
hosted by the University Police’s 
Ofﬁ  ce of Victim Services Wednes-
day morning on the Plaza of the 
Americas.
The UPD Ofﬁ  ce of Victim Servic-
es partnered with support groups 
including the Alachua County Rape 
Crisis Center, National Organiza-
tion for Women, Women’s Student 
Association and Sexual Trauma In-terpersonal Violence Education at 
Gatorwell.
Chavez felt more comfortable 
after the event because she thinks 
students will look out for each oth-
er this Halloween, she said.
“You never know what situation 
you’re going to ﬁ  nd yourself in, so 
it’s nice to know there are a lot of 
resources I can look to for help and 
look for comfort in,” she said.
The groups set up 12 tables 
to hand out T-shirts, condoms, 
pamphlets and pins to about 100 
students who attended. Students 
played trivia about sexual assault 
statistics and about what is consid-
ered consent.
This is the ﬁ  rst time the Ofﬁ  ce 
of Victim Services has hosted an 
event about consent and Hallow-
een costumes, said Andrea Palmer, 
an event organizer and victim ad-
vocate.
Consent is a common issue 
among people of all ages, not just 
those in college, Palmer said. 
“Sometimes there is a notion 
that if I’m dressed half naked, that you’re asking for people to touch 
you without your permission,” 
Palmer said.
UPD ofﬁ  cer Henri Belleville said 
he knows the importance of con-
sent after seeing many sexual as-
sault cases reported in his ten years 
as a police ofﬁ  cer.
Belleville gave students advice 
on how to stay safe, like going out 
in groups, looking out for friends 
and saying no if someone is making 
them feel uncomfortable, he said.
“You can’t just assume because 
someone is dressed a certain way 
or in costume on Halloween they 
are willing to do certain things,” 
Belleville said.
Meg Johnson, a health promo-
tions specialist at STRIVE at Ga-
torwell, said the group wanted to 
connect students with resources to 
help them prevent sexual assault 
and violence. 
“We are trying to break the stig-
ma of not being able to talk about 
it, because consent is something we 
should all be talking about and en-
couraging,” Johnson said.Support groups talk to students about sexual consent and Halloween
NEW PROFESSORS ON THE BLOCK:
• Program Director and Professor of the Center 
for Arts, Migration and Entrepreneurship   
• School of Theater and Dance Director and 
Professor
• Lecturer in Arts in Medicine - Service Learning, 
T eaching and Research 
• Lecturer in Contemporary Art Making
• Lecturer in Digital Arts and Sciences  
• Lecturer in Studio Art
• Assistant Professor in Digital Arts & Science 
with an interdisciplinary specialization in 
Science/Engineering   
• Assistant/Associate Professor in Museum 
Studies  
• Assistant Professor in Graphic Design  
• Assistant Professor in African Art History 
• Assistant Professor in Low Brass  
• Assistant Professor in Music Business  
• Assistant Professor in Music Education 
• Assistant Professor in Ethnomusicology  
• Assistant Professor in Music Composition  
• Assistant Professor in Theater 
• Assistant Professor in Theater Studies  
• Assistant Professor in Performance Somatics  
• Assistant Professor in Dance Studies  About 100 students participated.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
JOB RECRUITMENT 
EVENT
NOV . 13, 9am - 5pm
Best Western Gateway Grand
4200 NW 97th Blvd.  
Gainesville, FL 32606Managers will be on site to 
conduct on the spot interviews
NOW HIRING
• Nurses
    -CNA, LPN, CMA
• Financial Services  
Representatives
• Patient Advocates
• Finance Clerks
• Marketing & Outreach  
Positions
• Medical Providers
• Dental Assistants
• Pharmacy T echniciansQuestions? Contact:
Jessica Bongiavonni HR Recruiter
HR@palmsmg.org
For these positions and others, save time by
applying in advance at www.palmsmg.org
Click on the “Careers” tab and “Apply Online” .Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
A man was accused of chasing after a 
homeless man with a knife Wednesday af-
ternoon.
Darrell Vernard Sirmans, 54, of 
Gainesville, was accused of pulling out 
a knife on a homeless man after Sirmans 
hurled racial slurs at him on a crosswalk 
on the 4000 block of Southwest Archer 
Road, according to a Gainesville Police ar-
rest report.Sirmans was walking in the opposite di-
rection of the man at about 1 p.m., the re-
port said. The man told police that Sirmans 
started calling him slurs and obscenities 
near McDonald’s. 
The man responded to Sirmans with 
similar obscenities, the report said.
After arguing for a moment, Sirmans 
pulled out a knife from the small of his 
back with the blade exposed, the report said.
The man told police Sirmans started 
walking toward him with the knife. The 
man was afraid and ran away, but Sirmans 
chased after him, police said.
The man ran into a gas station and 
called for help. Sirmans stopped chasing 
him and walked back across the street, the 
report said.
Police found Sirmans nearby. He ad-mitted to arguing with the man but de-
nied having a knife, the report said. Police 
found a knife on the ground near the rest 
of Sirmans’ belongings.
Sirmans is charged with aggravated 
assault. He is being held in the Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $5,000 bond.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMan chased homeless man with knife, police say
Taking too long at a gas pump could’ve 
ended in gunshots.
Barry Patrick Heckard, 36, of Gainesville, 
was accused of ﬁ  ghting with another man 
over Heckard’s loaded gun Wednesday 
morning after Heckard said the man was 
taking his time pumping gas at the Shell gas 
station, at 7501 W Newberry Road, accord-
ing to an Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
arrest report. 
A deputy saw the two men ﬁ  ghting in 
Heckard’s car and walked over to talk to 
them. The deputy noticed a semi-automatic 
shotgun in Heckard’s lap, the report said.
The man told deputies that Heckard 
got a shotgun from the backseat of his car 
and loaded it while sitting in the front seat. 
Heckard mumbled under his breath while 
loading the magazine into the gun, depu-
ties said.
The man ran to Heckard’s car to grab the gun. He was afraid Heckard was going 
to shoot him, deputies said.
Heckard denied loading the gun and told 
deputies the man saw it in his car and tried 
to take it, the report said.
Surveillance video supported the man’s 
story, according to the report. 
Deputies found two grams of marijuana, 
a pipe, two other handguns and ammuni-
tion in Heckard’s possession, the report 
said.
Heckard is charged with aggravated 
assault with a weapon and possession of 
marijuana and drug paraphernalia. He 
was released from the Alachua County Jail 
Thursday afternoon on a $7,000 bond.
Heckard could not immediately be 
reached for comment. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMen fight over gun at 
gas pump, deputies say
Stealing $177 worth of 
vodka and Captain Mor-
gan rum landed a man 
back in jail.
Troy Rishaun Page, 42, 
was arrested Wednesday 
night after he was ac-
cused of breaking into a 
Winn-Dixie liquor store, 
at 300 SW 16th Ave., early 
Monday morning to steal 
alcohol, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest 
report. 
Winn-Dixie’s managers 
discovered the adjoining 
liquor store was broken 
into Monday morning. 
Part of the front window 
was shattered, the report 
said.Surveillance footage 
shows a man wearing 
brown boots, white tube 
socks and a black hooded 
jacket with “Oracle” writ-
ten down the center of the 
back, the report said.
An ofﬁ  cer saw Page 
near the McDonald’s on 
East University Avenue. 
Page was wearing the 
same clothes as in the vid-
eo, police said.
Page ran when he saw 
police, but the ofﬁ  cer 
chased and arrested him. 
Page’s posture and face 
matched those seen in the 
video, police said.
Page later told police 
he broke into the store and used a shopping cart 
to walk away with the li-
quor. He sold most of it, 
the report said. 
Page is charged with 
burglary, petty theft, re-
sisting an ofﬁ  cer without 
violence and dealing sto-
len property. He is being 
held in the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail in lieu of a $80,000 
bond.
Page has served near-
ly 20 years in prison for 
multiple thefts, burglary 
and other convictions, the 
report said. He was most 
recently released in De-
cember. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGPD: Man breaks into 
Winn-Dixie to steal alcohol Stories by Jessica Curbelo   |   Alligator Staff WriterThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORFrustrated, frantic and desperate, you are about to end your 
search for a decent study space on campus. Library West is at 
capacity. Marston Science Library is so full that the ﬁ  re marshall 
would faint at the sight of it. Students are packed in like sardines. 
The sleep-deprived, zombie-like crowd smells strongly of fatigue 
and caffeine. The line for Starbucks stretches far into the dis-
tance, over the horizon and into the sunset. Several students give 
up hope and pitch tents for the night, huddle around campﬁ  res 
and roast weenies under the Marston French Fries. You still have 
one last spot to check: Newell Hall. You jog down the steps and 
past the Hub. Racing toward the doors, you ﬂ  ing them open and 
enter.
You scour the inside. The ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor is full and each ﬂ  oor up-
ward is even fuller. But ﬁ  nally, you see it: a thin, gleaming sliver 
of silver. You politely ask, “Is this spot taken?” gesturing to the 
vacant six inches at the end of a metal bench. Your new seatmate 
looks at you, smiles warmly, scoots down and whispers
Darts and Laurels
Our country is in a state of disorder and confusion. Pipe bombs 
are being mailed to prominent Democrats and critics of President 
Donald Trump. Those targeted already include former secretary 
of state Hillary Clinton, former CIA director John O. Brennan, 
former president Barack Obama, former vice president Joe Biden, 
former attorney general Eric Holder and actor Robert De Niro. 
Ten packages holding pipe bombs have been discovered so far.
The investigation has turned to South Florida, where law en-
forcement ofﬁ  cials suspect the packages were mailed from, ac-
cording to The New York Times. A pipe bomb intended for Bren-
nan ended up at the ofﬁ  ces of CNN. For The Alligator, this hits 
home in more ways than one.
As journalists, we are particularly sensitive to explosives end-
ing up in newsrooms. It bafﬂ  es us that after the bombings, the 
president still places more blame on the media. When our 45th 
president was elected, we expected “covfefe.” We expected inco-
herent Twitter rants. We expected a dysfunctional White House.
We did not expect pipe bombs to start showing up at CNN 
headquarters. We did not expect the president to take to Twitter 
to blame the media for the “anger we see today in our society.” 
In light of this earth-shaking news, words cannot capture how 
gravely our president is failing us. 
Thus, Trump gets a well-deserved dart. The person respon-
sible for mailing pipe bombs to political ﬁ  gures gets a temporary 
dart to hold the place of a conviction for terrorism, which we 
hope is delivered to them swiftly. To those saying it was actually 
Democrats behind the bombing and this was all a political ploy: a 
dart for willful ignorance and blind partisanship.
Now, to more reasonable, less polarized news. Just kidding. 
Coming up is more coverage of the unintelligible yelling match 
that was the second debate in the Florida governor’s race.
Ron DeSantis accused Andrew Gillum of taking tickets to see 
“Hamilton” as a bribe while serving as mayor of Tallahassee. Gil-
lum returned the favor and accused DeSantis of misusing taxpay-
er money to travel to New York to appear on “Fox and Friends.”
To think our civil discourse and politics were going so 
smoothly and painlessly. The only silver lining is that no pipe 
bomb made an appearance at the debate. The candidates could 
have used this opportunity to address issues important to Florida 
voters, like public education or the environment. Instead, both 
candidates indulged in ad hominem attacks on each others’ char-
acter and integrity. Now instead of voting on salient topics, voters 
will be driven to the polls by how much they hate the opposing 
candidate. Well done, Florida.
A dart to Gillum and DeSantis each for wasting our time 
with the debate. A laurel to Floridians who will wisely ignore 
Wednesday’s shouting match and vote with their brains.
This country needs a large helping of friendliness and hospi-
tality. Trump, Gillum and DeSantis should take a page out of the 
Newell Hall etiquette handbook, play nice and make room for 
others. Then afterward DeSantis can treat everyone to a trip to 
New York, and Gillum can take everyone to “Hamilton.”So there I was in Tigert Hall, waiting, 
watching and livestreaming (of course). 
It was time for the annual local fee com-
mittee meeting. The committee recom-
mended fee increases to help support 
the Disability Resource Center, Dean of Students 
Ofﬁ  ce and Student Government. The University 
Athletic Association had its proposal voted down. 
The Counseling & Wellness Center did not sub-
mit a proposal, as it is still in the process of hiring 
new counselors.
The room was ﬁ  lled with administrators and a handful of 
students. Students comprised the majority of the committee 
because students are the ones paying the fees. Each of the 
entities then presented proposals for fee increases.
First up is the Disability Resource Center. The director 
gave his presentation, illustrating the growing amount of stu-
dents who utilize the center. With a 9-cent increase, he said 
he plans to hire an assistant director for access and inclu-
sion, who will not only assist students but will also work 
with departments and professors to help design courses that 
are more accessible. There are plans to increase outreach to 
international students and other groups that are underrepre-
sented in their utilization of the DRC.
I think back to last Spring when The Alligator published 
a feature article about how the DRC struggled with growing 
demand. It noted that the DRC had submitted a proposal last 
year to bring on another staff member but the students on 
the local fee committee had voted it down. Oops.
Second up was the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. The dean 
and an assistant dean presented on the purpose and needs of 
the Care Team. There are concerning metrics, such as num-
bers showing that student usage has climbed rapidly while 
the amount of case managers has stagnated. There has been 
a 600 percent increase in email referrals over the last four 
years. It was mentioned that the workload has tripled for 
case managers. The DSO wanted just a 5 cent increase to hire 
a new case manager. With another one, it could improve the 
student-manager ratio and decrease wait times. I wondered to myself why the committee denied the ofﬁ  ce’s 
similar proposal last year. Why did it let things 
get so dire for the DSO?
So yeah, then the University Athletic Associa-
tion came in, asking for an entire dollar increase. 
The athletic director talked about fully rolling out 
high-quality Wi-Fi in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium and 
mobile ticketing for football games. He said it has 
been about 20 years since the athletic fee was 
raised, and the fee supports discounted season 
football tickets and free entry for other events.
Finally it was Student Government’s turn. Surprise! It 
asked for a fee increase of 57 cents, which is funny because 
I distinctly remember many, many people being vehemently 
against fee increases for the past couple of years. I mean, 
it preached the anti-fee increase spiel when it voted against 
the CWC’s proposal for more mental health counselors last 
year. Well, well, well, how the turntables… The presentation 
was much doom and gloom about how we will be cutting 
positions and having shorter building hours because we ap-
parently predict a smaller incoming freshman class or some-
thing. 
SG said there is no ﬂ  exibility in the budget, but we spent 
$130,000 to get Pitbull to come speak and not even sing.
So the committee approved everyone’s proposals except 
for the UAA’s because the students on the committee cannot 
say for sure whether students would be willing to pay an 
extra dollar per credit hour.
I wonder what’s different this year. How can a commit-
tee go from denying every single fee increase proposal the 
previous year to approving almost every single one this year? 
Is it because we would look really bad only approving SG’s 
fee increase proposal? Is it because the students on the com-
mittee saw the consequences of the actions from the year 
before? Either way, at least we are moving in the right direc-
tion. Hopefully the Board of Trustees will vote accordingly.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column appears on Fridays. Finally: fee increases went to the right programs
Zachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The year is 1908. The loca-
tion: Atlanta. A man shows 
up at his assigned polling 
place, government-issued 
ID in hand and proof of 
residency and voter registration 
in tow. He is of age, holds resi-
dency in the state and is a legal 
U.S. citizen with a squeaky-clean 
criminal record. When he ap-
proaches the poll workers to get 
his ballot, he is stopped and told 
he must ﬁ  rst pass a literacy test 
to prove he is intelligent enough 
to vote.
The man wonders why he, of 
all people, was stopped. He has a 
college degree and a respectable 
job, so surely it is clear he can 
read. Then he realizes: It was the 
color of his skin that caused the 
poll workers to single him out. 
The ambiguity of polling place lit-
eracy tests allowed for this type 
of blatant discrimination.
This is what voter suppression 
looks like. It happens as a result 
of laws designed to dispropor-
tionately impact speciﬁ  c groups 
of people in order to stiﬂ  e their 
voices. And, contrary to what we 
were taught in every history class 
we have taken, this discrimina-
tion did not end with the Vot-ing Rights Act of 1965. 
More than 50 years af-
ter this act was passed, 
many states are still 
adopting new laws that 
allow for voter suppres-
sion.
Contemporary ef-
forts to suppress voters 
largely emerged after 
the 2008 presidential 
election of Barack Obama when 
we saw a large uptick in minor-
ity voters. Most of the changes to 
voting laws were not inherently 
prejudicial, but their impacts 
spoke for themselves.
In 2011, eight states passed 
laws requiring voters to bring 
a government-issued ID to the 
polls. This law disproportionately 
impacts African Americans, 1 in 
4 of whom do not have a govern-
ment-issued ID. This is compared 
to the 1 in 10 Americans who do 
not. Voter ID laws further sup-
press low-income voters because 
15 percent of Americans who 
make less than $35,000 a year do 
not have a government-issued ID.
Since the early 2000s, states 
like Florida, Georgia, Ohio, Ten-
nessee and West Virginia have 
shortened early and absentee vot-ing periods, despite the 
fact that rates of early 
and absentee votes 
have been increasing, 
especially among Afri-
can American and His-
panic groups. 
Other states lim-
ited voter registration 
drives. Based on data 
from the 2008 election 
cycle, African Americans and His-
panics are nearly twice as likely 
to register to vote through these 
drives than white Americans.
Ten years after this poignant 
election, efforts to suppress mi-
nority voters have only increased. 
In Georgia, more than 53,000 
voter registration applications are 
still pending for the 2018 midterm 
elections as a result of the state’s 
exact-match veriﬁ  cation process. 
Close to 70 percent of these pend-
ing registrations are for black 
Georgians.
Elections and voter registra-
tion in Georgia are under the ju-
risdiction of Georgia Secretary of 
State Brian Kemp. But here’s the 
kicker: Kemp is also a guberna-
torial candidate running against 
Stacey Abrams, who has the po-
tential to become the ﬁ  rst black female governor in U.S. history.
This exact-match system is 
known as “disenfranchisement 
by typo.” Something as simple as 
a missing hyphen, absent apos-
trophe or introduction of a middle 
initial could bar someone from 
voting. The law is so clearly un-
fair that the federal government 
initially blocked the measure 
when Georgia introduced it in 
2009. According to NPR, the gov-
ernment said it was “discrimina-
tory against minority voters, who 
are more likely to be ﬂ  agged by 
this system.” Nonetheless, Kemp 
began implementing this process 
when he was elected in 2010.
The corruption of elections 
and blatant disenfranchisement 
of minority voters, not only in 
Georgia but in many other states 
around the country, is not some-
thing that should go unnoticed. It 
is something we need to call out 
and condemn. It is something we 
need to ﬁ  ght and something we 
need to end.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism 
and political science senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.Voter suppression did not die with the Voting Rights ActColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
I am writing in regard to the 
article “City commissioners aim to 
power Gainesville on 100 percent 
renewable energy.”
I applaud the Gainesville city 
commissioners for their unanimous 
vote to power our city with 100 
percent clean renewable energy by 
2045. This step, also taken by St. 
Petersburg, Orlando and Sarasota, 
makes sure we are doing more to 
protect our community’s health 
and mitigate the worst impacts of 
climate change. 
However, UF has missed a great 
opportunity to lead by example.
All across the country, colleges 
and universities are making the 
pledge to go 100 percent renew-
able and to be leaders in protecting 
our climate. Because UF is one of 
the top research universities in the 
country with an outstanding en-
vironmental science and environ-
mental engineering program, I am 
disappointed by the lack of action 
taken by my alma mater.
There has yet to be a school in 
the state of Florida to make this 
pledge, and UF should be the ﬁ  rst. 
We are ﬁ  rst in the state in academ-
ics, research and athletics. Now it’s 
time to be ﬁ  rst in green energy. I 
hope that President Kent Fuchs will 
make the pledge for our school.
Jenna Stevens is a UF alumna.
“Everything  
but country.” 
That’s the 
usual response 
when you ask 
someone what kind of mu-
sic he or she likes. I place 
myself in that category, 
but when I found myself 
in Nashville, the country 
music capital of the world, 
I put my dislike aside and tried to ﬁ  g-
ure out why some love and why oth-
ers hate this music so much. 
Modern country, like any other 
music genre, captures a distinct mo-
ment or feeling that resonates with 
listeners. It ﬂ  ows to the beat of a 
twanging guitar paired with southern-
accented vocals. The feel-good vibe 
reminds fans of happier times on the 
beach, at the bar or even in the mud. 
On the other hand, haters insist the 
music is unbearable. 
First off, the lyrics are easy enough 
to sing along to and do not require a 
fast pace. I witnessed a lot of people 
singing their hearts out to songs I had 
no idea even existed. As an outsider 
looking in, I realized that a lot of mod-
ern country tunes are easy to keep up 
with, making it an enjoyable sing-
along experience for fans. The song 
usually tells a story, which makes the 
lyrics easier to remember. 
But if you don’t know the lyrics, 
you lose almost all of the fun. Also, 
if you dislike trucks, dirt roads, beer 
or tequila, you probably hate country 
music because that’s usually what 
the songs are about. It may seem obvious, but the reason 
people don’t like this 
kind of music is because 
the musical topics do not 
resonate with them. That 
is the main reason for my 
distaste, but I put myself 
in country-loving folks’ 
boots and gave the music 
a chance for Nashville’s 
sake. 
It took some time, but eventually I 
came to appreciate the music that so 
many people seem to dislike. Country 
music is certainly here to stay, and 
there is something to be said for push-
ing yourself out of your comfort zone 
and taking part in music you thought 
you could not even bear. 
There’s no reason to wallow in 
musical hatred. It does not beneﬁ  t 
you or anyone else to bask in animos-
ity. This goes for all kinds of music, 
not just country. Of course, most of 
the time you choose what songs get 
played, but sometimes it’s out of your 
control. When that does happen, take 
it as an opportunity that might change 
your mind or use it as a chance to un-
derstand the people who do like that 
kind of music.
If you’re in the thick of it, let go 
and try to enjoy the moment, even if 
the music makes you want to rip your 
ears off. When life gives you country 
music, make like a cowboy and just 
ride with it.
Jackie De Freitas is a UF 
journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Fridays.Country music can be enjoyableColumn
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.orgThis past weekend, I saw “The 
Hate U Give.” It’s a young 
adult ﬁ  lm based on a New 
York Times bestselling novel 
about a black 16-year-old girl 
who sees a white police ofﬁ  cer kill 
her best friend during a trafﬁ  c stop. 
I loved the book, and I had high ex-
pectations for this ﬁ  lm. It deﬁ  nitely 
delivered. I walked out of that theater 
blown away by the entire ﬁ  lm. I began 
to think about what Oscar categories it should 
be nominated for before realizing it likely won’t 
garner any nominations to begin with.
That’s not to say the movie isn’t Oscar-wor-
thy. In my mind, it certainly is; however, bar-
ing a few exceptions, mainstream ﬁ  lms rarely get 
the recognition they deserve when it comes to 
the academy. That doesn’t necessarily mean that 
the academy never gives nods to box-ofﬁ  ce hits. 
Blockbusters like “Lord of the Rings” and “Jaws” 
have earned nominations for best picture in the 
past, and those were deﬁ  nitely popular main-
stream ﬁ  lms. However, it usually means that 
these ﬁ  lms somehow struck a chord with audi-
ences enough to become a cultural phenomenon, 
not just another ﬂ  ick to see with the family. 
It’s not as if the academy doesn’t know that 
this is an issue. This year it tried to implement a 
new category: outstanding achievement in popu-
lar ﬁ  lm. The requirements were never released 
because the new category was quickly nixed due 
to an intense amount of backlash from people 
who thought that its addition would further 
alienate worthy box-ofﬁ  ce hits from getting the 
best picture nod they deserve. 
For example, if there had been a popular ﬁ  lm 
category last year, would “Get Out” have com-
peted for the top prize? It’s hard to say, but some 
speculate the answer is no. A comedy-horror 
that serves as a social satire doesn’t generally ﬁ  t the bill, but with its rise as a de-
ﬁ  ning cultural moment of 2017, the 
academy had little choice. The same 
could be said about “Black Panther,” 
which is an action/superhero ﬂ  ick 
that smashed box-ofﬁ  ce records but 
deserved best picture, nonetheless. 
The thing is, the academy loves 
drama. Comedies, action-adventure 
ﬁ  lms, fantasies, etc. rarely do well in 
the best picture category. We usually 
go into the Oscars season with a clear idea of 
which ﬁ  lms will be nominated, even before they 
are set to release because of their genre and so-
cial critiques. 
That means movies like “Black Panther” and 
“The Hate U Give” face more obstacles when it 
comes to catching the attention of the academy, 
which has yet to ever nominate a superhero ﬁ  lm 
for best picture and rarely gives nods to young 
adult ﬁ  lms. These types of ﬁ  lms often are not as-
sociated with the more serious themes seen in 
most Oscar-bait ﬁ  lms. Whether or not that’s an 
accurate assumption is another story. 
The point is just because ﬁ  lms like “The Hate 
U Give” or “Black Panther” are targeted toward 
a larger audience doesn’t mean that they don’t 
hold the same merit as a more niche drama.
In this case, the ﬁ  lm deﬁ  nitely handles heavy 
topics that are often found in ﬁ  lms that are nomi-
nated for best picture. The truth is that teenagers 
are currently and have always faced issues sur-
rounding violence and racism in their everyday 
lives. However, even ﬁ  lms that don’t tackle these 
topics deserve a nod, because that’s not what the 
nominations should be about. Oscars should go 
to ﬁ  lms that are crafted beautifully, regardless of 
the topics explored.
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism se-
nior. Her column appears on Fridays.Popular films should win Oscars, tooColumn
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
THE LOSER WILL GET 
A PIE IN HIS FACE.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Santa Fe College Stu-
dent Body President wants 
to pie a politician in the 
face.
Alejandro Puga, a 
20-year-old political science 
sophomore, has been com-
peting against State Rep. 
Chuck Clemons in a battle 
dubbed Penny Wars. The 
battle started on Oct. 2.
The annual fundraiser 
raises money for the Unit-
ed Way of North Central 
Florida, a charity that ben-
efits causes like education, 
health and financial stabil-
ity. The loser will end the 
competition with a pie in 
the face Nov. 15, Puga said.
“Not a lot of people get 
to pie a politician,” he said. 
The last two years’ com-
petitions raised a combined total of about $1,200, he 
said.
Donation jars with Puga 
and Clemons’ names sit at 
the student service building, 
the administration building 
lobby, the library recep-
tion desk and the Domino’s 
cash register inside the food 
court. There, they wait for 
students to drop change in-
side, Puga said. 
But the goal is not to 
have more money than 
the other person, Santa Fe 
spokesperson Jay Anderson 
wrote in an email. 
Whoever has the most 
change in their jars wins, 
while paper money lowers 
the person’s score, Puga 
said. 
Whoever has the highest 
score by Nov. 9 is the win-
ner, according to the Santa 
Fe website.
Clemons, who represents 
District 21 and serves as the 
Santa Fe vice president for 
advancement, said he is de-termined to not get a pie in 
his face. 
“It’s a little squirrely,” 
Clemons said. “It’s like a 
reverse deal. It’s just a fun, 
friendly rivalry.” 
The fundraiser started 
two years ago and has been 
a Santa Fe tradition ever 
since, Puga said. He chose 
Clemons as his opponent 
because he is running for 
re-election in the Nov. 6 
election.
Vice President of Student 
Affairs Naima Brown and 
Associate Director of Stu-
dent Life Doug Bagby com-
peted against the student 
body presidents of the past 
two years. 
“It’ll be fun to pie an 
administrator and state 
representative,” Puga said. 
“That’s not something you 
do every day.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org Santa Fe annual United Way 
fundraiser is underway STUDENTS BEAT 
THEIR GOAL BY 
$26,602.22.
By Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tears welled in Lauren 
Connell’s eyes while she 
sent fundraising emails in 
the Sigma Kappa sorority 
house Tuesday afternoon.
The 19-year-old UF 
nursing sophomore and 
Dance Marathon Fam-
ily Relations captain got 
a text from the mother 
of her “miracle child,” a 
child treated at UF Health 
Shands Hospital who is an 
ambassador of the Chil-
dren’s Miracle Network. 
Connell’s miracle child, 
who was diagnosed with 
leukemia in August, was 
officially in remission, she 
said. The next day, Dance Marathon at UF surpassed 
its goal of $600,000. 
“Every day I wake up 
and am fighting for these 
kids to have their strength 
back,” Connell said. 
From 8 a.m. Tuesday 
to 10:12 a.m. Wednesday, 
Dance Marathon raised 
$626,602.22 during its fifth 
annual Transform Today 
event, said Caroline Rol-
losson, the public relations 
overall director.
Transform Today is an 
annual 26.2-hour-long fun-
draising effort that Dance 
Marathon hosts in the 
Fall. Students involved in 
the fundraiser work in the 
community and on campus 
toward a fundraising goal, 
Rollosson said. 
The goal increases every 
year. Last year’s Transform 
Today event surpassed its 
goal of $500,000 to raise $540,424.93, Rollosson 
said. In 2016, students 
raised $422,557.77 to beat 
their goal of $262,000.
Students who partici-
pate in Dance Marathon 
came up with creative 
methods to raise money, 
Rollosson said.
Some published embar-
rassing posts on Facebook, 
offered rides to class, de-
livered coffee or got a pie 
in the face, she said. One 
student let people throw 
eggs at him for a $2 do-
nation on the Plaza of the 
Americas Tuesday. 
“We knew that when 
campus comes together 
we are capable of breaking 
new boundaries and un-
leashing our potential, so 
we thought, ‘Why not be-
lieve in more this year?’” 
Rollosson said. Dance Marathon at UF 
surpassed $600,000 goal
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Trick or greeking
Christian Bowers-Jackson, a 5-year-old Gainesville resident, trick or treats dressed 
as Robin during the annual Ghouls, Goblins, and Greeks Halloween celebration 
Thursday night on Sorority Row. The UF Junior Panhellenic Council put on the 
event for families to celebrate Halloween with the sororities.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Halloween comes early as Moralloween
Fifteen-year-old Gainesville High School sophomore Sydney Seaver (left) and 
fellow space traveler, 8-year-old Austin Early (right), wear matching astronaut 
costumes at Moralloween Wednesday night. Dance Marathon at UF organized 
the event to cap off its Transform T oday fundraiser, which hauled in $626,602.22 
for UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
THE PETITION ASKED FOR 
PERMANENT FUNDING 
THROUGH THE LOCAL FEE 
COMMITTEE. 
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Charlene Mitchell had to wait three weeks 
before she could see her therapist.
When the 21-year-old UF microbiology 
and cell sciences senior finally saw her coun-selor, it was only for 20 minutes. 
“I felt like I was struggling and stressed 
out,” Mitchell said. “I wouldn’t have gone if 
my friends hadn’t told me too.”
More than 1,200 people, including Mitch-
ell, signed a petition posted on Sunday, asking 
for permanent funding for the center through 
the local fee committee, which recommends 
the rate of student fees.
Cristian Guerrero, a 19-year-old UF behav-
ioral and cognitive neuroscience sophomore, 
said he started the petition after he sought 
help from the center but was placed on a waiting list.
Guerrero wanted to bring the petition to 
the committee meeting on Wednesday. 
Although Guerrero said he has stepped 
away from the petition to focus on his mental 
health, he believes it will still make an impact.
“I feel like as long as someone is doing 
something every year to try to establish these 
resources or just joining the conversation, 
that’s a victory to me,” Guerrero said.
The center saw about 5,100 students dur-
ing the 2016-2017 school year, and 306 were 
put on a waiting list, said Ernesto Escoto, the director of the center.
The university established permanent 
funding for the center to hire 12 new counsel-
ors last year. Seven have been hired. Escoto 
said he did not make a proposal for the local 
fee committee because of the funding.
“We hope that once we have all 12 new 
counselors, we can better address the needs 
of those on the waiting list,” Escoto said.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgMore than 1,200 people want more counselors in the CWC
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
ENTERING THE GAYTES OF HELL
The Orlando band Boston Marriage opens “Queer the Fest: Gaytes of Hell” music festival Thursday night 
at the Civic Media Center. Nine bands performed in total. Proceeds from the event went to Madres Sin 
Fronteras, Freedom Fund and Trans Lifeline, which help LGBTQ+ and other marginalized communities. 
ABOUT 150 BATS WERE 
NAMED.
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
A bat named Batty White is flut-
tering over UF’s campus.  
About 150 bats have been named 
during a UF campaign encouraging 
people to donate money to symboli-
cally name a bat that lives in the Bat 
Houses, said Megan Poole, the asso-
ciate director of annual giving at UF 
Advancement.
UF Advancement, the facility in 
charge of fundraising for the univer-
sity, is accepting donations through 
the campaign’s website, Poole said. 
The campaign began Oct. 18 and will 
end Sunday. 
Donors can choose to send the 
donated money to UF Advancement 
or any UF college or facility, Poole 
said. She could not disclose the 
amount of money raised so far.
“Any gift, no matter the size, 
is important and has an impact,” 
Poole said.
Most donors have given the bats 
average names, except for Batty 
White, she said. Although the bats won’t get a col-
lar with their new name, the donor 
will be emailed a certificate com-
memorating their donation, she said.
The percentage of UF alumni 
who donate influences the univer-
sity’s rankings on lists like the U.S. 
News and World Report’s Top 10 
Public Universities, she said.
Parents can name a bat to com-
memorate their UF students, who 
are also “spreading their wings and 
flying the coop, so to speak,” Poole 
said. 
Larry Peoples, a 32-year-old 
house painter for Dreyer’s DKI and 
Gainesville native, donated to UF 
Advancement on Wednesday. He 
has always been a Gator fan, he said. 
Peoples named a bat Alexander 
Superbat after adventurer Chris 
McCandless, also known as “Alex-
ander Supertramp.” McCandless is 
Peoples’ personal hero because they 
both love the outdoors, he said.
Peoples said he has been going 
to the Bat Houses since he was a 
kid and now likes to go take photos 
there.
“I’ve been more times than I can 
count on my hands and my toes,” 
he said.UF announces campaign 
for donors to name bats
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Let’s get this (challah) bread
Seven-year-old Shternie Goldman and 5-year-old Bracha Notik roll dough 
Wednesday during the fifth Annual Mega Challah Bake event at Chabad. 
About 200 people gathered to bake the traditional Jewish bread.
NO REPUBLICANS SPOKE 
AT THE FORUM. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Maria Sosa wishes there was a 
voice in politics to represent her ex-
perience as an immigrant. 
Now an American citizen, Sosa 
said she immigrated to the U.S. 
when she was 5 years old.
“Luckily, I did have the chance 
of becoming an American citizen, 
but I know that many of the people 
in my family didn’t have the chance 
and don’t have that privilege that I 
had,” said Sosa, a 20-year-old UF 
health science junior.
Sosa was one of about 50 stu-
dents in Pugh Hall Thursday night 
who listened to candidates share 
their views on immigration. The 
candidates each gave an open-ing and closing statement and an-
swered audience questions. 
The candidates included Dem-
ocrats Yvonne Hayes Hinson, a 
candidate for the U.S. House of 
Representatives District 3; Dr. Kay-
ser Enneking, a candidate for the 
Florida State Senate District 8; Ja-
son Haeseler, a candidate for the 
Florida House of Representatives 
District 21; and Marihelen Wheeler, 
a candidate for Alachua County 
Commission District 2. Charles 
Goston, a candidate for the Florida 
State Senate District 8 who does not 
affiliate with a party, also spoke. 
The forum hosted by Gators for 
Underrepresented Voters touched 
on immigration issues, including 
the future of individuals in the De-
ferred Action for Childhood Arrivals 
policy and how immigration affects 
candidates’ constituents. 
“Just coming out here and hear-ing what the candidates have to say 
about it is very important to me,” 
Sosa said. “Although right now 
maybe it’s not affecting me direct-
ly, it affects the people that I care 
about.” 
Hayes Hinson said she would 
support granting full citizenship to 
those who fall under the protection 
of DACA.
“DACA was like every two 
years you were standing in front of 
someone not knowing your future,” 
Hayes Hinson said.
Enneking said she believes the 
immigration system in the U.S. 
should be reformed to include a 
path to citizenship.
“It keeps us vibrant, it keeps us 
diverse, it keeps us strong,” Ennek-
ing said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgFive local candidates discuss 
immigration at forum10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
IT WAS THE LAST 
GUBERNATORIAL DEBATE 
BETWEEN REPUBLICAN RON 
DESANTIS AND DEMOCRAT 
ANDREW GILLUM.
By Aaron Ritter
Alligator Staff Writer
Tyler Groves said he already voted in 
the Florida governor’s race, but Andrew 
Gillum made him second-guess his choice.
The 20-year-old UF political science and 
religion senior was impressed by how Gil-
lum — a Democrat — performed in the ﬁ  -
nal gubernatorial debate he saw at a Gators 
Vote Everywhere watch party Wednesday 
night in Pugh Hall Ocora. The watch party 
brought in about 55 people to watch the 
debate between Gillum and Republican 
Ron DeSantis.
“I would change my vote to Gillum if I 
could,” Groves said.
The debate touched on topics such as 
health care, environmental policy and 
clean water.
The watch party was meant to educate 
and motivate voters before Election Day on 
Nov. 6, said Jenna Tingum, a 20-year-old 
UF statistics junior and the team leader and 
an event organizer of Gators Vote Every-
where.
“It is not only important to vote but to get educated and vote for someone you 
resonate with,” Tingum said.
Although the two-hour debate did not 
provide enough time to deeply broach any 
of the subjects important to voters, it did 
allow viewers to get an understanding 
of the prospective governors as people, 
Groves said.
“It is easy to read their mail, but seeing 
how they react in person is a much better 
representation of who they are as people,” 
Groves said.
Gators Vote Everywhere, the non-parti-
san UF chapter of the Andrew Goodman 
Foundation, strives to educate voters be-
fore they hit the polls. Getting people to 
understand their options and ﬁ  nding a 
candidate who aligns with their beliefs is 
important, Tingum said.
“Find what you’re passionate about and 
let that drive your vote and your role in 
your democracy,” Tingum said.
Alfredo Patiño, a 22-year-old UF politi-
cal science and sociology senior, said pay-
ing attention to the political process is not 
only important for the country, but it is im-
portant for voters as well.
“People don’t truly understand how pol-
itics affects their daily lives,” Patiño said.
A debate between the UF College Demo-
crats and UF College Republicans was sup-
posed to happen before the watch party 
but was canceled because of a scheduling conﬂ  ict, said Katy Frey, a 19-year-old UF 
environmental management in agriculture 
and natural resources sophomore and in-
tern for Gators Vote Everywhere. Still, the 
event was a success, she said.“Debates motivate people that their 
vote matters,” Frey said. 
@aaronritter18
aritter@alligator.orgGovernor’s debate watch party draws in over 50 people
Brianna Monroe / Alligator Staff
Grace Banahan, an 18-year-old political science and journalism freshman, listens to Florida 
governor candidates Republican Ron DeSantis and Democrat Andrew Gillum debate about 
corruption and racism Wednesday night at the governor’s debate watch party in Pugh Hall.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Final Liquidation Closeout
Originally sold for: $85,900
Liquidation Price: $29,900
Well Established Luxury Lake Community
Watch Video: www. LakeLotsCloseout.com
877-712-3650
Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed 
Real Estate Broker.      10-26-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, October 30th, 2018 at 10:00 A.M.
Lamika, Inc.
1883 Marina Mile Blvd. (SR 84), Ste 106
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315
2002 GMC 3500 Magnavan Box Truck, 
Toyota 3-Stage Forklift Model 8FGCU30, 
Power Tools, Large inventory of Edge 
Banding Material, Large quantity of Veneer 
Sheets, Large quantity of finished/laminated 
inventory, Computers, Electronics and more. 
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 9-10AM. 15%-18% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#18-029437-CA-01
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS | info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      10-26-1-10PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N     10-26-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-131For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no 
responsibility for injury or loss arising 
from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who 
responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
SERVERS NEEDED!!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
11-2-10-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    11-2-18-10-14
REAL ESTATE JOB
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email: contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com        
10-26-18-5-14
Take surveys and get paid!
You can make $800/week
completing surveys online!
Free to join!
Go to: www.OnlineOpportunity.club     10-29-
18-5-14
Part-time position at horse boarding farm, won -
derful atmosphere, perfect for someone look -
ing to work around horses a few afternoons a 
week. Must have experience and reference. 
Please contact khcherokee@aol.com      10-
31-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-
18-42-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.     10-
26-1-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Make an extra $400 or more per week
in the comfort of your dorm.
Go to: www.collegeopportunities.net       10-
29-18-5-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
44-lb Lab / Springer, neutered 
male. Very gentle & friendly.
Call for more info 352-283-2488      10-26-
3-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Joe Kidd
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/26/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, October 26, 2018
ACROSS
1 Decision-making 
tool
5 Slips in pots
10 Assure, as victory
13 One of four on a 
keyboard
15 Comics unit
16 Nice handle?
17 Cheeky server?
19 Call from a cote
20 Former Rocket 
Ming
21 Hanoi holiday
22 “NBC Nightly 
News” anchor 
Lester
23 Sgt.’s underling
26 Bro on the go?
29 Alienate
31 Creator of many 
word lists
32 Sailing
33 Stately shaders
36 ’40s Giant 
manager
37 European auto 
left out in the 
rain?
41 Draw at a pub
42 Weight 
adjustment factor
43 One no longer 
serving
45 Prove to be untrue
47 Late arriver’s cry
49 Food for thought?
52 Airport near OAK
53 Outwit, as a tail
54 Taker of ppm 
measurements
55 Dorm room, 
perhaps
57 Bad picnic omen
58 Result of a yank 
prank?
63 B.S. part: Abbr.
64 Oven setting
65 Put an end to
66 Rocky 
outcropping
67 AAA and NRA
68 Bar shelf lineup
DOWN
1 Half-__: coffee 
choice
2 Nine-time NHL 
All-Star
3 Aran Islands 
country: Abbr.
4 Prone to prying5 Many an IRS 
e-file user
6 1492 landing site, 
now
7 Gathering of 
spies
8 Show instability
9 Hasselblad 
product
10 5-Down’s concern
11 “Chillax!”
12 Act to excess
14 Hula Hoop 
manufacturer
18 Sound system 
component
22 Rendered 
immobile
23 Student 
advocacy gp.
24 Ruckus
25 Shake things up
27 Key of 
Beethoven’s 
Second Piano 
Concerto
28 Horseshoe holder
30 Merchant of 
10,000 Maniacs
34 Kingston Trio 
hit with the lyric 
“Fight the fare 
increase!”35 Letter 
enhancement
38 Go __ smoke
39 End that may be 
untimely
40 End-of-week 
exclamation
44 Midori on the ice
45 Bouncy ride, to 
say the least
46 Arab bigwigs
48 Bit of  
tomfoolery49 Rollicking good 
time
50 Prom night  
coifs
51 Dickens bad  
guy
56 River in western 
Belgium
58 Org. for pugilists
59 They, in Tours
60 “Suppose ... “
61 Play for a fool
62 Some MIT grads
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/25/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, October 25, 2018
ACROSS
1 Smudge
5 Splinter group
9 Instagram or 
Snapchat
12 Past time
13 Union 
agreements?
14 “Get outta here!”
15 Trying to 
overcome a late 
start, say
18 Clemson’s conf.
19 Silicon Valley 
setting
20 Hoops net holder
22 Deli order
24 New York prison 
in 1971 headlines
26 Wine glass 
feature
27 Suffers from
30 Prince Harry’s 
alma mater
31 “Any minute now”
36 Org. with Jays 
and Rays
39 Elastic bikini top
40 Org. with 
an annual 
Codebreaker 
Challenge
41 Critical shuttle 
maneuver
44 Skier’s pick-me-
up?
45 Summer hrs.
46 Archipelago part
50 Sweater pattern
53 Salieri, to Liszt
55 Streaming delay
56 Spiritual leader 
of Nizari Ismaili 
Muslims
60 Actress Mendes
61 NBC soap since 
1965
64 Mineral sources
65 Poolroom powder
66 Gimlet garnish
67 ACLU concerns
68 Cross with a top 
loop
69 Creepy glance
DOWN
1 Go around
2 Humorous feline 
meme
3 Prophecy source
4 “The Daughter of 
Time” novelist
5 Six-Day War 
peninsula6 Pushing 
boundaries
7 Soft-drink word 
since 1886
8 Deposed 
Russian ruler
9 “That feels good”
10 Pull out all the 
stops
11 Katy Perry and 
Mariah Carey
14 “Get outta here!”
16 Watson creator
17 Beverage with 
dim sum
21 Comics read 
vertically
23 Montréal mate
25 __ Aviv
27 Perfected
28 Mints brand with 
mountain peaks 
in its logo
29 Surgical tube
32 “Speaking 
frankly,” in texts
33 Armed conflict
34 Home run  
hitter?
35 Spain’s cont.
36 Like virtually all 
golf club heads 
nowadays
37 __ retriever38 Blowhard
42 Push to the limit
43 Yang’s opposite
47 Memorable 
guitarist __ Ray 
Vaughan
48 2009 Justin 
Bieber hit
49 Correction 
device
51 Highlands girl
52 Big 38-Down 
feature53 Spring time ... 
or a military 
procession 
involving a word 
sequence hidden 
in 15-, 31-, 41- 
and 61-Across
54 Bigger photo: Abbr.
57 Mennen lotion
58 Zen question
59 “Incredible” hero
62 “Of course!”
63 Not well
1.  ____ code
1.  Grassy plains 5.  Corn
2.  Type of pan6.  Scoop
3.  Altered 7.  TV ____
4.  PavilionSPATLO
MPASPAZAMEI
LELAD
KSELTIL
EDNEMADDUOTSI
EZGBOAANSWERS: 1A-Postal  5A-Maize  6A-Ladle  7A-Studio
1D-Pampas  2D-Skillet  3D-Amended  4D-Gazebo  B-Tasmania10-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to some of the oldest 
trees on Earth (Huon pines).
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators to wear all-white uniforms
The football team revealed its alternate white helmets earlier this week. 
Now the team has confirmed players will be wearing white pants and white 
jerseys to compliment the new lids. UF goalie Kaylan Marckese 
recorded her 28th career shutout 
Thursday night, setting a new 
school record. Read more on pg. 15By Tyler Nettuno
Former ESPN analyst Mer-
ril Hoge, who once said Kurt 
Warner sounded “extremely un-
educated” when the Super Bowl 
XXXIV MVP said he wouldn’t al-
low his kids to play football over 
fear of concussions, was fired 
during the network’s mass lay-
off in 2017.  Many of you may 
have thought, as did I, that he 
then returned to his underwater 
lair, where he would lay dormant 
for a thousand years until future 
humans required his god-awful 
takes once more.Well, we were 
wrong.
Hoge recently co-
authored a book along 
with Dr. Peter Cum-
mings, an assistant 
professor of anatomy 
and neurobiology at 
Boston University, en-
titled “Brainwashed: 
The Bad Science Be-
hind CTE and the Plot to Destroy 
Football”.
Seriously. That’s actually 
what it’s called.
Hoge, whose qualifications 
in neuroscience include and are limited to, eight sea-
sons as a professional 
running back, and his 
NFL punditry ilk have 
long come to their pre-
cious league’s defense 
from self-inflicted in-
jury like the concus-
sion issue, so this sen-
timent is nothing new. 
But with some of the 
NFL media’s biggest names join-
ing Hoge’s tinfoil-hat society, it’s 
worth talking about how ridicu-
lous this book actually is.
Chris Mortensen called the 
book “awesome” and “insight-ful.”
Trent Dilfer praised Hoge for 
exposing the “hidden agenda” 
behind the push for player safety.
Trey Wingo called it “a very 
interesting read.”
I call it “complete BS.”
First of all, the entire prem-
ise of the book is false. For some 
reason, Hoge seems to believe 
that there is no scientific evi-
dence showing the link between 
football and CTE, and he said as 
much in an interview with USA 
Today.
This is, of course, patently un-FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Rayshad Jackson called it a distraction. 
Josh Hammond referred to it as mental 
confusion.
And Feleipe Franks could only vaguely re-
call the flurry of controversial events that led 
to last year’s Florida-Georgia matchup. 
But with far fewer distractions and much 
more preparation, the No. 9 Gators need to 
excel in three areas to ensure a win over No. 
7 Georgia at TIAA Bank Stadium on Saturday.
Stay sound on defense
Nick Chubb and Sony Michel looked like 
track and field runners the way they sprinted 
over, past and between the Florida defenders 
a year ago. They easily ran up and down the 
field for a combined 214 yards when Georgia 
pounded the Gators 42-7 last season. 
And even with the departure of their 
powerful one-two punch, the Bulldogs have 
another elite pair of running backs in Elijah 
Holyfield and D’Andre Swift, who will exploit 
even the tiniest hole the Gators leave open 
on the line.
Todd Grantham’s defense understands the 
challenge of containing a guy in Holyfield 
who can power through defenders for extra 
chunks of yardage and Swift, who’s just as 
explosive when he gets to the edge.
And there’s one thing Florida has pinpoint-
ed in game planning for the pair of tailbacks. 
“Play assignment football,” defensive 
tackle Adam Shuler said. “We hold our gaps, 
they won’t be able to run up the middle, and 
we have more than enough pass rushers. So if 
we stop the run, then it’s over with.”
Being stout on defense won’t stop at clos-
ing the perimeter, though. The Gators will 
need to be disciplined in their tackling to eliminate those big plays, and they’ll need to 
make Georgia throw the ball.
Florida’s pass defense is ranked sixth in 
the nation and is headlined by defensive end 
Jachai Polite, who has a sack in each of his 
last five games and has combined with line-
backer Vosean Joseph for 17 tackles for loss 
this season.
They’ll have to prepare for quarterback 
Jake Fromm, who can hit a bevy of receiv-
ers for big plays, and freshman Justin Fields, 
who has been an efficient tool in Georgia’s 
run game.
Win one-on-one matchups on offenseThe Bulldogs gave up 275 yards on the 
ground (475 total) in their loss to LSU two 
weeks ago. 
But they won’t be so forgiving on Satur-
day. 
With a stout Georgia front seven aching 
for redemption, Florida’s receivers will need 
to get separation and win the one-on-one 
matchups down the field.
That’s where the Gators should find suc-
cess in receivers like Freddie Swain and Van 
Jefferson. 
Swain’s move into the slot has allowed 
him to be a deep threat, and Jefferson leads Three key points for the Gators this weekend
Picks Column: 
Week 9
Staff Report
Ready to get drunk in Jacksonville? 
If you’re underage, you’d better 
not. Police are cracking down with a 
zero-tolerance policy for young so-
cialites, and plainclothes officers will 
be patrolling the streets of downtown 
DUUUUVAL. We here at The Alligator 
do not condone your debaucherous be-
havior, kids. Don’t do it. 
With that PSA out of the way, the 
players themselves should mimic the 
drunken of-age swarm teeming outside 
TIAA Bank Stadium: scrappy, belliger-
ent and ready to forget about the past. 
Before we meet our competitors, al-
ligatorSports online editor Mark Stine 
and assistant editor Jake Dreilinger 
will break down the highly anticipated 
matchup between Coastal Carolina 
and Georgia State.  
Coastal Carolina (-3.5) will win 
because… 
It finally found a quarterback!
Senior Kilton Anderson was ser-
viceable for the first four games of the 
season. But after consecutive blowout 
losses to Troy and Louisiana Monroe, 
it was obvious that something needed 
to change for the Chanticleers against 
UMass. 
True freshman Fred Payton came 
off the bench in the second half and 
went 5-for-7 passing after Anderson 
struggled to a 4-for-10 mark. Payton 
made big throws when he needed to, 
including a 61-yard bomb to Malcolm 
Williams and a 21-yarder to running 
back CJ Marable, both of which result-
ed in end-zone visits. 
However, the Chanticleers will only 
need to rely on Payton to keep the de-
fense honest. Its reputable run game 
is led by Marcus Outlow and Marable, PICKS
SITE: TIAA Bank Field (cap. 
67,164)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: CBS / 850 AM
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
Nothing but Nettuno / Opinion
Merril Hoge’s new, controversial book is just the worstAlligator File Photo
Former Georgia running backs Nick Chubb (pictured) and Sony Michel ran for a 
combined 214 yards in last season's Florida-Georgia game in Jacksonville.
Tyler Nettuno
@TylerNettuno
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR  15  
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
SWIMMING
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The surging Florida swim-
ming and diving teams will be 
in Athens, Georgia, today to 
swim against the Bulldogs at 
the Gabrielsen Natatorium.
The biggest matchup be-
tween Florida and Georgia 
may be in Jacksonville on Sat-
urday, but the rivalry in the 
pool shouldn’t go unnoticed. 
All four swimming teams 
come into the meet ranked in 
the top 11 nationally and have 
a combined record of 9-2.
UF’s men’s team, which 
enters the week ranked third 
in the country, is 3-1 so far 
this season thanks to victories 
over Florida Atlantic, LSU and 
most recently No. 5 Texas. The Gators will look to con-
tinue the fast start by adding 
another top-10 victory to their 
resume with a win over No. 9 
Georgia on Friday.
Last season, Florida up-
ended the Bulldogs 179-121 
in Gainesville, and it will look 
to do the same thing this time 
around in Athens.
Freshman Kieran Smith 
and juniors Khader Baqlah 
and Grant Sanders helped 
pace the Gators in last week-
end’s tri-meet, and they will 
need to have similar success 
on Friday against Georgia if UF 
hopes to win.
Smith is among the top 5 
in the country with the fourth-
best time in the 200-yard 
free and the fifth best in the 
400-yard individual medley. 
Baqlah is coming off a 500-yard free individual title last 
weekend and has top-10 na-
tional times in four different 
events. Sanders, a Tampa na-
tive, led Florida with the fast-
est time in the NCAA with a 
3:50.61 finish in the 400-yard 
individual medley in his last 
meet. 
In the 200-yard IM, Sanders 
has the second-fastest time in 
the country.
The 10th-ranked women’s 
team will try to win its sixth 
meet of the season against No. 
11 UGA (1-0), which in recent 
years has been a tough task for 
UF. Florida has been winless 
against the Bulldogs since the 
2006-2007 campaign when the 
Gators picked up a home win 
in Gainesville. If the women Gators swimming to face 
Georgia in Athens todayCROSS COUNTRY
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The Florida cross country team will 
try to embrace the underdog role today 
when it competes with the rest of the 
Southeastern Conference at the SEC 
Championships.
Three SEC men’s teams and three 
SEC women’s teams are ranked among 
the country’s top 30 in the most recent 
coaches poll. 
The Arkansas women are ranked 
fifth, Georgia is 24th and Ole Miss is 
26th. The Florida women have done 
enough this season to gain some na-
tional respect by receiving votes, sit-
ting just outside the top 30. The Arkan-sas and Ole Miss men are ranked No. 
20 and 21, respectively, while Alabama 
comes in at 30th. UF’s men did not re-
ceive any votes.
The SEC Preseason Poll tabbed Flor-
ida’s men to finish in a tie for sixth, 
and the women to finish in eighth. As 
the season has played out, however, 
it seems the women have a realistic 
chance to exceed expectations.
Junior Jessica Pascoe has been a 
huge reason for the women’s success. 
She leads the team with two individu-
al titles along with a runner-up finish 
at the Arturo Barrios Invitational just 
two weeks ago. Pascoe’s season hasn’t 
gone unnoticed by the conference. UF will face uphill battle 
at SEC Championships in 
Auburn, AlabamaSOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Arkansas goalkeeper Taylor Beitz fell to the 
ground in her own box while the rest of the Ra-
zorbacks’ garrison could only watch in horror. 
Forward Deanne Rose, already alone on 
a breakaway, waltzed towards the goal and 
knocked in the ball for her first goal for the Gators 
since returning to the team.
UF defeated Arkansas 3-0 Thursday night at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium in Gainesville, secur-
ing its spot in the upcoming SEC Tournament af-
ter a season marred by the Gators’ struggling play.
The Gators (6-9-3, 4-4-2 SEC) certainly seemed 
inspired by the pre-match ceremonies to honor 
their seniors when they came out in the first half. 
It was just the 10th minute when midfielder Bri-
ana Solis hit a screamer from 20 yards out for her 
fourth career goal, putting UF up 1-0 early.Florida wasn’t keen on slowing down its at-
tack. UF had a great chance in the 18th minute 
when senior Sarah Troccoli launched a shot that 
hit the crossbar and ricocheted right to forward 
Madison Alexander, who bounced it off her chest 
and against the post.
The offense wasn’t the only positive in the 
Gators’ first half.
Senior goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese saved 
three shots during the course of the first half, in-
cluding a diving save and a punch-out in the 36th 
minute when faced with a swarm of Razorback 
players in her box.
The Gators capitalized on their momentum 
from the first period, and it was all about sopho-
more Deanne Rose when the second half began. 
Rose had been away for quite some time playing 
for the Canadian National Team, but she made up 
for her absence in spades by scoring twice on the Florida defeats Arkansas, clinches berth in SEC Tournament
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Forward Deanne Rose (21) scored her first goal of the season in Thursday 
night’s 3-0 win over Arkansas. She followed it with her second minutes later.
 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 20
SEE SWIMMING,  PAGE 20 SEE XC, PAGE 2016   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
the team with 265 yards and four 
touchdown catches. 
The passing game has worked 
best for the Gators when their re-
ceivers have been able to exploit 
opposing cornerbacks down the 
field. 
Coach Dan Mullen told report-
ers that a focus of this week’s 
practice has been seeing if guys 
can make one-on-one plays. 
Franks will need to keep the 
Bulldogs guessing by spreading 
the ball around the way he has all 
season.
Making those plays will be a 
particular focus for wideout Tyrie 
Cleveland on Saturday. 
“Catch them on surprise,” 
Cleveland said. “Just come out 
there and just give it my all every 
play, just blocking, catching the 
ball, making plays. Either it’s spe-
cial teams or offense.”
Match Georgia’s physicality
Winning those one-on-one 
matchups will mean that Florida establishes the toughness early in 
the game. 
An already-physical Georgia 
team will look to set the tone 
immediately after getting out-
toughed by LSU two weeks ago.  
But the Gators will need to 
embrace each challenge Georgia 
presents to avoid being pushed 
around like they were by running 
back Benny Snell and the Ken-
tucky Wildcats in their Week 2 
loss. 
Many of these Florida-Georgia 
battles have yielded lopsided wins 
in favor of the team that takes the 
momentum. But if Florida match-
es the mental, physical and emo-
tional toughness of the Bulldogs 
for the whole sixty minutes, it’ll 
be the program that rides that mo-
mentum to a victory.
“This is why you want to come 
to Florida,” coach Dan Mullen 
said, “to be a part of this game 
and a part of these kind of rival-
ries and play on the biggest of 
stages.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14 Cleveland: "Catch them on surprise." 
true.
The link between CTE and foot-
ball isn’t completely clear, that 
much is true. This is because to 
prove a causal relationship, you 
would have to study the brains of 
athletes over time. Current tech-
nology limits the ability to do this, 
so it may be a while until we have definitive proof that football causes 
CTE. But to say there is no evi-
dence is absolutely absurd.
There is a strong correlation 
between concussions accrued 
while playing football and CTE, 
and autopsies of dead NFL play-
ers have shown that many of them 
have brain degradation abnormal 
for men their age. The damage to 
players’ brains has been fairly con-
sistent with what is known about CTE.
To downplay the dangers of 
CTE like Hoge and Cummings have 
is, at best, extremely ignorant. 
At worst, it’s blatant propagan-
da on behalf of the NFL.
But Hoge should know this bet-
ter than anyone, as his own career 
was cut short due to brain dam-
age from repeated concussions. He 
spent 48 hours in the ICU and had 
to be resuscitated when he stopped breathing after suffering his second 
concussion in several weeks. He 
was forced to re-learn to read and 
suffered from memory loss.
If there is one word to describe 
someone who wouldn’t wish that 
upon their child, it’s “uneducated.”
As if the layers of irony couldn’t 
get any thicker, Hoge actually (suc-
cessfully!) sued the Chicago Bears’ 
team doctor after the end of his ca-
reer.So, with this change of heart, 
I expect a forthcoming return of 
every cent of Hoge’s $1.55 mil-
lion legal winnings, along with a 
handwritten apology to the doctor 
explaining Hoge’s newfound un-
derstanding of how beneficial con-
cussions actually are.
Tyler Nettuno is a sports writer 
at The Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @TylerNettuno and contact 
him at tnettuno@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14who’ve helped Coastal Carolina to the na-
tion’s 11th-best rushing attack by averag-
ing 251.71 yards per game. The two have 
combined for 13 touchdowns and should 
run all over a Georgia State defense that al-
lows 248.29 yards on the ground per contest 
(125th nationally) and 6.76 yards per carry. 
Georgia State doesn’t provide nearly the 
same threat with its ground game despite 
facing an almost equally despicable run de-
fense this week, so the edge in controlling 
the line of scrimmage has to go to the Chan-
ticleers. 
— Mark S.
Georgia State (+3.5) will win be-
cause…
Coastal Carolina can only be good at 
baseball. It’s a proven fact. 
Programs like the Chanticleers that win a 
major NCAA title can only thrive in that indi-
vidual sport -- look it up, they somehow won 
the College World Series in 2016.
Therefore, by properties of math only UCF 
could think up, Coastal Carolina will lose to 
Georgia State due to the recent success of its 
baseball team.
Sure, why not?
Let’s look at more facts that may or may 
not matter.
Quarterback Dan Ellington is an effective 
dual-threat option, who has thrown for 1,474 
yards and eight touchdowns. He also leads 
the team with 322 rushing yards and four 
touchdowns on the ground.The Panthers are 1-0 all-time against 
Coastal Carolina, with the lone matchup 
coming last season. Georgia State returned 
the opening kickoff 90 yards to the end zone, 
and a fourth-quarter touchdown secured the 
win.
Another fact is that this matchup is also 
the Panthers’ homecoming game. GSU fans 
will be packing the Georgia State Stadium 
ready to watch their 2-5 Panthers pick up 
their third win.
The Panthers have a clear edge in this 
game due to circumstances out of their con-
trol. Rarely does a small-school team like 
Coastal Carolina, who has a great baseball 
program, win in football games as well. 
— Jake
Now onto the picks...
In a tie for first — the first time in weeks 
she doesn't have sole possession of the lead 
— at 35-29 is Alanis “GIANTS TRADED 
ELI” Thames, who was ecstatic for a few 
seconds when it was announced that the 
New York Giants had traded Eli. If you heard 
a loud F-bomb seconds later around the 
Gainesville area, then that was Alanis when 
she found out it was Eli Apple, not Manning.
Now neck-and-neck with Alanis is the 
Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Overexcited” 
Hall, who made sure everyone knew he 
went 7-1 with last weeks picks. Listen Gra-
ham, we get it. You’re excited, we all know 
we would be. You reminded each of us with 
individual texts that morning. But we don’t 
think Dan Mullen, Feleipe Franks and Josh 
Hammond give two cents over how well you 
can predict college football games.Coming in at third with a 32-32 record is 
Nick “Uniform Scooper” de la Torre, who 
broke the news that UF will wear its white 
helmets this Saturday. Nick’s always one to 
get the important news to his readers, like 
punter Tommy Townsend’s career rushing 
stats or his bench press numbers. Keep up 
the love fest, Nick. Senpai will surely notice 
you soon. 
Also in third is Mark “Rogue Inter-
viewer” Stine, who doesn’t play by your 
rules. No, he’ll walk into career day, guns 
a-blazin’, ready to take on the day without 
checking in with the folks running the event. 
God, what a maverick. What a take-charge 
guy. 
Sitting in fifth at 31-33 is Jake “Dead 
Wrong” Dreilinger, who claimed Gators 
mascots Albert and Alberta were siblings 
and couldn’t be convinced 
otherwise. Guess what Jake, 
they’re supposed to be best 
friends, but anyone with half 
a brain can see Albert’s got a 
huge crush on Alberta. 
In a tie for sixth at 30-34 is 
the AP’s Mark “Novice Food 
Photographer” Long. We 
went back to October 17 for 
this one, but everyone knows 
you get directly above the 
dish when you take a photo 
of it. Mark, you took a photo 
of a turkey but chose to direct 
the camera into the nether re-gions. I’m sure it tasted great, but it looked 
off-putting as hell. 
Also in sixth is the Orlando Sentinel’s Ed-
gar “Old Curmudgeon” Thompson, who 
was perplexed by a specific phrase running 
back Lamical Perine used after practice Tues-
day. After fawning over Perine, Thompson 
sidled up to receiver Tyrie Cleveland and 
told him, “Lamical likes to say ‘You feel 
me.’” Edgar, dude, it’s something the kids 
are saying. Spend a weekend away from the 
golf course and go on Urban Dictionary. It’ll 
help you connect. You feel me? 
And in last since Week 2, at 29-35 is Mor-
gan “Desperate Attempts” McMullen, who 
has twice been caught trying to shave wins 
off the records of fellow pickers to get out 
of last place. Morgan, it's clear that you’re 
willing to go to extremes so you won’t lose 
to your assistant editors, Jake and Mark S. PICKS,  from pg. 14
 Alanis (35-29) Graham (35-29)   Nick (32-32)    Mark L (32-32)
UF vs. UGA (-6.5) UGA  UF       UF         UF
USF @ UH (-7) USF  UH       USF         USF
WAZZU @ STAN (-3) WAZZU  STAN       WAZZU        STAN
TAMU @ MSST (-2) TAMU  TAMU       TAMU        TAMU
IOWA @ PSU (-6.5) PSU  PSU       PSU           PSU
UK @ MIZZOU (-7) MIZZOU  UK       UK         UK
TTU @ ISU (-3.5) ISU  ISU       ISU         ISU
CCU @ GSU (+3.5) CCU  CCU        GSU         CCU
 Jake (31-33) Mark L (30-34)  Edgar (30-34)  Morgan (29-35)
UF vs. UGA (-6.5) UGA  UF      UF  UF
USF @ UH (-7) USF  UH      USF  UH
WAZZU @ STAN (-3) WAZZU  STAN      WAZZU WAZZU
TAMU @ MSST (-2) TAMU  TAMU      TAMU  TAMU
IOWA @ PSU (-6.5) IOWA  PSU      PSU   IOWA
UK @ MIZZOU (-7) UK  UK      UK  UK
TTU @ ISU (-3.5) TTU  TTU      ISU  ISU
CCU @ GSU (+3.5) GSU  CCU      GSU  GSUAlligator File Photo
UF quarterback Feleipe Franks will need to spread the ball to his receivers against the Bulldogs if the 
Gators want to win on Saturday in Jacksonville.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR 
FLORIDA defense vs. GEORGIA offense
Lamont GaillardCJake FrommQBT erry
GodwinWRElijah HolyfieldRB
Kyree
CampbellNT
Trey
DeanCB
C.J.
HendersonCB
Jabari
ZunigaDE
Adam 
ShulerDT
Chauncey
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR
David
ReeseMIKE
Vosean
JosephWILL
Jachai 
PoliteBUCK
Donovan
StinerS
Brad
StewartSCade 
MaysGIsaiah 
WilsonT
Mecole
HardmanWR
Solomon 
KindleyGAndrew 
ThomasTIssac NautaTERiley
RidleyWRFLORIDA offense vs. GEORGIA defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
Jordan
ScarlettRBMartez
IveyT
Tyler 
JordanLG
Tyrie
ClevelandWRFred
JohnsonRG
Jawaan
T aylorT
Van 
JeffersonWR
C’yontai
LewisTE
Josh
HammondWRNatrez 
PatrickMIKE
Julian 
RochesterNT
Jonathan 
LedbetterDETyrique 
McGheeSLB
Deandre
BakerCB
Tyler ClarkDTTyson
CampbellCB D’ Andre 
WalkerOLB
Monty 
RiceWLBRichard
LeCounteS
J.R.
ReedShave, they cherish it.”
Eight Mile — including its 
neighboring city of Prichard — saw 
about 18 violent crimes per 1,000 
residents in 2017, according to the 
FBI’s Uniform Crime Reporting 
Program. To put that in context, 
Alabama as a whole saw about five 
violent crimes per 1,000 residents 
last year. These violent crimes in-
clude murder, rape, robbery and 
aggravated assault. 
All that’s to say that those sta-
tistics could lead to a young man in 
fear of his life. 
Toney landed in hot water 
over this past offseason. On July 
22, Toney and cornerback Brian Edwards were pulled over by 
Gainesville Police. The officers 
found a loaded AR-15 rifle in the 
back seat of the car. 
Charges weren’t filed by the 
State Attorney or by GPD. Him car-
rying the rifle didn’t violate open-
carry laws since it wasn’t “easily 
accessible” to him in the back seat.
Earlier, on May 28, Toney was 
involved in another off-field inci-
dent when he and several of his 
teammates were cited for carrying 
airsoft rifles in response to a dis-
pute with a group of Gainesville 
residents. 
Toney — along with defensive 
tackle Kyree Campbell — were referred to UF’s Student Conduct 
and Conflict Resolution depart-
ment for policy violations. Toney 
was suspended for the Gators’ 
season-opener against Charleston 
Southern. He made his way back 
onto the team the following week 
against Kentucky. 
Since the offseason, the pub-
lic has hardly heard a peep from 
Toney. The only time he has spo-
ken to the media was after the Mis-
sissippi State game. Beyond that, 
nothing. 
That may suit him just fine. 
Toney is naturally quiet. After his 
Superman leap and into the end 
zone and logo revelation against Park Crossing, he walked to his 
sideline and sat behind his team-
mates, hardly saying a word. 
“At the end of the day, he’s just 
a kid who just wanted to play the 
game at a high level and just want-
ed to get out,” Holly said. “And 
he’s out. He’s making the best of 
his opportunities.”
There is one instance when 
Toney isn’t quiet. When the Pride 
of the Sunshine strikes up “Or-
ange and Blue” after Florida touch-
downs, Toney can be seen dancing along. Superman has Supergirl. 
Batman has Robin. Toney has this 
bop.
“It’s just that pride. It ain’t re-
ally about rhythm. It’s just that 
pride,” he said. “You’re just in the 
moment. You’re feeling it. You 
know what’s behind the fight song. 
You know what all went into (it) 
like, Gators before you got here. So 
it’s like all that coming together.”
Superman is real. Batman is 
real. Their names are Kadarius 
Toney. 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.org•   •   •ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
GO 
GATORSGO 
GATORSwin on Friday, it’ll be their ﬁ  rst victory in 
Athens in 25 years.
It’s also a bit of a homecoming meet for 
women’s head coach Jeff Poppell, who com-
peted at UGA as a swimmer and graduated 
from the university in 1993. What a home-
coming it would be for Poppell if his team 
were to be victorious over the Bulldogs for 
the ﬁ  rst time in over a decade.
The Gators have three of the nation’s 
top-10 times in the 400-yard individual 
medley coming into Friday’s meet. The trio 
of junior Kelly Fertel (5th), freshman Van-essa Pearl (6th) and fellow freshman Mabel 
Zavaros (10th) have continued to impress in 
the individual medley events and beyond.
In the freestyle events, UF has two swim-
mers who have exceeded expectations so far 
this season. Sophomore Taylor Ault holds 
the ninth-best time in the country in both 
the 500-yard free and 1,000-yard free, while 
Ault’s teammate, freshman Leah Braswell, 
has the nation’s 12th and 11th best times in 
those same events.
Friday’s meet gets underway early from 
Athens with an 11 a.m. start.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgSWIMMING,  from pg. 15Today’s meet starts at 11 a.m.
weeks ago. Pascoe’s season hasn’t gone 
unnoticed by the conference. She’s earned 
two SEC Women’s Runner of the Week 
honors so far this year.
Redshirt junior Elisabeth Bergh has 
helped anchor UF’s success as well with 
three top-10 ﬁ  nishes this season, and se-
nior Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell, who posted a 
top-100 ﬁ  nish in last year’s SEC Champi-
onships, also has three top-10 ﬁ  nishes on 
the year.
For the men, redshirt sophomore Colin Schaefer enters as Florida’s top runner, 
having crossed the ﬁ  nish-line in ﬁ  rst for 
the Gators in two of the three meets he’s 
competed in this season.
Behind him, junior Jack Guyton has 
ﬁ  nished in second place for the Gators in 
all three meets he’s competed in.
The day gets started from Indian Pines 
Golf Course in Auburn, Alabama, with the 
women’s 6k at 10 a.m. and ﬁ  nishes with 
the men’s 8k at 11 a.m.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgXC,  from pg. 15Runners start at 10 and 11 a.m.Razorbacks (11-4-3, 6-3-1 SEC) in the span of four minutes. 
Her ﬁ  rst goal in the 53rd minute came easily from Beitz’s 
stumble, and she struck in the 57th minute from 10 yards 
away for goal No. 2 to put UF up 3-0.
“As a striker, when you get the ﬁ  rst goal, they just come,” 
Rose said after the match. “Being in front of the goal, the 
more you are, the more comfortable you get.”
The Gators ﬁ  nished the match with an 11-7 (six on goal 
for UF to UA’s three) lead in shots.
The shutout win also gave Marckese her 28th career 
shutout, which broke the record for the most solo shutouts 
in UF history.
“[Breaking the record] on Senior Day is cool because I 
still don’t feel like a senior. I’m too young for that,” 20-year-
old Marckese said. “But for me, it’s a team thing. I’m not 
gonna get a shutout without the other 10 people in front of 
me.”
The Gators will advance to the SEC Tournament and play 
their ﬁ  rst match on Sunday. Despite the team’s losing re-
cord and overall lack of offensive power, the team is any-
thing but deterred heading into the postseason.
“We know we have the potential to beat anybody in the 
country,” Solis said. “We’re going for it all.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 15UF earns tourney bid
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese was honored along with nine other seniors before Thursday night’s game. 
Marckese capped the night off with her 28th career shutout, a new Gators record. 
INSIDE
UF receiver Kadarius T oney is known as an exciting playmaker on game-
day. Read how his legend grew from his time in high school until now. 
ONLINE
Our weekly picks column is live once again! Find out who a handful of 
Gators beat writers picked in our latest installment on alligator.org/sports
THE TONEY EXPRESS
Is he Batman? Is he Superman? 
Either way, Kadarius Toney plays like a superhero.KICK OFF
Editor: Morgan McMullen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Alligator File Photo
Alligator, Friday, October 26, 2018
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Superman is near-invincible. Batman is 
crafty.
Superman is faster than a speeding bullet. 
Batman always has a plan.
They’re two different superheroes with 
two distinct story arcs and two separate sets 
of strengths and weaknesses. 
Kadarius Toney doesn’t like to decide 
between them. He is the Dark Knight. He is 
the Man of Steel. The caped crusader and the 
man from Krypton are one in the same. 
As a student-athlete at Blount High 
School in Eight Mile, Alabama, Toney com-
bined all facets of each hero into his game. 
He made spectacular plays as the Leopards’ 
starting quarterback in 2016 on the team’s 
way to compiling a 10-2 record and a spot in 
the Class 6A Alabama High School playoffs.
Now, he’s the playmaking wideout for the 
University of Florida who has been respon-
sible for more attention and reverence than 
Superman receives. His arsenal of moves 
puts Batman’s utility belt to shame.
Where did all of this come from? How has 
one man sparked so much excitement on the 
ﬁ  eld and controversy off it?
Toney lined up in the shotgun on 2nd-
and-goal from the 2-yard line. The clock 
ticked down further and further. Ten min-
utes left. Nine and change left. Park Crossing 
High School, a team that had rolled into the 
game on the strength of its 12-0 record, lined 
up on its goal line, expecting the athletic 
quarterback to make a play.
But just because you know something’s 
coming doesn’t mean you can stop it. Down 
44-28, Toney needed this score. He had made 
a habit all year of taking what he wanted 
from opposing defenses. Entering the game, 
Toney had thrown for 2,401 yards and 26 
touchdowns.
But to throw near the goal line with Toney 
in your backﬁ  eld is like asking Batman to 
sidestep a lava pit when he has a grappling 
hook. It doesn’t make sense, and it’s neglect-
ing the resources at hand.
On top of his gaudy numbers, he had also 
racked up 786 rushing yards. Those stats are staggering for a quarterback 
who’s 5-foot-11 on his best 
days.
To Toney’s right on this 
goal line play were all ﬁ  ve 
skill position players, four 
wide receivers and a run-
ning back. He took the 
snap and looked to run the 
ball through the middle of 
the offensive line. Perhaps 
it was designed that way. 
Perhaps the Batman in him 
wanted to stick to the plan. 
He took one step with 
his left foot and dug it into 
the turf. He didn’t see a 
lane. There wasn’t one. 
There was only a brick wall 
of Blount white and Park 
Crossing blue. 
He dashed toward his re-
ceivers on the right. Three of them whiffed 
completely on their blocks. Three defenders 
darted toward Toney. This wasn’t the time 
for Batman. Superman emerged in his stead. 
He made a beeline for the far pylon. The 
defenders converged. They seemed to keep 
in mind an age-old lesson: You don’t tug on 
Superman’s cape unless you want to go for 
a ride. 
Instead, all three defenders went low. The 
ﬁ  rst man faltered in his pursuit, unable to 
catch up to the speeding quarterback. Two 
remained. They ran for the corner of the ﬁ  eld 
and dove for the legs. 
Superman took off.
Toney leapt into the air, right arm out-
stretched with the ball, his left arm relaxed 
to his side. The ball crossed the plane of the 
goal line as the defenders slid helplessly on 
the earth Toney had once occupied. Touch-
down. 
One commentator calling the game com-
pared the move to Michael Jordan. The oth-
er said it reminded him of Frank Sinatra’s 
“Come Fly with Me.” 
Both were wrong. You already knew 
what it was. 
So did Toney. After his ﬂ  ight, he stood, 
began walking toward his sideline and made 
a move so quintessentially Superman that 
Clark Kent would’ve been confused.
He raised both ﬁ  sts to his chest and peeled 
them off to his sides, revealing the heart of 
the Blount High School football team and a 
giant red S laid against a yellow background.
Superman is real. His name is Kadarius 
Toney. 
Coach Lev Holly remembers Toney as 
one of the most exciting players he has had 
the privilege to preside over at Blount High 
School.
“He’s very fun,” Holly said. “Very re-
warding just to be around the kid every day, 
just to see how he works.”
Holly also remembers several other dis-
tinct features about Toney. Speciﬁ  cally, his 
apparel.
“He’s got like this Batman tie, his Batman 
socks,” Holly said. “It was never a dull mo-
ment with him.”But the duality between Batman and Su-
perman still permeates Toney’s outerwear 
today. Following Florida’s 13-6 win against 
Mississippi State this season, he made an 
appearance in the visitors’ press conference 
area for a postgame interview. He ﬂ  ashed his 
trademark smile, but it faltered in compari-
son to his jewelry. 
Hanging above a gold No. 4 was a spar-
kling Superman “S.” The necklace was more 
than appropriate following his performance 
against the Bulldogs. He rushed for 20 yards 
on a pair of carries and caught one pass for 
nine yards. But the objective play of the 
game came from neither of those stats. 
Quarterback Feleipe Franks took a shot-
gun snap and threw a lateral to Toney, who 
was lined up out wide to Franks’ left. Toney 
caught it and looked upﬁ  eld.
Florida had been running wide receiver 
screens all game. MSU’s defensive backs be-
gan to creep up farther and farther toward 
the line of scrimmage throughout. Coach 
Dan Mullen sensed this and made the play 
call, “Kodak,” as it’s called. 
Mississippi State’s defenders could’ve 
taken a lesson from Park Crossing: If you try 
to challenge Superman on the ground, he’ll 
beat you through the air. Toney heaved a 
pass to the back pylon and hit tight end Mor-
al Stephens in stride for the eventual game-
winning touchdown.
“It kinda was an easy one,” Toney said. 
“I played quarterback, so it like kinda came 
back in a rhythm.”
It wasn’t exactly an easy throw. One Bull-dogs defender noticed — albeit too late — 
the trickery going on and tried to drop back. 
Anything other than a perfect pass could’ve 
been picked off. 
But the thing about Superman is that even 
when you think you have him pinned down, 
he’ll ﬁ  nd a way to make you pay.
“I really just saw an opportunity,” he 
said. “Like, I knew I could probably ﬁ  t it in 
there, so I just had to do it.”
Superman is real. His name is Kadarius 
Toney. 
Eight Mile is appropriately named. It’s 
eight miles northwest of Mobile. The median 
income in Eight Mile is $8,000 lower than 
the state median. And for eight years, Eight 
Mile dealt with the stench of rotten eggs and 
natural gas after lightning struck a storage 
tank and spilled about 500 gallons of chemi-
cal odorant that leaked into ponds, ground-
water and soil.
The odorant, a toxic chemical known 
as mercaptan, can be fatal in large enough 
doses. Hundreds of families have ﬁ  led law-
suits against the company responsible for the 
natural gas tanks.
“I ain’t gonna say it’s rough,” Holly said. 
“Every neighborhood has its issues. But 
I think (Toney) was well-grounded in his 
faith. Parents raised him to be a man. And 
hey, coming from a place where a lot of 
people don’t have everything, but what they  The Toney Express
It wasn’t exactly an easy throw. One Bull-
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •