We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
FLORIDA’S QB SITUATION UNCLEAR
After the Gators’ Orange and Blue Game on 
Saturday, not much has changed regarding the team’s starting quarterback competition, pg. 14Program teaches children problem-solving
Students learn life skills while exploring nature, pg. 10
UF student wins $15,000 research award
He was one of 211 scholarship winners, pg. 10VOLUME 112 ISSUE 81
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE DEPARTMENT HAS BEEN 
TRYING TO GET A NEW BUILDING 
FOR NEARL Y A DECADE.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Every work day, Sgt. Walter Hamby 
walks into the University Police building 
at 5:30 a.m., gears up in his uniform and weaponry, conducts roll call and checks the police vehicles.
On Nov. 5, Hamby was going through 
the same routine, searching for radios in room 108B, a weapons storage on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor where guns, radios and a wooden po-dium are kept.
But as he walked toward the radios, 
Hamby’s right foot faltered. In a matter of seconds, the 6-foot ofﬁ  cer was knee-deep in the ﬂ  oor. He tried to pull himself up, but was unsuccessful. He called Ofﬁ  cer Steve Wilder to help him out. The ﬂ  oor began to collapse under Wilder as he rescued Ham-by, but no one was injured.
“You think you’re standing on a ﬁ  rm 
surface and all of a sudden it disappears from under you,” Hamby said.
The UPD building, at 1555 Museum 
Road, experienced problems with mold, asbestos, humidity and weak ﬂ  ooring over the last few months. There is always some-one in the 3,572 sq. ft. building, which 50 employees work out of, but it can no longer support the needs of the department, said Deputy Chief Darren Baxley.
“It’s just not ideal to run a modern po-
lice department out of,” Baxley said.
The staff will vacate this week and work 
out of a modular building — of three por-tables bolted together — near Jennings Hall 
while the building is assessed for safety 
and tested by a private contractor, which could take about three weeks. The tempo-rary facility will be about 3,500 square feet 
UPD to move into portables amid building safety concerns 
SEE UPD,  PAGE 4
Emma Green / Alligator 
SEE YOU LATER, ALLIGATOR
Mascot Albert E. Gator greets a young Gator fan during the Orange & Blue football game on Saturday. 
The scrimmage, held at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, had 53,015 in attendance. See the story, pg. 14.
GRU AND A CONTRACTOR 
WERE FINED AFTER 600,000 
GALLONS SPILLED.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Loblolly Woods Nature Park reopened 
early Thursday after being shut down for 
nearly a week due to raw sewage overﬂ  ow.
The park closed April 6 after two sepa-
rate spills resulted in about 615,000 gal-lons of wastewater being released into the area. The Alachua County Environmental Protection Department is ﬁ  ning Gainesville 
Regional Utilities $292 for the spills and 
will ﬁ  ne GRU contractor Oelrich Construc-tion, Inc. $146, said county spokesperson Mark Sexton.
On April 5, Oelrich Construction struck 
a main sewer line while working in the park, resulting in about 150,000 gallons of sewage leaking into the area, about 4,000 of which drained into Possum Creek, ac-cording to a GRU report.
The next morning, GRU was notiﬁ  ed of 
another incident, this time a hose at 2610 
NW Eighth Ave. was knocked out of place, 
resulting in another 465,000 gallons of wastewater being released, according to the report. GRU doesn’t know what dis-
turbed the bypass hose.
GRU and Oelrich Construction were re-
sponsible for the cleanup and ultimately 
recovered about 250,000 gallons of waste-water from the site, GRU spokesperson Da-vid Warm wrote in an email.
GRU anticipates Oelrich Construction 
will pay for the ﬁ  nes associated with the 
accidents, Tony Cunningham, a GRU Wa-
ter and Wastewater ofﬁ  cer, wrote in an email. GRU was issued two ﬁ  nes because it owns and operates the wastewater col-
lection system and is responsible for the 
permit.
In January 2017, a sewage spill affected 
UF’s campus when 2,000 gallons of waste-Loblolly Woods Nature Park reopens after wastewater spill
SEE SEWER,  PAGE 4UF IS SPENDING $474,926 
FOR ADDITIONAL 
RESOURCES.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
UF announced Thursday it will 
provide more resources and fund-
ing for the Disability Resource Center to meet its growing de-mand.
During the 2012-13 academic 
year, the center served 1,214 stu-dents. This academic year, 3,055 students are registered to receive help from the center. However, only one more specialist had been added in the meantime — bring-ing the team from four people to ﬁ  ve, according to Alligator ar-chives.
To remedy the lack of re-
sources, the Provost’s Ofﬁ  ce will spend nearly $475,000 on the center, UF spokesperson Margot Winick wrote in an email. Winick said the decision had been in the works for about a year.
The university will use 
$384,030 to make four more residence hall rooms in Cypress 
Hall accessible for students with 
severe mobility impairment, ac-cording to a news release. The DRC will also hire an additional 
learning specialist and graduate 
assistant, which will cost $90,896 
annually, to help with one-on-one mentoring, lead training initia-tives and help students transition 
in and out of college, said Gerardo 
Altamirano, director of the DRC.
As of now, there are about 620 
students for every one learning 
specialist. The additional special-
ist will reduce this ratio to 442 
students for every one learning 
specialist, according to the news release.
Altamirano said he hopes wait 
times are reduced to less than two 
weeks and appointments aren’t UF increases funding, 
resources for DRC
SEE DRC,  PAGE 4
rate spills resulted in about 615,000 gal-
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
HIGH  70° LOW  46°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club will hold a Spring Formal 
at 8 p.m. Friday with lessons at 
the Thelma A. Boltin Center. There will be a beginner lesson, food and dance games. Those 
interested do not need to bring 
a partner. Dancing will com-
mence at 9 p.m. and last until 
11 p.m.
'Hearoes for Hearing' 5K regis-
tration 
"Hearoes for Hearing" is 
hosting its 13th annual 5K 
on Saturday at 8 a.m. at the Commuter Lot. The race rais-es money for the UF Cochlear 
Impact Fund and provides pa-
tients with profound hearing loss with services that  connect them to friends and family. All proceeds go directly to patients at UF Health receiving cochlear 
implants. To register for the 
race, it is $25 for adults and $15 for children. For more informa-tion, contact ufhearoesforhear-ing@gmail.com.
Dog wash to benefit St. Francis 
Pet CareOn Sunday at One Love Cafe, 
located at 4989 NW 40th Place, 
St. Francis Pet Care is hosting a dog wash to benefit the shelter. The event is free, but donations will go toward the shelter's new clinic, which is set to open in the fall. For more informa-tion, visit stfrancispetcare.org.   
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage MonthApril commemorates the first Japanese immigration to the U.S. on May 7, 1853. It also 
honors the Chinese immigrants 
who worked to complete the transcontinental railroad on May 10, 1869. Asian Pacific 
Islander American Affairs will 
celebrate Asian Pacific Islander Desi American Heritage Month with events until April 23. The 2018 theme is the Japanese 
concept of ikigai, meaning “a 
reason to live.”
Midnight Fun Run 
UF RecSports is calling all su-perheroes for a Midnight Fun Run on April 25. The event is open to faculty, staff, students and guests. Each participant 
will receive an event T-shirt 
and breakfast following the race. Register today on RS Connect.
‘What Were You Wearing? Art 
Exhibit’The “What Were You Wearing? Art Exhibit” is being displayed 
until April 30 on the third 
floor of the Ustler Hall Library. STRIVE at GatorWell and the American Student Medical 
Association have collaborated 
with anonymous UF student survivors to show the outfits they wore during their attacks. For more info, call 352-273-4450.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters, which helps people get more comfortable speaking in pub-
lic, meets at 5:45 p.m. ev-
ery Tuesday in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open 
to all. For more information, 
visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 81
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
free   
 free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
free
premium burger
1402 W.UNIVERSITY AVE
(In the former Burrito Brothers location)(352) 727-4222FREE PREMIUM SINGLE BURGER
FoR EvERyoNE IN LINE!GRAND OPENING CELEBRATION!
Thursda y , april 19Th  7pm-10 pmMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
May 19, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, April 20, from 
9:00 a.m to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Writers, Photographers, 
Videographers, Copy Editors, 
and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
LIVE at noon on the Independent Florida 
Alligator’s OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the summer editors and staff 
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground floor, take hallway with single door all the way down to G207 on the left.
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Susan Angenendt, 69, leads a light warm-up before the crowd started its walk on 
Saturday morning at “Walk with a Doc” at Depot Park. Angenendt, of Gainesville Health and Fitness, also led a full yoga class for those who want to become more active but would rather do yoga in the park than walk.
Gainesville residents gather downtown at Depot Park on Saturday morning for “Walk With a Doc. ” The event, started by Olga Nadymova, a 33-year-old pharmacy school student, and Alexandra Byrne, a 26-year-old medical school student, is aimed toward members of the Gainesville community who want to become more active and are looking for a supportive group to meet and walk with.
EXERCISE AND EDUCATION
Photos by Shelbie Eakins
Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
and cost $2,200 to rent per month, 
said Curtis Reynolds, the vice president of UF’s Business Affairs.
“Considering its age and con-
sidering its wood structure, there might be other concerns that we’re not aware of,” Reynolds said. “We’re taking this full collapse as a signal to us that there are poten-
tial issues inside the building that 
we may not be aware of.”
According to UF Libraries’ His-
toric Sites Guide, the building was ﬁ  rst constructed in 1928 to house the WRUF radio station. In 1957, UPD moved in.
In 1989, the building was 
added to the National Register of 
Historic Places. Under the special 
classiﬁ  cation, it’s hard to get reno-vations approved for the building.
“That makes it very challeng-
ing to do any kind of remodel in there to make it more appropriate for a police department,” Baxley said.
The department has been try-
ing to get a new building for about a decade, Baxley said.
Another room in the building, 
a conference room, was deemed structurally unsound and closed off while the base was ﬁ  lled with concrete. Thomas Ladun, a co-ordinator for UF Environmental Health and Safety, discovered the wood trusses that hold up the 
ﬂ  oor were rotten from rainwater 
draining under the building over the years. Ladun said when the water evaporates, it goes up into the ﬂ  oor, weakening it.
Ladun discovered the rotten 
wood after working on an asbes-tos case in the room. In September 2017, contractors found asbestos 
ﬂ  oor tile about two layers under-
neath the conference room ﬂ  oor, which had been covered over the years. He said asbestos appear-ances are common for older build-ings, and the tile was removed in the renovation.
“It wasn’t dangerous or any-
thing, but it is regulated,” he said.
Ladun said he did a walk-
through of the building with the UF Environmental Health and Safety in October. He noted the ﬂ  oor was sagging in the room where Hamby fell. This was even-tually pointed out to Facility Ser-vices.
Outside consultants also found 
the humidity on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor was above 60 percent in January. In a well air-conditioned building, the humidity is between 55 percent and 60 percent. He said if levels are consistently above 60 percent for hours or days, there might be something wrong with the build-ing.
The pool of rainwater under-
neath the building could contrib-ute to the increase of the relative humidity, Ladun said.
“You’re relying on the air con-
ditioning to dry out the building and keep that moisture in check,” he said. “At a certain point, it’s possible that you’d have too much moisture so the air conditioning can no longer keep the building dry.”
Hamby said he knew the ﬂ  oor 
was weak for at least a year before he fell into it. With the staff of the building moving into the trailers by this week, Hamby, who’s been with the department for 30 years, said he might retire in the modu-lar building.
“It would be nice to have a 
place where we wouldn’t have to worry about that again,” he said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
UPD,  from pg. 1The safety assessment could take about three weeks to complete
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
The ﬂ  oor of a weapons storage room on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of the University Police building was damaged 
after Sgt. Walter Hamby fell through it on Nov. 5. UPD staff will move into a modular building — of three portables bolted together — while their building is assessed for safety and tested by a private contractor, which could take about three weeks. The temporary facility will be about 3,500 square feet and cost $2,200 to rent per month.
rushed after these changes.
“I was very ecstatic and thank-
ful most of all that our upper ad-ministration and our provost was so willing to support us,” he said.
The four rooms in Cypress Hall 
will have lift systems, which help students with disabilities move around the room, and a remote that can open the door and control the blinds to help students live more autonomously, Altamirano said. Although 35 rooms in Cypress Hall can be used for students with se-
vere mobile impairment, UF plans 
to add the lift systems and other necessary technology in the rooms as demand grows, Winick said. Af-
ter these four rooms are renovated, 
the residence hall will have 15.
Some of the students who live 
in Cypress Hall have personal care 
assistants who provide service 24 
hours a day. With about 43 care at-
tendants who help care for students 
in the residence hall, the space is relatively small for them, he said. 
Some of the funding will be used 
to make a larger space where staff members wait for their students to 
need their assistance.
Altamirano said he is excited 
about adding staff members.
The graduate assistant will lead 
initiatives like disability advocate training to create more sources of 
support for disabled students on campus and play a role in tran-
sitioning students by explaining 
what resources are available to 
them when they enter UF and help 
them ﬁ  nd a job when they gradu-ate, Altamirano said.
Altamirano said he also hopes 
to develop a career fair where stu-dents can interact with disability-
inclusive employers.
Bradley Minotti, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology sophomore who 
has used the DRC since he was a 
freshman, said he is excited about 
the additional learning specialist 
and graduate assistant.
“It’s something that we’ve all 
been hoping for, for a while now,” he said.
Minotti hopes the additional 
staff will relieve some of the pres-sure on the DRC as the number of 
students they serve continues to 
climb. He’s also looking forward to shorter wait times to see his own 
learning specialist. He said he cur-
rently waits two to three weeks.
The decision to increase funding 
and resources shows that UF ad-
ministration prioritizes supporting 
students with disabilities, he said.
“They heard that we needed 
more resources and they’re going 
to provide that, which I think is re-
ally great because not a lot of uni-
versities think like that,” he said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
DRC,  from pg. 1Cypress Hall rooms will be renovated for students, staf
water spilled into a creek that connects to Lake 
Alice, according to Alligator archives. The area, which was sanitized by Florida Division of Emer-
gency Management State Watch Ofﬁ  ce, was af-
fected environmentally, but drinking water was deemed safe.
Linda Demetropoulos, a nature operations 
manager for the park, said Loblolly Woods is safe for visitors but they should still use caution.
“Normally visitors are instructed not to access 
the water area, so that has not changed,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgSEWER,  from pg 1Park visitors 
should be cautious
Courtesy of Google Maps
Loblolly Woods Nature Park is located northwest of UF’s campus. The park reopened on Thursday after being shut down 
due to raw sewage overﬂ  ow. Loblolly Woods Nature ParkMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Gainesville man arrested for child 
pornography possession
A Gainesville man was arrested Thursday morning 
after police said he shared and downloaded child por-
nography.
Christopher Robert Fox, 36, told police who 
searched his home Thursday he deleted a ﬁ  le contain-
ing child pornography he downloaded after he realized 
what it was, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children received a tip from the social media website Tumblr on Jan. 8 about three images and one video of suspected child pornography. The tip also included the IP address from the computer that shared the video, according to the report.
GPD said it determined the IP address belonged to a 
computer that uses an internet plan belonging to Fox’s roommate.
Fox told police the Tumblr account was his, accord-
ing to the report. He did not remember the video but if it was uploaded to his account it would have been by him, he said.
When police searched Fox’s laptop, they found a 
downloaded video of child pornography, according to the report. Fox told police he downloaded the ﬁ  le but 
deleted it after realizing it was child pornography.
Fox was arrested on a charge of promoting a photo 
or movie of a sexual performance by a child and taken 
to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $75,000 bond.Deputies: Gainesville man pours hot oil on 
three sleeping people
A Gainesville man woke up three people with a pan 
of hot oil Friday morning, Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce said.
Darian Denard Holmes, 48, heated a pan of cooking 
oil on a stove in a Holly Heights North apartment and 
poured it on three people sleeping in the living room, 
according to an arrest report. Less than 24 hours later, he returned to the apartment and called police to tell his side of the story, Lt. Josh Crews said. He was arrested shortly after.
A woman, who was pretending to be asleep in the 
living room, witnessed Holmes pour the oil on a man’s chest and shoulder; on another man’s foot, leg and back and on a woman’s neck and face, according to the re-
port. She told police Holmes was upset and believed 
one of the three people he burned had stolen his money.
The three people Holmes burned knew him as 
“Rock” and said they were all together the night before, according to the report. Police said he had gotten upset with them throughout the evening but did not say how or why.
Crews said the woman and men injured were treat-
ed at UF Health Shands Hospital for their burns, which 
were not considered life-threatening, and released.
Holmes was arrested on three counts of aggravated 
battery and for failing to pay child support. He was tak-
en to the Alachua County Jail where he is being held without bond.GPD: Hawthorne men arrested for possessing drugs, guns
Two Hawthorne men were arrested after police found drugs and 
three guns, one stolen, in their car, Gainesville Police said.
Earnest Lee Shefﬁ  eld Jr., 38, and Tabaree Jakeem Lewis, 32, 
were pulled over by police after midnight Thursday near the inter-section of Southeast Hawthorne Road and East University Avenue 
in a silver Mazda SUV for an improper right turn and overly tinted 
windows, according to an arrest report. Police saw a marijuana cigarette next to Lewis and asked both men to step outside.
Shefﬁ  eld, the driver, ran from ofﬁ  cers and pulled his arms to the 
middle of his chest to resist being handcuffed, according to the re-port. Police caught and restrained him, later ﬁ  nding he didn’t have a driver’s license.
Police found 19.3 grams of cocaine in small baggies, 34 oxyco-
done pills, 10 rocks of crack cocaine, one temazepam pill and three 
ecstasy pills in the car, according to the report. Ofﬁ  cers also found 
three guns, a 0.380-caliber Ruger LCP handgun and 0.410-caliber Taurus Judge revolver, each loaded with ﬁ  ve rounds of ammuni-tion, and a 0.380-caliber Hi-Point handgun. They also found $830 on Shefﬁ  eld, according to the report.
The Ruger LCP handgun was reported stolen in Gainesville, po-
lice said.
Shefﬁ  eld was arrested on 19 charges, including two counts of 
possession of a concealed ﬁ  rearm by a convicted felon and four 
counts of possession of a controlled substance without a prescrip-
tion. Lewis was charged with possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana, carrying a concealed and unlicensed ﬁ  rearm and pos-session of a concealed weapon by a convicted felon.
Shefﬁ  eld and Lewis were taken to the Alachua County Jail 
where they remain, as of press time, in lieu of $124,000 and $32,000 bonds, respectively.All Stories by Robert Lewis | Alligator Staﬀ   Writer
@Lewis__Robert | rlewis@alligator.org
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A self-proclaimed “$50 Billion Man” threat-
ened to break a UF student’s neck before leav-
ing a speaking event on campus March 21.
Dan Pena, a controversial businessman and 
speaker, verbally attacked Juan “Verse” Lozano, a 
22-year-old UF public rela-
tions senior, during a Q&A 
session hosted by the UF 
Entrepreneurship Club at 
the New Physics Building 
on Museum Road and Gale Lemerand Drive.
Pena’s website claims 
his mentees have garnered $50 billion in val-
ue with his business guidance. The Alligator 
could not verify these claims.
Lozano questioned the existence of Pena’s companies and called him a fraud. A video published on Lozano’s Youtube channel 
shows Pena approaching Lozano and saying, 
“Now before I snap your neck, kid, put the f------ microphone down.”
Pena grabs toward Lozano’s shoulder be-
fore the video cuts.
Rachael Bunn, the Entrepreneurship Club 
president, said Pena’s representative sent the club a string of emails in August requesting to 
speak at the university. About 60 people at-tended the event, including 40 of Pena’s sup-
porters, the 21-year-old UF advertising junior 
said. The rest of the audience consisted of UF 
students and alumni.
The club didn’t pay Pena to speak, she said.Before Lozano got to his question, Pena 
grabbed the microphone from his hand. Pena 
said he was done speaking and handed the mi-
crophone back to Bunn, Lozano said. A group 
of seven of Pena’s supporters surrounded Lo-zano and began yelling at him, he said.
Lozano left after about 10 minutes with 
two friends because he feared for his safety, he 
said. He did not ﬁ  le a report with police.
The club agreed to host Pena to foster an 
open dialogue, Bunn said. But the night took a turn when Pena referred to the crowd using 
a slur and said they should commit suicide if 
they did not work hard, she said.
Pena demonstrated shooting himself in the 
mouth, she said.
The club expected him to give a speech on 
working hard to become successful. Instead, 
he was vulgar and disrespectful, Bunn said.
“It kind of drifted into what his idea of a 
motivational speech is,” she said.
Bunn said she ended the Q&A session and 
called University Police to escort Pena and his supporters from the building after he threat-
ened Lozano. UPD didn’t respond to a request 
for comment on the incident.Lozano said Pena’s speech was extremely 
inappropriate. Pena brandished a cricket pad-dle and told a childhood story about dropping 
a ﬁ  shbowl on a teacher’s head to kill her, Lo-zano said.
“Whenever he talks, it’s just shock value,” 
he said. “It sounds like he’s trying to shock you 
into believing him.”
Pena declined to comment for this story.
Lozano said he researched Pena and his 
companies after Pablo Padillo, the club’s vice 
president of external affairs, expressed con-
cerns over the speaker’s credibility and out-
landish behavior. Padillo and Lozano said they 
could not ﬁ  nd any credible information on 
Pena’s companies.
Lozano said he was particularly disturbed 
by Pena’s Youtube channel and rhetoric.
“I knew that if I didn’t confront him head-
on, there was nobody else in that room who was going to,” Lozano said.Self-proclaimed ‘50 Billion Dollar Man’ threatens UF student
Pena
INTERNATIONAL 
DANCING
South African Gumboot dancers perform at the 46th Annual African Student Union Showcase in the Re-itz  Union Grand Ballroom on Saturday evening. The showcase provides an op-portunity for the “expres-sion of African music, dance, fashion, art, and cuisine. ”
Kayla Turner / AlligatorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
We learn just as much outside of the classroom
Back in high school, I remember going 
through the lists of organizations and extracurricular activities I could join, 
perusing different club banners and 
posters after school. I wondered what 
it would take to get me into college, what clubs I would most enjoy and what activities I would 
actually be good at. Nothing felt quite as seri-
ous then; though I knew it was important for me to get involved, I didn’t fully understand why.
Now as I enter the ﬁ  nal weeks of my se-
nior year here, I understand more clearly why joining student organizations, working part time or participating in research projects and other extracurriculars represent such important parts of an undergraduate education. I’ve 
begun to see why and how these elements of my college 
experience have helped me grow as a person, not only academically but also personally. And I think that’s true for everyone.
It’s not just because these club memberships and ex-
tracurricular opportunities gear us up for job hunts or more admissions cycles at the graduate level. It’s not just because they keep us busy. Trust me, I enjoy being busy, but I have seen ﬁ  rsthand at UF how much our schedules 
can get crammed; involvement is good and healthy, but 
not just for the sake of ﬁ  lling our weeks with meetings.
No, this involvement is beneﬁ  cial for more than just 
that. We learn so much more about ourselves and the world around us when we go out of our bubbles, meet 
other people and work on shared goals with each other. 
The times outside of lecture halls and library cubbies have a lot to teach us, too.
I wouldn’t say I’m the most involved person at UF by 
any means. Still, I’ve observed and celebrated changes within myself as a result of the people I’ve met and the experiences I’ve had through my club involvement, work experiences and research projects. I’ll provide a few examples, and I promise I’m trying to be sincere — as trite as any of it may sound.
Take my work at this newspaper, for exam-
ple: In addition to writing columns, in the past I’ve served as an editor in various sections of the paper. For sure, this has strengthened my 
skills in writing and AP style and enhanced my 
respect for journalism as a profession and pas-sion. Beyond that, though, The Alligator has demonstrated to me how to care for fellow stu-dents and colleagues; how to admit, own up 
to and correct my mistakes (and there have been many of them) and how to embody stronger leadership skills.
Even the most academic research projects can show us 
more about ourselves. When I wrote and worked in my 
ﬁ  rst research study, I made more mistakes and changed 
more elements of my project than I thought was humanly possible. Indirectly, research helped teach me the value of self-improvement and constantly aspiring to become better. I wanted the end product to be perfect, just right; 
what I learned from doing research is that sometimes we 
just have to try and enjoy that journey, rather than sim-ply prioritizing the destination.
The friends I’ve made at places like The Alligator of-
ﬁ  ce, the Phi Sigma Pi chapter room and the philosophy department library have imparted to me more knowledge than a single lecture ever could. I believe the secret to becoming more well-rounded human beings lies in each and every one of us, if only we have the courage and 
conﬁ  dence to talk to one another outside the classroom. 
And that, my friends, is way more valuable than another bullet point on a resume.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column focuses on education.People are losing 
faith in police, and 
they should be
On the evening of March 18, Stephon Clark was shot eight 
times by Sacramento police ofﬁ  cers. According to The Washington Post, he was shot in the neck, back and thigh. The bullets pierced his lungs and broke a number of the 22-year-old’s bones. The two ofﬁ  cers shot at Clark 
20 times. About three to 10 minutes after the attack, Clark died.
Ofﬁ  cers were responding to a vandalism complaint in Clark’s 
Sacramento neighborhood when they found him in the backyard of his grandmother’s house where he lived. According to The New York Times, in their initial statement, the ofﬁ  cers claimed Clark came toward them while holding what they believed to be a ﬁ  rearm. However, fearing the police were trying to cover up misconduct by their ofﬁ  cers, the Clark family had their own au-topsy conducted. The family’s lawyer stated that according to the 
autopsy reports, Clark could not have been moving toward the 
ofﬁ  cers when he was shot, contradicting the ofﬁ  cers’ narratives. Sacramento Police didn’t comment.
The shooting was recorded by the ofﬁ  cers’ body cameras and 
showed the men shouting “We need to know if you’re O.K.” just after the gunﬁ  re ended, and, “We need to get you medics, but we can’t go over to get you help unless we know you don’t have a weapon.”
Once more ofﬁ  cers arrived, the two shooting ofﬁ  cers muted 
the audio on their body cameras as they discussed the events that transpired. It is also suspected the ofﬁ  cers waited too long after the attack to call for medical assistance. 
Protesters have since taken to the streets of Sacramento and 
Sacramento City Hall. Many are calling for the two ofﬁ  cers to be ﬁ  red. Protesters have said this incident, in a city that is mainly black and Latino, “is a sign of a police force that treats black residents with disdain and unfairly targets their neighborhoods.”
Clark’s death was not unique. The brutal murder of black 
men at the hands of police ofﬁ  cers is something we have seen repeatedly, especially over the past several years. The frequency and even sheer existence of these cases is tragic. What’s more, ofﬁ  cers are rarely held accountable for their actions, and forc-es across the country do not appear to be taking these types of events seriously. If they did, they wouldn’t frequent the headlines of every major news outlet every few weeks.
Although Sacramento Police did adjust their body camera pol-
icy to prohibit muting of the recording, the two ofﬁ  cers respon-
sible for Clark’s death have yet to be ﬁ  red. This not only degrades 
the entire police force but sets a precedent for ofﬁ  cers across the country that brutality is not something to be taken seriously.
As a result, Americans have lost trust in our police forces. 
The neighbor who originally called in the vandalism complaint in Clark’s neighborhood told PBS she regrets making the call and said it makes her never want to call 911 again.
We must make clear that we respect ofﬁ  cers and are thankful 
for the work they do. But all people need to be able to trust our 
ofﬁ  cers, not just a percentage. We need to be able to believe they 
will not shoot without more justiﬁ  cation than “we thought he had a weapon and seemed threatening.” 
It’s time police forces take action against ofﬁ  cers who can’t 
control their desire to shoot. Forces that have had these incidents need to set an example for other forces across the country. 
How many more black men need to lose their lives before 
police ofﬁ  cers start protecting all of us?
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
At UF, the month of April is more than 
just the last month of the Spring se-
mester. April is Pride Awareness 
Month (PAM). Throughout the month, about 20 events address is-
sues faced by the LGBTQ+ community and celebrate its culture. The events are not lim-
ited to members of the community — anyone 
can come to celebrate or learn more.
Just like the rest of the human popula-
tion, the LGBTQ+ community faces mental 
health conditions. However, this community 
is subject to prejudice and other biases. We all have it hard enough in this world with-out being mistreated or looked down upon simply for who we are. According to the Na-
tional Alliance on Mental Illness, LGBTQ+ 
individuals are nearly three times more likely than others to experience a mental health condition such as depression or anxiety.
Their fear of coming out and being dis-
criminated against for their sexual orienta-tion or gender identity can lead to post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse and suicidal thoughts. LGBTQ+ people are forced to confront bias 
on two fronts: their sexual orienta-
tion or gender identity and mental health conditions. Often, they may hide both for fear of ridicule or re-jection. Sometimes, they will talk 
about one or the other.
LGBTQ+ youth are four times 
more likely to attempt suicide, 
experience suicidal thoughts or 
engage in self-harm than straight 
people. Between 38 and 65 percent of trans-gender individuals experience suicidal ide-ation.
This, to me, is heartbreaking. We live in 
a world where people are afraid to be who they are and love who they want because of societal bias. We live in a world where people are afraid to tell their families about their identity because they fear their family 
will no longer love or accept them.
People are afraid of heights because they 
could fall. People are afraid of the dark be-cause there could be something 
dangerous lurking within it. But 
people are afraid of coming out 
because of society. Because of us.
We need to show the world it 
is OK to be different and it is OK not to be OK. We need to show the 
world being who you are is OK. 
Being who you are is good. Being different is good.
We need to listen when peo-
ple talk to us. I know it can be 
challenging to understand something you haven’t experienced, including sexuality, identity and mental health conditions. But just remember, as hard as it is for you to un-
derstand, it is so much harder to be the per-
son ﬁ  ghting so hard simply to be understood.
So, what can you do? You can accept. 
You can love. Support one another and be part of the group that supports the LGBTQ+ 
community. You can be straight, cisgender 
and not struggle with a mental health condi-tion and still support those who cannot claim any of those things. You don’t have to be the same as another person to be there for them. 
You can be different and still be an advocate.
It may be uncomfortable. People may 
wonder why you care or why you’re ﬁ  ghting 
for a community you are not a part of. Here’s the thing: You’re ﬁ  ghting for a community 
you are a part of: humanity. Being gay or bi-
sexual does not make you less of a human. Being transgender does not make you less of a human. Discrimination, prejudice, violence 
and hatred does.
Be part of the group making the lives of 
those in the LGBTQ+ community easier, not 
harder. Be part of the group that not only says being who you are is OK, but that being 
who you are is good. Fight for the most basic 
right of the human race. Fight to let everyone be who they are.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focuses on 
mental health.
From the steam engine and automobile to 
electricity and the computer, dramatic 
paradigm shifts in society have coincid-ed with monumental leaps in technol-
ogy. Many predict the next leap will be 
artiﬁ  cial intelligence.
Up until now, almost all scientiﬁ  c break-
throughs have made the world a better place in the long run. Innovation is to improve qual-
ity of life, and people continue to work toward 
new innovations in the hopes of improving 
quality of life. Today, scientists have hit a cross-
roads where they have lost vision of the sole 
reason for scientiﬁ  c development. Although it 
is hard to believe in a time of sustained eco-
nomic growth and record-low unemployment, 
artiﬁ  cial intelligence has a strong possibility of 
disrupting our current way of life. The problem 
is not whether artiﬁ  cial intelligence is scientiﬁ  -
cally possible, but why scientists are trying to 
perfect artiﬁ  cial intelligence in the ﬁ  rst place.
Many have a false conception that job loss 
from artiﬁ  cial intelligence is limited to repeti-tive manufacturing jobs. According to a recent 
survey by 352 artiﬁ  cial intelligence experts, 
artiﬁ  cial intelligence will be able to do just about any job a human can within the next 40 years. Software and 
computers will evolve to the point where jobs in business, engineer-
ing and medicine will be performed by computing technology. Google 
has announced it has already pro-
grammed robots to write poetry.
Scientists have proved the point 
that they can artiﬁ  cially create a machine as intelligent as a human. 
But beyond the mere knowledge of knowing 
scientists are capable of creating such ma-
chines, society gains very little relative to the 
negative consequences that will come from ar-
tiﬁ  cial intelligence.
As a result of further automation, compa-
nies can save money and consumer products 
will be cheaper, but these minute advantages 
are irrelevant if people create a world where 
society can function without humans playing a leading role. From predicting what the fu-
ture may hold when people no longer have to 
work, some economists have even promoted 
the idea of a universal income, where every-
one receives a base salary. In fact, Finland is currently undergoing a two-year experiment of having a universal 
basic income.
In the frenzy and complexity of 
artiﬁ  cially intelligent technology, 
people have avoided questioning 
the real purpose of artiﬁ  cial intel-
ligence. Society would be heading in the wrong direction if most of 
the population no longer needed to 
work, losing the main purpose of an 
individual’s role in society since the beginning of modern civilization. Economists can begin 
arguing on how to best supply income to a 
world without work, but economists would be 
more helpful in explaining why society would 
even want a world without employment being 
commonplace. Furthermore, I’m not necessar-
ily sure people need poetry and best-selling 
novels written by robots. Increasing comput-
ing technology may have once increased qual-ity of life, but developments in artiﬁ  cial intel-
ligence are moving away from societal beneﬁ  ts 
and instead toward permanent drawbacks that 
emerge from scientiﬁ  c achievement.
Avoiding the development of artiﬁ  cial in-telligence may seem as avoiding progress, but 
there are other problems the world’s top minds 
can focus on: disease, poverty and maybe even hunger. In his book “The Industries of the Fu-
ture,” former Senior Advisor for Innovation Alec Ross argues we were promised decades 
ago that the world today would be cured of 
disease and ﬁ  lled with ﬂ  ying cars. Instead, in-novators have created watches that count foot-
steps and phones that speak back. Scientists 
should focus ﬁ  rst on the most pressing prob-
lems that face society and then decide how to 
scientiﬁ  cally approach effective solutions.
Technological development can improve 
quality of life. However, scientists are push-
ing society down the wrong track. The world 
should not avoid technology and development, 
but scientists and innovators must keep qual-
ity of life as the top priority when pushing the 
limits of what’s possible.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineer junior. His column focuses on sci-
ence.We should all be advocating for the LGBTQ+ community and their rights
Artiﬁ  cial intelligence may do more harm than good for our quality of lifeColumn
Column
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
The Alligator will not be publishing from 
Friday, April 27th
to Monday, May 14thATTENTION
Alligator  
Advertisers
Display 352-376-4482  • Classified 352-373-3463The deadline for Tuesday, May 15th is Thursday, 
May 10th by 4:00 p.m. for Display & Classified Ads
By Irfan Kovankaya
Alligator Contributing Writer
Conner Dowd’s grandfather 
served as a Navy pilot for 26 years 
and retired at the rank of captain, in-spiring his grandson to do the same. 
On Sunday, Dowd, a 21-year-old 
UF applied physiology and kinesiol-ogy junior and ROTC student, ran in and helped coordinate the 11th an-nual Fallen Heroes 5K to honor his 
grandfather and other veterans. 
The charity race raises money to 
support veterans and their families 
who need ﬁ  nancial help. All pro-ceeds go to the Gainesville Fisher House and the UDT-Seal Associa-tion, a nonproﬁ  t veteran service or-ganization. 
He said the race is about giv-
ing back to veterans because “they made the ultimate sacriﬁ  ce.”
The race raised a little more than 
$3,000, which came from donations, shirt sales and registration fees, said head organizer Hayden Pfefferkorn. 
The event was held at Depot 
Park for the ﬁ  rst time this year to attract UF students and Gainesville residents, as opposed to where it was previously held at the Com-muter Lot on campus. 
“(Military members) give their 
all so that we can have the freedom to pursue our dreams,” Pfefferkorn said. “Events like this are the least we can do to say thank you.” 
The race began at 8:30 a.m. and 
about 215 people raced around the Depot Park loop. 
The event honored UF alumni 
Navy Seal James Suh and Naval Special Warfare Ofﬁ  cer Thomas Fouke, Pfefferkorn said. Suh and Fouke passed away while serving in 2005 and 2012, respectively. 
Dowd said he has volunteered 
for the past two years but couldn’t run last year due to a foot injury. He almost wasn’t able to run this year after being rear-ended in a minor car accident and suffering some in-juries.
He placed third with a time of 
16:29. Isaac Gordon, 19, placed ﬁ  rst 
with a time of 16:04, and Nick Rud-
nik, 25, placed second at 16:28. 
“It’s giving back to the commu-
nity I’m about to go into and that’s always been something I’ve tried to do,” Dowd said.Annual 5K runs raises more than $3,000 for veterans
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
UF students Michael Larratt (center), an 18-year-old information systems sophomore, is ﬂ  anked by 
Joe Freda (left), a 21-year-old political science junior, and Beau Butler (right), a 20-year-old nuclear engineering sophomore, as they zoom past the ﬁ  nish line. Larratt said he wanted to help out the cause.
By Wyatt Schreiber
Alligator Contributing Writer
Six-legged beasts are tearing up under the 
bark of century-old trees in South Florida, 
causing the trees to collapse and die.
The beasts in question are dark brown and 
are measured in millimeters, typically ranging between 13 and 14 millimeters.
Termites living in colonies of more than 
one million feast on the ﬂ  esh of trees. Hol-lowed out, the wind can easily knock them 
down. Thomas Chouvenc, a UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences assistant pro-fessor of urban entomology, published a study in the March issue of Florida Entomologist 
about the Asian subterranean termite and the 
chaos it has brought to Fort Lauderdale.
Chouvenc and Jeremiah Foley, a 2017 UF 
entomology and nematology alumnus, walked through neighborhoods in Fort Lauderdale in March 2017 and stopped whenever they saw 
slash pine trees, Chouvenc said. After getting 
permission from the homeowners, they in-
spected the trees.
They noticed something strange.
The termites were not eating these trees from the inside like other tree species, like oak or maple, but they would consume it directly underneath the bark, Chouvenc said.
Foley wrote in an email that the infection 
caused by the termites prevents the roots from sending nutrients to the rest of the tree. As 
time passes, the tree can’t be sustained and 
dies.
“The pace at which these termites kill pine 
trees in an urban system is relatively quick,” Foley said.
Landowners have two options: guard their 
homes with insecticide or use termite bait. However, using insecticide doesn’t kill the en-tire colony, Chouvenc said.
Other trees, such as maple and oak, are 
also affected by the termite. With hurricane 
season starting June 1, termites’ appetite could 
cause more damage.
Of three fallen oak trees in Fort Lauderdale 
that Chouvenc and Foley observed from Hurri-cane Irma, all were hollowed out by the Asian subterranean termite. One was a 50-year-old 
oak tree measuring 1.5 meters in diameter that 
collapsed onto someone’s roof and car.
“We’re kind of worried because we’re los-
ing trees on a more regular basis,” Chouvenc said.UF researchers ﬁ  nd termites are killing South Florida treesBy Kayla Turner
Alligator Contributing Writer
Amy Carson is a teacher, but 
her classroom doesn’t have rows 
of desks facing a chalkboard or central air conditioning. She be-lieves nature is the ideal class-room.
Carson leads Tinkergarten 
in Gainesville. It’s a play-based learning program where groups of parents and children are en-couraged to play outdoors, ex-ploring the world around them through guided activities that teach core life skills. She teaches classes outdoors at Northeast Park and Jonesville Park.
Carson, a 38-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she led Tinkergarten classes in Texas for a year. But when she moved to Gainesville in July 2016, she realized the program wasn’t of-fered in the area, so she decided to create it.
The program began in Sep-
tember 2016. Since then, Carson said she has added two addition-al class leaders to the Gainesville staff and is in the process of training another.
“It’s hard for adults to see 
the learning that happens when kids are playing because that’s not the way that adults tend to learn,” Carson said.
The program is geared for 
children between the ages of 18 months to 8 years old because young kids develop best through play, not traditional classrooms at that age, Carson said. The ac-tivities vary from class to class and are tailored to the ages of the children in each class.
The weekly classes are sold in 
eight-week sessions at $160 per student. The classes have a max-imum enrollment of 12 students.
Tinkergarten classes take 
place outdoors at a local park in the area, Carson said. The spring session classes in Gainesville are taught at Northeast Park and Jonesville Park.
Nancy Caniff, a 45-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said her 4-year-old daughter Emme has flourished in Tinkergarten class-es since she has been enrolled for more than two years.
Caniff said her daughter is al-
ways excited for classes, which are just over an hour of outdoor time, songs, stories and friends.
On Sunday nights, Caniff asks 
her daughter, “Emme do you know what tomorrow is? It’s Monday.”
Emme will respond, “Tinker-
garten! After we sleep?” Caniff said.
“And she rushes to bed,” 
Caniff said. “It’s just her favor-ite.”
Caniff said she recalls a class 
when the teacher brought plas-tic figurines that were frozen in blocks of ice. The children used tools like buckets and shovels to uncover the hidden treasure. The activity encouraged the children to use critical thinking skills and execute a multi-step solution to the problem at hand.
“Every class has a pattern,” 
Caniff said. “You know what to expect — free play, introduc-tions, play, social circle. We re-group, have a snack and head out from there.”10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
By Daisha Peek
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Aaron Sandoval was examining a 
mouse’s foot muscle through a microscope in his research lab when he received an email that he won a $15,000 scholarship. 
“Honestly, I didn’t think I was going to 
win,” Sandoval said. “I was so excited.” 
The 19-year-old UF biology sophomore 
found out he won the The Barry Goldwa-ter Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation’s scholarship March 30. Anoth-
er UF student, Andrew Sack, a 21-year-old 
UF mathematics junior, was an honorable mention. Both students are in UF’s Honors Pro-gram. 
The Goldwater Foun-
dation gives scholarships to undergraduate sopho-mores and juniors pursu-ing research in science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics fields. According to Gold-water’s website, 211 students out of the 1,280 students who applied won scholar-ships, and 281 were named honorable men-
tions, who are recognized but don’t receive 
any money. The scholarship application included an 
online questionnaire, a research essay and three recommendation letters. 
Honors Program associate director Regan 
Garner said she was proud of Sandoval and Sack.
“The Goldwater Scholarship is one of the 
most prestigious undergraduate awards,” Garner said. “It speaks to the quality of not only our students, but our faculty.” 
Since 2008, 18 UF students have received 
the award and 17 have been named honor-able mentions. Garner said the Honors Pro-
gram gives students an advantage because 
it immerses them in research. For his application, Sandoval said he 
wrote about his research on cell regenera-tion.
Sack said he wrote about his research 
with math algorithms. This was the sec-ond year Sack applied for the scholarship, having not receiving anything the previous year. 
Although Sack didn’t win, he said he 
was happy to be recognized and looks for-ward to applying for similar opportunities for graduate school.
“It’s not the same as the scholarship,” 
Sack said. “But my parents and the Honors Program were happy.”
UF student receives $15,000 scholarship for STEM research  
Sandoval
Courtesy to The Alligator
Emme, 4, and her friend, Colton, drink hot blueberry tea during snack time at Northeast Park during Tinkergarten class. Tinkergarten is a play-based learning program where groups of parents and children are encouraged to play outdoors, exploring the world around them through guided activities that teach core life skills.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Thomas Emmel, 76, holds onto 13 specimens of the brown 
butterfly in his collection. After they were recovered about 60 years after his initial discovery, Emmel said he was surprised they were rediscovered. He said he hopes to discover more about the species.
Tinkergarten teaches problem-solving outside the classroomBy Hannah Maggiore
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thomas Emmel first stumbled 
upon the 2.25-inch-wide butterfly 
in March 1959 as a 17-year-old on 
an expedition in Mexico. The speci-
men was later stashed away in one 
of his collection drawers and forgot-
ten about. 
That was until last Fall, when 
Andrew Warren, a senior collec-tions manager at the UF McGuire Center for Lepidoptera & Biodi-
versity, found the specimens in a 
drawer. He noticed something odd about the species.
“He came running upstairs and 
asked, ‘What were you doing in March of 1959?’” Emmel, now 76, 
said. 
The butterfly species is soft 
brown on its upper side while its 
underside is marked with magenta 
stripes and silver dots. No other butterfly has the same design and colors, which makes scientists think it is a new species of butterfly, Em-mel said. When Warren discovered 
this, he chose to honor the butter-
fly by naming it Cyllopsis tomem-
meli, after Emmel, who discovered 
it about 60 years ago.
“I was very thrilled, it’s a great 
honor actually,” said Emmel, an af-
filiate professor and scientist at the 
McGuire Center.
Emmel said he was on the 1959 
expedition with ornithologist, or 
bird expert, L. Irby Davis to record 
Mexican bird songs in Chiapas, Mexico. They were driving through 
a pine forest south of San Cristobal 
de las Casas when their car needed 
mechanical repairs.
While staying an unexpected 
three or four nights in the area, Em-mel said he wandered around and 
found 45 butterfly species, includ-
ing the previously unknown spe-
cies.
Emmel said he had forgotten 
about the collection but had kept it when he came to UF in 1968. When 
the McGuire Center opened in 2004, Emmel moved his collection there.
Although Emmel said he couldn’t 
believe it took 60 years to find this 
butterfly, Warren wrote in an email 
that it is common to find new spe-cies of butterflies and other organ-
isms in museum collections.
“This discovery is an example of 
the importance of maintaining mu-
seum collections for researchers in 
the future,” Warren said.
For now, the specimens remain 
in the museum collection at the Mc-Guire Center. Warren said he hopes 
in the next 10 years, scientists will 
find the food and plants the cater-
pillars eat.
Emmel said he wants a special 
display for the butterfly to inform people that new discoveries can 
happen anywhere.
“New surprises come up, and 
it’s really amazing that materials 
collected 60 years ago can have great value,” Emmel said.UF scientist names, rediscovers butterfly found 60 years agoBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change
$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
2 male Grad students seek amale roommate who is clean &studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,own bed/bath, on bus stopclose to UF. Pool, hot tub,tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
5-15-18-21-2
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 4/16- 4/19 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.       4-16-18-4-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Sounds showing
revelation
4 Actress Winger
9 Beer, casually
13 Speedy shark
15 Bars between
wheels
16 Travel aimlessly
17 Angling method
using hand-tied
lures
19 Bar orders
20 City recaptured
from ISIL by Iraq
in 2017
21 Sincerely23 Hunk of concrete
25 Tic-tac-toe
diagram
26 Memorization
technique
29 One doing the
Electric Slide, e.g.
34 Brian of ambient
music
35 DDE’s WWII
command
36 Renter’s
document
37 Stinging
comment
39 Complains42 Like the Magi43 What the
beverage cart
blocks
45 Sellout letters
46 Brit. pilots’ squad47 Hamburger meat50 Beach or
Backstreetfollower, in music
51 At any point
52 Subway charge54 Mark McGwire
rival
58 IHOP handouts
62 Furthermore63 Beatles’ Shea
Stadium
performance, e.g.
65 Casino card
game
66 Steinbeck
migrants
67 Jekyll’s alter ego68 Little League
airer
69 Nervous70 One of an
inning’s three,which can followthe first word of17-, 29-, 47- and63-AcrossDOWN
1 Bedside toggle
switch
2 Angel’s overhead
circle
3 “The __ the limit!”
4 Prosecutors:
Abbr.
5 Prosecutor’s first
piece of evidence
6 Russian pancake
7 Back out
8 Home of primary
30-Down gods
9 Fresh from the
factory
10 Part in a play
11 Nights before12 __ Virginia
14 Handy
18 Down with the flu
22 Yemeni money
24 Knighted
Guinness
26 Pack again, as
groceries
27 “We’re live!”
studio sign
28 Human trunk30 Like Odin and
Thor
31 Egypt’s capital
32 Op-ed piece, say
33 Often submerged
shipping dangers38 Lunar symbol 
for a very long
time
40 Books’ opening
sections
41 Couch
44 Green-eyed
monster
48 Absolute ruler
49 Actress Shields50 Tree that sounds
like a summervacation spot53 Pres. pardoned
by Ford
54 Jewelry protector55 “Sadly ... ”
56 Car sticker fig.
57 Whirl around59 “So Sick” R&B
artist
60 Pakistani
language
61 “Cancel that
deletion”
64 Sugar suffix
By Jake Braun©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/16/1804/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, April 16, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Meager, stingy
1.  Unsettled5.  First Greek letter 
2.  Discredit, accuse6.  Church platform
3.  Cheese ____7.  Craving for liquid
4.  Top ____MSPKIY
ANESKHPAALH
TRALA
PHAIMCE
TTRPLEASHIRTT
RCSTEEANSWERS: 1A-Skimpy  5A-Alpha  6A-Altar  7A-Thirst
1D-Shaken  2D-Impeach  3D-Platter  4D-Secret  B-Himalayas4-16-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ are inhabited by about 53 million
people and spread across five countries.
BONUS1. Who are the three official Mon-
treal Expos in the Baseball Hall of 
Fame?
2. How many times did Hall of Fam-
er Steve Carlton win at least 20 games 
in a season for the Philadelphia Phil-lies?
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that the Temple Owls football 
team won a conference champion-ship?
4. Golden State’s Stephen Curry set 
a record in 2016 for most 3-pointers in a game (13). Who had held the mark of 12?
5. Who holds the NHL record for 
most consecutive games played?
6. Which two soccer greats have 
won the Ballon d’Or award as soc-cer’s best player five times each?
7. Name any of the three horses 
trained by Bob Baffert that won the Breeders’ Cup Classic between 2014 
and 2016. 
Answers
1. Gary Carter, Andre Dawson and 
Tim Raines.
2. Five times — 1972, ‘76, ‘77, ‘80 
and ‘82.
3. It was 1967.
4. Kobe Bryant (2003), Donyell 
Marshall (2005) and Curry (2016).
5. Doug Jarvis, with 964 consecu-
tive games played.
6. Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel 
Messi.
7. Bayern, 2014; American Pharoah, 
2015; Arrogate, 2016.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
April 16, 2018King Features Weekly Service19 Connections
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.21 Entertainment 24 Pets
ACROSS
1 Many a tax filer’s
need: Abbr.
4 It’s a lock
8 Half-Blood Prince
of fiction
13 Showed emotion16 Fifth canonical
hour
17 Try18 Rarely a problem
for happy-go-lucky types
19 Clematis
supports
20 Roger who
played the U.K.
ambassador on
“The West Wing”
21 Published in
installments
22 Impressive
dismount
25 Pacific resort,
popularly
27 “Good heavens!”
28 Typographic
measure
31 Had in view33 Guard
attachment?
34 Endangered
chimpanzees
36 Potential38 Rickman who
played 8-Across
39 Letters at the top
of a window
41 Grenoble green42 Many an
Egyptianpharaoh
44 Historic Italian
family
46 Menu type48 Spaced53 Bad salt
container?
54 Medium access?56 Half a comedy
duo
57 Waze forerunner58 One might be
picky
59 “Okay, back to
work”
60 Reunion
attendees
61 Offend, in a way62 Terse street signDOWN
1 Certain NCOs
2 English
subdivision
3 When some
things will
change?
4 How to get to
Carnegie Hall,perhaps
5 Fifth-century
Roman Empireenemy
6 Black and Red
7 Shoulder-length
do
8 Like a comment
that may elicit
“Oh, snap!”
9 “I’m good,
thanks”
10 Bow tie
alternative
11 Eeyore, for one12 Contractor’s no.
14 Brat’s place
15 Sub or Santa
follower
23 Nav. rank24 TV Marine26 With 51-Down,
tops28 Focus of some
climate change
concerns
29 Female lover30 Plotted together32 “House” actor34 Avon product?35 Extremely37 Viking 
accessory
40 “Got it” on the
radio43 Ellery Queen and
Raven awards,e.g.
45 Camp craft47 District49 Resort near
Snowbird
50 Gases (up)51 See 26-Down52 Canvas primer55 Thames gallery56 Eldest March sister
By Robyn Weintraub
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/14/1804/14/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, April 14, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols LewisLed by sophomore Andy 
Zhang's final score of 1 over, the Florida men's golf team finished in fourth place at the Mason Rudolph Championship on Sunday.HORFORD LEADS CELTICS TO GAME 1 VICTORY
Former Florida forward Al Horford scored a team-high 24 points in Boston's 
113-107 victory over Milwaukee on Sunday. The Celtics lead the Bucks 1-0 
in the seven-game,  first-round series and will play again at the TD Garden on Tuesday.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Philadelphia has seen 
enough sports suc-
cess in the past four 
months to last a de-cade.
To start it off, the Eagles 
won their first Super Bowl in February and turned the entire 
city into a madhouse. Then, 
the Villanova men’s basketball team secured its second na-
tional championship in three years earlier 
this month and kept the party alive. Now, the Flyers are playing in the NHL playoffs 
again after missing the cut last season.
But perhaps the most impressive Phila-
delphia sports success story this year is the remarkable reversal of fortune for the 
Philadelphia 76ers. It seems like yesterday that fans in Wells Fargo Center replaced 
their red, white and blue jerseys with 
brown bags over their heads, hiding from the third-worst regular season performance in NBA history. In the three seasons before this year’s 52-
win outburst, the 76ers were 
utterly horrible, losing 190 of 246 games.
Cue rookie sensation Ben 
Simmons, seven-foot monster Joel Embiid and their mighty 
“Trust the Process” campaign. 
After sitting out his true-rookie season last year due to a foot 
injury, Simmons took charge of a flounder-ing franchise and led it to the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference.
Embiid has been crucial to the 76ers’ 
success as well, averaging a double-double with 22.9 points and 11 rebounds per game 
this season. But on March 28, Embiid suf-
fered a facial fracture and missed the latter half of a 16-game winning streak the 76ers 
rode into the postseason.
In those eight games without Embiid, The NBA playoffs are here and Ben 
Simmons is ready to rock the nationOff Brandt / Opinion
Benjamin Brandt
Twitter: @bhb1227
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer
It’s so hard to choose. 
With the way Florida’s baseball team has 
played so far in 2018, it’s difficult to single out 
a handful of players who merit the title “top per-
formers.” There are just too many. 
Especially after this weekend, when the No. 
1 Gators (32-6, 12-3 SEC) swept the Missouri Ti-gers to further swell their conference record. Es-pecially when UF has won 13 of its last 14 games. 
But Saturday’s win over Missouri marked the 
halfway point of the team’s conference slate, so 
it’s worth taking a look at which players among 
the ones excelling are excelling the most. 
“To be 12-3 halfway through,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said, “obviously you’ve gotta be pleased with where you’re at.”
But who has helped the team get there the 
most? Here’s a look at two pitchers and two posi-tion players who are leading the Gators. 
Closer Michael ByrneDespite boasting a weekend rotation with 
three potential first-round MLB draft picks, By-rne, a junior from Orlando, has been UF’s most consistent — and perhaps most dangerous — 
weapon on the mound. 
He doesn’t overpower anyone with a fastball 
that tops out in the low 90s, and he doesn’t have 
much pitch variety. But what he does have is near-robotic control. 
In 32 innings this season, Byrne has walked 
two hitters and struck out 34. His ERA of 0.84 leads the Gators and places him sixth in the SEC 
among pitchers with at least 10 innings tossed. 
His numbers aren’t as remarkable in confer-
ence play — he has a 1.84 ERA — but they're still 
the best on the team.Assessing UF's top performers 
halfway through SEC play
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The uncertainty surrounding 
Florida’s quarterback situation is al-
most as murky as Jim McElwain’s 
prospects of ever landing another 
head coaching job.
While fans hoped a leader in the 
quarterback race would reveal him-self during the Gators’ Orange and 
Blue Game on Saturday, there still isn’t clear-cut favorite for the start-
ing position come September.
The three likely candidates — 
Feleipe Franks, Kyle Trask and Em-ory Jones — each had their shining 
moment but also had some plays 
they wish they could have back. 
Here’s a look at how each one did in 
the spring game.
Feleipe FranksWhile Franks failed to throw a le-
gitimate touchdown on Saturday — he threw a 60-yard bomb to former 
Gator Travis McGriff late in the sec-ond quarter — he did run for two.
The first was on a 60-yard dash 
where he broke through the grasp of the Blue team’s defenders at the 
line of scrimmage. The second came 
at the goal line, where Franks faked a hand-off to running back Lamical Perine and ran it in himself.Aside from his production on 
the ground, Franks had the highest completion rate of the three quar-terbacks. He finished the game con-necting on 8-of-12 passes for 117 
yards. 
But as good as his numbers were, 
when Franks did miss a pass, it was 
usually due to poor judgement.
On one play, receiver Van Jeffer-
son was wide open on the right side 
of the field. Franks noticed him a bit 
too late but threw the ball anyway. 
By that time, defensive back Dono-
van Stiner had caught up to Jeffer-son and broke up the pass.
Franks is the only quarterback 
on the roster to have appeared in a 
college game before and has been 
using that experience to help further 
his play.
“I think that’s one of the things 
that has made it easier for me this spring is just being more comfort-
able,” Franks said. “Just being com-fortable in the pocket.”
Kyle Trask
Trask’s throwing ability was on 
full display on Saturday.
Midway through the second 
quarter at the 26-yard line, the red-
shirt sophomore threw a 19-yard bullet to wide receiver Rick Wells Orange and Blue Game leaves quarterback situation unclear
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks went 8 of 12 for 117 yards and recorded two rushing touchdowns 
during UF's Orange and Blue Game on Saturday. Franks is fighting to retain his starting role in 2018 .
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
There’s a reason that the Gators lacrosse 
team was a unanimous pick to win the Big 
East during the preseason: It hasn’t lost a conference game since 2015.
No. 9 Florida (11-3, 6-0 Big East) is the 
only ranked team in the conference, and aside from a close call in its league opener against Vanderbilt when it won 11-10, Big East play has been a breeze for the Gators. Of the six conference games the team has played this spring, it forced a running clock in four of them.
The vast gap between Florida and the 
rest of the Big East field was on full display in UF’s 18-6 beatdown of Marquette on Sat-urday.
The Eagles (9-5, 5-1 Big East) entered 
the game tied for the lead in the conference standings, but once again, the Gators left no doubt that they were the better team.
In similar games this season, Florida 
has taken advantage of every opportunity to rest starters and give its bench a chance to show what it can do. So far, the results have been impressive. Against Marquette, UF’s reserves scored four goals.
“It’s a long week ahead so it was good 
for some starters to get a break,” Gators coach Amanda O’Leary said in a release. “But it is also good to see some players who typically don’t get in and see what they can do.”Freshman midfielder Eddy Shoop, who 
hadn’t scored a goal all season heading into the team’s matchup against Temple on April 4, has found the back of the net in each of Florida’s past three games.
Sophomore attacker 
Madisyn Kittell burst 
onto the scene in the 
Gators’ overtime victory 
over Loyola on February 
25, scoring two critical 
goals late in the game. 
She scored two goals 
in the subsequent win 
over Jacksonville before being held score-less over the next three games.
However, since the team began confer-
ence play, she has scored seven goals in 
seven games, including two-goal perfor-
mances against Villanova and Towson.
With only three games remaining in the 
regular season for Florida, the experience gained by players that don’t normally see 
the field should prove valuable in the post-
season.
With their conference winning streak 
now at 28, the Gators will travel to Cin-cinnati to take on the Bearcats at noon on 
Wednesday.
Florida has won five straight games and 
will look to continue its strong finish to the season.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgFlorida’s bench shining 
during conference playMEN’S TENNIS
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
As fans filed out of the Ring Tennis Com-
plex on Friday for the last time this season, 
senior Chase Perez-Blanco, along with fellow seniors Jordan Belga and Josh Wardell, stayed on the court.
With their arms wrapped around each 
other, the three teammates looked up at the scoreboard, which read 7-0 over Alabama, and reflected on their careers at the University of Florida.
“During the match, I tried not to think 
about it too much,” Perez-Blanco said. “I knew the nerves would come in, and I would get in my own head.”
Even though postseason play is right 
around the corner, the senior knew what Fri-day’s match against the Crimson Tide meant: It was the last time he would play in the Ring Tennis Complex as a Gator.
“I wouldn’t change a thing,” Perez-Blanco 
said. “It’s just been the best four years.”
No one can blame him for not wanting to 
change anything about his career. From the start, the team knew he was something spe-cial.
Perez-Blanco was exceptional his freshman 
year, sporting a 25-11 overall singles record and winning two SEC Freshman of the Week honors along with being named to the SEC All-Freshman Team.
As a sophomore, he won a career-high 16 
dual matches and 30 overall singles victories.Perez-Blanco has continued to improve ev-
ery year at UF, and it culminated in a top-10 winningest career at the school.
With the dramatic 2-6, 7-6, 10-7 win on Fri-
day over Alabama’s Edson Ortiz, the Miami native won his 91st career singles match. Per-ez-Blanco is now only three wins away from 
ninth on the all-time list.
“We’ve had some great players walk 
through these doors,” coach Bryan Shelton 
said. “For (Perez-Blanco) to be among them, 
it really shows how much he has accom-
plished here.”
The senior also has 180 career wins in 
singles and doubles combined, which ranks eighth all-time at UF. He is one win away from 
moving into a tie for sixth all-time with former Gators Elliott Orkin and Greg Ouellette.
Playing alongside doubles partner Oliver 
Crawford, that mark isn’t far out of reach. The 
two players have won their last six doubles 
matches together, with the previous two in dramatic, come-from-behind duels to clinch 
the doubles point for Florida.
Shelton said Perez-Blanco has come into 
his role as a vocal leader for the team, and his confidence on the court is a big reason why he 
can come back in matches the way he does.
The senior will have more chances to climb 
the win ladder when the Gators return to play 
on April 27 for the SEC tournament.
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgPerez-Blanco reflects on career 
after regular-season finaleSOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
Despite being entrenched in a battle 
for position atop the SEC standings, 
No. 6 Florida and No. 11 South Caro-lina took the field on Saturday united in support of one cause.
For the third consecutive season, UF 
hosted the “Yellow Game,” a display of support for those affected by pediatric cancer. 
Both teams wore bright yellow hats 
with accompanying sunflowers and yellow ribbons in their hair. 
Just before the first game of Satur-
day’s doubleheader, the Gators and 
Gamecocks lined the infield to cheer on 
an inspirational young man. 
William Collett threw out the day’s 
first pitch. Eleven months ago he was 
diagnosed with leukemia and is active-
ly receiving treatment at Shands Chil-
dren’s Hospital.
“It’s not just one team against can-
cer. It’s everyone,” UF pitcher Kelly 
Barnhill said. “Just seeing William 
come out and throw the first pitch — 
these kids have so much fight in them. 
We want to show that we’re supporting them.”
Thomas Collett, William’s father 
and a radio broadcaster with the Gator 
IMG Sports Network, posted a video on 
Twitter of his son heaving the softball into the mitt of senior catcher Janell Wheaton. William was also surprised with a softball signed by the entire team and a Florida batting helmet. 
In return, William gave every play-
er and coach a yellow bracelet, which reads “Pray For William.”
Third baseman Nicole DeWitt, who 
hit a walk-off home run in the sec-ond game of Saturday’s doubleheader against the Gamecocks, reacted to the video on Twitter. 
“It’s so amazing that this sport can 
bring awareness to pediatric cancer!” DeWitt tweeted. “William, you are awesome and will be with the Gators for the rest of our season!”
UF also recognized Heather Bras-
well, an honorary member of the team from 2009 until 2014 when she passed away due to brain cancer.
A yellow “HB” was scripted into 
clay down the left-field foul line with the Braswell family in attendance. 
“I wasn’t able to know (Heather),” 
senior pitcher Aleshia Ocasio said. “But the tradition that she carries and the meaning that this yellow day and the sunflower (holds)… it is so amaz-ing that we can reach out to so many people and spread awareness.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgUF supports pediatric cancer awareness during doubleheader
Alligator File Photo
Nicole DeWitt tweeted her support for William Collett, a boy with leukemia, on Saturday night after UF honored him during a pregame ceremony. “William, you are awesome, ” DeWitt wrote.
Kittell
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 16, 2018
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.Simmons shined like a seasoned 
superstar. He recorded two of his 
season-total 12 triple-double perfor-
mances, including a 27-point, 15-re-
bound, 13-assist outing against the 
Cleveland Cavaliers on April 6.
Simmons played in his ﬁ  rst-ever 
playoff game on Saturday night and remained unshaken by the atmo-sphere. The 76ers pounded the Mi-
ami Heat 130-103 behind Simmons’ 
17 points and 14 assists.
More impressive than his ﬂ  ashy 
numbers across the stat sheet — re-semblant of point guard greats such as Magic Johnson and Oscar Robert-
son — is Simmons’ unfaltering ma-
turity and leadership at 21 years old.
With Embiid injured, the next 
youngest starter is three years Sim-mons’ senior. But still, Simmons is the designated playmaker and the 
man always in control. Compared 
to the oddities of 2017 No. 1 draft pick Markelle Fultz’s rookie year 
and the quiet debut of the Los An-
geles Lakers’ Lonzo Ball, Simmons’ conﬁ  dence is in the clouds.
Philadelphia looks better than it 
has since the days of Allen Iverson at the turn of the century, making 
the Eastern Conference much more 
than just Lebron James’ personal playground.
Don’t be surprised if Simmons 
and the Sixers make quick work of the ﬁ  rst two rounds of competition 
and threaten to send James home 
before the Finals for the ﬁ  rst time in almost a decade.
Ben Brandt is a sports writer. 
Contact him at bbrandt@alligator.
org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14Reliever Jordan Butler
You probably imagined Brady 
Singer or Jackson Kowar ﬁ  lling in 
this spot. Both are solid choices, and both have eerily similar num-bers, which made it hard to choose. 
But it was always anticipated 
that Singer and Kowar would fulﬁ  ll their lofty expectations, and so far, they have. Freshman lefty Jordan Butler was a complete unknown 
outside the program entering the 
season, and he’s now ﬁ  lled a role that O’Sullivan was concerned about when the season started. For that, he gets the nod. 
Butler is third on the team with 
a 2.38 ERA, and he’s thrown more 
than twice as many innings as sec-
ond-place Andrew Baker. His num-
bers in SEC play are even more im-
pressive, with zero earned runs, 14 
strikeouts, four walks and four hits allowed in 11.1 innings. 
O’Sullivan said that entering the 
season, he wasn’t sure who was 
going to bridge the gap from Sing-
er, Kowar and fellow starter Tyler Dyson to Byrne. He didn’t have an established eighth-inning guy. 
Butler has become that guy. “He’s a very big part of our 
team,” catcher JJ Schwarz said. 
Third baseman Jonathan In-
dia 
It’s impossible to leave India off 
this list. 
His .436 batting average leads 
the SEC, and so does his slugging percentage, on-base percentage 
and runs scored. 
His average would set a new UF 
single-season record if the season 
ended today, and he’s carrying a 23-game hitting streak. Like Butler, he’s only gotten better in confer-ence play. 
He’s hitting .509 in the SEC, and 
teams have made a habit of inten-
tionally walking him. That speaks 
to how feared he has become as 
well as to how inﬂ  uential he has been for the Gators during their successful run. 
Shortstop Deacon Liput Wil Dalton, Nick Horvath, Aus-
tin Langworthy and Schwarz could have ﬁ  lled this spot just as well, but because of how he’s excelled 
after a slow start, the nod goes to 
Liput. 
Florida’s shortstop opened the 
year suspended, but since he’s returned to the lineup — often in 
the leadoff spot — he’s hitting .301 
with 20 RBIs. Had he played during his suspension, those RBI numbers would put him on pace for 30 runs driven in. That would place him second on the team to Dalton. 
His return to the lineup also 
ﬁ  lled a major hole for the Gators. UF hadn’t ﬁ  gured out what to do with shortstop, trying out true freshman Brady McConnell as well as sliding India over from third base and leaving freshman Brady Smith at the hot corner. 
McConnell and Smith have hit 
.143 and .267 this season, respec-
tively, so keeping them on the 
bench and solidifying an already potent lineup with Liput at short-stop has been a major boost for Florida’s offense. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgLiput is hitting .301 and has 20 RBIs
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Jonathan India's .436 batting average leads the SEC. He also leads the 
conference in slugging percentage, on-base percentage and runs scored.
that resembled a dart ﬁ  nding a 
bullseye. That pass set up a 7-yard 
touchdown run by Jordan Scarlett 
the next play.
Throws like that came often for 
Trask, who ended the day with the most completions of any quar-terback. He went 12 for 24 on the 
day and threw for a team-high 178 
yards. He also didn’t throw a legiti-mate touchdown — same situation 
as Franks. 
While his throws looked the 
best of the three quarterbacks due to the zip he had as he released the 
ball, his inexperience showed on Saturday. He overthrew receivers 
at times and almost tossed multiple interceptions.
Despite his struggles with ac-
curacy, Trask believes his perfor-mance could be enough to earn him 
the starting role.
“I feel like I showed a lot more 
maturity at the quarterback posi-tion with my hard work and deter-mination to get better,” Trask said.
Emory JonesToward the end of the ﬁ  rst half, 
fans got their ﬁ  rst look at Jones, one 
of the biggest recruits in the Gators’ 
2018 freshman class.
The performance that ensued 
was the textbook deﬁ  nition of in-consistent.
Jones had his moments, like a 
58-yard touchdown pass to tight end R.J. Raymond in the second quarter and a 19-yard touchdown pass to tight end Kemore Gamble in 
the third quarter.
He also had some plays that 
showed just how much he needs to learn. Jones threw the only in-
terception of the game, a ball that was tipped at the line of scrimmage and fell into the hands of walk-on 
linebacker Jahim Lawrence.
At the end of the day, Jones 
had the most passing touchdowns of any quarterback that played. 
His accuracy, however, wasn’t as 
strong. He ﬁ  nished going 3 for 7 for 
93 yards.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14BASEBALL,  from pg. 14
Trask went 12 for 24 with 178 yards 