We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
The Alligator will have a new general manager
He’ll be the third to hold the position in 71 years, pg. 10
Tom Petty gets a park
On the late rock star’s birthday celebration, the city held the of-
ﬁ  cial naming ceremony, pg. 4Historical implications of UF-UGA
The winner of the Florida-Georgia game has usually gone on to 
the SEC Championship. This year may mean a little more, pg. 17MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 26
Ballot guide:
Here are the candidates running for oﬃ   ce 
statewide and locally:
Florida Governor:
Ron DeSantis
Andrew Gillum
United States Senator
Rick Scott
Bill Nelson
U.S. Representative District 3
Yvonne Hayes Hinson
T ed Yoho
State Senate District 8
Kayser Enneking
Keith Perry
State Representative District 10
Chuck Brannan
Ronald Williams II
State Representative District 21
Chuck Clemons
Jason Lee Haeseler
County Commission District 2
Marihelen Haddock Wheeler
Scott Costello
School Board District 1
Gunnar Paulson
April Barefoot Tisher 
County Judge
Craig DeThomasis
Meshon Rawls
In addition to candidates, there are 12 state 
constitutional amendments and two referendums for 
Alachua County on the ballot: 
Amendment 1: Increased Homestead Property Tax Exemption 
Amendment 2: Limitations on Property Tax Assessments
Amendment 3: Voter Control on Gambling in Florida 
Amendment 4: Voting Restoration Amendment
Amendment 5: Supermajority Vote Required to Impose, 
Authorize or Raise State Taxes or Fees
Amendment 6: Rights of Crime Victims; Judges
Amendment 7: First Responder and Military Member 
Survivor Benefits; Public Colleges and Universities
Amendment 9: Prohibits Offshore Oil and Gas Drilling; 
Prohibits Vaping in Enclosed Indoor Workplaces
Amendment 10: State and Local Government Structure and 
Operation
Amendment 11: Property Rights; Removal of Obsolete 
Provision; Criminal Statutes
Amendment 12: Lobbying and Abuse of Office by Public 
Officers
Amendment 13: Ends Dog Racing
County Referendums:
Children’s Trust of Alachua County - Authority to Levy One-
Half Mill Ad Valorem Taxes
Half-Cent Sales Surtax to Improve School Facilities
Municipal Referendums:
Creation of the Gainesville Regional Utilities Authority
City of Gainesville Charter Amendment City Commission 
Elections and Terms of Oﬃ   ce
Visit page 10 for more informationBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
The ﬁ  ght to get early voting on Florida 
campuses lasted longer than Megan New-
some’s undergraduate career.
The 22-year-
old astrophysics 
researcher said 
she’ll be at the 
Reitz Union to 
cast her ballot 
during early vot-
ing this election. Anyone registered to vote 
in Alachua County can vote in Room G-50, 
next to the hotel entrance, starting at 9 a.m. today.
“A lot of students didn’t know why we 
were ﬁ  ghting for so long,” Newsome said. 
“All the work was worthwhile.”
Newsome and other members of UF Vote 
Everywhere, a group aimed to increase vot-
er turnout, spent four years reaching out to 
politicians like the Florida Secretary of State 
Ken Detzner and State Rep. Chuck Clemons 
for support. They were met with rejection 
every time, Newsome said.
Newsome and Jaime Roy, another Vote 
Everywhere ambassador, ﬁ  led the lawsuit 
in May with the Florida League of Women 
Voters and the Andrew Goodman Founda-
tion, which funds Vote Everywhere.A judge’s injunction in July allowed for 
on-campus early voting locations for the 
2018 midterm elections, Newsome said. 
“You don’t have voting rights without 
voting access,” she said.
TJ Pyche, the Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections spokesperson, said the poll-
ing station costs a total of $35,416 to run.
The on-campus location is an opportu-
nity for people to vote in between work and 
classes, Pyche said.
“The goal is to make sure that everyone 
who is eligible to vote does vote,” he said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.org
ABOUT 5,000 PEOPLE CAME TO 
THE FESTIVAL.
By Lindsey Breneman
Alligator Staff Writer
Clea DuBrawl rolled down University 
Avenue alongside a pack of about 20 roller 
derby skaters gripping pride ﬂ  ags Saturday 
afternoon. DuBrawl, 29, who goes by Ashley Flat-
tery outside of the roller rink, came to the 
annual Gainesville Pride Festival and Pa-
rade with the Gainesville Roller Rebels. 
The group tore through the street on 
their skates while holding a banner that 
read “GRR’s got Pride.” 
Hundreds of people donning rainbow 
attire marched downtown at noon during 
the parade, which was hosted by the Pride 
Community Center of North Central Flori-da. About 5,000 people attended the festival 
throughout the day, said Terry Fleming, the 
center’s co-president. 
The Gainesville Roller Rebels participate 
in the festival every year because many 
of the team members are in the LGBTQ+ 
community, Flattery said.
“Pride’s about having a really cool com-
munity like our roller derby team,” she said.Reitz Union opens for early voting
Gainesville shows its Pride during annual festivalELECTION  
COVERAGE
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Seven-year-old Elizabeth Poe, daughter of Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, sits on a parade ﬂ  oat Saturday afternoon during the 
the Gainesville Pride Parade. “Pride gets bigger and better and more celebratory every year, ” Lauren Poe said.
SEE PRIDE,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
HIGH  82° LOW 61°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
My Fulbright in 7 Minutes
The UF Fulbright Program 
will host “My Fulbright in 7 
Minutes” from 5:30 to 7:30 
p.m. Thursday at the UF 
International Center in the 
Hub. Guests can learn about 
Fulbright grants and network 
with U.S. and international 
Fulbright participants. These 
seven-minute presentations 
are concise and fast-paced. 
They are titled: “From Legend 
to Science: Geomicrobiology 
of the Fountain of Youth” 
by Adrian Barry Sosa, 
“Regenerative Medicine – From 
Tail-regenerating Lizards to 
Organ-regenerating Humans?” 
by Ruxandra Sava and “Heat 
Stress and Fertility: The 
Answer from Cows” by Ali 
Husnain. Light refreshments 
will be served. To RSVP, email 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com. 
The event is free and open to 
the public. For more informa-
tion, contact mcardec@ufic.
ufl.edu.
GatorNights - Friday Night Frights
GatorNights will have a haunt-
ed house and a costume con-
test this Friday. There will 
also be a tarot card station, 
Halloween games and ice 
cream. A spooky scavenger 
hunt will take place around 
the Reitz Union. “Hereditary” 
will be shown at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium, where popcorn 
and soda will be offered. 
GatorNights is always Friday 
and always free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card 
from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the 
Reitz Union. Guests must be 
current students to participate 
and can bring one guest.
Bicycle Ride to support Breast 
Cancer Research, Oct. 28
The Pink Pumpkin Pedal-Off is 
a charity bicycle ride to raise 
funds to support local research 
on treatment-resistant breast 
cancers. Ride distances are 10, 
22, 40 or 62.5 miles. All rides 
begin and end at the Cancer 
and Genetics Research Center 
at UF. Register at pinkpump-
kinpedaloff.org. 
Girls Who Code
Girls Who Code Gainesville is officially up and running 
for the 2018-19 school year. 
This nonprofit organization is 
geared toward closing the gen-
der gap in technology careers 
and encouraging young girls 
to pursue computer science 
and related interests. The new 
Gainesville chapter is looking 
to register more girls, grades six 
through 12, to take part in this 
free after-school activity which 
will be held from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. Thursdays at the Alachua 
County Headquarters Library. 
Three female UF affiliates 
run the citywide club: Natalie 
Remon, a graduate student in 
information systems and oper-
ations management; Gabriela 
Buraglia, an undergraduate 
student studying industrial 
and systems engineering; 
and Lauren Laboissonniere, 
a postdoctoral researcher at 
the Department of Molecular 
Genetics and Microbiology. 
Young women who are inter-
ested in computers or gener-
ally curious about technology 
can visit the organization’s 
Facebook page at facebook.
com/GWCGainesville. No pre-
vious experience is required. 
All genders are welcome.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of individuals 
who desire to recover from 
eating disorders. If you feel 
guilty about eating, are at 
times unable to start or stop 
eating even when you want 
to, or if you feel disgusted or 
powerless over your eating, 
this group may be for you. 
Everyone is welcome regard-
less of age. For times, locations 
or more information, please 
email GainesvilleEDA@gmail.
com or text/call 954-319-6365. 
You can also visit www.4EDA.
org for more information. 
 
Apply Now for 2019-20 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, 
complete the Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid at faf-
sa.ed.gov. Students can now 
file a 2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of students’ 2019-
20 FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. Apply before 
Dec. 15 to ensure that the fed-
eral processor has time to ana-
lyze and send the results of the FAFSA to UF Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is award-
ed on a first-come, first-served 
basis, so it is recommended to 
apply as early as possible to be 
considered for the most aid. 
The 2019-20 FAFSA will be 
available on a new phone app 
called myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD 
Turkey to reveal details of probe 
into Khashoggi's killing
ISTANBUL (AP) — In a sign 
of growing pressure on Saudi 
Arabia, Turkey said it will 
announce details of its in-
vestigation into the killing of 
journalist Jamal Khashoggi on 
Tuesday and U.S. congressio-
nal leaders said the Gulf king-
dom — in particular its crown 
prince — should face severe 
consequences for the death of 
the writer in the Saudi consul-
ate in Istanbul. 
Dozens hurt in floor collapse at 
S. Carolina condo party
CLEMSON, S.C. (AP) — The 
floor of a condominium club-
house near Clemson University 
collapsed during a large pri-
vate party early Sunday, hur-
tling dozens of people into the 
basement, authorities said.
 About 30 people were 
taken to local hospitals after 
the center of the floor caved 
in at the clubhouse near the 
South Carolina university. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 26
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Samantha MarshallJuan Salguero, Paige Arneson,Marlowe Starling, Lourdes Hernandez,
Madison ForbisMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
www.stfbla w.com/hazing
Nation wide pr actice / O ﬃce: M iami, F lorida
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Courtesy to The Alligator
The 3D art mural at the wall behind the Florida Theatre on West University Avenue was revealed 
Sunday afternoon. It cost about $10,000 to pay for the materials and artist’s travel from Greece. 
Gainesville Police closed University Av-
enue from the intersection of Southwest Sev-
enth Street to Southeast First Street until the 
parade ended at about 1 p.m. The sidewalk 
was lined with cheering spectators while 
more people spilled out of University Club 
across the street.
The Pride Community Center hosts the 
event with the help of the City of Gainesville 
Department of Cultural Affairs, Fleming said. 
The center, which offers HIV testing 
programs and transgender youth support 
groups, led the parade. Groups including the 
Gainesville chapter of Moms Demand Ac-
tion for Gun Sense in America and the Ala-
chua County Faith Leadership Alliance also 
marched. 
The Wells Fargo stagecoach was pulled 
by four horses as the parade’s ﬁ  nale.
“Pride is about community. That’s the 
most important thing,” Fleming said. “It’s 
about coming together in unity and happi-
ness and then having pride.”
The Sisterhood of Perpetual Indulgence 
made its Gainesville debut this year. Con-
cealing their identities with white face make-
up and nun-inspired outﬁ  ts, the members of the group provided outreach to the LGBTQ+ 
community at the start of the AIDs epidemic, 
said Sister Dominique Mascara Top.
“Pride is the ultimate expression of who 
you are as a person,” said Sister Patience 
Fussy Bottom. “It’s the period of time when 
you can be unabashedly yourself and be fear-
less, even if you can’t in your everyday life.”
Vendors and groups set up tents on Bo 
Diddley Plaza to sell books, local honey, cof-
fee and spiritual card readings until the fes-
tival ended at 9 p.m. Musical performances 
were scattered throughout the afternoon, in-
cluding the Tallahassee band Boys Who Cry, 
and a drag show later that night on stage.
Jasmine Chi, a 20-year-old UF econom-
ics and African American studies junior, at-
tended Pride for her second time this year. 
She strode through the festival holding 
hands with her girlfriend, Skylar McIlvanie, 
a 20-year-old UF neuroscience and women’s 
studies junior. 
The couple came to the festival with McIl-
venie’s parents and their dog, Jett.
“Pride just means being comfortable in 
my own space, and being in an environment 
that’s inclusive like this,” Chi said.
@thatlbren
lbreneman@alligator.orgPRIDE,  from pg. 1University Avenue was closed.IT COST ABOUT $10,000 
TO PAY FOR THE
 MATERIALS AND TO 
FL Y THE ARTIST OUT. 
By Ke’on Christian
Alligator Contributing Writer
It took almost 200 spray paint cans 
and over 50 gallons of paint for Insane 
51, an artist from Greece, to complete 
a 3D mural in just four days. 
The mural is the latest addition that 
GNV Urban Art’s creator Iryna Kan-
ishcheva arranged for. It cost about 
$10,000 for the materials and for ﬂ  y-
ing the artist in from Greece. The 
mural was revealed to more than 50 
people at the wall behind the Florida 
Theatre on West University Avenue 
on Sunday afternoon. 
Local artists performed while oth-
ers waited to talk to the 26-year-old 
mural artist. The ﬁ  rst 35 guests re-
ceived a free pair of 3D glasses to 
view the mural, said Kanishcheva, 
the 32-year-old founder and curator of 
352walls, the ﬁ  rst urban art project in 
North Florida.
Insane 51 said the latest Gainesville 
wall art was inspired by personal re-
lationships, a recurring theme in his 
art. For the last few years, the artist said he’s been exclusively working 
with double exposure since he bought 
some 3D glasses and started working 
with the effect on his computer. 
He said he believes the 3D effect 
has a bigger impact on viewers be-
cause it’s new to the human eye. He 
said he also works with spray paint, 
which makes this process easier. 
“When I started showing them that 
I use 3D glasses to look at the mural 
and you have two different pictures in 
one, then everyone was amazed be-
cause they haven’t seen this on a wall 
before,” he said. “When people use 
the 3D glasses, they are experiencing 
something exciting.”
When selecting an artist for the 
project, Kanishcheva and Bill Bryson, 
the new owner for the Florida The-
atre, were looking for someone who 
could work with the rough surface of 
the theatre’s wall, Kanishcheva said.
“Most of the artists, they can’t 
work with this kind of surface,” Kan-
ishcheva said. 
Alexandria Nong, 24, said she’s 
really into art. When Nong saw the 
mural with her 3D glasses, she smiled 
and gazed at it in awe. 
“I think it’s really amazing,” Nong 
said. “You would have to be here, live 
in-person to be able to see it and cap-
ture the entire beauty of it.”  New 3D mural unveiled on wall outside of Florida Theatre 
Will Clewis / Alligator Contributor
Lead singer and guitarist Jason Hedges and members of Heavy Petty  rock out at 
the T om Petty Birthday Bash at Depot Park on Saturday night. The T om Petty and 
the Heartbreakers Tribute Band welcomed guests on stage.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018TOM PETTY’S DAUGHTER AND 
YOUNGER BROTHER ALSO 
MADE SPEECHES.
By Kat Antunes
Alligator Contributing Writer
With a tissue clamped in hand and tears 
ready to fall, Kathy Smith said she was 
overcome with emotions to be surrounded 
by a community of Tom Petty fans.
“It’s just been so great to be around peo-
ple who just understand because it’s been 
really hard since last October,” she said.
Smith, a 53-year-old school principal 
from Morris, New York, made a pilgrim-
age to Gainesville to be in the city for the 
dedication of Tom Petty Park, at 400 NE 
16th Ave. Smith has listened to Tom Petty’s 
music since the 1970s. 
“I had to be able to experience where 
he lived, where he grew up and mostly just 
to feel this love from everybody,” she said.
Smith and more than 300 people were 
at the dedication ceremony at the park for-
merly known as Northeast Park in honor of 
Tom Petty’s 68th birthday. The park was 
a frequent hangout spot for Petty and his 
younger brother, Bruce Petty.
“It was a place for us to escape and be 
kids and have fun,” Bruce Petty said. 
Before the red park sign with Tom Pet-
ty’s name and a photo was revealed, Mayor 
Lauren Poe, Bruce Petty and Tom Petty’s daughter, Adria Petty, gave speeches. 
In deciding how to memorialize the late 
Gainesville-raised rockstar, Poe said the 
city considered other options like a statue, but Poe said his legacy meant more than a 
statue and felt the park was the perfect fit. 
“This is where he spent his child-
hood,” Poe said. “This is where he was with his friends and where he escaped 
and just soaked in the experience that was 
Gainesville back in the ‘70s.”
Adria Petty said fans and residents in 
the city have been welcoming to her. Fans 
across the world have made the difficult 
process of his death much easier.  
“Gainesville is an extraordinary place, 
where if you listen to my dad’s music here, 
it has a different meaning,” she said. 
Fans came from across the country, 
many of them members of Tom Petty Na-
tion, a Facebook group founded by Keith 
Eveland. The 54-year-old superfan from 
Panama City said the group now has more 
than 33,000 members since he started it 
five years ago.
“It’s really touching to see how many 
people connect with it,” he said. “I feel like 
when I created it, that Tom sprinkled a lit-
tle magic dust on it.”
Cindy Lou Safar, 60, a member of the 
Facebook group, drove eight hours from 
Gretna, Louisiana, with her husband and 
40 pounds of plastic bead necklaces that 
she handed out to fans. She wanted to 
bring something special after she read in 
the group that others would be giving away 
handmade pins and jewelry. 
She became a fan of Tom Petty’s music 
when she began listening to him after she 
graduated high school in 1976. 
“It just grabbed a hold of my heart,” she 
said.Kat Antunes / Alligator Contributor
T om Petty’s brother and daughter, Bruce and Adria Petty stand behind the podium 
at the dedication of T om Petty Park on Oct. 20, 2018. Both gave statements and 
thanked the community before the unveiling of the new sign.
More than 300 fans come out to celebrate rocker Tom Petty’s birthday
POWER WOULD COME FROM 
THINGS LIKE SOLAR ENERGY 
AND BIOMASS
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Over the next 27 years, Gainesville 
will be running on a new kind of pow-
er. 
At Thursday’s City Commission 
meeting a resolution was unanimously 
passed to ensure Gainesville will be 
running 100 percent on renewable en-
ergy and resources by 2045, said City 
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos.
“Climate change is happening, and 
we need to start taking action now to 
ensure our environment is safe for fu-
ture generations,” Hayes-Santos said.
Three percent of Florida’s utility 
resource energy comes from renew-
able resources. Gainesville’s is already 
higher at 27 percent, Hayes-Santos 
said. By 2045, Gainesville should be at 
100 percent.
The resolution is nonbinding and 
isn’t the first of its kind. At least 84 
other cities and two states — Califor-
nia and Hawaii — have also committed 
to becoming 100 percent renewable. 
Renewable power for Gainesville 
comes from solar power and the bio-mass plant, Hayes-Santos said. Chang-
es such as having electric or hybrid 
buses and cars, purchasing local elec-
tricity rather than depending on for-
eign oil and focusing on solar energy 
will be implemented over time, he 
said.
The year 2045 was chosen because 
it’s realistic, Hayes-Santos said. 
“We thought that 2045 was not just 
an aspirational goal, but one we could 
achieve,” Hayes-Santos said.
Local groups such as the Suwan-
nee - St. Johns Group Sierra Club, a 
group that promotes protecting natu-
ral resources, have advocated for this 
resolution to pass throughout the year, 
said Roberta Gastmeyer, the executive 
committee member of the organiza-
tion.
It is important to make sure all the 
residents within the city are involved 
with this new energy transition, Gast-
meyer said. 
“We hope that all the residents in 
Gainesville share in the benefits of 
this new energy economy,” Gastmeyer 
said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgCommissioners plan 
to power city on 100 
percent renewable energy
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
WE’RE GOING TO NEED A BIGGER BOAT
T en-year-old chocolate Labrador Retriever, Katan, lurks in the water during the annual 
K9 Splash Bash held at H. Spurgeon Cherry “Westside” Pool on Saturday. Katan’s dog 
father, Gainesville resident Mario Guerrero, has brought him to enjoy the event for the 
past three years.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
GOODMAN DID NOT 
CHARGE A SPEAKER’S FEE.
By Kat Antunes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Amy Goodman, a well-known 
broadcast journalist, made an 
audience of 250 people crack up 
when she made a joke about a 
parallel between the leader of the 
Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and 
President Donald Trump in an or-
ange jumpsuit.
“Can you imagine, the 45th 
president of the United States, 
strip searched and in an or-
ange jumpsuit? I mean, it would 
match,” Goodman said. 
Goodman, the host and execu-
tive producer of the news pro-
gram “Democracy Now!” was the guest speaker at the Civic Media 
Center’s 25th anniversary cel-
ebration. 
Guests paid $25 to enter the 
independent nonprofit media 
organization’s event that was 
held at the Working Food Com-
munity Center, at 219 NW 10th 
Ave. The money made from the 
entry would go to back to the me-
dia center, said Isabel Miceli, a 
22-year-old UF women’s studies 
senior.
“I’m ecstatic at the response 
and the increased visibility of and 
support for the CMC,” Miceli said.
Goodman did not charge a 
speaker’s fee; she just asked that 
her flight and housing be covered, 
said Kaithleen Hernandez, 23, 
one the coordinators of the cen-
ter’s anniversary celebration. About 15 people also paid $100 
for a meet and greet opportunity 
with Goodman before the event, 
Hernandez said. The money went 
toward WGOT-LP, which broad-
casts on 100.1 FM out of the Civic 
Media Center. 
Hernandez, who has worked 
with the center for a year, said it 
takes $5,000 a month to keep it 
running. Sometimes she doesn’t 
even get paid on time, she said. 
“It’s a labor of love,” she said.
Goodman spoke for over an 
hour, taking the audience through 
a tour of major American head-
lines and how corporate involve-
ment in the media has influenced 
how stories from the last 50 years 
were told — such as Emmett Till’s 
lynching and the recent death of 
Saudi Arabian journalist Jamal Khashoggi. 
She also made a case for inde-
pendent media outlets and grass-
roots organizations.
“I just feel it’s absolutely criti-
cal to go to where the silence is 
— to bring out the voices of peo-
ple who are not usually heard,” 
Goodman said after the event. 
“That’s why we have to build 
independent media. That’s why 
CMC and WGOT are so impor-
tant.”
Woody Blue, 66, was humbled 
that Amy Goodman would come 
to speak in Gainesville.
“Amy Goodman is my ‘shero’, 
so of course I’m here because I 
want to see Amy Goodman, come 
hell or high water,” Blue said. 
Teresa Zokovitch, one of the 
co-owners of Vine Sourdough Bakery and a sponsor of the 
event, said she appreciates the 
message of the center and has 
been involved with it since the 
1990s. 
“Things are kind of dark and 
bleak, and I just have to stick 
near things that will help bring 
hope and inspire,” Zokovitch, 49, 
said.
The Civic Media Center is suc-
cessful because of the community 
and volunteers, said Joe Courter, 
the co-founder of the center and 
publisher of the Gainesville Igua-
na. 
“One of the biggest things in 
my life is working with the Civic 
Media Center,” Courter, 67, said. 
“It’s incredibly rewarding to get a 
night like this.”Hundreds celebrate Civic Media Center’s 25th 
anniversary and hear from journalist Amy GoodmanTHEY MET WITH MORE THAN 
60 STUDENTS FROM THE UF 
COLLEGE DEMOCRATS
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Bennett Ragan defied his Republican 
parents when he registered as a Democrat 
in August 2015.
Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Florida) was one 
politician who inspired Ragan’s decision 
to join the party, the 20-year-old UF po-
litical science junior said. Ragan first heard 
Nelson speak about five years ago when 
the senator came to his hometown of West 
Palm Beach. On Friday evening in Weil 
Hall, Ragan was excited to hear from Nel-
son again.
“I feel so lucky to have interacted with 
one of our senators,” Ragan said. “It means 
a lot to me personally that he cares enough to talk to young voters.” 
Sen. Cory Booker (D-New Jersey) also 
joined Nelson at UF, said UF College Demo-
crats President Kristen Jackson, a 20-year-
old UF civil engineering junior. 
The senators met more than 60 stu-
dents from UF College Democrats during 
the student group’s weekly phone bank, 
where volunteers called registered voters 
throughout Florida to remind them to vote 
and to talk about Democratic candidates. 
“That’s like one-fiftieth of the most 
important people in the country in one 
room,” Jackson said. “There’s only a hand-
ful of people who are more important than 
the individuals in front of us right now.”  
Nelson is no stranger to UF, he said. 
The current U.S. senator was the fresh-
man class president when he was an un-
dergraduate at UF before he transferred to 
Yale University.
Nelson told volunteers that the people who win elections make decisions that af-
fect everyone. 
“Elections have consequences,” Nelson 
said. 
Nelson answered student questions on 
policy issues, such as immigration, mi-
grant workers’ rights and women’s rights 
in the wake of the Kavanaugh-Ford hear-
ings. Booker came in about 20 minutes af-
ter Nelson answered their questions. 
“What’s going on in our country is more 
indicative of the people who aren’t partici-pating than those who are,” Booker said to 
the crowd. 
It is frustrating to Booker that more 
young people don’t turn up at the polls to 
vote because the country could be trans-
formed in an election if they did, he said.
“Your whole job is to wake up the con-
science of your community, to pull people 
out to vote,” Booker said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSenators Bill Nelson, Cory Booker visit UF
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker and Sen. Bill Nelson meet with UF College Democrats 
at Weil Hall on Friday afternoon. Sen. Booker took selfies and posted an Instagram 
story of the meeting with students yelling “Go Gators. ”
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker joins Sen. Bill Nelson at a UF College Democrats 
meeting last Friday at Weil Hall. Students asked the senators questions about policies 
and their thoughts on current issues in the Senate. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORThe Alligator’s endorsements for 
U.S., state and local candidates
In honor of the beginning of early voting today, The Alligator 
is releasing its endorsements for elected ofﬁ  ce. The candi-
dates were chosen based on their clean and honorable track 
records of representing Florida, its districts and its counties.
Florida Governor 
Andrew Gillum’s perspective growing up in borderline pov-
erty puts him at an advantage in understanding how to care for 
Florida’s most vulnerable. He favors expanding Medicaid, raising 
the corporate tax rate, increasing education spending and legal-
izing recreational marijuana. He is more appropriate for the posi-
tion than his opponent Ron DeSantis, who has a troubled history 
with race issues, voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act, opposes 
sensible gun control and who would likely help divert money 
away from public schools and allocate it to charter schools. 
U.S. Senate
Bill Nelson has served honorably as a U.S. senator from 
Florida for the last 18 years. Nelson has consistently defended 
Florida’s environment, helping to negotiate legislation that bans 
offshore oil drilling that would tarnish Florida’s coast and then 
holding the line in defense of that legislation. He voted in favor 
of the ACA and for the stimulus package that reduced the effects 
of the economic collapse. Florida Gov. Rick Scott, in contrast, 
has been a poor steward of Florida’s coastline with his inaction 
on harmful algal blooms and has a lengthy list of troubles with 
personal enrichment from his time as governor.
U.S. House of Representatives District 3
Yvonne Hayes Hinson’s support for teacher salary increases 
and for helping students living with Deferred Action for Child-
hood Arrivals protection show that she will do Florida justice 
in the House. Incumbent Ted Yoho, in contrast, has an A rating 
from the National Riﬂ  e Association. While he has more experi-
ence in this ofﬁ  ce, Hinson would offer more inclusivity in the 
district if elected. She was endorsed by the African American Ac-
countability Alliance of Alachua County.
State Senate District 8
Dr. Kayser Enneking’s perspective from treating needy pa-
tients contrasts her opponent, Keith Perry’s, whose platform on 
health can be taken from his suggestion that “we should be in-
vesting in medical schools to ... create the best doctors possible.” 
This ignores the health care struggles that Florida residents face.
State Representative District 10
Ronald Williams’ ﬂ  edgling plan to reform the way Florida 
handles juvenile criminal justice will beneﬁ  t District 10. We en-
dorse Williams over Chuck Brannan, who prioritizes conserva-
tive ﬁ  scal policy and preservation of Florida’s lakes.
State Representative District 21
Jason Haeseler’s positions on health care and education make 
him better suited for the position than Chuck Clemons. Haeseler 
supports expanding Medicare accessibility to all Florida residents. 
Haeseler, while a supporter of the Second Amendment, also sup-
ports more reasonable gun control laws.
Alachua County Commission District 2
Scott Costello’s involvement with philanthropy and focus on 
paying teachers a more competitive wage earn him our endorse-
ment over Marihelen Wheeler, who is not as politically adept.
Alachua County School Board District 3
Incumbent Gunnar Paulson’s track record of raising teacher 
salaries earns him our endorsement over April Barefoot Tisher.
County Judge
Craig DeThomasis will serve as a well-qualiﬁ  ed county judge, 
having extensive experience as both a practitioner and teacher of 
the law. We endorse him over Meshon Rawls, although both UF 
Levin College of Law graduates would be great for the position.
The Alligator will publish an editorial discussing our endorse-
ments of Florida constitutional amendments in Wednesday’s 
issue.Column
There are certain topics in my life that I am 
inexplicably more attracted to than others, 
topics that shine in my mind like street 
lamps in the dark, that I ﬂ  utter around, 
transﬁ  xed. One of those topics is culture, 
speciﬁ  cally of the 21st century American kind. 
I am obsessed with understanding the waters 
America swims in, their depths, currents, tem-
peratures, sources and destinations.
You cannot be a student of our contemporary 
culture without being ﬂ  uent in the language of fragmenta-
tion. It is a cliche to write “our nation is divided” nowadays; 
it is also a cliche to lament this. Everyone, it seems, wants 
to follow “E Pluribus Unum” and has solutions to achieve 
it. But our solutions are becoming futile and desperate, like 
someone stuck underwater who keeps trying to breathe.
The media outlet Vox, for example, published an essay 
last week titled “How Meditation and Psychedelics Could Fix 
Tribalism,” in which author Sean Illing argued that science 
attests to the positive inﬂ  uence of obliterating the self and 
expanding one’s consciousness (i.e., meditation and its crazy 
uncle, psychedelics.)
Illing argues that viewing individuality as illusory could 
eliminate us-versus-them mentalities that entrench us along 
ideological battle lines. How could we wage war against “the 
other side” if there is no such thing as sides, perspective or 
even individual cognition, but only the All behind it all? In 
this view, Republicans and Democrats actually belong to a 
Oneness that encompasses all things, which is the true real-
ity, truer than our possession of particular selves.
Meditation and psychedelics, Illing contends, are equally 
fruitful ways of tapping into this cosmic force — the more we 
tap into it, the less we see life as tribal warfare.
Meditation aside, Illing’s desire to legitimize the use of 
psychedelics is a troubling one; he admits as much and states 
that he does not want everyone to start dropping acid. We 
as a culture are solution-deﬁ  cient. This is how I interpreted 
Illing’s essay. Vox published the essay because it found Ill-
ing’s ideas to be worth contemplating. I think his ideas are a 
gateway to more ludicrous ones.Illing’s problem, which happens to be the more 
general problem of our culture, is that he proposes 
solutions to the wrong problem: us-versus-them 
narratives. Many today see this as the biggest leak 
in our national pipeline. I have a different view.
Us-versus-them narratives are impossible to 
avoid; every single worldview smuggles that point 
into its plot. Every worldview favors those who 
believe in it and consequently disfavors those who 
don’t. It is a natural side effect of believing that the 
truth is embodied in a particular system of belief.
Yet many people today view this as oppressively exclusive 
and would rather side with inclusivity. These people think 
that you can have a worldview free of metaphysical bias that 
does not split people into believers and non-believers. But 
look closer — does this view not still tell the same story?
There are those who champion inclusivity and those who 
do not. There are those who think the way to accept and 
love people is to not care about what they believe and those 
who think the exact opposite. The belief that inclusivity is 
the highest good is just that — a belief — and is subject to 
the same laws that any other belief is, namely disagreement. 
As it turns out, in the heart of the belief that purports to end 
all tribalism, there is an “us” and a “them.”
When we see us-versus-them narratives as the chief cul-
prit for our divided nation, we misunderstand the nature 
of belief. Any worthwhile worldview will be aware of the 
complexity of people — that something ineffably keeps us 
from rising to true unity either at work, the dinner table, the 
neighborhood or the nation.
Here then is my thesis (a little late in the game, I know): 
Rather than looking for the cosmopolitan worldview, we 
should look for the worldview that teaches us to respect and 
upholds the dignity of our enemies. We should look for the 
worldview that gives us resources to love (in action, thought 
and word) those people who will inevitably disagree with us, 
for disagreement is a fact of life as these past few years have 
painfully revealed.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His column appears 
on Mondays.A worldview based on conﬂ  ict fails the observer
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Making class optional on Election Day would 
make it easier for students to take the time out 
of their day to travel to their voting locations 
and not have to worry about missing class. If 
attendance isn’t optional on Election Day, hun-
dreds of young people at our university will 
not be able to participate in an election that 
will greatly affect the future.
As a bipartisan coalition of six civic engage-
ment student organizations, we strongly agree 
with the above argument provided by UF stu-
dent Aggie Argeros. Only 24.1 percent of eli-gible students at UF voted in the 2014 midterm 
elections. UF students face many structural 
and personal roadblocks to voting.
“I would be able to dismiss any anxieties 
about missing an attendance grade,” Isabella 
Trejo said. “(I) am looking forward to voting, 
but with mandatory attendance grades, I very 
well may not be able to.”
Students have expressed that they have 
classes all day and work at night. One said he 
or she plans to travel back home to Pinellas 
County to vote. Several students said they fear their grades will suffer in classes with manda-
tory attendance requirements.
The current UF President’s report on strate-
gic planning aspires to provide “an outstand-
ing and accessible education that prepares stu-
dents for work, citizenship and life.” Further, 
UF’s Strategic Plan for 2015-2020 states that 
the “University of Florida’s Division of Student 
Affairs is committed to instilling civic values 
and a pride in civic engagement in our student 
body.” Our coalition hopes to guide UF to ac-
complish its plan in part by pursuing legisla-tion in Student Government this week calling 
for UF instructors to make class attendance op-
tional on Election Day. We hope that instruc-
tors will listen. 
Signed,
Democracy Matters
Young Americans for Freedom
UF College Democrats
Gators for Underrepresented Voters
Gators Vote Everywhere
Gators for No Labels
It is critical that your voice be heard!
For recommendations on Candidates,  
State Ballot Initiatives, County  
and City Referenda visit  
Alachuadems.org  or
FB Alachua County DemocratsEARL Y VOTING 
begins today!
October 22- November 3
From 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
at the Reitz Union
Political Advertisement paid for by the Alachua County 
Democratic Executive Committee and The Democratic Women’s 
Club of Alachua County P.O. Box 5216 Gainesville, FL 32627
We are ruining everything. At least 
that’s what we’re often told. 
There’s a popular perception that 
young people like us are lazy, en-
titled and disengaged. The list goes 
on.
We think that perception is wrong. This 
November, we want you to help us prove it. 
There’s an easy way for you to do that: vot-
ing. Vote on Election Day. Early vote or vote 
by mail. The choice is yours — as long as you 
choose to vote.
Voting is your way of making your voice 
heard, of expressing your opinion. It’s the 
basic way we participate in our system of 
democracy. Voting is a right, a privilege and 
a civic duty — something we all hopefully re-
member from social studies. It’s also the best 
way to address the issues that are important 
to us.
All that we care about is that you vote not 
the party or political leaning of the person for 
whom you are voting. 
We think that our system works a lot bet-
ter when all of us are participating and engag-
ing with the process, regardless of where you sit on the political spectrum. En-
gage with one another. Have dif-
ﬁ  cult conversations. Don’t make 
the mistake of shouting past one 
another and remember that it’s 
possible to disagree with some-
one civilly. 
The Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce, and of-
ﬁ  ces like it, exist to help voters, 
including students, ensure their 
voice can be heard through elec-
tions. 
Since the start of the semester, we’ve been 
working to spread awareness of voter regis-
tration and the importance of casting a ballot.
We don’t know if you’ve heard, but this 
election is kind of a big deal. Voting in this 
year’s midterm elections is kind of like buy-
ing Apple stock in 1980: It’s not something 
you want to miss out on. We are entering 
adulthood and becoming of voting age at an 
interesting time in our nation’s history, when 
there are many opportunities to get involved 
in the democratic process. The foundational 
piece of that involvement, however, is simply voting. 
And here’s the thing about 
voting: It’s easy. Like, really easy. 
You can update your registration 
and request a vote-by-mail bal-
lot online at VoteAlachua.com or 
the website of the Supervisor of 
Elections for the county in which 
you are registered, have that bal-
lot sent right to your front door, 
spend some time ﬁ  lling it out 
and put it back in the mailbox. A 
stamp may or may not be need-
ed, depending on which county you’re voting 
in, but it’s not needed in Alachua County. 
These are some important dates and piec-
es of information you need to know in order 
to make sure your voice is heard in this elec-
tion: 
Early voting in Alachua County will 
last from Oct. 22 to Nov. 3. Any Alachua 
County voter can vote at any early voting site. 
There are six of them, but the one that is of 
most interest to students is in the Reitz Union 
Room G-50. Early voting locations are open 
from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. every day this week. All vote-by-mail requests must be re-
ceived by 5 p.m. Oct. 31 statewide. It’s rec-
ommended, however, that you request your 
ballot at least a week before that, because all 
ballots must be in the Supervisor of Elections 
ofﬁ  ce (regardless of the county) by 7 p.m. on 
Election Day. 
Election Day is Nov. 6. Polls will be open 
from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., and you must vote in 
the polling place you are assigned to. 
Photo and signature ID are required to 
vote. If you don’t provide an ID, you’ll be re-
quired to cast a provisional ballot. More infor-
mation on accepted forms of ID — there’s a 
long list — can be found at VoteAlachua.com. 
Don’t miss your chance to make your 
voice heard. Don’t be part of the proof that 
young people are lazy. Let’s show everyone 
that young people care. 
Julia Schack, Shea O’Malley and Jacob 
Kovach are outreach communications 
interns for the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections.Do not delay: make a plan to vote in the upcoming electionColumn
Julia Schack,
Shea O'Malley
and Jacob Kovach
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Seven-year-old Abigail Leonard holds her 3-year-old dog, Ginger, 
on Sunday during the annual Halloweener Derby. The Leonard 
family adopted Ginger after she was displaced by Hurricane Irma. 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Piper, a 5-year-old teacup Chihuahua, stands tall Sunday afternoon after winning the best-dressed 
award during the annual Halloweener Derby at Westside Park. All proceeds from the event went 
toward the Climb for Cancer Foundation. 
By Nicole Bowen  
Alligator Contributing Writer
Wearing his Spider-Man costume, Pete, 
an 8-year-old Miniature Schnauzer, was 
ready to compete for best costume Sunday 
afternoon.
Pete, who went by Peter Barker, made his 
fourth appearance at the fourth-annual Hal-
loweener Derby at Westside Park, hosted by 
the Climb for Cancer Foundation.  
About 50 dogs participated in the derby, 
said Dianne Farb, the co-founder of Climb 
for Cancer Foundation, an organization that raises money to fund programs for cancer 
patients and their families.
The event cost about $500 to host and 
raised about $4,000 for the foundation, Farb 
said. 
Pete and his owner, 60-year-old Susan 
Harre, come to the derby every year.
“We enjoy being around other wiener 
dogs,” Harre said. “It’s a fun event for them 
and myself.” 
The event was free to humans, while dogs 
were charged a registration fee. Dachshunds 
and Chihuahuas competed in races, while all 
breeds participated in the costume contest and dog walk trail, Farb said.
This was Crystal Mills’ third time bring-
ing her dog Dash, a small Daschshund, to 
the race. 
“Dash was No. 2 last year in the race, 
so we are hoping to leave winners this time 
around,” the 33-year-old said. “But we love 
supporting this cause and event, regardless.” 
Dash faced a formidable contender in So-
phie, a 6-year-old Dachshund, who dressed 
as a hotdog. 
Sophie has never participated in the race 
before, said her owner, 24-year-old Caroline 
Quanbeck. “To be honest, it sounded fun,” she said. 
“And it was the perfect opportunity to dress 
her up as a hotdog, which I have been dying 
to do.”
Gina Romeo, 21, and Adam Ray, 22, both 
UF graduates who live in Tallahassee, drove 
down to Gainesville because their dog Bowie 
won the Dachshund race two years in a row.
Bowie kept his winning streak this year. 
Although the couple takes him on daily 
walks, Romeo doesn’t consider that training, 
she said.
“Honestly, he runs to me because he has 
separation anxiety,” she said.Halloweener Derby fundraises for Cancer Foundation
STUDENTS LEARNED HOW 
TO TIE TOURNIQUETS, 
PACK WOUNDS.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Danielle Gaeta packed gauze 
into an orange foam swimming pool 
noodle wrapped in duct tape Satur-
day morning.
The 19-year-old UF biomedical 
engineering sophomore was one of 
about 30 students who pretended 
the pool noodles were wounded 
limbs and learned how to tie tourni-
quets during a Stop the Bleed course 
at the Communicore Building. 
The national campaign, created 
after the 2012 Sandy Hook Elemen-
tary shooting, aims to teach people how to control bleeding in emergen-
cy situations, said Brett Weiss, a UF 
finance senior. 
The 22-year-old shadowed emer-
gency doctors at the Jackson Health 
System’s Ryder Trauma Center in 
Miami and reached out to the Stop 
the Bleed campaign to bring the 
course to Gainesville. 
Students received a certification 
signed off by UF Health at the end 
of the two-hour lecture and training 
course. The process is similar to get-
ting a CPR certification, Weiss said.
“It’s normally taught to teach-
ers. It’s taught to police officers,” 
Weiss said. “But we’re now just 
seeing that introduction of this be-
ing taught to students, and that’s re-
ally what’s important.” 
UF Health Shands Hospital sur-geons, nurses, trauma coordinators 
and U.S. Army recruiters instructed 
students at the event. Attendees 
learned how to stop blood from the 
arm, leg, neck, torso and abdomen 
during emergencies like home inju-
ries, mass shootings, bombings or 
car accidents. 
Donna York, a registered nurse 
and trauma program manager, lec-
tured the group on the “ABCs of 
Bleeding,” which stands for alert, 
bleeding and compress. 
First, be alert and call 911, York 
said. Then, remove clothing to find 
the source of the bleeding. Com-
press the wound with a cloth or a 
tourniquet to stop the bleeding until 
help arrives.  
York told students about how to 
make a homemade tourniquet out of clothing and to use to lipstick to 
write the time the tourniquet was 
tied onto the limb. 
“If there’s been an active shoot-
er, the police will not let people in 
until they have secured the scene,” 
she said. “And in the meantime, if 
you’ve been shot, you’re lying there 
bleeding. Drip, drip, drip.”
Gaeta remembers being 10 years 
old when her great-grandmother 
fell out of bed and hit her head on 
the ground. Blood started to pool 
around her, and she didn’t know how what to do. 
Her cousin was able to stop the 
bleeding, she said.
Gaeta said she feels more con-
fident about being able to respond 
in an emergency after leaving the 
course with a certification. 
“To me, it’s a civic duty that we 
should all know how to take care 
of each other just in case anything 
happens,” she said
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org ‘Stop the Bleed’ emergency first-responder training comes to UF
The ABCs of Bleeding:
Alert: Call 911 when you know you’re safe
Bleeding: Remove clothing to find the wound
Compress: Tie a tourniquet or press a cloth against the wound to 
stop the bleedingAbout 50 dogs attended the derby.MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A Morriston woman has been 
charged with DUI manslaughter a year 
after a man died in a head-on crash on 
Southeast Hawthorne Road. 
Cassandra Lee Carlson, 40, was ar-
rested Saturday, according to a sworn 
complaint. 
Cory Scott Richardson, 23, of Inter-
lachen, was pronounced dead at the 
scene after the crash just outside of 
Hawthorne at about 1 a.m. Sept. 24, 
2017, the complaint said. His car was 
found upside down. An autopsy report 
later determined that he had not been 
drinking. 
A Budweiser bottle was found in 
Carlson’s car, the complaint said. She 
was taken to the hospital, and officials said she had bloodshot eyes and smelled 
of alcohol. 
She later told authorities that she 
didn’t remember the crash, the com-
plaint said. She remembered leaving 
work from a solar farm in Hawthorne 
to go home between 4:30 and 5 p.m. be-
fore pulling over on the side of the road 
to drink three beers. She told authorities 
she fell asleep in her car, woke up and 
kept driving home. A blood test revealed 
that she was over the legal driving limit.
She is in the Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $500,000 bond, according to 
court records. 
The parents of Richardson, Nancy 
and Mark Richardson, filed a suit against 
Carlson for damages, records state. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgWoman charged with DUI 
manslaughter year after crash
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Joel T orres, 5, and Garalysse Grady, 8, take a ride Saturday evening at the Alachua 
County Fair. The fair, at 3100 NE. 39th Ave., will run until Saturday.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Emma Hennessey, a 19-year-old UF business sophomore, rides the “Rock and Roll” 
ride with 19-year-old Demarco Reaves Saturday evening at the Alachua County Fair. 
THIS WILL BE THE THIRD GENERAL 
MANAGER IN 71 YEARS.  
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
In Shaun O’Connor’s line of work, he’s 
used to hearing “no.” This time he heard 
“yes.” 
O’Connor, the assistant general manager 
and advertising director of The Alligator, will 
assume the role of general manager on Jan. 
1 after Patricia Carey, who currently holds 
the role, announced her retirement in Au-
gust.  He will be the third general manager 
in 71 years. O’Connor has worked with The 
Alligator since 2009 as an advertising repre-
sentative. 
“It was not a stepping stone, it was an end goal,” O’Connor said.
As general manager, 
O’Connor said he will 
continue supervising the 
advertising department as 
its director but will also es-
tablish relationships with 
the editorial department 
and address any external 
issues. 
Shortly after he graduated from UF with 
a bachelor’s in advertising in 2010, he rose 
up the ranks to advertising director the same 
year and then assistant general manager in 
2012. As a student, a role at The Alligator 
was appealing from the very beginning, he 
said. 
“I think our value is the fact that we are a 
student-run paper in essence and the stories 
are 100 percent from a student perspective,” O’Connor said. 
Although Carey, who said she remem-
bered the days when The Alligator used 
hot type, a form of printing, said she’s sad 
to leave after 36 years, she is excited for 
O’Connor to propel the publication forward 
with a digital platform.
“He is a hard worker, and he understands 
what The Alligator is — he’s 100 percent for 
the students, and he’s 100 percent for inde-
pendent thinking and independent writing,” 
Carey said. 
O’Connor intends to capitalize on ideas 
that have already been implemented. He 
said he wants to continue developing new 
streams of revenue while maintaining a print 
product. As long as he’s involved, he said he 
will not abandon print. Last year, O’Connor 
said advertising sales in the newspaper in-
creased by 6 percent.“It’s a vital source of revenue for us, 
and we want to fight to maintain that, but 
we’re going to expand what we’ve done,” 
O’Connor said.
His ideas include selling The Alligator’s 
digital product through social media man-
agement for small businesses and incorpo-
rating new revenue streams by monetizing 
The Alligator’s website, app and newsletter. 
Carey said she’s been preparing O’Connor 
for the job since he was the assistant general 
manager.
“I can walk away and go ‘thank God,’ 
there’s someone there who’s gonna give it 
his best shot and he’s gonna make it work,” 
she said.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgPassing the torch: The Alligator to have a new general manager
ABOUT 50 BATS FROM AROUND 
THE WORLD WERE ON DISPLAY.
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Princesses, witches and superheroes 
grabbed their parents’ hands and rushed to see 
Frick and Frack.
The pair of Australian bat pups peeked from 
behind their shiny black wings at the families 
gathered around their cage Saturday afternoon 
at the 14th annual Florida Bat Festival at the 
Lubee Bat Conservancy. About 50 bats, — 13 
species in total — flew around their cages, 
nibbled on snacks and tucked themselves into 
their wings, said Brian Pope, the conservancy 
director.  
“Now we have native bats, and people are 
going to see how different they are from the ones 
they would find in their backyard,” Pope said.For the first time, the festival expanded its 
beer garden for parents and hosted kids’ cos-
tume contests throughout the daylong event, 
Pope said. 
Alligators, snakes, turtles and spiders were 
on display in cages for families to learn about. 
People were allowed to take pictures but could 
not pet any of the animals, including the bats, 
Pope said. 
The festival raises money to fund the con-
servancy’s research and bat rescues, Pope 
said. Bats are rescued from their native envi-
ronments that are destroyed by deforestation 
or pollution. 
Lauren Paul, a 21-year-old UF political sci-
ence junior, went to the festival to get in the 
fall spirit.
“I did not know a lot about bats before 
coming here, but now I feel like I’ve learned 
a lot,” Paul said. “Now it’s apparent why it’s 
important to protect where they come from.”Florida Bat Festival shows off 
baby bats, alligators, spiders O’Connor
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
MIDTERM 2018
early voting election guide
WHEN TO VOTE
OR
9 a.m.TO
6 p.m.EARLY 
VOTING
from:   Oct. 22
to:  Nov. 3
ON ELECTION DAY
7 a.m. 7 p.m.TONov. 6 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
As a Gainesville native with two degrees 
from UF, Yvonne Hayes Hinson is passion-
ate about being a leader within an area she 
knows and loves.
Caring for others is a priority for Hayes 
Hinson. She was an educator for children 
with special needs for more than 30 years, 
including as a principal at a magnet school 
for the arts in Miami. She received bachelor’s 
and master’s degrees in special education 
from UF in 1971 and 1972. 
Hayes Hinson retired from the Miami-
Dade public school system and started Child-
start Learning Solutions LLC, which provides 
services and support to underperforming 
schools.
When she decided to run for U.S. House 
of Representatives District 3, which covers 
Gainesville, Palatka, part of Ocala and select 
Jacksonville suburbs in Florida, she said she 
did it to further serve her community in a 
new way.
“It had nothing to do with politics,” Hayes 
Hinson said. “It had to do with taking care of 
the people.”
Throughout her childhood, teachers and 
adults encouraged her to continue taking 
charge, she said.
“From day one, I knew I was a leader,” 
Hayes Hinson said. “Not because I was trained to be one, but it was because it was 
in me.”
Having a voice in Washington that will 
impact the local area is an important goal in 
bringing the heart and soul of the community 
to government, she said.
As an African American woman, Hayes 
Hinson doesn’t believe her race and gender 
cause her to focus on helping certain demo-
graphics but rather to focus on everyone, she 
said.
“This is about all people,” Hayes Hinson 
said. “Not African American, not white — it’s 
about all people.”
Hayes Hinson has held positions in the 
Alachua County Democratic Executive Com-
mittee, the Gainesville Housing Authority 
Board and the Alachua County branch of the 
National Association for the Advancement of 
Colored People. She was also a Gainesville 
city commissioner from 2012 to 2015, she 
said.
Bringing well-paying jobs with livable 
wages, education reform, affordable child 
care, health care improvement, environmen-
tal concerns and criminal justice reforms are 
priorities for Hayes Hinson.
Hayes Hinson’s strong will and person-
ality stand out, said her campaign manager 
Miles Davis. 
“People come in for the candidate,” Da-
vis said. “But people stay for the connections 
they’ve made with you.”
Davis is conﬁ  dent Hayes Hinson will win, 
he said.
“I know that she will go to Washington, 
and she will be an outstanding congress-
woman,” Davis said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgBy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Before U.S. Rep. Ted Yoho became a con-
gressman, he was a veterinarian rushing to a 
woman’s farm to treat her horse.
Sandy Werner, 76, of Alachua, heard ru-
mors about Yoho’s political aspirations. She 
quizzed him on politics while he stitched her 
horse’s leg in the fall of 2011.
By the time Chance’s Czar was patched 
up, Yoho passed Werner’s test, she said. She 
offered him $1,000 — the ﬁ  rst contribution of 
his political career — on her ranch that day. 
“We were sorry to lose one of the ﬁ  nest 
horse vets around to the government, but 
we ﬁ  gured we needed him in Washington,” 
Werner said.
Yoho has represented District  3 since 
2013. The 63-year-old Republican is run-
ning for re-election against Democrat Yvonne 
Hayes Hinson.
Yoho dove into Florida politics after about 
30 years of practicing as a veterinarian. He 
graduated from the UF College of Veterinary 
Medicine in 1983.
Yoho decided to pursue politics after the 
Affordable Care Act was passed in 2010, he 
said. His goal is to reform health care to low-
er costs.
“I think everybody should have access to 
health care that’s affordable, but I don’t be-
lieve the government should provide that,” 
he said.  Yoho looks at issues from a district and 
national point of view, he said. When he fo-
cuses on his district, the local economy is a 
priority. 
If re-elected, he plans to strengthen immi-
gration laws, revamp foreign policy and im-
plement cybersecurity legislation. As some-
one who cherishes the Constitution, Yoho 
said he was tired of career politicians spend-
ing years in ofﬁ  ce and accomplishing little. 
When asked who inspires him, Yoho 
keeps his list short: his dad, Jesus Christ, the 
Founding Fathers and his wife, Carolyn. 
In 2016, Yoho endorsed then-presiden-
tial candidate Donald Trump. In August, 
the president returned the favor on Twitter. 
Yoho was also endorsed by the National Riﬂ  e 
Association, which gave him an A rating for 
supporting pro-gun legislation. 
“People will show up at the polls to de-
fend their constitutional rights,” he said.
Yoho received $995,064 in monetary do-
nations and goods and services offered, ac-
cording to campaign ﬁ  nances.
State Rep. Chuck Clemons said Yoho 
hasn’t lost touch with the people back home 
in Florida, unlike most politicians. 
Clemons said he saw Yoho’s generosity 
the weekend after Hurricane Michael hit the 
Panhandle. The two representatives drove 
20 hours to Gulf County, which is outside of 
Yoho’s district, with a team of 30 people and 
four trailer trucks of supplies. 
Yoho won’t appear on Gulf County ballots 
but jumped on the chance to help, Clemons 
said. 
“There isn’t a partisan way to help a fel-
low human being,” he said. “I think our 
country needs more of that.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
House of Representatives: Congressional District 3
T ed 
Yoho
Republican
Yvonne
Hayes
Hinson
DemocratWHERE TO VOTE
1. Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce
515 N Main St.
2. Legacy Park Multipurpose Center
15400 Peggy Road
3. Melrose United Methodist Church
5807 Hampton St. (Not shown on map )
4. Reitz Union
655 Reitz Union Drive
5. Millhopper Branch Library
3145 NW 43rd St.
6. T ower Road Branch Library
3020 SW 75th St.
132
45
6
candidate
proﬁ  les
insideMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11  
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Dr. Kayser Enneking’s childhood home 
was open to travelers.
Doctors from across the globe would 
pass through her front door, she said. Her 
father, Dr. Bill Enneking, would invite them 
in while they were in Gainesville to share 
their ideas at places like the UF College of 
Medicine.  
“The kind of medicine that he did at that 
time, there really weren’t that many people 
who did it,” Enneking said. “He established 
Gainesville as an international center for ex-
cellence.” 
Enneking became an anesthesiologist in 
part because of inspiration from her father, 
she said. Today, the 59-year-old works at UF 
Health Shands Hospital and was inspired to 
run for District 8 — which runs through all 
of Alachua and Putnam counties and part of 
Marion County — in the Florida Senate to 
advocate for patient care, she said. 
“I’ve been taking care of people in this 
district for a long time,” Enneking said. 
As of the most recent reporting period, 
Enneking collected $730,414 in monetary 
and nonmonetary donations, according to 
campaign finance records. 
One of the most exciting times in her 
career came when politicians changed the 
American health care system and began to treat patients receiving health care because 
of the Affordable Care Act, she said.  
“It was great to take care of patients 
who hadn’t ever had any medical care dur-
ing their adult lifetime because they just 
couldn’t afford it,” Enneking said.  
Enneking worried when politicians dis-
cussed repealing the act without having a 
plan to replace it, she said.   
“I was very disappointed to see politi-
cians use health care as a political weapon,” 
Enneking said.
Enneking said she told her husband that 
if Donald Trump became president, she 
would have to run for elected office.
“I realized that until you were willing 
to get into the political arena, I couldn’t do 
more to advocate,” Enneking said. 
She chose the state Senate position be-
cause there isn’t a physician in the Florida 
Senate, she said. 
Physicians like Enneking have seen what 
quality, affordable health care looks like in 
action and know what programs that sup-
port patients should look like, she said.  
Via Enneking, 63, said her sister Kay-
ser is a natural problem solver who wants 
to make a difference in the lives of those 
around her. That is why she has been suc-
cessful in the medical field but also why she 
would succeed as a state senator, her sister 
said.  
“You are duty bound to help other peo-
ple as you go through your life as much as 
you can,” her sister said. “This is just the 
perfect opportunity for her to make a big dif-
ference.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Education wasn’t always Ronald W. Wil-
liams II’s priority. It wasn’t until he locked 
eyes with his future wife at a Marine Corps 
headquarters that his world changed. 
Tara Williams was the most gorgeous and 
brilliant woman he’d ever met, he said. 
After retiring from the Marines, Williams’ 
wife encouraged him to go to college to be-
come a social worker.
Before Williams decided to run for Flori-
da House of Representatives District 10, the 
48-year-old Democrat took his mom to lunch 
at a Zaxby’s in Alachua to get her blessing.
The next evening, he spoke with his fa-
ther, who has served as a Columbia County 
Commissioner since Williams was in elemen-
tary school. He never thought he would run 
for office like his father, Williams said.
“I’ve always been a person who loves 
people and who wants to help people,” he 
said.
Williams’ campaign is developed around 
education, employment, social services and 
infrastructure, he said.
Williams founded Greater Heights Acade-
my, a K-12 private school and day care center 
to help children who don’t thrive in public 
schools, he said. He advocates for accessible 
education by opening the school to anyone 
regardless of income. 
Schools should consider placing more minorities in leadership positions to address 
racial inequity, he said.
“If we’re not diversified, we tend to ca-
ter to one thing or to one race or to one 
thought,” he said. “Hire the woman, hire 
the African American, and they can pass on 
their thoughts and beliefs and help make the 
school more well-rounded.”
Williams became a social worker to give 
people a sense of hope instead of weariness, 
he said. Mental health counseling and child 
care are only a couple of the social services 
he plans to implement for communities.
“We’re not cars, we’re not something me-
chanical,” he said. “Sometimes we do need 
help.”
Williams is working on a new proposal for 
the juvenile justice system, he said. Although 
the plan is still in its early stages, he wants 
to create a program to mentor young people 
in the system. He hopes to get the proposal 
started in the next five years, Williams said.
“It’s the Department of Corrections,” he 
said. “We want to correct people so they 
won’t come back. It’s supposed to be an edu-
cational system in itself.”
Williams received $4,462 in monetary 
and nonmonetary donations, according to 
campaign finance records. 
Tara Williams believes some issues will 
never change, but if anyone can do it, it’s her 
husband. On the day they met, she locked 
eyes with a hard-working and self-motivated 
man, she said.
“If something unfair is happening, he’s 
going to step in,” Tara Williams said. “He’s 
an advocator.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
State Sen. Keith Perry didn’t consider him-
self the politician type. 
About eight years ago, when a former sen-
ator told Perry to consider running for office, 
his first response was “absolutely not.”
“Absolutely not” turned into eight years in 
office and a campaign to re-elect himself to a 
second term as a Florida senator.
The 59-year-old Republican is hoping an-
other term will give him time to fix large cuts 
that knocked Florida from No. 10 to No. 48 in 
state-funded arts.
“Our No. 1 priority is to take the next 
workforce and make them the most creative, 
talented group of people that we can have,” 
Perry said.
Perry plans to revise the entire educational 
model, he said.
He wants children to be exposed to differ-
ent forms of education to create a holistic ap-
proach at an early age, Perry said.
“The mind thinks differently when playing 
music, dancing, building,” he said. “It’s about 
teaching people to think in different ways.”
Perry’s platform also aims to reduce the 
costs of health care and housing instead of fo-
cusing on if the government or public taxpay-
ers pay for it. 
“Shifting the burden to somebody else 
short-term doesn’t even ask the question of why health care and housing are so expen-
sive,” he said. 
Perry supports the Gainesville Regional 
Utilities referendum, which would change 
the board that governs GRU from city com-
missioners to appointees. He disagrees with 
theopposition who believe the change would 
jeopardize accountability, he said.
“It’s not even about politics,” Perry said. 
“It’s about expertise.”
High utility costs have driven local busi-
nesses to shut down, and the referendum 
would appoint qualified people to hopefully 
lower costs, Perry said.
Perry received $1,197,307 in monetary and 
nonmonetary donations, according to cam-
paign finance records.
When he founded Perry Roofing Contrac-
tors 42 years ago, many businesses were 
owned by individuals. Nowadays, businesses 
are mainly owned by corporations, he said. 
Perry wants to increase opportunities to open 
businesses.
Kayla Lott, Perry’s campaign manager, 
said she always toyed with the idea of owning 
her own business and admires Perry’s goals.
“He’s creating an environment for young 
people to be creative and make something to 
be proud of,” she said.
Since she started working for him in 2014, 
Lott has known Perry to be down-to-earth and 
hardworking. Lott, who previously worked in 
New York politics, said it was refreshing to 
know an honest politician who doesn’t talk 
down to others.
“If you feel like you’re bothering your 
elected officials, you need a new one,” Lott 
said. “Senator Perry’s door is always open.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.org
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Eleven years ago, Chuck Brannan lost 
his wife of 18 years in a traffic crash.
She was his college sweetheart whom 
he met at UF. The incident left Brannan 
to raise his deaf, then 12-year-old son, 
Chase, as a single parent.
Now, his son is pursuing his master’s 
degree in the UF College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences, and Brannan is a Re-
publican candidate for Florida House of 
Representatives District 10, which in-
cludes the northwest corner of Alachua 
County.
Brannan always knew he wanted to 
run for the legislature, but the timing was 
never perfect until he retired from being 
Chief Investigator at the Baker County 
Sheriff’s Office and a seat opened up. 
“The stars were kinda lined up, and 
this was my chance,” Brannan said.
Throughout his life, Brannan has 
worked in many fields. Growing up on a 
poultry farm in Baker County, spending 
a year working full-time for the Florida 
Farm Bureau, obtaining a degree in crimi-
nal justice from UF, working for U.S. Mar-
shall Services for three years and spending 
nearly 17 years on the board of trustees 
at Florida Gateway College — it was only natural for him to run for office, he said.
Throughout his involvement, especially 
within law enforcement, Brannan learned 
to understand and empathize with others 
better, he said.
“You see people at their best, see peo-
ple at their worst,” Brannan said. “It gives 
you a compassion to people, and I believe 
compassion is an important quality for 
leadership.”
When he’s not involved with politics, 
he enjoys raising his commercial and 
show cattle.
His main priorities if elected would be 
continuing a cost-effective agenda, priori-
tizing staying in budget, promoting small 
businesses, preserving the natural beauty 
of Florida’s lakes, springs, oceans and 
beaches, advocating for businesses and 
providing a voice for farmers. As of the 
last reporting period, Brannan collected 
$96,161.23 in monetary and nonmonetary 
donations.
Honesty, perseverance and transpar-
ency are three words that could be used 
to describe Brannan, said his son, Chase. 
His favorite memory with his dad is when 
they attended a Florida State University 
versus UF football game. The experience 
of the game created a closer bond be-
tween the two and sparked his love for 
UF, Chase said.
“He’s all about public service, and 
that’s what I think encompasses it all,” 
Chase said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org
Keith 
Perry
Republican
Chuck
Brannan
Republican
Dr. Kayser
Enneking
Democrat
Ronald
Williams II
DemocratFlorida State Senator: District 8
Florida House of Representatives: District 1012   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Jason Haeseler believes that no family 
should have to worry about taking their 
children to the doctor. 
After his first daughter was born with a 
congenital heart disease that switched her 
two great arteries, one of Haeseler’s main 
goals became expanding Medicaid. At the 
hospital, he met people without health in-
surance who struggled to pay expensive 
hospital bills for their children. 
“People shouldn’t have to live like this, 
especially family with children,” Haeseler 
said. 
A father of two daughters, his platform 
focuses on making a better life for his girls. 
If elected, Haeseler wants to focus on health 
care, public education and infrastructure — 
this encompasses wastewater management, 
transportation and telecommunications, he 
said. 
Haeseler is running for Florida House of 
Representatives District 21, which includes 
Gilchrist and Dixie counties and a part of 
Alachua County. He became involved in 
politics because he always felt civically en-
gaged as an engineer. As of the most recent 
reporting period, Haeseler collected $66,387 
in monetary and nonmonetary donations, 
according to campaign finance records. 
“I’m here to serve my neighbor, and I think of all the people in District 21 as my 
neighbor,” Haeseler said.  
Haeseler, who served in the Army as a 
combat engineer from 1993 to 2000, moved 
to Jacksonville where he got an associate in 
arts degree at Florida State College at Jack-
sonville in 2002. He then transferred to UF, 
where he graduated in 2006 with a bach-
elor’s in civil engineering. 
As Haeseler’s first boss, Kathy Caldwell 
recognized Haeseler’s ability to evaluate 
alternative solutions and his willingness to 
hear new ideas during a situation. If a col-
league had an idea, he would go through 
the logistics to come to a concrete plan, 
Caldwell said. 
“He will do the right thing even if it’s not 
the easiest thing,” said Caldwell, a retired 
president of the American Society of Civil 
Engineers.
As a former member of the society’s 
public policy committee from 2011 to 2013, 
Haeseler participated in citizen lobbying for 
infrastructure in Washington and Tallahas-
see eight years in a row. He has done the 
same as a member of the Florida Engineer-
ing Society since 2011. 
“He has a grasp of the issue. He gets it,” 
said Gainesville City Commissioner Harvey 
Ward. “He gets the concerns of working 
families because he’s part of one.”
Haeseler attributed his service in the 
Army as a major influence that developed 
his leadership skills. He said that it was 
there he saw selfless leadership at work. 
“We all have universal sets of wants and 
desires, and our government is to make sure 
that the most good is done for the most peo-
ple,” Haeseler said. 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgBy Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Life on the farm wasn’t easy for a young 
Chuck Clemons. 
Even though he was the youngest of six 
children, Clemons helped his father tend to 
the chickens seven days a week on the farm 
he grew up on in High Springs, he said.
A strong work ethic and education were 
two values Clemons’ dad taught him during 
those days on the farm, he said.
“He instilled in all of us something that 
you can never take away from you — and 
that’s your education,” Clemons said. 
The 61-year-old Republican incumbent is 
running to represent the 21st District in the 
Florida House of Representatives. 
The fourth-generation Floridian believes 
he should be re-elected because he knows 
the families and the issues they face within 
his community. He has represented the 21st 
District, which includes Dixie and Gilchrist 
counties and western Alachua County, since 
2016. 
“My family moved to this area in 1823, so 
the relationships that I have are sometimes 
generational,” Clemons said. “I know them. 
I’m one of them.” 
Growing up, Clemons learned how to 
swim at Poe Springs and hung out at the 
Santa Fe River. He said his farming roots and 
childhood will guide him as he tries to grow the state’s agricultural industry while main-
taining Florida’s water resources.
His platform focuses on increasing techni-
cal training and mental health resources in 
schools, creating jobs and promoting sustain-
able environmental and agricultural prac-
tices.  
Pumping gas at a Florida Welcome Cen-
ter Saturdays and Sundays and printing the 
Farmer & Rancher newspapers five days a 
week put Clemons through school. He gradu-
ated from the UF College of Journalism and 
Communications in 1979.
His wife of 17 years, Jane Clemons, said 
he did not attend a single UF football game 
until after he graduated because he worked 
all day on Saturdays. 
He went on to work for the Florida Farm 
Bureau in financial counseling for 27 years. 
President George W. Bush appointed Clem-
ons as the head of the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture Rural Development office. 
Clemons received $265,953 in monetary 
and nonmonetary donations, according to 
campaign finance records. 
John Woeste, the former UF Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences dean of ex-
tension, has known Clemons for 34 years. 
Woeste was the faculty adviser in the Alpha 
Gamma Rho fraternity when Clemons was 
president, he said.
Woeste has seen Clemons’ career grow 
over time but said one thing about him is 
consistent: his passion for education. 
“I’ve seen him grow and mature,” Woeste 
said. “He appreciated his education. I think 
he has retained a strong conviction about the 
importance of education.” 
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org 
County Commission: District 2Florida House of Representatives: District 21
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Scott Costello was tired of reading bad 
news about Gainesville.
The 45-year-old saw that bad news out-
numbered the good in local publications 15 
years ago, he said.
He founded Advantage Publishing in 2003 
to spread positivity with publications like 
HOME: Living in Greater Gainesville, Business 
in Greater Gainesville and Guide to Greater 
Gainesville.
“We wanted to showcase the best in our 
community,” Costello said. “The people and 
the businesses, and provide awareness to the 
nonprofits that needed attention.”
The nonparty affiliate plans to use his busi-
ness experience as he runs for office for the 
first time against Gregory Caudill and Mari-
helen Wheeler for the Alachua County Com-
mission District 2 seat.
Costello grew up in Palm Harbor, Florida, 
before moving to Gainesville in 1990 to study 
history at UF. He has spent the last 20 years 
serving for more than 15 charities, organiza-
tions and government committees, he said. 
“We the People,” resonates in Costello’s 
mind when he thinks about bringing civility 
back to the dais. 
As county commissioner, he would con-
sider everyone, not just those who voted for 
him, he said.   
“We need a voice for all residents of the 
county as opposed to just special interest groups,” he said. 
If elected, Costello said he would focus on 
infrastructure, growing local businesses and 
paying county workers like teachers and of-
ficers a competitive wage.
Advantage Publishing taught Costello how 
to create jobs and build relationships with 
people from all corners of Alachua County, he 
said. Residents have more in common with 
each other than most people think, but par-
tisan politics overshadow community voices. 
“I can see myself as that bridge builder and 
bring people together with a common vision,” 
he said.
He began seriously considering politics af-
ter moderating a State Senate debate between 
Republican Keith Perry and Democrat Rod 
Smith two years ago.
A debate about fracking escalated into an 
attack on each other’s character, Costello said.
Costello cut their argument short and re-
directed them back to the issues. He said the 
next day, Smith and Perry tried to convince 
him to run for office and said they would sup-
port him regardless of the party he chose.
“That was a real moment of recognition for 
me,” he said. 
Costello said he is proud to have a bal-
anced campaign with endorsements from 18 
Republicans, 16 Democrats and a libertarian.
Costello received $49,401 in monetary and 
nonmonetary donations, according to cam-
paign finances.
James Eiland, Costello’s campaign manag-
er, said character drew him to Costello’s cam-
paign more than anything else. He has never 
met anyone who cares so much about hearing 
everyone’s viewpoint, he said.
“Equity is not just a buzzword to Scott,”  
Eiland said. 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgBy Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Marihelen Wheeler has been campaigning 
for office since 2011 but has lost every time. 
She ran in 2012 and 2016 for the Florida 
House of Representatives, Wheeler, 67, said. 
She also tried to run for a seat in the U.S. 
Congress in 2014 to no avail.
“I was just going to worry about connect-
ing the different groups that I had met while 
working in the district,” she said. 
But she said things changed when she 
learned that the Alachua County Commission 
would still be made up of men unless she 
decided to run.
Now Wheeler is working on her fourth 
campaign for public office, running to rep-
resent District 2, which includes northwest-
ern Gainesville, Alachua, High Springs and 
northern Newberry. As of the most recent 
reporting period, Wheeler collected $53,173 
in monetary and nonmonetary donations, ac-
cording to campaign finance records. 
As a former teacher of 22 years at West-
wood Middle School in Gainesville,  Wheeler 
said she wants the opportunity to improve 
the lives of her past students. The first stu-
dents she taught are in their 30s. 
“They’ve got families of their own, but 
the ones who are still here are struggling,” 
she said.
Wheeler began teaching special education 
at the school but eventually switched jobs and taught art for 17 years, she said. She also 
taught art therapy to students with behav-
ioral challenges. 
“The young people that I’ve taught, I say 
to them ‘You’ve left my classroom, but you 
haven’t left my heart,’” Wheeler said. 
Wheeler wants to ensure that Alachua 
County has the necessary resources to sup-
port them, she said. If she wins, she plans to 
fight for higher wages and make affordable 
housing available to the people who need it. 
“Society doesn’t help them much,” 
Wheeler said. “Particularly in a university 
town, our local kids get pushed to the fringe.” 
Besides education and the lives of young 
people, Wheeler said she’s also passionate 
about the conservation of the county’s natu-
ral water resources. 
It is necessary to protect springs in the 
county because the agricultural industry in 
northern Florida is continuously growing, 
Wheeler said.
“The freshwater we have on this planet 
now is all we’re ever going to have,” Wheeler 
said. “If we squander that, then there is no 
more.”
Although Wheeler is now retired, she 
stays in touch with fellow teachers like Mad-
elyn Vallery, 75. The friends met while teach-
ing at Westwood Middle School in the mid-
1990s, Vallery said. 
When Wheeler told Vallery about her 
decision to run for the County Commission, 
Vallery thought it would be a perfect fit for 
her friend because of Wheeler’s wit and intel-
ligence, Vallery said. 
“She will never lose focus nor become 
conceited about who she serves and repre-
sents,” Vallery said. “That’s simply who she 
is.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org
Scott
Costello
Nonpartisan
Marihelen
Wheeler
Democrat
Jason 
Haeseler
Democrat
Chuck
Clemons
Republican
MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gunnar Paulson sat in a plane flying over 
Gainesville and looked down on a sea of 
35,000 people. 
They were lined up from Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium to Gainesville Municipal Airport on 
a November night in 1984 — the night the 
Gators had just won their first-ever South-
eastern Conference Championship. 
Paulson, the then-UF football assistant 
coach, said he realized at this moment the 
impact he’s had on the young student ath-
letes in his life.
Paulson was 8 years old when his father 
died of cancer. He said he knew he wanted 
to be a father figure for young men after 
growing up without one. 
After 28 years of coaching and teaching 
across Florida, the 71-year-old incumbent is 
running for re-election to the Alachua Coun-
ty School Board District 3 seat.
“Right now, public education is under 
attack,” Paulson said. “I’m running again 
because I think I have the experience and 
knowledge to help save it.”
During the primary election, both Paul-
son and his opponent April Barefoot Tisher 
received less than 51 percent of the vote, so 
they will both be on the midterm election 
ballot.Paulson said he can help save public 
education because he is the only candi-
date who has been in the shoes of public 
school teachers before. He plans on closing 
achievement gaps in local public schools, 
implementing competitive salaries for teach-
ers and increasing arts funding.
Paulson said he is a caring and vision-
ary candidate. Before he was on the school 
board, he said there wasn’t a vision for the 
future of local schools.
Since his election to the school board 
in 2010, Paulson said he has helped raise 
teacher and employee salaries by about 
$5,000, increased the number of vocational 
courses offered and raised overall gradua-
tion rates by 16 percent in Alachua County.
Paulson received a total of $33,805 in 
monetary and nonmonetary donations, ac-
cording to campaign finance records. 
Melissa Dougherty, 45, Paulson’s young-
est daughter, said it is no surprise both she 
and her older sister Amy Bennett are public 
school teachers. 
Dougherty, a Title I teacher specialist in 
Alachua, said Paulson never misses Sunday 
school classes and is nicknamed the “Walk-
ing Almanac.” 
The strategic skills of a football coach 
are on full display in Paulson’s platform, 
Dougherty said. She believes her father has 
the drive to win.
“(Coaches) want to do the best they pos-
sibly can do, and they want to get that out of 
their players,” she said. “He wants the best 
and wants to be as great as possible for the 
school district.” 
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org By Bailey LeFever
Alligator Staff Writer
April Barefoot Tisher wants to close the 
equity gap in Alachua County Public Schools. 
The 41-year-old mom of four is running for 
the Alachua County School Board District 3 
seat, which covers northwest Gainesville, to 
advocate for the needs of area parents. As of 
the most recent reporting period, Tisher col-
lected $9,604 in monetary and nonmonetary 
donations, according to campaign finance re-
cords.
Tisher first realized how different a stu-
dent’s experience can be in public schools 
after a lockdown at Rawlings Elementary 
School.
Tisher was volunteering at the school to 
provide child-care while Rawlings parents 
held a Parent-Teacher Organization meeting. 
She remembered smiling and laughing with 
children while making Christmas cookies, her 
infant daughter strapped to her chest in a baby 
wrap. 
Suddenly, the meeting was halted by a 
shooting at an apartment complex across the 
street. She huddled in a closet surrounded by 
children until it was safe. She was struck by 
the silence from the children. 
“I don’t remember anything like this hap-
pening at my children’s schools,” Tisher said.
Tisher wants to advocate for the Half-Cent 
Sales Tax, which is up for a vote in November, and would improve the safety of schools by 
upgrading their facilities, she said. The money 
would ensure students receive comparable ex-
periences and also improve things such as the 
outdated air conditioning in classrooms. 
Tisher said she also wants to advocate for 
programs after school that help keep students 
interested. She said she understands these 
programs are expensive and require a time 
commitment from parents. 
She wants to create activity buses to take 
kids home afterward. She also wants to in-
form parents of available scholarships. 
Her belief in public education stems from 
her childhood in Wilmington, North Carolina, 
she said. Tisher attended public school all the 
way through college, graduating from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina Wilmington in 1999.
If elected, Tisher would be the only board 
member with children currently enrolled in 
Alachua County Public Schools, she said. 
“I think when you put that kind of per-
spective in front of other people it’s hard to 
ignore,” she said. 
Tisher has long served her friends and fam-
ily, offering constant guidance and support. 
This will make her an invaluable addition to 
the board, said Jenny Bedner, 37, a coworker 
of Tisher’s from Keller Williams Realty. 
Bedner has worked with Tisher on her 
campaign over the past year and has known 
Tisher since their daughters were in kinder-
garten. 
“I consider her somewhat of a mom men-
tor to me,” Bedner said. “Starting in pre-
school, she has been there for me with advice 
and guidance on different things in school and 
elementary school because she has kids in ev-
ery grade.”
@blefever10
blefever@alligator.org 
County JudgeAlachua County School Board: District 3
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Craig DeThomasis’ job can be life or 
death — one day his client’s life could be 
on the line and another he could be presid-
ing over an adoption.
The 60-year-old criminal defense attor-
ney has practiced for 35 years in the Eighth 
Judicial Circuit. Now, he’s running for Ala-
chua County judge because of his desire to 
ensure justice in a higher capacity. As of 
the most recent reporting period, DeTho-
masis collected $79,995 in monetary and 
nonmonetary donations, according to cam-
paign finance records. 
“I found an ability and a passion for that 
kind of work,” DeThomasis said. “It’s be-
cause of my bar card that I can make life-
changing experiences for everyone, and it 
doesn’t get better than that.”
When he wasn’t playing with his garage 
band in the ‘70s, he was collecting newspa-
per clips of historical moments like Robert 
F. Kennedy’s assassination and the Viet-
nam War. DeThomasis said he views the 
world with the goal of providing for others.
DeThomasis said his business model 
was built on the qualities of being a suc-
cessful judge: respect, thorough research 
and an exact knowledge of the law. 
“Helping those people resolve their con-flicts, it’s just a part of my commitment to 
the community,” DeThomasis said. 
Originally from Long Island, New York, 
DeThomasis moved to Gainesville at 17 
with a Foot Locker box full of classic rock 
mixtapes in hand and, 42 years later, never 
left. As an undergraduate at UF, DeTho-
masis had a job lined up in Manhattan 
with a lucrative corporate law firm, but 
he turned it down for a job at the public 
defender’s office because of his passion to 
practice trial law.  
Today, he still practices criminal de-
fense at the law firm DeThomasis & Bu-
chanan with his managing partner, Michael 
Buchanan, with whom he’s worked since 
1982. 
“He’s the kind of guy who doesn’t need 
training,” Buchanan said. “He’s a natural.”
DeThomasis, who also teaches at the 
Levin College of Law as adjunct lecturer 
of trial practice law, has held up his bar 
card, his license to practice law, in front of 
his students and told them it comes great 
responsibility when people’s lives are at 
stake. 
If elected as Alachua County judge, 
DeThomasis said his extensive background 
in trial law and county court will prepare 
him for the role. He said he will hold law-
yers to the highest standards.
“(A) person who serves in that role 
should be absolutely,  without any doubt 
be committed to the rule of law,” DeTho-
masis said. “To me, it’s the utmost respect 
in the profession.” 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Meshon Rawls grew up watching injus-
tices and the community riot around her in 
Miami. 
Rawls, 47, got her first taste of law when 
she took a criminal justice class at Miami 
Carol City High School when she was about 
16.  
Nearly 30 years after participating in her 
high school’s mock trial event, Rawls is 
running to be an Alachua County judge to 
preside on civil and criminal cases. Rawls 
collected $65,066 of monetary and nonmon-
etary donations, according to campaign fi-
nance records. 
In 1993, Rawls graduated UF with a 
bachelor degree in criminal justice, and in 
1998 she graduated from the Levin College 
of Law, she said. 
Rawls worked at the public defender’s 
office in the Eighth Judicial Circuit as an as-
sistant public defender for seven years, she 
said. 
In the juvenile division, Rawls wanted to 
do more to prevent children from entering 
the criminal justice system. In 2006, she be-
came the director of Gator TeamChild at the 
Levin College of Law, a full-service law firm 
for children that addresses both their legal 
and social needs. She teaches law students how to practice and represent children 
through the program. 
“When I just think about the work that I 
do, I guess I don’t think about what it means 
for me,” she said. “I just think our children 
having a voice and someone speaking up on 
their behalf is my job.”
In Gator TeamChild, Rawls advocated for 
a child who was placed in a group home 
where he was happy but didn’t have the 
mental health services he needed. Instead 
of switching him, Rawls found services 
he could be transported to and the child 
thrived, said Tiffany Castellanos, 41, a for-
mer Gator TeamChild social worker.
“No other adult in his life listened to 
what he wanted, and nobody thought he 
knew what was best,” Castellanos said. 
“Even we had our doubts, but we remem-
bered what our responsibility was and that 
was to represent his wishes.”
It is natural for Rawls to help the com-
munity, said her husband Ron Rawls, 52. 
She serves in organizations such as the Pace 
Center for Girls and Project Turnaround.
“She deals with the common person on 
the daily basis, and that’s going to help 
when she becomes a judge because she’s 
not so distant from the everyday struggle of 
everyday people,” he said. 
Rawls respects humanity and knows the 
law, he said. 
“Meshon has a compassion and concern 
for people to see their humanity and see 
they were treated fairly and given respect in 
the process.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
Craig
DeThomasis
Nonpartisan
Meshon
Rawls
Nonpartisan
Gunnar
Paulson
No Party Affiliation
April
Barefoot
Tisher
No Party AffiliationMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Dental Practice Liquidation. Dentist is mo-
tivated to sell any and all equipment, older 
but in good working order, along with instru-
ments and supplies. 1000-B NW 8th Ave, 
Gainesville 32601. Mondays and Tuesdays 
Only. 352-373-7582     10-24-18-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    10-
24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af-
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYLooking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
SERVERS NEEDED!!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
11-2-10-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    11-2-18-10-14
Real Estate Job in Gainesville
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email resume to
contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com       10-26-
18-5-14
Take surveys and get paid!
You can make $800/week
completing surveys online!
Free to join!
Go to: www.OnlineOpportunity.club     10-29-
18-5-14
Part-time position at horse boarding farm, won-
derful atmosphere, perfect for someone look-
ing to work around horses a few afternoons a 
week. Must have experience and reference. 
Please contact khcherokee@aol.com      10-
31-18-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
MASTER YOUR Midterms w/Power Up! 
Natural Focused Energy in a Capsule! $0.75 
each.  www.MindSharpenPro.com  Use 15% 
Discount Code:  UF1853      10-22-18-5-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Make an extra $400 or more per week
in the comfort of your dorm.
Go to: www.collegeopportunities.net       10-
29-18-5-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
44-lb Lab / Springer, neutered 
male. Very gentle & friendly.
Call for more info 352-283-2488      10-26-
3-24
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatestFinders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1.  Consider carefully
1.  Spongy5.  Aspect ____
2.  High-profile6.  ____ alley
3.  Strong feeling7.  ____ sauce
4.  ____ scoreDEOPNR
ROOSUPITORA
LBNDI
TBLENOA
METOONINATEPU
EDTICRANSWERS: 1A-Ponder  5A-Ratio  6A-Blind  7A-Peanut
1D-Porous  2D-Notable  3D-Emotion  4D-Credit  B-Scotland10-22-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The Kingdom of ____ emerged as an independent 
sovereign state in the Early Middle Ages.
BONUS1. Entering 2018, when was the 
last time a pitcher started 36 or more 
games in a major-league season?
2. Which major-league team did 
Lou Piniella manage first, and which 
one did he manage the longest?
3. When was the last time before 
2017 that the University of Miami, 
Fla., won a bowl game by more than 
one point?
4. In the 2016-17 NBA season, Elf-
rid Payton became the fifth player in 
Orlando Magic history to have at least 
1,000 points and 500 assists in a season. 
Name two of the other four to do it.
5. Who were the last players before 
Pittsburgh’s Jake Guentzel in 2018 to 
reach 20 points in 10 or fewer NHL 
playoff games?
6. Name the last time before 2018 
that Russia’s men’s soccer team 
advanced to the knockout stage of the 
World Cup.
7. When was the last time before 
2018 that the U.S. won wrestling’s 
World Cup?
Answers
1. In 2003, Atlanta’s Greg Maddux 
and Toronto’s Roy Halladay each 
started 36 games.
2. The New York Yankees (1986); 
the Seattle Mariners (1993-2002).
3. It was 2004 (the Hurricanes beat 
Florida, 27-10, in the Peach Bowl).
4. Penny Hardaway (three times), 
Scott Skiles (three), Darrell Arm-
strong (twice) and Steve Francis 
(once).
5. Mark Messier and Wayne Gretz-
ky, in 1988.
6. It was 1986, when the team repre-
sented the Soviet Union.
7. It was 2003.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
October 22, 2018King Features Weekly Service
By Ed Sessa
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/22/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 22, 2018
ACROSS
1 Online auction 
venue
5 Waffle House 
competitors
10 Mine extracts
14 Wind-driven 
device
15 Complete extent
16 City founded by 
Pizarro
17 Simple __ of 
kindness
18 Cause of 
squinting
19 Sometimes-puffy 
I’s?
20 English king 
married six times
23 Circular coaster 
feature
24 Guthrie at 
Woodstock
25 Vietnamese 
export
26 Vietnamese soup
28 Denials
30 Site for crafters
32 “Three cheers” 
cry
36 Inventor’s spark
37 Prefix with -gram
38 Govt. workplace 
monitor
42 How wealthy 
people live
47 Arrived
48 One-man show 
about Capote
49 Salt Lake City 
athlete
50 Bay Area airport 
letters
52 Gillette razor
55 Bluesman 
Redding
57 Keep something 
in mind
61 Christmastide
62 In first place
63 Perjurer
65 Bana of “Hulk”
66 Orange Bowl city
67 Sole
68 Perlman of 
“Cheers”
69 Kenneth Lay’s 
scandalized 
company
70 Eye rudely
DOWN
1 Longoria of 
“Desperate 
Housewives”2 One of music’s 
Three Bs
3 Savanna 
springer
4 Simple question 
type
5 Singer known as 
the “Godfather of 
Punk”
6 Put the kibosh on
7 Nebraska city
8 Less tainted
9 Pittsburgh 
footballer
10 Cassini of 
fashion
11 Southpaw’s 
opposite
12 Be a ham
13 Obama  
daughter
21 Rice-A-__
22 Tiny bit
26 Honor society 
letter
27 Got ready for the 
surprise party 
surprise
29 Deposed Iranian 
despot
31 Clog or moc
33 Bad-joke 
response
34 Tres menos dos35 Speak wildly
39 Saying “Quiet!” to
40 Very popular
41 Get on in years
43 “__ the end of my 
rope!”
44 Return from work
45 Enter steadily, as 
a line of students
46 Rwandan native
47 “Border” dog
50 More lamb than 
tiger51 Club with 20-, 
32-, 42- and 
57-Across as 
members?
53 Kidney enzyme 
that regulates 
blood pressure
54 Essential rose oil
56 Snow house
58 Prefix for “ten”
59 __ sapiens
60 Towering
64 Pastrami bread
By Lewis Rothlein
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/20/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, October 20, 2018
ACROSS
1 Name derived 
from a Kyrgyz 
word meaning 
“sea of islands”
5 __ therapy
9 Food quality
14 Makes a play for
16 Patriotic 
nickname
17 Start of many a 
puzzle
18 Enjoys a course
19 Stopped using
21 Addie’s husband 
in “As I Lay Dying”
22 “Our acts make 
or __ us”: Victor 
Hugo
23 Fee: Abbr.
25 “The Night 
They Invented 
Champagne” 
musical
27 Curved sword, to 
Brits
29 Elver, e.g.
30 Bug
32 In a happy place
33 __ Fridays
34 “Seriously?”
35 Hard-to-find 
items, to 
collectors
37 Teller’s output
38 Sydney’s st.
39 Strong reaction
40 “No more!”
42 First cloned 
mammal
43 Increased
45 Shaded
46 Noë l Coward, for 
one
47 Proverbial team 
feature?
48 Where Zeno 
taught
50 Experimental 
vehicle
56 “Twilight” author 
Stephenie
57 “Nurse Jackie” 
Emmy winner
58 Compensate (for)
59 Quick to recover
60 Wet
61 Spotted
62 RefusalsDOWN
1 Out of control
2 Pasta __: food 
brand
3 “__ plaisir!”
4 Auto fluid 
problems
5 Braces (oneself)
6 Online reminders
7 It can tide you 
over
8 Harmonious outfit
9 Like many donuts
10 Tell __ story: 
elicit sympathy
11 Legal barrier
12 How some 
survivalists live
13 __ al-Khaimah: 
UAE emirate
15 __ route
20 Hound
24 Sparkle
25 Sees through
26 “Here’s my 
advice ... ”
28 Go along
30 Patronizes, with 
“at”
31 Word from the 
Greek for “three-
footed”36 Wannabes
37 “I thought we 
were done”
39 What animals do 
in the wild
41 Roger Goodell’s 
gp.
44 Work out
49 Protest where 
people do and 
don’t take a 
stand?51 Viewpoint, 
metaphorically
52 One from a 
penseur
53 “Pinocchio” 
goldfish
54 Often 
embarrassing 
outbreak
55 Doesn’t  
keep
56 __ money16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
ESPN's College Gameday will 
be live from TIAA Bank Field 
in Jacksonville ahead of the 
Florida-Georgia game. It will be 
the first time both Gameday and 
SEC Nation share a host site.Gators climb in latest AP rankings
Florida is now No. 9 in the Associated Press T op-25 Poll, its highest ranking 
since rising to No. 8 before a home loss to FSU in 2015.  SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
It’s been the same old song and dance for 
the Florida Gators soccer team.
Florida lost its fourth conference match 
of the season 2-0 against the Missouri Tigers 
at Audrey J. Walton Soccer Stadium in Co-
lumbia, Missouri, on Sunday. It’s the team’s 
eleventh match this season without a goal, 
and even though it looks as if UF will just 
barely slide into the SEC Tournament, it’ll be 
desperate to end the season with a win to 
gain a sliver of momentum heading into the postseason, should they make their way into 
the SEC Tournament.
Although Florida (5-9-3, 3-4-2 SEC) would 
go on to lead the shot count overall, Missouri 
held court in the first period 6-4. The Ti-
gers’ first goal came quickly when Missouri’s 
Sarah Luebbert knocked in a goal set up by 
teammate Bella Alessi in the 10th minute. 
The Gators only took two shots in the first 
half after the Tiger goal, both of them saved 
by Missouri goalkeeper Kelsey Dossey.
UF tried its best to come out on the attack 
once the second half started, with recently Gators drop match to Missouri 
with SEC tournament loomingFOOTBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Laura Rutledge and Tim Tebow 
announced SEC Nation was heading 
to Jacksonville to be on-site for the 
Gators’ matchup against Georgia. Rut-
ledge, a UF graduate, made clear that 
the name of the rivalry has never been 
set in stone in a video posted to Twit-
ter.
“SEC Nation, we’ve never missed 
a Florida-Georgia (game),” she said 
alongside Tebow before catching her-
self, “or Georgia-Florida (game).”
Tebow, naturally, caught the verbal 
tick in time to give his input.
“Florida-Georgia,” he mouthed be-
fore the video cuts off.
There has always been a small 
discrepancy in naming the game this 
Saturday in Jacksonville.  What isn’t 
up for debate is that the game formerly 
known as The World’s Largest Out-
door Cocktail Party will likely be the 
deciding factor in the race for the SEC 
East title and the right to play Alabama 
in the SEC Championship Game. 
There has been at least one ranked 
team featured in this matchup the last 
four seasons. Historically, the win-
ner has usually represented the East 
against the West several weeks later. 
Since the inception of the SEC Cham-
pionship Game in 1992, this matchup Florida-Georgia games have usually decided the 
SEC East. This year, it may decide the playoff.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Feleipe Franks (13) said the Gators are still working on fundamentals in practice. "You can't get complacent, " he said.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 19The Lost City of Alanis / Column
It was this week a year 
ago when this Florida pro-
gram was unraveling at ev-
ery seam.
Then-coach Jim McEl-
wain had created questions 
surrounding his team that 
he had no answers for. Al-
legations of death threats 
were being thrown left and 
right.
The Gators were at their lowest 
point as they took a two-game losing 
streak into a bye week with their big-gest challenge of the season 
awaiting them.
With nothing but pride 
and the slight shot at a bowl 
game to fight for, Florida 
let last year’s game against 
Georgia get out of hand just 
as quickly as the events in 
the week prior had.
But one year later, the 
Gators are a completely different team 
than the one that suffered a 42-7 defeat 
in Jacksonville.UF-UGA lightyears ahead of 
last season's matchup
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1918   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Women’s golf falters, falls 
to fourth-place finish at Betsy 
Rawls Longhorn Invite
The Gators knew that head-
ing into Sunday’s final round 
they would be in a duel with 
fourth-place Baylor. They were 
a stroke ahead of the Bears with 
insurmountable margins between 
Florida and second-place Kent 
State and Baylor and fifth-place 
SMU.
Both teams didn’t have their best round on Sunday, but Bay-
lor’s even round was six strokes 
ahead of Florida’s. The Gators 
wound up in fourth place, 26 
strokes behind champion and 
host Texas. 
Redshirt sophomore Elin Es-
born (+1), junior Marta Perez 
(+2) and freshman Clara Manza-
lini (+4) gave the Gators three 
players in the top 15 for the tour-
nament.   
Esborn led the team after all 
three days of the tournament. Her 
best round was a one-under-par 
71 on Saturday. She followed that up with a 73 on Sunday, finishing 
in a tie for seventh individually. 
Perez wasn’t far behind, clos-
ing out the weekend in a tie for 
10th. Her final round was off to a 
rough start after carding three bo-
geys on the first eight holes. She 
recovered, though, and scored 
three birdies and only one bogey 
over the final 10 holes for a 73. 
Manzalini continued her solid 
debut fall season with a tie for 
14th place after carding a 72, 
her best of the tournament. Her 
first eight holes were a mixed bag 
with three bogeys and two bird-ies. She settled down over her 
last 10 with two birdies and only 
one bogey. 
The Gators were held back 
by underwhelming weekends 
from junior Sierra Brooks (+10) 
and sophomore Lauren Waidner 
(+16). Brooks had been off all 
weekend, but her 77 on Sunday 
was her worst of the weekend 
and put her in a tie for 30th. 
Waidner’s 81 on Saturday was 
the worst on the team. She fin-
ished in a tie for 48th. 
The Betsy Rawls Longhorn 
Invite was the Gators’ final fall tournament. They did not finish 
a tournament worse than fourth 
this fall. 
“Not our best week of the way 
we envisioned finishing the fall 
but in all honesty, probably a 
blessing in disguise,” coach Em-
ily Glaser said in a release. 
“Overall this fall, we have 
a lot to be proud of and I think 
we know this team is capable. 
The discipline that we show in 
the offseason will be the turning 
point for us.” Women fall late, men begin near top in respective tourneysVOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Right-side attacker Holly Carlton quickly transitioned 
back behind her setter and the 10-foot line after coming 
down from a block on the right-side pin.
She brought her arms slightly forward as she balanced 
most of her weight on her back foot and started her ap-
proach. A set from redshirt senior setter Allie Monserez 
arched high in the air simultaneously as Carlton took her 
first step toward the net.
She met the ball mid-air as it started its descent, brought 
her left arm back into position behind her head and snapped 
it forward like a rubber band.
The ball found the court as quickly as Carlton landed, 
giving Florida a 14-13 lead in the fifth set. Her team was 
fired up in the middle of the court, exploding in excitement.
But it wasn’t enough.
Neither the energy from her kill nor the energy from the 
crowd could put No. 11 Florida (18-4, 9-1 SEC) quite over 
the hump, as it lost against Missouri 3-2 in the O’Connell 
Center on Sunday afternoon.
“Credit to them,” coach Mary Wise said after the match. 
“They made great plays.”
With the loss, Florida’s 14-game win streak ended as 
the Gators also logged their first conference defeat of the 
season to the Tigers (18-4, 8-2 SEC).
Florida’s defense, however, continued to thrive as the 
team took control of the net, much like in their matchup 
Friday against Ole Miss.Gators snap 14-match win streak, lose in five sets to Mizzou
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Attacker Holly Carlton recorded nine kills and a service ace on 26 attacks in Florida’s five-set loss to Missouri on 
Sunday afternoon. The loss snaps a 14-match winning streak stretching back to Sept. 7. 
TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Oliver Crawford dominated the USA F28 
Futures from start to finish. The sopho-
more lost just one set in five matches en 
route to a two-set victory in the final over 
Great Britain’s Andrew Watson to claim 
the Harlingen 25k singles title. 
Crawford earned a wildcard entry into 
the singles main draw and defeated two in-
ternational opponents as well as three from 
America in his title run.
In Athens, Georgia, seven other mem-
bers of the Florida men’s tennis team are 
looking to replicate Crawford’s success at the ITA All-American Regional Champion-
ships.
The first day of competition on Satur-
day saw five of six UF competitors in the 
singles main draw advance for the Gators. 
Duarte Vale, Lukas Greif, Andy Andrade 
and Johannes Ingildsen all cruised to fairly 
easy wins. McClain Kessler advanced with 
a win over Antoine Sanchez (Stetson), who 
retired early due to an injury.
The Gators had three competitors ad-
vance to the main draw singles quarterfi-
nals with wins on Sunday. Vale swept Alex 
Phillips (Georgia) 6-2, 6-2, Andrade won 
after an early exit by Andrew Li (Georgia 
Tech) as a result of an injury 6-2, 1-0 and Ingildsen won a three set match over Rich-
ard Thongoana (Florida State) 7-5, 3-6, 6-3.
The singles quarterfinals will be held 
today at 10 a.m. with Ingildsen set to play 
Juan Pablo Grassi Mazzuchi (UCF), while 
Vale will match up with Adria Soriano Bar-
rera (Miami) and Andrade will see Jan Zie-
linski (Georgia).
All three of UF’s doubles teams ad-
vanced to the quarterfinals after sweep-
ing through the competition in the second 
and third rounds and will play in the Elite 
Eight at 4:30 p.m. today. McClain and Kes-
sler face off with Felipe Escobar and Ma-
teo Ruiz (FGCU), Andrade and Greif play 
Sebastian Arcila and Alex Knaff (Florida State) and Ingildsen and Berdusco will see 
Alvaro Fernandez Horta and Mehdi Laalej 
(FAU).
The women’s tennis team also got out 
to a hot start in the ITA All-American 
Southeastern Regionals in Atlanta this past 
weekend.
The duos of Ida Jarlskog and Tsveta 
Dimitrova and McCartney Kessler and Vic-
toria Emma moved on to the semifinals in 
the doubles main draw. Jarlskog and Dimi-
trova beat Arianne De Winter and Paula 
Boixader (Georgia Southern) 8-4 in the 
Round of 16 and moved on to play Lucia Oliver Crawford wins singles title, Gators dominate in GeorgiaSEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 20
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 20
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 20MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19  
returned forward Deanne Rose taking a shot 21 sec-
onds into the half, but it was simply no use. Once the 
Tigers’ Skye Kingsley put in their second goal on a 
tap-in during the 66th minute, it appeared to entirely 
suck the life from the Gators.
“The second goal was truly a back-breaker for us,” 
coach Becky Burleigh said in a release. “I thought we 
started the second half really strong. Came out with 
some good opportunities and pressure on them.”
Florida ended up in the loss column despite Mis-
souri’s (6-9-2, 3-5-1 SEC) relatively sloppy play on the 
field, with the Tigers drawing nine fouls and two off-
sides calls to Florida’s five and zero, respectively. The 
Gators also led the shot count across the entire match, 
but they weren’t nearly as efficient, outshooting Mis-
souri 14-11 but only putting four shots on goal to the 
Tigers’ seven.
Although it appears Florida will make the postsea-
son SEC tournament—the Gators currently sit eighth 
in the SEC and the top ten teams get a bid—UF will 
have to put in a strong performance in its last match 
of the season against the Arkansas Razorbacks if it 
aims to hold momentum in its first match of the tour-
nament.
That match will be on Senior Day, though, and Bur-
leigh stressed after the match what it’ll mean to the 
team.
“Now it’s all about the next one up,” Burleigh said. 
“Arkansas will be a tough match at home, but it is our 
senior day. That is something that is important to our 
entire team.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 17Florida outshot Missouri 14 -11 but only put four shots on goal
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore forward Deanne Rose put up three shots against the Tigers on Sunday afternoon with one on goal. The 
Gators were held scoreless for the 11th time this season ahead of the team's Senior Day game against Arkansas. 
has decided the East’s representative 14 times. On three 
occasions (2002, 03 and 05) Georgia has earned the right 
to play in Atlanta despite losing to Florida. 
History aside, the winner this Saturday will also have 
an inside track to a long-shot playoff berth. Both teams 
have favorable schedules through the remainder of the 
regular season. Georgia has the only ranked opponent 
remaining on its schedule out of the two sides, and Flor-
ida’s only traveling will be to Tallahassee for its rivalry 
game against FSU. 
UF quarterback Feleipe Franks, however, doesn’t see 
this matchup through the lens of history or the future of 
the SEC race.
“I don’t think you look at them because it’s a big 
game,” he said. “I think you just look at it because it’s 
the next opponent.”
One of the themes coach Dan Mullen has worked with 
this season has been to fight against complacency. Franks 
said the fight to get better during the bye week was some-
thing he was looking forward to.
“These guys on our team, they have drive,” he said. 
“They have motivation to go out there every day, and 
they’re not satisfied with 6-1.”
That hunger, Franks said, has driven him and his 
teammates to approach every game from a renewed per-
spective.
“They’ve been putting the work in all offseason to 
come in and have the season that we’re having right now. 
You have to keep on going. You can’t get complacent.”
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 17Florida-Georgia has 
decided the winner of 
the SEC East 14 timesNo one would have dared mention 
the phrase “playoff contention” for the 
Gators ahead of last year’s Florida-Geor-
gia matchup.
Yet here the Gators are, ranked No. 
9 the very next season — just two spots 
below No. 7 Georgia — with the same re-
cord as the Bulldogs. And it’s not beyond 
my belief that the winner of this game 
might go to the College Football Playoff.
Not many people thought the Gators 
would carry a 6-1 record into the bye 
ahead of their annual trip to Jacksonville.
I’d pegged them at the beginning of 
the season to be 5-2 by now with losses 
to Mississippi State and LSU because it seemed that the full rebuild of a team that 
went 4-7 last year would take time. 
As Scott Frost’s 1-6 Nebraska Corn-
huskers and Chip Kelly’s 2-5 UCLA 
Bruins have shown this season, success 
doesn’t come easy for first-year coaches 
these days. 
That hasn’t appeared to be the case 
for Dan Mullen’s Gators, however, even 
though they were a team that looked ab-
solutely lost before his arrival.
Mullen has preached continuously 
this season that his team still has a lot of 
growing to do. 
And it does.
Florida still has a ways to go in finding 
its identity. But the Gators will enter the 
World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party 
already with bowl eligibility, and they’ve had two weeks to prepare for a game that 
they’ve likely been thinking about since 
last year’s clock hit zero with them sitting 
at the wrong end of the 35-point thrash-
ing.
We’ve sat and pondered all season as 
to whether the Gators are as good as we 
all think they are. And that question will 
be answered on Oct. 27 in one of the most 
prominent rivalries in college football.
Florida-Georgia has always been 
about the rivalry, the atmosphere. But 
this year, it could be about a story com-
ing full circle.
Alanis Thames is a football writer 
for The Alligator. Follow her on Twit-
ter @alanisthames and contact her at 
athames@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 17
Sports Meme of the Week Day/ River Wells20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2018
BURGER 
NIGHT
$3.99 BURGERS
(1/2 LB. ANGUS BEEF) 5PM- CLOSE
$5.99 PITCHERSMONDAY NIGHTS
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595In the Creekside Mall Plaza
BURGER 
$3.99 BURGERS
Edition 2018
DEADLINE
OCT. 26RUN DATE
NOV. 2More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long 
festival. Tell them where to eat and 
how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming souvenir Edition which is 
passed out along the parade route.
Call 352-376-4482  
advertising@alligator.orgHOMECOMING
Contact the Alligator 
Advertising Department today.Kick Off a Season of Great Business
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Marzal Martinez and Ana Madcur (Miami) whom 
they also beat (8-3). 
The trio of Kessler, Emma and Jarlskog ad-
vanced through the ﬁ  rst round of the singles main 
draw easily, never losing a set. Kessler beat out 
Julia Mikulski (FSU) 3-0 after she retired early. 
Emma swept Rafaela Gomez (UNF) 6-4, 6-4 and 
Jarlskog swept Natalia Serrano (UCF) 6-1, 6-1. 
The main draw singles semiﬁ  nal featured three 
Gators and saw Emma match up against Jarlskog 
while Kessler played Marta Gonzalez (Georgia). 
Kessler beat Gonzalez 6-3, 6-1 to set up a Florida 
ﬁ  nal against Jarlskog, who beat Emma 6-2, 4-6, 
6-0. The two will match up today for the singles 
title. A time for this match has not yet been made 
available.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgTENNIS,  from pg 18Three UF women 
advance through irst 
round in Georgia
Men’s golf opens ﬁ  nal fall tour-
nament at Tavistock Collegiate In-
vitational
Sunday also saw the men’s golf 
team trek down to Orlando to begin 
its own ﬁ  nal tournament of its fall 
schedule at the Tavistock Collegiate 
Invitational.
This tournament is one that the 
Gators have done very well at in pre-vious years. They won it in 2016 and 
placed second last year. 
Though the Gators carded a 2-un-
der as a team — not good enough for 
ﬁ  rst or second — it did place them in 
a tie for ﬁ  fth. They are one stroke be-
hind fourth-place Texas Tech and two 
back of a tie for second, but leader 
Vanderbilt is 10 strokes ahead.
Sophomore Chris Nido’s torrid 
start sparked a 4-under day for him, 
and he sits in a tie for ﬁ  fth place indi-
vidually. He had three birdies on the front nine, and while he only had one 
more birdie on the back nine, he did 
not score a single bogey. 
Sophomore John Axelsen and 
freshman Aden Ye had even rounds to 
place them in a tie for 27th. Freshman 
Eugene Hong (+2) ended Sunday in a 
tie for 45th and senior Gordon Neale 
(+4) is in a tie for 54th. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell1@alligator.org 
 GOLF,  from pg 18Florida men tied for ifth after Day 1 in fall inaleThe Gators outblocked Missouri 23 to 9, both teams logging 
one solo block and four block errors a piece.
Much of Florida’s troubles came from a lack of consistency 
when it came to putting out an efﬁ  cient offense. Hitters were 
early to their sets, or sets weren’t on time for the hitters. Either 
way, the Gators looked like they were struggling with unforced 
errors.
“I think sometimes we overthink it,” Kramer said. “We 
have to go to things that are working, and we made some not 
smart IQ errors tonight.”
Much of the ﬁ  rst set was a challenge for Florida solely 
because of unforced errors, which helped the Tigers keep a 
strong lead until the teams were tied at 19-all. Then, a kill from 
freshman outside hitter Thayer Hall put Florida ahead by one.
The glory was short-lived, however, as Missouri closed out 
the ﬁ  rst set 25-23, capitalizing on back-to-back kills, a Florida 
ball handling error and a Florida service error.
The Gators came back strong in the second set, depend-
ing mostly on extended service runs. Monserez recorded a six-
point service run, which put Florida up 14-7.
Hall followed suit with a four-point service run of her own, 
which gave the Gators a 10-point lead (18-8), the largest lead 
of the entire match for either team. Florida went on to take the 
set 25-16.
The biggest deﬁ  cit for the Gators squad came in between 
the second and third sets. Missouri took advantage of eight 
combined Florida attack errors and some offensive inconsis-
tencies, taking the set 25-17.
Florida rebounded in the fourth, holding the Tigers to just 
13 points on the set and forcing the match to go to a ﬁ  fth.
The odds appeared to be in Florida’s favor as the team 
switched sides halfway through the ﬁ  fth set, up 9-4 against the 
Tigers, but the Gators couldn’t hang on.
A timeout from Missouri pushed things over the edge as 
the Tigers battled back to take a 12-11 lead over the Gators. A 
kill from Missouri’s Kylie Deberg, who led both rosters with 21 
kills, helped secure the ﬁ  ve-set win for the Tigers.  
“A loss like this doesn’t help us in the long run,” Kramer 
said, “but I think we’re going to grow from this.”
  
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg 18Gators drop 14-match 
win streak in ive-set 
loss to Missouri
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Oliver Crawford won the singles portion of the 
USA F28 Futures tournament in Harlingen, T exas. 
