We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators preparing for “Rocky Top”
The iconic T ennessee ﬁ  ght song has been blasting 
from loudspeakers this week in practice. How have 
Florida’s offensive playmakers reacted to it?, pg. 14A park for Tom Petty
First a tribute on the 34th Street Wall, now the Northeast Park, 
pg. 4
Puppies with a cool space
Twenty-three puppies are coming to a local shelter, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 12
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Christopher King / Alligator Staff 
Patagonia comes to UF
Chris Gaggia, the Patagonia global marketing manager for ﬁ  eld and ﬁ  sh, addresses students on how to run 
an ethical company. The program was held Tuesday night in Pugh Hall and offered students a chance to hear 
how Patagonia remains a proﬁ  table company while still focusing on improving the environment.
IT GAVE THEM $3,920 
WORTH OF FRAMED 
DIPLOMAS. 
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
Thousands of people watched 
24 people get rushed off the stage 
at graduation in May. Now, UF is 
trying to make it up to them with 
a gift.  
UF mailed framed diplomas 
to the students who were pulled 
off stage during the Spring com-
mencement ceremony, said Steph-
anie McBride, the director of com-
mencement. They were sent as an 
apology and a reminder that the 
university “appreciates and cel-
ebrates them.” 
UF came under fi  re for be-
ing inappropriately aggressive in 
ushering students off stage during 
the Spring graduation ceremony. 
Since then, the commencement 
model has shifted away from 
individual name-calling in the 
O’Connell Center. 
In addition to the framed di-
plomas, UF President Kent Fuchs 
reached out to all of the students 
by phone and with a personal, 
mailed letter, McBride said. 
The frames cost $3,920 in to-
tal, she said. UF spent $148.75 
per frame for 24 of the frames 
and $175 per frame for two of 
them. The price discrepancy was 
because the fi  rst 24 were bulk-
purchased, and the last two were 
bought later when UF realized two 
students were double majors. Two students called UF to 
thank the administration for fram-
ing their diplomas, McBride said.
Jamal Waked, who graduated 
in May with a bachelor’s degree in 
physics, said he is happy with his 
framed diploma.
Waked wasn’t upset about the 
Spring commencement incident 
because he had already landed his 
backﬂ  ip when the marshal came 
to rush him off the stage, he said. 
“I didn’t feel an apology was 
needed for me, but for others I 
can understand the apology,” the 
22-year-old said. 
He said some students were 
unfairly moved off stage and were 
upset, so it is a nice gesture from 
UF to let the students know that 
they aren’t just a name.
“I think it’s noble that UF is 
able to realize their mistakes and 
correct them,” he said.
Oliver Telusma, who gradu-
ated in May with a bachelor’s de-
gree in political science, said he is 
unsure if this was an attempt to 
make amends, but if it was, it isn’t 
nearly enough. 
UF’s response to the com-
mencement incident wasn’t only 
an offense against him, but a clear 
statement of how UF regards com-
munities of color, he said.
“Resolution comes from not 
only substantive efforts to make 
amends with me, but with mar-
ginalized students who experience 
a climate like this regularly,” the 
22-year-old said. 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgUF apologizes to 
students rushed off   
stage at graduation 
IT’LL COST $160,000 TO 
FUND THE LIBRARY FOR A 
YEAR.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students can soon study over-
night again at Library West after UF 
Student Government voted to fund 
the extra hours.    
SG Senate unanimously passed 
a bill to refund Library West with 
$160,000 from the SG reserve ac-
count as a 24/7 library Tuesday 
night. The Senate had to pass the bill twice before it could be imple-
mented.
This will apply for the 2018 to 
2019 fi  scal year. Then, it will be 
funded for three years by the Of-
fi  ce of the Provost, said UF Student 
Body President Ian Green.
Money in the reserve account 
comes from student activity and ser-
vice fees, Green said. Library West 
staff plans for the library to be open 
24/7 by the end of September once 
more employees are hired. 
“It’s been shown that students 
want a 24/7 library on campus, 
however, the study that was done previously did not necessarily re-
ﬂ  ect that interest,” Green said. “It 
was my job as student body presi-
dent to show that the interest was 
there, and that it’s going to continue 
to increase, especially as we strive 
for top fi  ve.”
Raelin Ogburn, an 18-year-old 
UF health science freshman, said 
she didn’t know the library used to 
be open 24/7. 
“Finding out that it was 24 hours 
at one point is shocking to me,” she 
said. 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgLibrary West will be open 24/7 
again by the end of September
THE COUNTY HOPES 
TO MAKE THE BALLOTS 
AVAILABLE FRIDAY.
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Spanish-speaking voters won’t 
have to struggle to understand the ballot this November. 
Thanks to a ruling by a federal 
judge, 32 counties in Florida, includ-
ing Alachua County, will be required 
to provide residents with sample 
ballots in Spanish, said TJ Pyche, 
the director of outreach for Alachua 
County Supervisor of Elections. The 
county is working to make the ballot 
available Friday. “I think that this will give them 
the opportunity to read the ballot in 
their native language and make their 
decisions accordingly,” he said.
The change comes after the Ala-
chua County Supervisor of Elections, 
Kim Barton, was sued in a class-ac-
tion lawsuit for violating the Voting 
Rights Act, which prohibits discrimi-
nation in voting, Pyche said.There isn’t an accurate estimate 
yet for how much the new sample 
ballots will cost because it depends 
on printing expenditures, he said. 
For Marcie Stefan, the vice presi-
dent of the Alachua County His-
panic Caucus, the new sample ballot 
means she won’t have to translate 
the amendments for her parents 
from Puerto Rico. “It does affect people, because 
you can’t really understand what 
you’re voting for,” she said. 
Stefan thinks the new sample bal-
lots will improve voter turnout in fu-
ture elections.
“It’s going to be much more com-
fortable voting when you understand 
what you’re voting for,” she said.Alachua County to off  er Spanish sample ballots 
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018THE COUNTY 
EXPERIENCED A SPIKE IN 
BACTERIAL STDS FROM 
2014 TO 2015.
McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
With sexually transmitted dis-
eases on the rise nationally, Alach-
ua County is seeing a similar trend 
among college-aged students. 
In 2017, more than 2.3 million 
cases of chlamydia, gonorrhea and 
syphilis were diagnosed nationally, 
surpassing recorded cases in 2016 by 
over 200,000, according to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Preven-
tion. While the increase isn’t as steep 
for Alachua County, the numbers are growing, according to the Florida 
Department of Health.
Bacterial STDs, including gonor-
rhea and chlamydia, have seen a 
steady increase in Alachua County 
for people ages 18 to 23. State data 
shows 1,626 people were diagnosed 
with bacterial STDs in 2017, which 
is up from 1,567 diagnosed cases the 
year before.
The county saw the largest spike 
between 2014 and 2015, when 200 
more people were diagnosed with 
bacterial STDs, according to the 
state. 
A rise in the rate of STDs within 
the past few years can be seen at 
UF, said Cecilia Luna, the marketing 
and communications coordinator for 
UF Student Health Care Center. She 
didn’t have any statistics available 
on UF’s increase.The most common cases of STDs 
found at UF are chlamydia and gon-
orrhea, Luna said. 
The health center found different 
reasons why these rates continue 
to rise, including patient education. 
Many incoming UF students lack the 
knowledge they need to practice safe 
sex or do not understand the risk 
that can be presented to them if they 
don’t, Luna said.
“We try to take a wholesome ap-
proach, because we know there’s 
more than one factor contributing 
to not only why people aren’t hav-
ing safe sex, getting tested and not 
knowing their status in the first 
place,” she said.
The center is also working to fight 
the stigma against STDs and sexually 
transmitted infections, she said. 
“We want students really to un-derstand getting an STI is not the end 
of the world,” Luna said. 
If students were more aware 
about safe sex practices and the risks 
presented when they enter a sexual 
relationship, they would be more 
prepared, Luna said.
An ideal way to slow the rise of 
STDs would be for the campus com-
munity to talk about subjects that 
are taboo, Luna said. 
Samantha Evans, the sexual 
health educator at GatorWell, said 
she wonders if the increase in STD 
diagnoses is because programs like 
GatorWell are encouraging students 
to get tested. 
Gatorwell offers free HIV test-
ing at its main location in the Reitz 
Union through a collaboration with 
the Alachua County Health Depart-
ment, Evans said. The office gives oral swab tests to about 400 to 500 
people a year, Evans said. 
Lauren Rafanan, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology junior, believes UF 
has done a lot to promote students’ 
sexual health. 
She said the clubs she is in, such 
as the American Medical Student As-
sociation, have brought people from 
Gatorwell to meetings to talk about 
safe sex practices, and she has seen 
Gatorwell set up booths around cam-
pus to talk about protection. 
“UF has resources to promote 
sexual health and actively tries to 
reach out to students, but it is ulti-
mately up to the students to decide 
whether they want to use those re-
sources,” Rafanan said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.org Alachua County STD rates rise with national trend NORTHEAST PARK WILL BE 
RENAMED IN PETTY’S HONOR. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tom Petty’s legacy will be memorialized in 
a Gainesville park next month. 
The Northeast Park, at 400 NE 16th Ave., is 
set to be renamed in honor of Tom Petty, said 
Gainesville City Commissioner David Arreola. 
An announcement will be made at 11:30 a.m. 
on Petty’s birthday, Oct. 20, at the park.
In March, the city of Gainesville offered a survey to residents asking how to best com-
memorate Petty, who is from Gainesville. Petty 
passed away last October due to an accidental 
drug overdose. 
The six survey options included renaming 
a city street, facility or park; adding a statue 
to the city; hosting an annual musical festival 
or concert; declaring Oct. 20 as “Tom Petty 
Day” or dedicating the month of October to his 
legacy in music. 
“When Tom Petty passed away, the com-
munity at large here in Gainesville obviously 
had a serious mourning,” Arreola said. “He 
meant a lot to this city, to the people here, and 
they wanted something for the city to do in re-membrance.”
Daniel App, a 32-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent, was only five years old when he heard 
the car radio blast “American Girl,” App’s first 
Petty song, while his mother drove him to his 
elementary school in Osten, Florida.
Twenty-seven years later, he became the 
co-founder and lead guitarist of Heavy Petty, a 
Petty tribute band that plays the artist’s songs, 
App said.
Renaming the park is a nice gesture, but 
there’s more than statues and buildings when 
it comes to commemorating an important fig-
ure, App said.
“The importance is not some superficial way of memorializing someone,” App said. 
“It’s genuinely to understand them, their his-
tory, their legacy.”
Outside of physical commemoration, App 
believes the best way to carry out Petty’s lega-
cy is to pass on the stories of his life and play 
his music.
“Pass the torch, expose everybody to the 
music that he played, and get excited about 
it,” App said. “I think it’s amazing what people 
can do.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org‘Runnin’ Down a Dream’: Tom Petty is getting a park named after
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students can now produce original 
podcasts using free equipment from Mar-
ston Science Library. 
The library started offering podcast kits 
for rent two weeks ago. Each kit is valued 
around $700 and includes a $300 ZoomH5 
four-track portable recorder, a standard 
microphone and a shotgun microphone, 
which would record more directionally 
with higher quality audio, said UF Mar-
ston engineering librarian Samuel Putnam. 
Both microphones are valued at about 
$400. The kit also includes additional 
memory cards and accessories.
Only two kits are available for rent, Put-
nam said. Marston is currently the only lo-
cation on campus offering them. Two an-
nual endowment funds, the Robert Hume 
Science Library Endowment with $5,500 
and the Deborah Herbstman Science Li-
brary Endowment with $3,500, helped pay 
for the kits, Putnam said.
Any UF student with a Gator 1 Card 
is able to rent a kit for the week, Putnam 
said.
The idea to provide free access to re-
cording equipment started about a year 
ago, when students began expressing fascination towards the podcasting me-
dium and professors started creating as-
signments that required vocal recordings, 
Putnam said. In total, over 50 students 
via social media and in person had shown 
interest in using the equipment, Putnam 
said.
“I like the idea of empowering students 
to share their stories,” Putnam said. “Pod-
casting is a really democratic medium.”
The concept of lending expensive 
equipment to students looking to start 
podcasting is a fascinating idea, said So-
phia Meloro, a 19-year-old UF environ-
mental engineering sophomore.
“I don’t really know much about pod-
casts or recording,” Meloro said. “For the 
people who would use that on a regular 
basis it could be super helpful for them.”
In the future, Putnam, who has a pod-
cast with his friend, hopes to see students 
utilize the technology offered to pursue 
a dream of breaking into the podcasting 
world. He said if enough students express 
interest in the kits, Marston could consider 
setting up a studio for people to record in.
“I’m excited for students to be able to 
share what they want to share in their own 
voices,” Putnam said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMarston Science Library is 
now offering podcasting kits
IT SHOULD REOPEN NEXT WEEK.
Gabrielle Seminara 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The International Center in the Hub is 
opening its revamped space next week. 
The renovations include new offices for 
the director and associate director of the 
International Scholars Program, a program 
which allows undergraduate students to 
take classes with an international focus. A 
reception desk, a television wall to display 
information and a new waiting area for 
students are all among the renovations as 
well, said Leonardo Dillalon, the dean of 
the center. 
The additions will help the International 
Center since it was lacking the proper space 
it needed, Dillalon said.
“We had them squeezed into a little 
back corner for years,” he said.
Renovations on the center began in May, 
and will hopefully be completed next week, 
Dillalon said.
The renovations cost about $360,000, 
said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. The 
Office of the Provost gave roughly $175,000, 
and the rest came from the International 
Center’s budget.
Renovations were done primarily to ac-
commodate the International Scholars Pro-
gram, which can be added to all undergrad-
uate majors, Dillalon said. Students receive 
a medallion and recognition upon comple-
tion. Over 500 students have enrolled, and 
some have already graduated, he said.
The program started four years ago as a part of UF’s quality enhancement plan, 
Learning Without Borders. The plan was 
part of UF’s accreditation process, which it 
undergoes every 10 years, he said. UF de-
cided its focus would be the international-
ization of the undergraduate curriculum.
Much of the center’s construction ex-
panded into part of the largely unused lob-
by, Dillalon said.
Students had mixed feelings about the 
construction. Courtney Kreiling, a 19-year-
old UF marketing sophomore, said people 
will be able to work easier when the con-
struction is over.
“It made it hard to find seating,” she 
said. “The noise wasn’t bad, but it made it 
kind of dismal.”
The construction didn’t bother Mia Frisi-
ello, a 21-year-old UF international studies 
and Chinese senior.
“There were less places to sit,” she said. 
“But, it’s not a huge deal.”
Frisielle studied abroad in China. She 
said she thinks the renovations are great 
and there are things to be gained from in-
ternational programs.
“In programs like study abroad or in-
ternational students coming here, you gain 
cultural language and knowledge from the 
interactions,” she said.
Susanne Hill, the executive director of 
the International Center, said internation-
alization is important because employers 
look for students with experience.
“We believe students need a global per-
spective,” she said. “Students with it will 
be better off in the future both personally 
and professionally.”International Center in the Hub 
is getting a $360,000 facelift
Each podcasting kit is valued at $700.T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 11
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Marlowe Starling, Madison ForbisRomy Ellenbogen, Stephan ChamberlinWHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hands-On STEAM Volunteering 
at the Cade Museum
Do you love science, art, tech-
nology and being creative? Are 
you looking for an exciting vol-
unteer opportunity? Join the 
Cade Museum for Creativity & 
Invention as a volunteer. We 
are always in need of passion-
ate volunteers to help in our 
labs and throughout the mu-
seum. Apply online at cademu-
seum.org/volunteer, and con-
tact Michele Kuhn, a volunteer 
coordinator, at volunteercrd@
cademuseum.org with any 
questions. Our next volunteer 
orientation will be held at 6 
p.m. on Wednesday.
Live storytelling at the Florida 
Museum
In partnership with Guts 
& Glory GNV, the Florida 
Museum of Natural History will 
offer “Fieldwork Fails: A Live 
Storytelling Event” from 6 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. Thursday, featuring 
original, true, first-person sto-
rytelling. Food and beverages 
will be available for purchase. 
Attendees must be 18 years or 
older. The program fee is $15 
or $10 for students. For more 
information, or to register, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
storytelling, or call 352-273-
2062.
GatorNights – Festi-Fall
Rake in the fall fun at 6:30 
p.m. Friday at GatorNights. At 
9 p.m., mosey on down to the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
to watch a live musical perfor-
mance by Honey County, then 
play a round of Pumpkin Spice 
Bingo to win a prize. Create 
fall scents at our aromatherapy 
station and receive your own 
custom wood etching. Craft 
your own mason jar luminary 
and pumpkin craft and enjoy 
pumpkin spice coffee at Global 
Coffeehouse. Enjoy popcorn and 
soda while watching “Ocean’s 
8” at 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. in 
the Reitz Union Auditorium. As 
always, there will be free bowl-
ing and billiards in the Game 
Room and barbecue at Midnight 
Munchies to finish off the night. 
GatorNights is always free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 
Card and is always Friday from 
8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz 
Union.DreamQuilt
The local arts organization, 
DreamQuilt, is accepting artists 
and performers for SoulMakes: 
Immersive Art Show from noon 
to 4 p.m. on Saturday at Cypress 
and Grove Brewing Company. 
All types of artists are welcome, 
and presenting artists are en-
couraged to do demos, talk with 
guests and work on projects in 
the available space. Participants 
and guests interact in an open, 
creative environment blend-
ing different forms of art with 
a unique experience for visi-
tors, including a collaborative 
canvas and collage workshops. 
Current students may apply to 
show their work for free. To sell 
art or craft items, a booth fee 
of $15 applies. Learn more by 
emailing booking@dreamquilt.
org or texting 352-872-2620.
Entries accepted for 
ButterflyFest Facebook photo 
challenge
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting the sixth-
annual ButterflyFest Facebook 
Photo Challenge! Submit your 
best picture incorporating eco-
system services by Monday 
for your chance to win prizes. 
This free challenge is open to 
all ages. The museum will post 
the top 10 images from entries 
received on its Facebook page 
on Oct. 1, and the public will 
select the overall winner online 
via the most ‘likes.’ The win-
ning photograph will be recog-
nized during ButterflyFest on 
Oct. 13. For more information, 
including entry guidelines, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
butterflyfest-photo-deadline.
Student Government Elections
Vote for your Student 
Government senator from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. next Tuesday 
and Wednesday. Polling lo-
cations include Broward 
Recreation Room, Hough Hall 
Room 120, Health Science 
Center C2-41C, Jennings Hall 
Library, Levin College of Law 
BGH Student Commons, second 
floor of the Marston Computer 
Lab, Murphree Conference 
Room, Norman Education 
Library, Reitz SG Print Lab, 
Springs Area Office Room C202 
and Southwest Recreation 
Social Lounge. Questions? Visit 
sg.ufl.edu/elections, or email 
Supervisor of Elections, Henry 
Fair, at elections@sg.ufl.edu.Florida Museum to open new 
‘Permian Monsters’ exhibit 
Sept. 29
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History will open 
its newest featured exhibit, 
“Permian Monsters: Life be-
fore the Dinosaurs” with free 
activities from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. on Sept. 29. As an early 
celebration of National Fossil 
Day, visitors may speak with 
members of Florida fossil 
clubs  about what fossils can 
be found around the state and 
meet paleontologists and ge-
ologists who work to uncover 
the secrets of these ancient re-
mains. Visitors can learn about 
the world’s greatest extinction 
event with life-size models, 
real fossils, interactive dig pits 
and computer games. While 
the exhibit has an entrance 
fee, museum members and UF 
students with a valid Gator 1 
Card receive free admission. 
For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
permian-monsters or call 352-
846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
An article in the Sept. 17 issue in-
cluded a map for the story titled 
"Student Government changes toi-
let paper" that incorrectly placed 
the location of Marston Science 
Library on campus. The library is 
located at 444 Newell Drive. The 
Alligator regrets the error.HIGH  94° LOW  73°
Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, September 19, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSSept. 20, 6pm: Pugh Hall Ocora
The Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and 
Welcoming Gainesville & Alachua Co. will present  
oral history interviews conducted by doctoral 
student Seyeon Hwang with refugees resettled in 
Jacksonville. The panel will consist of organiza -
tions that provide services for refugees discussing 
themes of displacement, resilience, and “making 
it home”:
    Basma Alawee, refugee and refugee organizer  
    with Florida Immigrant Coalition 
   Travis Trice, World Relief Jacksonville 
    Jose Sanchez, Church World ServicesEach year, Americans observe National Hispanic  
Heritage Month from Sept. 15 to Oct. 15 by 
celebrating the histories, cultures and contribu -
tions of American citizens whose ancestors came 
from Spain, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central  
and South America. The observation started in 
1968 as Hispanic Heritage Week under President 
Lyndon Johnson and was expanded by President  
Ronald Reagan in 1988 to cover a 30-day period.  
It was enacted into law on Aug. 17, 1988. Sept. 
15 is significant because it is the anniversary  
of independence for Latin American countries 
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and  
Nicaragua. In addition, Mexico and Chile celebrate   This event is free and open to the public. Din -
ner and refreshments will be provided. Funding 
for this program was provided through a grant 
from the Florida Humanities Council with 
funds from the National Endowment for the 
Humanities as well as the Department of Urban 
and Regional Planning, Center for Latin Amer-
ican Studies and the Center for the Humanities 
and the Public Sphere.
Extra credit sign in sheets can be made available 
for your classes. Please contact Grace Chun at  
gchun96@ufl.edu for more information.their independence days on Sept.16 and Sept. 18, 
respectively. Also, Columbus Day or Día de la Raza, 
which is Oct. 12, falls within this 30-day period. 
UF International Center, Division of Student Af -
fairs, the Hispanic Student Association, the College 
of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Latin American Stud -
ies, IFAS, the College of Dentistry, the College of 
Engineering, UF Vet Med, the Office of Research, 
and the College of Journalism are among those cel -
ebrating the month by contributing daily posts to 
social media. Look for the hashtag #UFHHM. For 
a full listing of the month’s events, go to facebook.
com/UFHHM/.Home Away from Home:  
Rembering Refugees in FloridaUF marks 50th Anniversary of 
National Hispanic Month
The largest career fair in the southeast, Career 
Showcase will be held in the Exactech Arena at 
the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Tuesday, 
September 25 and Wednesday, September 26.   
Over 400 employers have registered for the event 
looking to network with University of Florida 
students in non-technical and technical fields.
Meeting with recruiters can be intimidating for 
some students. The Career Connections Center, 
which hosts Career Showcase, recognizes that 
the career fair environment can be overwhelm -
ing for several different reasons. “We know that 
networking can be a pain point for some of our 
students. It takes vulnerability to open yourself 
up to a complete stranger, especially one that 
you want to impress,” said Ja’Net Glover, senior 
director of the career center. “Our office has  created several workshops and events to help  
students learn the value of networking and how 
to communicate their strengths, values, and 
competencies to employers.”
The Diversity Meet Up: Pre-Showcase Connec -
tions is one of the events the career center hosts to  
give students an opportunity to network with emp-  
loyers in an informal environment. The event, held  
on Monday, September 24, the day before Career 
Showcase welcomes all students from diverse and 
underrepresented populations. Diversity Meet Up, 
held in the Evans Champion Club at Florida Field, 
starts with a networking tips workshop and prac -
tice sessions before the networking mixer begins. 
“We encourage students not to bring resumes to 
the Diversity Meet Up, and the employers aren’t 
expecting them, they genuinely want to talk with 
students in a casual setting,” said Glover.Other opportunities for students to brush up 
on their professional development before Ca -
reer Showcase are the Employer Perspectives 
series where employers host career education 
workshops. Additionally, Career Conversations, 
informal, small group conversations, have topics 
ranging from Networking for Introverts to Nav -
igating Career Fairs the week prior to Showcase.  
The Career Connections Center also provides 
services for students to present their best selves 
before meeting employers. Students can drop by 
the center to have their resume reviewed by a 
career ambassador. The career center welcomes 
walk-ins who bring a hard copy of their resume. 
After the review, the student will receive a cou-
pon that provides them with 25 free printed cop -
ies of their resume courtesy of SG and the Career 
Connections Center. Career Connections Center Provides Students 
Several Ways to Prepare for Career Showcase  Nomination period runs through Oct. 31.
UF’s 2019 Superior Accomplishment 
Awards program recognizes outstanding 
work that occurred between Aug. 1, 2017 
and July 31, 2018.
Celebrating its 30th year, the awards 
program recognizes TEAMS, USPS and 
Academic Personnel employees who have 
contributed outstanding service in their 
fields during the prior academic year. For 
additional information about the Superi -
or Accomplishment Awards program — 
including divisional chairs, nomination 
criteria, award categories and nomination 
forms — visit learn-and-grow.hr.ufl.
edu/awards-recognition.Superior  
Accomplish-
ment Awardsbonds and alliances between humans and non-hu -
mans. Also considered is the magnitude of waste 
and growing populations, the laws of nature, in -
equality and protest. Lastly, artists explore the ef -
fects of technology and make a call for optimism 
with new ways of imagining a vibrant future for 
the world to come. “Engaging art to create a dia -
logue about important topics of our time is crucial 
in the role of an art museum,” said Dr. Lee Anne 
Chesterfield, Harn Museum of Art Director. “We 
are grateful to the Warhol Foundation for the Vi -
sual Arts, as well as the National Endowment for 
the Arts for supporting this endeavor and seeing 
the value in the exhibition’s creation, presentation 
and documentation.” For more information, call 
352-392-9826 or visit www.harn.ufl.edu.The Harn Museum of Art at the University of 
Florida will explore an era of rapid, radical and 
irrevocable ecological change through works of 
art by 45 international contemporary artists.  
The Harn-organized exhibition The World to 
Come: Art in the Age of the Anthropocene opens 
Sept. 18, 2018 and will be on view through 
March 3, 2019. Environmental issues will be ex-
amined through more than 65 works of photog -
raphy, film, sculpture and mixed media, as well as 
related symposia and programming. 
The Anthropocene is a controversial term used to 
name a new geological epoch defined by human 
impact. While geological epochs are known as 
products of slow change, the Anthropocene has been characterized 
by speed. “Runaway 
climate change, rising 
water, surging popu-
lation and expanding 
technologies com-
press our breathless 
sense of space and 
time,” said Kerry 
Oliver-Smith, Harn 
Curator of Contem-
porary Art. “Human 
impact has made a 
profound change on 
the Earth. Artists chosen for the exhibition respond 
by upending the status quo, challenging human mastery over nature 
and attuning us to 
the deep bond be -
tween human and 
non-human life.” 
The World to Come 
unfolds around seven 
overlapping themes: 
Deluge, Raw Mate -
rial, Consumption, 
Extinction, Symbiosis  
and Multispecies, Jus-
tice and Imaginary  
Futures. Topics range from disaster, environmental 
devastation and loss to the emergence of new The World to Come: Art in the Age of the Anthropocene
Gideon Mendel, South African, b. 1959, Adlene Pierre, Savanne Desolée, 
Gonaïves, Haiti, September 2008, From the series Drowning World, 2008, 
courtesy of the artist and Axis Gallery, New York and New JerseyThe following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018THE COUNTY 
EXPERIENCED A SPIKE IN 
BACTERIAL STDS FROM 
2014 TO 2015.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
With sexually transmitted dis-
eases on the rise nationally, Alach-
ua County is seeing a similar trend 
among college-aged students. 
In 2017, more than 2.3 million 
cases of chlamydia, gonorrhea and 
syphilis were diagnosed nationally, 
surpassing recorded cases in 2016 by 
more than 200,000, according to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention. While the increase isn’t as 
steep for Alachua County, the num-bers are growing, according to the 
Florida Department of Health.
Bacterial STDs, including gonor-
rhea and chlamydia, have seen a 
steady increase in Alachua County 
for people ages 18 to 23. State data 
shows 1,626 people were diagnosed 
with bacterial STDs in 2017, which 
is up from 1,567 diagnosed cases the 
year before.
The county saw the largest spike 
between 2014 and 2015, when 200 
more people were diagnosed with 
bacterial STDs, according to the 
state. 
A rise in the rate of STDs within 
the past few years can be seen at 
UF, said Cecilia Luna, the marketing 
and communications coordinator for 
UF Student Health Care Center. She 
didn’t have any statistics available 
on UF’s increase.The most common cases of STDs 
found at UF are chlamydia and gon-
orrhea, Luna said. 
The health center found different 
reasons why these rates continue 
to rise, including patient education. 
Many incoming UF students lack the 
knowledge they need to practice safe 
sex or do not understand the risk 
that can be presented to them if they 
don’t, Luna said.
“We try to take a wholesome ap-
proach, because we know there’s 
more than one factor contributing 
to not only why people aren’t hav-
ing safe sex, getting tested and not 
knowing their status in the first 
place,” she said.
The center is also working to fight 
the stigma against STDs and sexually 
transmitted infections, she said. 
“We want students really to un-derstand getting an STI is not the end 
of the world,” Luna said. 
If students were more aware 
about safe sex practices and the risks 
presented when they enter a sexual 
relationship, they would be more 
prepared, Luna said.
An ideal way to slow the rise of 
STDs would be for the campus com-
munity to talk about subjects that 
are taboo, Luna said. 
Samantha Evans, the sexual 
health educator at GatorWell, said 
she wonders if the increase in STD 
diagnoses is because programs, in-
cluding GatorWell, are encouraging 
students to get tested. 
Gatorwell offers free HIV test-
ing at its main location in the Reitz 
Union through a collaboration with 
the Alachua County Health Depart-
ment, Evans said. The office gives oral swab tests to about 400 to 500 
people a year, Evans said. 
Lauren Rafanan, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology junior, believes UF 
has done a lot to promote students’ 
sexual health. 
She said the clubs she is in, such 
as the American Medical Student As-
sociation, have brought people from 
Gatorwell to meetings to talk about 
safe sex practices, and she has seen 
Gatorwell set up booths around cam-
pus to talk about protection. 
“UF has resources to promote 
sexual health and actively tries to 
reach out to students, but it is ulti-
mately up to the students to decide 
whether they want to use those re-
sources,” Rafanan said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.org UF, Alachua County STD rates rise with national trend NORTHEAST PARK WILL BE 
RENAMED AS A TRIBUTE. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tom Petty’s legacy will be memorialized in 
a Gainesville park next month. 
The Northeast Park, at 400 NE 16th Ave., is 
set to be renamed in honor of Tom Petty, said 
Gainesville City Commissioner David Arreola. 
An announcement will be made at 11:30 a.m. 
on Petty’s birthday, Oct. 20, at the park.
In March, the city of Gainesville offered a survey to residents asking how to best com-
memorate Petty, who is from Gainesville. Petty 
passed away last October due to an accidental 
drug overdose. 
The six survey options included renaming 
a city street, facility or park; adding a statue 
to the city; hosting an annual musical festival; 
declaring Oct. 20 as “Tom Petty Day” or dedi-
cating the month of October to his legacy in 
music. 
“When Tom Petty passed away, the com-
munity at large here in Gainesville obviously 
had a serious mourning,” Arreola said. “He 
meant a lot to this city, to the people here, and 
they wanted something for the city to do in re-membrance.”
Daniel App, a 32-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent, was 5 years old when he heard the car 
radio blast “American Girl,” App’s first Petty 
song, while his mother drove him to his ele-
mentary school in Osten, Florida.
Twenty-seven years later, he became the 
co-founder and lead guitarist of Heavy Petty, a 
Petty tribute band that plays the artist’s songs, 
App said.
Renaming the park is a nice gesture, but 
there’s more than statues and buildings when 
it comes to commemorating an important fig-
ure, App said.
“The importance is not some superficial way of memorializing someone,” App said. 
“It’s genuinely to understand them, their his-
tory, their legacy.”
Outside of a physical commemoration, App 
believes the best way to carry out Petty’s lega-
cy is to pass on the stories of his life and play 
his music.
“Pass the torch, expose everybody to the 
music that he played, and get excited about 
it,” App said. “I think it’s amazing what people 
can do.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org‘Runnin’ Down a Dream’: Tom Petty is getting a park in his honor
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students can now produce original 
podcasts using free equipment from Mar-
ston Science Library. 
The library started offering podcast 
kits for rent two weeks ago. Each kit is 
valued at about $700 and includes a $300 
ZoomH5 four-track portable recorder, a 
standard microphone and a shotgun mi-
crophone, which would record more di-
rectionally with higher quality audio, said 
UF Marston engineering librarian Samuel 
Putnam. Both microphones are valued at 
about $400. The kit also includes addition-
al memory cards and accessories.
Only two kits are available for rent, Put-
nam said. Marston is currently the only lo-
cation on campus offering them. Two an-
nual endowment funds, the Robert Hume 
Science Library Endowment with $5,500 
and the Deborah Herbstman Science Li-
brary Endowment with $3,500, helped pay 
for the kits, Putnam said.
Any UF student with a Gator 1 Card is 
able to rent a kit for a week, Putnam said.
The idea to provide free access to re-
cording equipment started about a year 
ago when students began expressing fas-
cination towards the podcasting medium and professors started creating assign-
ments that required vocal recordings, Put-
nam said. In total, more than 50 students 
via social media and in person had shown 
interest in using the equipment, Putnam 
said.
“I like the idea of empowering students 
to share their stories,” Putnam said. “Pod-
casting is a really democratic medium.”
The concept of lending expensive 
equipment to students looking to start 
podcasting is a fascinating idea, said So-
phia Meloro, a 19-year-old UF environ-
mental engineering sophomore.
“I don’t really know much about pod-
casts or recording,” Meloro said. “For the 
people who would use that on a regular 
basis it could be super helpful for them.”
In the future, Putnam, who has a pod-
cast with his friend, hopes to see students 
utilize the technology offered to pursue 
a dream of breaking into the podcasting 
world. If enough students express interest 
in the kits, Marston could consider setting 
up a studio for people to record in, he said.
“I’m excited for students to be able to 
share what they want to share in their own 
voices,” Putnam said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgMarston Science Library is 
now offering podcasting kits
IT EXPANDED FOR THE 
INTERNATIONAL SCHOLARS 
PROGRAM.
By Gabrielle Seminara 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The International Center in the Hub is 
opening its revamped space next week. 
The renovations include new offices for 
the director and associate director of the 
International Scholars Program, a program 
which allows undergraduate students to 
take classes with an international focus. A 
reception desk, a television wall and a new 
waiting area for students are also among 
the renovations, said Leonardo Villalon, the 
dean of the center. 
The additions will help the International 
Center because it was lacking the proper 
space it needed, Villalon said.
“We had them squeezed into a little 
back corner for years,” he said.
Renovations on the center began in May, 
and will hopefully be completed next week, 
Villalon said.
The renovations cost about $360,000, 
said UF spokesperson Steve Orlando. The 
Office of the Provost gave roughly $175,000, 
and the rest came from the International 
Center’s budget.
Renovations were done primarily to ac-
commodate the International Scholars Pro-
gram, which can be added to all undergrad-
uate majors, Villalon said. Students receive 
a medallion and recognition upon comple-
tion. More than 500 students have enrolled and some have already graduated, he said.
The program started four years ago as 
a part of UF’s quality enhancement plan, 
Learning Without Borders. UF decided its 
focus would be the internationalization of 
the undergraduate curriculum, he said. 
Much of the center’s construction ex-
panded into part of the largely unused lob-
by, Villalon said.
Students had mixed feelings about the 
construction. Courtney Kreiling, a 19-year-
old UF marketing sophomore, said people 
will be able to work easier when the con-
struction is over.
“It made it hard to find seating,” she 
said. “The noise wasn’t bad, but it made it 
kind of dismal.”
The construction didn’t bother Mia Frisi-
ello, a 21-year-old UF international studies 
and Chinese senior.
“There were less places to sit,” she said, 
“but it’s not a huge deal.”
Frisielle said she thinks the renovations 
are great and there are things to be gained 
from international programs. In the past, 
she has studied abroad in China.
“In programs like study abroad or in-
ternational students coming here, you gain 
cultural language and knowledge from the 
interactions,” she said.
Susanne Hill, the executive director of 
the International Center, said internation-
alization is important because employers 
look for students with experience.
“We believe students need a global per-
spective,” she said. “Students with it will 
be better off in the future both personally 
and professionally.”International Center in the Hub 
is getting a $360,000 facelift
Each podcasting kit is valued at $700.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
A NEW AIR CONDITIONING 
UNIT WAS INSTALLED 
TUESDAY AFTER TWO WEEKS 
OF HEAT.
By J. Cameron Davidson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Twenty-three puppies were wel-
comed to the coolest room in the Ala-
chua County Humane Society. 
The shelter received the new dogs 
Wednesday after installing a perma-
nent air conditioning system in its 
puppy room. The shelter was not able 
to accept any puppies for two weeks 
pending the unit’s installation, said 
Danielle Cummings, a 24-year-old de-
velopment coordinator at the humane 
society. 
The society had relocated its pup-
pies to foster homes because the 
room’s standing air conditioning unit stopped working, Cummings said.
The unit, which had been used 
since June, was not suitable for the 
room’s layout, Cummings said. Before 
the portable air conditioning unit was 
installed, the shelter did not have a 
way to cool the puppies other than by 
leaving the door open. 
Cummings said even after the 
standing unit was installed, the room 
got hot and attracted bugs. 
The shelter needed $1,500 for a per-
manent air conditioning unit. Through 
a newsletter and its Facebook page, 
it easily met and surpassed that goal 
with donations amounting to $8,500 
from about 100 people as of Monday, 
Cummings said.
“We had an outpour of donations 
through our website during that time,” 
she said. 
The new air conditioning unit is 
suited for the window-less puppy room because it does not need to at-
tach to a window to ﬁ  lter air, Cum-
mings said. 
Excess funds will be used to pre-
pare new puppies for adoption and for 
continued facility improvements, she 
said. Fourteen puppies came Wednes-
day from an overcrowded animal 
shelter in Live Oak, and another nine 
came Thursday from the Taylor Coun-
ty Animal Control, Cummings said. 
“They will be vaccinated, micro-
chipped, sterilized, and then they’ll 
be ready to go to loving homes pretty 
soon,” she said. 
Melissa DeSa, a 39-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she has fos-
tered animals ever since she was a 
little girl. She donated to the humane 
society’s recent fundraiser. 
“I feel really grateful for them and 
know how hard their job is trying to 
be a no-kill shelter,” DeSa said.Puppies welcomed back to Alachua County Humane Society
Courtesy to The Alligator
Twenty-three new puppies were welcomed to the Alachua 
County Humane Society after a new air-conditioning unit 
was installed in the shelter’s puppy room.
THE NEWSROOM WAS 
PICKED OUT OF 63 
APPLICANTS. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
Out of 63 college applicants 
across the country, The Indepen-
dent Florida Alligator was one of 
nine chosen by Poynter for its Col-lege Media Project. 
The Alligator will be a partici-
pant in the program until Spring 
2019. Poynter will train the news-
paper staff on campus and provide 
online coaching, said Poynter’s 
Senior Vice President Kelly Mc-
Bride. The staff will also work on 
a year-long project with a budget 
of up to $3,000.  
The money saved from the pro-
gram will allow The Alligator to request more public records, im-
prove audience engagement and 
add new technology, said Meryl 
Kornﬁ  eld, a 21-year-old UF jour-
nalism senior and The Alligator’s 
editor-in-chief. 
“Not every student journalist 
can do this, so it’s fantastic that 
we can,” Kornﬁ  eld said.
Student media allows audienc-
es on campus to have a conver-
sation, McBride said. The project was created to help student media 
promote a mutual understanding 
in a university community.
Student-run newsrooms strug-
gle with tight resources, large 
staff turnover and lack of priority 
among staff, McBride said. Despite 
this, it is where many students fall 
in love with journalism.
“I want student media to con-
tinue to be a good place for young 
journalists to develop a passion for their work,” McBride said.
McBride wants to expand the 
program by working with more 
student organizations.
“I hope 10 years down the road 
some of the people who went 
through the project are leading 
America’s newsrooms,” McBride 
said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgThe Alligator is chosen for Poynter’s College Media ProjectEditorial
ColumnThe college 
existential crisis
Five Ways to Protect Your Voting Rights
“Most important election of your life”—that’s 
how activists describe the November election, 
and millions of energized people agree. But, er-
rors could prevent any of us from successfully 
casting votes even if we voted in the primaries. I 
have five suggestions to help preserve your vot-
ing rights:
(1) If you’re already registered to vote, double-
check your status with your county’s election of-
fice well before Oct. 9. (2) If you’re registering 
for the first time, (a) do it well before Oct. 9 and 
(b) go through your county’s election office. (3) Check your 
polling place location before you vote. (4) If you need to vote 
by mail, be proactive and follow up. (5) Update your con-
tact information with the county election office. Here are the 
whys and hows:
Voter Registration Issues
Florida law requires us to be registered by Oct. 9 to vote 
in this November’s election.
If you’ve already registered, double-check your status 
through your county election office. This will give you time 
to re-register if you were mistakenly removed, or “purged,” 
from the voter rolls. If you’re not registered yet, register  
through your county’s election office soon so you’ll have 
time to deal with any glitches. 
You might want to photograph the computer screen con-
taining your registration info, so you’ll have it on hand.
I suggest dealing with your county’s election office (in-
stead of the state office) because county offices work more 
directly with county voter rolls. Find your county office by 
Googling “Election Supervisor” + your county + “Florida.”
Why the need to be proactive? Because Florida’s voter-
purging process has been a bit error-prone for years now. For 
details, Google the term “Florida voter purge errors.”
Long story short, since the election of 2000, thousands of 
eligible voters have been mistakenly purged from Florida’s 
voter rolls, and they didn’t find out until Election Day. 
Too late. They weren’t registered anymore, and Florida’s 
deadline to re-register was 29 days before the election. Elec-
tion offices may send notices to voters who are flagged for 
purging. What if you were flagged and the notice went to last year’s apartment? What if the notice comes to the 
right address but is thrown away with junk mail?
You’d probably be purged, and you wouldn’t 
find out until you tried to vote. Why risk being 
denied the right to vote, when it’s so easy to 
check your registration? 
Checking Your Polling Place Location
Polling places can change from election to 
election. If you go to the wrong place, you could 
drive to the right one and wait in line again. But 
why risk wasting time when you can easily check 
the location in advance? Check your polling place location 
through your county’s election office’s website. Photograph 
the screen so you have the address on hand. If you don’t find 
answers online, email or call the election office, and persis-
tently follow up.
Voting By Mail
When you vote by mail using an absentee ballot, your 
ballot signature is checked against your signature on file. If 
the signatures don’t match, your ballot could be invalidated.
Signatures can differ: Mine does when I’m in a rush versus 
not. The election office might send a notice if your absentee 
ballot is challenged, but what if the notice gets thrown out 
with junk mail? If you need to vote by mail—
(1) Update your signature in advance with your local elec-
tion office. (2) Submit the absentee ballot a couple weeks 
before the election, so there’s time to learn about and deal 
with problems. (3) Follow up and watch for notices from the 
election office.
Updating Your Contact Information
If there are problems relating to your voting rights, you’ll 
need to be notified so you can solve them. Make sure that 
your mailing address and other contact information are up-
dated with your county’s election office. If you don’t find 
a page online for updating, try emailing the office. And, as 
with other efforts, persistently follow up.
Deborah Cupples is a master legal skills professor at UF 
Levin College of Law and author of the nonpartisan book, “It 
Is About You: How American Government Works and How 
to Help Fix It.”WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
As one student flipped through a textbook in the library, 
her face was equal parts scorn, venom and dread. She let out 
an exasperated sigh and buried her face in her hands. It’s a 
typical sight as the semester matures, as classes are delving 
deeper into substantive material. Many of us have already 
experienced our first exams of Fall. As we inch closer to mid-
terms, some UF students may be thinking the same thing to 
themselves: Can I handle this? 
You might find yourself studying in the library realizing 
that your last-minute cramming can’t save you from the sting 
of an impending quiz. At first, only the upcoming exam con-
cerns you. But if you can’t handle the quiz, how will you 
handle the midterm? The final? How are you going to apply 
the concepts in “the real world”? Are you really ready to go 
through with this? Are you ready to make this your lifelong 
career? The stages of existential dread parade over you.
Those fears can creep up on you quickly. One minute 
you’re sitting in lecture and imagining yourself as a future 
marketing major. You dream of putting Nestle and Nabis-
co products on shelves in the most scientific way possible. 
Formulating special pricing during Halloween to maximize 
profits. Determining which fall colors will make people hun-
griest. But the next minute, you are inundated with business 
finance material that is too dense and too complicated to un-
derstand, along with textbooks with indecipherable graphs 
and unintelligible paragraphs of mathematical jargon. The 
marketing dream is eclipsed by a mountain of numbers, for-
mulas, memorization and exams. It can look hopeless when 
you see red marks covering returned quizzes and homework.
Take a deep breath. You are not in over your head. Your 
classmates probably aren’t breezing through the material ei-
ther. If you would like to, see an academic adviser to orient 
yourself with the resources you’ll need to succeed or con-
sider taking a lighter course load. Advisers can help you take 
concrete steps to get your legs back under you. Once you 
start studying more effectively, you will do better in class. 
Trust us, you’re not doomed. You’re not so bad at math, his-
tory or anything else that you can’t pass this course. You just 
need to master the material.
A helpful tactic to avoid existential crises is to stay ground-
ed and avoid procrastination. Yes, we know this is not new 
advice. Yes, this is exactly what you’ve been told your entire 
academic career. Yes, it is still the best thing you can do to 
save yourself from a breakdown. It’s a simple concept: The 
more you study and the more practice you get, the better 
you’ll do. If your anxiety only happens in fits and starts just 
before exams or big projects, you may want to consider bet-
ter time management. Take comfort in at least knowing what 
you want, despite having a tough time getting there. It could 
be worse. The much harder situation is the opposite.
Your existential crisis might not be driven by fear of fail-
ing. You could find yourself bored with your schoolwork — 
what your major has to offer just doesn’t interest you. That is 
not so easily fixed. You’ll have to do some critical thinking, 
and you may realize you’ve been idling down the wrong road 
for too long, doing what everyone said you should do instead 
of what you wanted to do. Academic advisers can tell you 
what UF offers, but they can’t tell you where you will indi-
vidually find fulfillment.
Keep in mind UF has resources if you feel overwhelmed, 
such as U Matter, We Care. You should contact them at umat-
ter@ufl.edu if your burden is becoming too heavy to bear. 
It’s a good way to get started on alleviating that mounting 
pressure, and they can help with academics, mental health or 
just a lack of motivation. They can help you see the payoff of 
that business finance class and bring your candy marketing 
dreams back to life.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORDeborah Cupples
opinions@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
Let’s talk about graduation. In the last 
couple of weeks, UF President Kent 
Fuchs’ ofﬁ  ce released documents stat-
ing that graduation will no longer be the 
same. All UF graduates will now attend 
two graduation ceremonies. The ﬁ  rst will be 
a combination of every single college in the 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, and the second will 
be hosted by each individual college. The an-
nouncement resulted in an abundance of 
angry, outraged students. Considering the 
number of petitions and Facebook posts 
that started surfacing left and right, this may 
be the ﬁ  rst time in a long time that a ma-
jority of this campus agrees on something. Last week, Anthony Rojas, whom I assume 
is the leader of the new movement #Bring-
GraduationBack, went to the Student Senate 
meeting and made an appealing argument 
for why Fuchs should keep graduation in-
tact. For one, I strongly agree with Rojas and 
others on the matter of graduation and why 
it should not be changed. As someone who 
belongs to two different colleges, with this 
change to graduation I will have to attend 
three different ceremonies rather than just 
two. This is inconvenient for my family and 
I, who deserve to see my name boldly on the 
screen as I cross the O’Connell Center stage.  
Although I do agree with Rojas and oth-ers, their outrage does not address the root of 
this problem. They are forgetting that Fuchs 
decided to change graduation as a response to 
inappropriate actions made by a member of his 
staff this past Spring. Although the mistreat-
ment of students of color has been around for 
ages, this speciﬁ  c incident occurred in May. A 
faculty member, whose identity is still hidden 
and who is still a university employee, thought 
he had the right to assault black graduates who 
were celebrating their accomplishments while 
walking across the stage. All of the petitions 
and arguments out there have failed to inquire 
how the university can guarantee that black 
students will never be assaulted again for cele-brating their wonderful accomplishments. All I 
am asking is for individuals to remember black 
students and the many injustices against them 
in their conversations, especially this Thurs-
day. Let’s remember that graduation would 
not be changed for this upcoming semester 
had one of UF’s faculty members not put his 
hands on black students. And let’s not forget 
that UF was unrankable until black students 
started attending the university. This is another 
opportunity for UF to show that we, as black 
students, matter and they care.
Mackintosh Joachim is a UF women’s stud-
ies sophomore.
As the horses force the sparrows to 
wait for the oats to pass through, 
the thought comes that there must 
be a better system. With 44 per-
cent of homeless people having 
jobs and 43 million people living in pov-
erty, we’ve got no time left for bootstrap-
ping theories. Every opinion article and 
research paper ends up in the same place: 
The poor stay poor, and the rich stay rich 
across generations. However, it turns out 
there is an answer to capitalist woe in basic 
income — the radical idea of free money.
Basic income privileges cash disburse-
ments are given to all citizens to be used 
on what they deem ﬁ  t as the route to ﬁ  ght 
poverty. And while I am hesitant to em-
brace any policy supported by Milton 
Friedman, the libertarian model and Pino-
chet apologist, I must admit it makes sense 
from a libertarian and liberal point of view. 
After all, these would be the same support-
ers of helicopter money. The idea remains 
the same down to the cash component, 
with the difference being that basic income 
is methodical and even.
Now, one might be tempted to ask what 
the difference is between this and our wel-
fare system. Since the 90s, welfare has 
been heavily regulated. It’s now released only if you can prove you’re 
looking for work, and most le-
gal immigrants aren’t allowed 
to be involved. It also privileges 
families. And the shrinking Sup-
plemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program, or SNAP, disallows hot 
food or household items. The 90s 
reform, though, was largely suc-
cessful: There was an increase of 
affected family income by 30 percent. Also, 
these same reforms that moved people into 
work increased deep poverty by 150 per-
cent.
There are two studies which need to 
be invoked in any discussion on the topic. 
The ﬁ  rst is a study of sugar cane farmers 
who lived in ﬂ  uctuating wealth because of 
the harvest. What it found was that before 
harvest, when the farmers were effective-
ly poor, they had, on average, 14 less IQ 
points than after. This leads to the conclu-
sion that poverty increases stress, which in 
turn decreases ability and focus.
The second study is that of Dauphin 
in the 70s. In rural Canada, a study was 
done in basic income, or Mincome, as 
they deemed it. And while there were no 
ﬁ  nal results as the study was shut down 
by a conservative government, it resulted in poverty being effectively, en-
tirely eliminated. The study has 
been replicated in several towns 
to varying, but constant, success.
Now, there is the idea that 
this would decrease incentive to 
work, and while during Mincome 
there was a decrease in hours 
worked, the groups these sta-
tistics reﬂ  ect were mothers and 
teens who worked to support their family. 
In Omitara, a settlement in the Steinhau-
sen electoral constituency in the Omaheke 
Region of Namibia, it actually increased 
economic involvement because of the in-
troduction of small business.
It’s funny. When I was little, I thought the solution would be to print more mon-
ey. And while it’s more nuanced than that, 
the idea turned out to be right. We do need 
to print money. Or rather, we need to re-
distribute what we already have from taxa-
tion. What’s needed, though, is strong sup-
port for the ideal. If we can’t achieve it, at 
least we could take welfare reforms in the 
right direction. This is important because 
Benjamin Radcliffe has demonstrated that 
the more welfare a society produces the 
more life satisfaction there is within it for 
all classes. That, and one in 30 children 
experience homelessness.
Levi Cooper is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Redistribute wealth for more welfare: The case for universal basic income
Levi Cooper
opinions@alligator.org
By Emma Witmer
 Avenue Editor
 By Lindsey Breneman 
Avenue Writer
Gator gamedays are holidays in Gainesville. 
Therefore, residents and visitors alike should 
know the best places to observe the Gators 
battle on the ﬁ  eld, even if they can’t score 
some tickets.
1. A tailgate
Everything smells like charcoal and sweat. 
You pull out a pop-up tent, a cooler full of 
beer, hook up a TV and surround yourself 
with family and friends. Tailgates are the 
nostalgic younger cousin of college football. 
These gameday festivities range from a mod-
est crowd in the bed of a truck to ﬁ  fty people 
gathered around an RV with multiple ﬂ  at 
screens. Dorito dust on one hand and a Nat-
ural Light in the other just feels like college 
football, right?
2. The Swamp Restaurant
Swamp is the obvious destination for 
any fall Saturday. After all, it is named af-
ter the glorious UF stadium itself. The food 
and drinks are a bit overpriced, sure, but 
Gainesville is always overﬂ  owing with Gator 
fans when those cleats hit the ﬁ  eld. The patio 
and top deck are perfect spots for gameday 
people-watching, as students and families 
brave the Florida heat as they make the trek 
to Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
3. The Social GNV
Social is bursting at the seams on Gator 
gameday. Right off of West University Ave-nue’s main drag and in the heart of Midtown, 
Social’s air conditioning is a life-saver. Their 
mac and cheese? A thing of dreams. The front 
half of Social is where you bring your par-
ents. There may be a giant, circular bar in the 
middle of the room, but your mom’s going to 
love their bloody mary - blue cheese-stuffed 
olives and a straw made of sausage. Oh yeah. 
Plus, from front, to back, to rooftop; the place 
is lined with TVs, and each time the Gators’ 
score, the place erupts.
4. Mother’s Pub and Grill
Mother’s is the quintessential sports bar. 
Period. From the buzzing TV lights bathing 
hightops covered in pints of beer and chicken 
wings, to the ever-dedicated fans who rely on Mother’s multi-screen experience to stay up 
to date on the Gators and beyond. When it 
comes to Gator gameday, though? Prepare to 
drown in a sea of orange and blue.
5. Salty Dog Saloon
The Salty Dog Saloon, or “Salty” as fre-
quenters call it, is that perfect midpoint be-
tween your dad’s favorite jukebox joint and 
your ﬁ  ll of Midtown madness. Have a Zipper-
head, Salty’s signature, sweet and chugable 
cocktail, every time the Gators score. You 
might stay relatively sober this season, but 
that’s your prerogative. 
6. Gator’s Dockside 
Gator’s Dockside is way out on Newberry 
Road, so once again, far enough away from campus to avoid the bumper-to-bumper mad-
ness. This is a great way to keep an eye on 
those competitive away games, especially if 
you’ve got a big group of hungry friends. Ga-
tor’s Dockside owns its motto, “Wings, Ribs, 
Seafood, and Sports.” Sounds about right.
7. Balls Bookstore
Balls is the legendary hole-in-the-wall your 
parents are unable to question on your bank 
receipts. It may seem a little odd to enter Balls 
in the light of day, but put aside your least 
classy memories and step inside. This dingy 
Midtown staple always has cheap shots and 
Gators on the screens. Tell your parents you 
skipped the game to go to “Da Bookstore.” 
They’ll be so proud.
UF Fashion Forward: 
Check out page 9 for our inside look into Theo Organics with 
founder Jenna Theoﬁ  ledes.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. ‘Between Riverside and Crazy’
T ake a look at the newest production taking 
Gainesville by storm and how you can see it.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gator football is a season ritual here in Gainesville. Students, faculty and family 
alike come out to cheer on their team.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Gator fans come out in droves to cheer on their team at The 
Swamp Retaurant.
No Tickets? Top 7 places to catch the game
LIFESTYLE
Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
CIA Analyst Jack Ryan is trying to 
save the United States from a loom-
ing terrorist attack that could poten-
tially be as large or greater than 9/11. 
Amazon Prime’s new series, 
“Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan,” ﬁ  nds 
America once again worried about 
increasing terrorist attacks, but one 
CIA agent isn’t going down without 
a ﬁ  ght. 
The series, which premiered on 
Aug. 30, follows the life of an Islamic 
extremist, who is now seeking re-
venge on the world and Jack Ryan, 
a CIA analyst who comes across sus-
picious bank transfers and looks to 
halt terrorist actions before they get 
any worse.
The eight-episode series begins 
with the life of Jack Ryan (John Kra-
sinski) an average young man who has been working as a CIA analyst 
for the past four years. Ryan’s job 
requires him to manage and ana-
lyze multiple accounts and watch 
for suspicious activity. Suddenly, he 
catches a large transfer of $9 million 
and alerts his boss. 
Initially, his boss James Greer 
(Wendell Pierce) isn’t interested in 
getting the United States involved in 
what could be a casualty by shutting 
down the account. Behind Greer’s 
back, Jack has a colleague put in 
a démarche, which is a written de-
mand from the U.S. Department of 
State to the Republic of Yemen’s 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
While Greer isn’t at all pleased 
with this decision, Ryan continues to 
look further into the possible threat 
of a terrorist named Suleiman. Due 
to the worry of Ryan, CIA ﬁ  eld op-
eratives go to Yemen to monitor the 
bank manager and two men. When the agents can’t distinguish what the 
two men are saying, they decide to 
capture them and bring them in for 
questioning. 
In a complex rescue mission, 
involving a suicide bomber hiding 
among dead bodies and the imper-
sonation of a bodyguard, viewers are 
ﬁ  nally introduced to Suleiman. 
From that moment forward, 
Ryan, Greer and the rest of the 
CIA embark on this hunt for Sulei-
man and his team to bring a halt to 
whatever large, destructive event 
they have planned. The Americans 
ﬁ  nd themselves in a back-and-forth 
game with deadly consequences, as 
every mistake brings them closer to 
a potential catastrophic event for the 
country and its allies. 
One of the most interesting parts 
of the series is the storyline within 
the main plot of the show. While the 
CIA are attempting to stop Suleiman, viewers get a look into the Islamic 
camp and the actions that are taking 
place. 
However, rather than paint 
the portrait of a religious extrem-
ist group, the writers and director 
made the decision to portray a man 
who has been hurt by the world and 
seeks ultimate power as revenge.
Throughout the series, the au-
dience views the life of Suleiman 
and his only surviving family: his 
brother. The two have faced many 
difﬁ  culties growing up without any 
parents while also being minorities 
in foreign countries. Many times 
we see brief moments of Suleiman’s 
mistreatment and how it relates to 
his character and actions today.
The choice to portray a potential 
terrorist in this manner is risky and 
interesting for an American project. 
It puts an emphasis on the human 
part of all villains in media and forc-
es us to look beyond their horrible 
actions to the deeper story. 
While the plot is new, the heart of 
it has a rich history. The show and “Ryanverse,” as it 
has been aptly named, are based on 
author Tom Clancy’s book starring 
Jack Ryan. Many of Clancy’s books 
were previously turned into success-
ful ﬁ  lms starring the likes of Alec 
Baldwin, Harrison Ford and more, 
playing the namesake. 
The show is the ﬁ  fth version of 
Tom Clancy’s character to be re-
leased but the ﬁ  rst for television. 
While the show may have only 
just premiered, the reception has 
been nothing but great.  “Jack Ryan” 
for a second season. Four months 
before Jack Ryan launched on Ama-
zon Prime Video, the show had al-
ready been renewed for season two.
“With so much early anticipation 
for Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan from 
our customers and personally hav-
ing the pleasure to preview the exhil-
arating, action-packed ﬁ  rst season, 
we are excited to greenlight a second 
season of the series months ahead of 
its debut,” said Amazon Studios boss 
Jennifer Salke.Series review of the week: Jack Ryan
REVIEWWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenueWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
COLLEGE 
NIGHT
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595Free Wells 
for Ladies
All-You-Can-Eat 
Chicken Tenders  
(w/Fries & Slaw) $13.99WEDNESDAY NIGHTS
In the Creekside Mall PlazaBy Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Writer
“Enhance your God-given beauty” is the tagline 
for Theo Organics, an organic makeup and skincare 
company founded by Jenna Theoﬁ  ledes, a 22-year-
old UF advertising graduate, who is all about instill-
ing conﬁ  dence and natural beauty. 
Her eyelash serum, containing organic castor oil, 
almond oil, lavender oil and vitamin E, was crafted 
long before she started her undergraduate degree. 
Growing up in Indialantic, Florida, Theoﬁ  ledes 
made her own eyelash serum and worked at a small, 
vegan café called Happy Healthy Human, where she 
learned to stick to pure, natural ingredients and re-
main conscious of everything she puts in her body. 
Theoﬁ  ledes has always relied on castor oil to 
grow strong, healthy eyelashes. When she got to 
college, she knew there was potential to create a 
business because of the high demand and compli-
ments she received for having long, ﬂ  owing eye-
lashes. 
“Being on a college campus is the best time to 
start something even if you start a blog, YouTube 
channel or food Instagram because you’re sur-
rounded by everybody that wants to follow you 
and hear what you have to say,” Theoﬁ  ledes said. 
“You’ll never have these four years again. It just is 
the best time to start because everything is at your 
ﬁ  ngertips.” 
With the help of her older sister, a UF graduate 
who is currently working as a marketing director for 
CoverGirl in New York, the sisters bounced ideas off 
each other and planned how Jenna could take her 
eyelash serum to the next level.
In December 2016, Theoﬁ  ledes launched her 
company Theo Organics on Etsy, and ever since, 
her products have been sold across 46 states in the 
United States and internationally as well. She says 
she absolutely loves her company, but it can be 
overwhelming since she personally customizes ev-
ery tube, label and note one by one. Also, the pink, 
padded envelope that the serum comes in is speciﬁ  -
cally designed to be aesthetically pleasing. 
The packaging is everything, according to Theo-
ﬁ  ledes. She spends a lot of time researching popular 
trends and designs that she can incorporate into her 
products. 
Besides her renowned eyelash serum, Theoﬁ  ledes also designed a lip scrub called “Prickle Pout,” a 
beetroot and cinnamon essential oil that hydrates 
lips, and a mineral eyeshadow named “Eyelight” to 
enhance eye features. 
Theoﬁ  ledes credits her success to utilizing social 
media and personalizing a strong brand image. Her 
company’s Instagram might be impressive, but her 
personal Instagram page is jam-packed with breath-
taking pictures from her travels and college experi-
ence. With more than 10,000 followers, Theoﬁ  ledes 
describes her Instagram as “an art form that is really 
just a diary of my life.”
Theoﬁ  ledes encourages a “look good, feel good” 
kind of attitude when it comes to personal style. 
Usually she wears athleisure to class because she 
feels more productive and comfortable when she’s 
wearing a simple, black legging and tank top but 
throws on a nice knit sweater around her waist with 
a bright tote bag to dress up the look. Another part 
of her everyday style are her Mantrabands, simple 
yet dainty gold bracelets that are engraved with 
positive messages.
Theoﬁ  ledes says that 90s trends are always 
coming back and loves to spend hours rummag-
ing through racks of thrift stores, like Future Per-
fekt Vintage and Goodwill, where she can ﬁ  nd old 
Levi’s, ripped jean shorts, camisoles and blouses. 
“It’s the coolest thing when you can go to a thrift 
store and make something look so great and people 
ask ‘Oh where did you get it’ and you’re like ‘Good-
will,’” Theoﬁ  ledes said. “I just think that’s so fun. 
I’ve never been caught up in brands. So, I honestly 
will shop anywhere.”
The most prized possession for the girl who 
seems to have it all? Her eyelash curler.
“My eyelash curler is my third arm, literally 
wherever I am it’s in my purse,” Theoﬁ  ledes said. 
“I should put it on a keychain or something.” Fashion forward UF: Jenna Theoﬁ  ledes
FASHION
Courtesy to The Alligator
Jenna Theoﬁ  ledes is a 22-year old beauty 
entrepreneur making her mark on the 
industry.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Theoﬁ  ledes’ eyelash serum has made her a 
local celebrity on the UF campus .
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING    
OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 
SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3   
dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange pie. 
Now that is a meal any FL Gator can 
enjoy. So come on out to the creek 
+ take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman 
Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing 
nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day of the week. 
Come in and check out one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open 
Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and modern Korean dishes with the 
best sushi in town Weekday specials including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one beer, wine and sake from 4pm-
7pm! 352-384-3733
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off select 
wines by the glass, $5 select specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 3-6 pm 
Mon-Fri. Located just south of Archer Road on 13th Street in the Shands 
Parking Garage. Private room available. Great for rehearsal dinners, 
student life organizations, and other group events. Always taking 
reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like us on Facebook and follow us on 
Instagram @chefcarlwatts for upcoming events and daily specials.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
   
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own 
cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, 
lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor 
seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, 
Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com By T aylor Hadden
Avenue Contributing Writer
“Between Riverside and Crazy” premieres 
at the Black Box Theatre Friday night with UF 
student actors performing alongside a profes-
sor who has stretched their acting capabilities. 
“Between Riverside and Crazy” is a drama 
focused on Walter Pops Washington, a re-
tired New York City policeman, and the com-
plicated ties grounding him to his Riverside 
Drive apartment. Michael Pinkney, a professor 
at the School of Theatre and Dance (SoTD), 
plays Walter. In the rehearsal process, the cast 
works with Pinkney to explore themes related 
to race, politics and family.
Pinkney “is a legend in New York,” said 
Andy Prescott, an MFA acting student playing 
the role of Lieutenant Caro. “It’s nice to work 
with him outside the parameters of academia 
and watch him do his work.”
Pinkney has a rich theatrical background. 
He was the youngest black person to direct for the Broadway stage. He has been teaching 
at the SoTD for 24 years. On top of balancing 
his responsibilities as director and professor, 
Pinkney believes that acting alongside stu-
dents offers an immersive opportunity to fur-
ther their education. 
“When I’m an actor, I have an opportunity 
to teach by example,” Pinkney said. “How I 
pay attention to the text, understand the logic 
and ask questions leaves an impression.” 
“Between Riverside and Crazy,” which runs 
from Friday through Sept. 30, deals with realis-
tic issues and raw characters, offering numer-
ous questions for both the actor and audience 
to answer. Despite these apparent difﬁ  culties, 
rehearsals and script analysis help to unlock 
these hidden truths and initiate discussions for 
clarity, Pinkney said.
“We get into interesting conversations 
about the characters and their relationships 
during the rehearsal process,” he said. “We 
are able to ﬁ  ll in the gaps … and weave to-
gether possibilities about how the characters’ relationships affect one another.”
Although “Between Riverside and Crazy” 
handles serious topics and issues, the produc-
tion is littered with comical moments delivered 
by Pinkney. He is always full of energy and 
continually switches up the delivery of his 
lines, Prescott said, which keeps the character 
dynamic and fresh.
“He’ll come at you, and it’s true and real, 
but it’s also very hilarious,” Prescott said. “It’s 
fun to have that thrown at you while trying to 
not break character during the scene.”
Pinkney is always raising the bar and in-
spiring his students to reach new heights, said 
Tim Altmeyer, an associate professor at the 
SoTD and director of “Between Riverside and 
Crazy.” Through the cast’s work, Altmeyer is 
discovering more about the play and himself 
as a director.  
“Having Pinkney at the center of this pro-
duction is like having Lebron James or Abby 
Wambach on the team,” Altmeyer said. “I am 
crazy lucky to have him.”UF professor acts with students in ‘Between Riverside and Crazy’
Ralf Remshardt
Dr. Mikell Pinkney and Sasha 
Cifuentes take the stage in 
‘Between Riverside and Crazy. ’
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $1260/mo.   352-359-1508    
9-24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
How to make an
Extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student
Go to: www.studentopportunity.services     
9-19-18-5-14
Need Student for yard work, cleaning,
errands, etc.
Part time. $10+ per hour. 
See www.Gator2018.com for more info.    
9-24-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestHiring PT staff to work with girls ages 5-14 
in an after school setting. Must be available 
M-F. Apply online at www.girlsplace.net. 
Contact lynn@girlsplace.net with questions    
9-19-18-3-14.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Learn how to make extra money at home per 
week completing online and phone surveys. 
Go to collegeopportunity.click.     9-24-18-5-
14
Make extra money at home per week
completing online/phone surveys at
collegeopportunity.click.      9-18-18-3-14
NEED EXTRA CASH?
Get PAID to play with apps online!
Sign up now! 
GETONLINEJOBSFORSTUDENTS.COM    
9-21-18-3-14
LEARN HOW TO MAKE
AN EXTRA $300+ / WEEK
TESTING APPS.
Go to: www.collegecash.club    9-19-1-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatest14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
1. GEOGRAPHY: The ancient city-
state of Tenochtitlan once existed at the 
same site as what major world city?
2. ANATOMY: In humans, which 
gland regulates metabolism?
3. HISTORY: Which astronaut 
stayed aboard the Apollo 11 command 
service module while Neil Armstrong 
and Buzz Aldrin walked on the moon 
in 1969?
4. LITERATURE: What was the 
working title of “The Secret Garden”?
5. FAMOUS QUOTES: What mod-
ern novelist once wrote, “It is our 
choices ... that show what we truly are, 
far more than our abilities”?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: The wom-
bat is a native of what country?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which major U.S. cities did Route 66 
connect?
8. LANGUAGE: What is a plage?
9. TELEVISION: Who played the 
Enterprise captain in the TV series 
“Star Trek: The Next Generation”?
10. ART: In what city is the Van 
Gogh Museum located?
Answers
1. Mexico City
2. Thyroid
3. Michael Collins
4. “Mistress Mary”
5. J.K. Rowling, in “Harry Potter and 
the Chamber of Secrets”
6. Australia
7. Chicago and Los Angeles
8. A beach
9. Patrick Stewart
10. Amsterdam
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 17, 2018King Features Weekly Service
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Learn how to make an
extra $400/wk doing surveys
as a student at: www.paidcollegesurveys.com   
9-19-18-3-20
Get Paid To Test Apps! College students
can make up to $400/wk
testing apps at: www.testappsforcash.com     
9-19-18-3-20
GET PAID FAST!  $750- 3,000/Wk
To Start Is Possible.
 No Previous Exp Req'd.
http://leads-4-consistent-cash-flow.faith    
9-21-18-3-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
55 GALLON TOP FIN FISH AQUARIUM
BRAND NEW. in box never opened.
$130. YOU CAN'T BEAT IT!
Call 352-327-5978                9-21-5-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Most populous 
città in Italia
5 Vintage photo 
tone
10 Scheming
14 “Are you __ out?”
15 Tidies text
16 Scattered, as 
seeds
17 Ladled party 
drink
19 Vast landmass
20 Island near Maui
21 “__ a Lady”: Tom 
Jones hit
23 It blows things up
24 CPR pro
25 Cigarette brand 
featured on 
“Mad Men”
29 Ingredient in a 
Florentine dish
31 Ancient Aegean 
region
32 Notice
33 Crossword-
solving Simpson
36 WWI pistol
37 Martial arts level
40 Happen next
43 Korean imports
44 “Hostel” director 
Roth
47 __ Bornes: card 
game
48 Being 
disrespectful to
51 Manhattan stage 
attraction
55 Cal. column
56 Oft-numbered rd.
57 Saltimbocca 
herb
58 Stationery brand
60 Indian music
62 Slimy pest in a 
flower bed
65 Heal, in a way
66 Fire remnant
67 New Age 
composer John
68 Not mad
69 Fixes the leaks in
70 Two-toned 
cookie
DOWN
1 Rummages 
(through)
2 Parkway 
entrances
3 Canadian force 
member4 Met melody
5 Fall mo.
6 Part of a college 
URL
7 Belarus city
8 In need of 
calamine lotion
9 Fire pit residue
10 N. American land
11 Bulletin board 
item
12 Hostess sponge 
cake
13 Painting the town 
red
18 Chef Jet __,  
frequent 
“Cutthroat 
Kitchen” judge
22 “All the same ... ”
26 Western sch. 
with NCAA 
Division I team 
championships 
in 20 sports
27 Hen-to-be
28 Post office 
assignments
30 Sci-fi/fantasy 
award
34 Slalom slider
35 Embarrass
38 West Yorkshire 
city39 Morales of  
“The Brink”
40 Boards at the 
dock
41 Kurt Cobain’s 
group
42 Alabama 
Slammer 
ingredient
45 More diminutive
46 Not outsourced
49 WWII weapon
50 Enthusiastic52 Pay
53 “Only __”:  
NPR sports 
program
54 __ maté: tealike 
beverage
59 About
61 Dined
63 St. with a former 
“Small Wonder” 
slogan
64 Stammering 
sounds
By Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/19/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 19, 2018
ACROSS
1 Publisher Alfred
6 Spur to action
10 Mus. key with 
three sharps
14 Lost cause
15 Overconfident 
racer of fable
16 Hawaiian island
17 Hawaii or Alaska
18 Oil gp. that 
includes 
57-Down
19 Take a load off
20 Horse sense
23 Pool tool
24 Try to win
25 Colonel Sanders 
facial feature
28 Main attraction
32 Lab maze 
navigator
33 Letter flourish
34 “... good witch, 
__ bad witch?”
35 Angry or achy
36 Test proctor’s 
reminder
40 Soap units
43 Gold in Granada
44 Semiaquatic 
salamanders
48 The “A” in “IPA”
49 Hard-boiled genre
52 Like Easter eggs 
before the hunt
54 Duct opening?
55 Debate side
56 Its 
measurements 
include liters and 
grams
60 Squared up
62 Tax-sheltered 
plans: Abbr.
63 More than 
suggest
65 Partial view?
66 Scandinavian 
language
67 Circular
68 Decrease
69 Organic 
compound
70 Sch. district VIPs
DOWN
1 56-Across wts.
2 On the fence
3 Winning like 
crazy
4 Korda of 
’80s-’90s tennis
5 Library amenity6 Camera buff, for 
short
7 Shoots the breeze
8 Utah city near 
Provo
9 10-point star 
polygon
10 Main blood 
vessel
11 Orchestra leader
12 Contented sighs
13 Stick (out)
21 Years and years
22 Word after fuel 
or fly
23 LP successors
26 Cup handle
27 Season after 
printemps
29 Erma Bombeck’s 
“At __ End”
30 Décor choice
31 MLB’s D-backs
35 Editorial “let it 
stand”
37 Event often 
visible in the 
evening sky
38 “__ tu”: Verdi aria
39 Cutting teeth
40 Derisive 
interjection
41 “Rope-a-dope” 
boxer42 Paleo diet protein 
source
45 Took care of, as 
a spill
46 Annoy 
persistently
47 __-cone: summer 
treat
49 Safety feature  
at a trapeze 
school
50 La Brea 
discovery51 Wall-climbing 
plant
53 Slow on the 
uptake
57 Pakistan 
neighbor
58 “Duck Dynasty” 
attire, for short
59 Pants, briefly
60 Flow back, as 
a tide
61 By way of
64 Ave. and st.
By Roland Huget
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/18/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/18/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 18, 2018
1.  Turbulent 
1.  ____ pass5.  Red ____
2.  Supervise 6.  Car type 
3.  Bullfighter 7.  ____ formula 
4.  Ode, ballad MYOSRT
OESASNREATL
ANESD
VRSEEEO
AMODRTAEERSCT
ONSETNANSWERS: 1A-Stormy  5A-Alert  6A-Sedan  7A-Secret
1D-Season  2D-Oversee  3D-Matador  4D-Sonnet  B-Solar systems9-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are more than 200 billion of
these in the Milky Way galaxy. BONUS
18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 16 Health Services
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsGuard Jalen Hudson  and the men's 
basketball team open fall practice 
on Sept. 28.
Coach Dan Mullen's contract details released
Mullen can earn an extra $200,000 for winning the SEC Championship. 
What are some other marks Mullen could reach this season? See the details 
on pg. 16Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
NOTEBOOK
Staff report
Gators release 2019 football season 
schedule
The Gators’ home schedule features match-
ups with Auburn, Tennessee and Florida State.
The Gators will face the Tigers for the ﬁ  rst 
time since 2011 when Auburn defeated Florida 
17-6 at Jordan-Hare Stadium. It’ll be the 83rd 
meeting between the two teams, and Auburn 
holds a 43-38 all-time advantage over Florida.
UF will open its 2019 season against the Mi-
ami Hurricanes at Camping World Stadium in 
Orlando. The two programs last met in 2013 
when the Hurricanes edged out the Gators 21-
16 in Miami Gardens. 
The long history between the Gators and the 
Hurricanes dates back to 1938, and Miami leads 
the all-time series 29-26.
Florida will open its SEC schedule against 
Kentucky for the second-straight season. The 
Gators will take on the Wildcats in Week 3 in 
Lexington, Kentucky.
The Gators will also have two bye weeks for 
the ﬁ  rst time since 2014, one before their an-
nual contest against Georgia and another before 
they take on Florida State for their last regular 
season game of the year.GPD releases photos of Zach Smith, 
Courtney Smith domestic incident
The Gainesville Police Department released 
photos Monday from a 2009 domestic incident 
between former UF graduate assistant coach 
Zach Smith and Courtney Smith, his wife at the 
time. 
The photos, which appear to show both 
Courtney and Zach Smith with bruises and 
scratches, were obtained by Eleven Warriors 
through a records request. 
The police report from the June 21, 2009, 
arrest states Courtney Smith was “crying and 
visibly emotional” when a GPD ofﬁ  cer arrived 
on the scene. The ofﬁ  cer arrested Zach Smith 
and charged him with aggravated battery on a 
pregnant woman. Courtney Smith said she was 
three months into her pregnancy with the cou-
ple’s ﬁ  rst child, according to the report. 
The charge was later dropped by Courtney 
Smith. The incident occured at the Smiths’ 
apartment in Gainesville, according to the re-
port.
Zach Smith was a member of Urban Mey-
er’s staff when Meyer coached for Florida from 
2005-2010. He was a wide receivers coach at 
OSU before he was ﬁ  red in July. 
The photos come two days after Meyer com-Schedule, contract info releasedMark My Words / Opinion
This column is a public 
service announcement to all 
of you ridiculously passion-
ate Florida fans.
DO NOT make a GoFund-
Me page for Dan Mullen’s 
buyout (a healthy $12 mil-
lion) if he loses at Tennes-
see this weekend and starts 
his career as UF’s head ball 
coach 0-2 in the Southeastern Confer-
ence.
It would not be a very good look, 
especially after eight such webpages 
were made for ﬁ  rst-year Florida State 
coach Willie Taggart as reported by 
the Tallahassee Democrat. 
Now there are only three still ac-
tive, one of which was created by for-
mer adult ﬁ  lm star Mia Khalifa, who 
proved her status as a die-hard FSU 
fan by raising $71 for a $21.2 million 
goal. And it’s possible that she could 
have raised more if she bothered to 
spell her head coach’s name correctly 
(she spelled it “Taggert”).
Buy out Taggart’s contract “so that 
FSU doesn’t go bankrupt trying to hire a real D1 Coach,” Khalifa 
posted on the webpage.
Well Mia, like it or not, 
you’re stuck with your coach 
for at least a short while lon-
ger. To ﬁ  re him after 180 
minutes of football would be 
a sure-ﬁ  re way to guarantee 
an 0-2 start next season.
While many of you Flori-
da faithful are probably chuckling over 
the hystria FSU fans are in, overreac-
tions like this have consequences for a 
program, like hurting a school’s ability 
to recruit. 
Everyone knows that these aren’t 
Taggart’s players. He inherited an 
abysmal offensive line and a team 
that’s front-loaded with stars and lack-
ing in depth. But now that fans are 
pointing the ﬁ  nger at him, recruits are 
going to start doing it too. 
The same goes for Mullen. He in-
herited a team that didn’t maintain a 
proper work ethic for the majority of 
last season during a rough coaching Florida fans, don’t be like FSU fansJustin Ahlum / Alligator Staff
Running back Lamical Perine (22) said he's no fan of T ennessee's ﬁ  ght song, "Rocky T op. " 
FOOTBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
There are some songs that get stuck in your head. 
“Baby Shark” has undergone a resurgence among nos-
talgia-minded millennials. Some catchy songs we inﬂ  ict 
on ourselves by playing it ad nauseam on repeat out of 
a simple sense of masochism and primal aural pleasure.
And then there’s “Rocky Top.”
Good ol’ Rocky Top. Woo.
It can get unnerving, even aggravating when it’s 
played against your will. Just ask running back Lamical 
Perine. 
“I’m getting pretty tired of it,” he said. The reporters 
surrounding Perine suppressed some light chuckles. 
Perine remained stone-faced.
“I hate it.”
That’s the result coach Dan Mullen has been going 
for in practice. He spent Monday and Tuesday afternoon 
blaring the Tennessee ﬁ  ght song through loudspeakers 
while his offense squared off against the scout team. 
It’s one of the most recognizable ﬁ  ght songs in college 
football, and the Gators have had plenty of chances to 
learn it by rote this week.
Florida players hope they don’t have to hear too much 
of it Saturday night in Knoxville. Tennessee has outscored 
its opponents 83-3 over the past two games after losing 
its ﬁ  rst game of the season in a 40-14 blowout to No. “Rocky Top” center of Gators' practices this week
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 16SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
Mark Stine
@mstinejrWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOCCER
THE GATORS LOST TO VANDERBILT DESPITE 
OUTSHOOTING THE COMMODORES 12-6.
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Coach Becky Burleigh insisted that her Florida team 
would be starting with a clean slate as it headed into 
SEC play before its match against Vanderbilt on Sun -
day.
However, Florida left the match with a loss, and it’s 
now abundantly clear to the Gators that their four-game 
losing streak has to end fast, or they may find them -
selves unable to recover.
Here’s what the Gators (2-6-1, 0-1 SEC) have been 
working on before the team travels to Kentucky and 
what they can expect from the Wildcats (4-6, 0-1 SEC) 
on Thursday.
 
Orange and Blues
At the beginning of the season, UF hoped to capital -
ize on the momentum of an Elite Eight finish in the 
NCAA tournament by starting the year off strong.
Those hopes were not realized.
Florida hasn’t won a match in six of its last seven 
contests. Its best result since Aug. 19 was a tie against 
UCLA. The Gators broke a six-game goalless streak 
when midfielder Lais Araujo found the back of the net 
against Vanderbilt, but the team still lost the match 
2-1 despite outshooting the Commodores 12-6 over the 
course of the game.
In the team’s limited practice time in Gainesville, 
one of its main focuses was finding ways to improve 
offensively.
“We’re working on our shape and how to win the 
ball back,” Burleigh said. “Attack in their final third. If 
we can win the ball higher up the field, that gives us 
more potential opportunities offensively.”
Burleigh said Florida’s mindset has to be focused on 
just one thing heading into Lexington: positivity.
“The only way we can do something productive is 
to stay positive,” she said. “That’s what our definition 
of positive is. It’s just good and useful thinking at this 
point.”
Florida leads Kentucky in the series 21-4-3, and the 
Wildcats haven’t defeated the Gators since 2014.
 
Anarchy at the UK
The Wildcats enter Thursday’s match with a streak 
of their own.
Kentucky has dropped its last two games, including 
its SEC opener against Missouri. The team saw a break 
in SEC play with a loss to Lipscomb but continues its 
regular SEC schedule against UF.
Burleigh isn’t looking past the Wildcats despite their 
losing record and dropping six of their last seven.
“At this point, everyone is a tough opponent for us,” 
she said. “Certainly, we respect any opponent we play 
at this point.”
The player the Gators will hope to contain on Thurs -
day is sophomore midfielder Yuuka Kurosaki. She leads 
her team in points with four goals and one assist.
Kurosaki isn’t afraid to take chances. She has taken 
20 shots this season, two more than the Gators have 
managed in their last three games.
The team should also be wary of midfielders Miran -
da Jimenez and Hollie Olding, who’ve scored twice and 
three times, respectively.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgFresh off scoreless 
streak, UF travels 
in search of a winMEN’S TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team will begin its season two 
weeks later than expected.
The Gators were originally scheduled to participate in the 
50k Challenger the week of Sept. 8-16, but failure to pre-qualify 
barred the team from competing. 
The pending threat from Hurricane Florence in the Carolinas 
forced the cancellation of the Duke James Bonk Invite this past 
weekend. Eight UF players are slated to begin their seasons in 
Charlottesville, Virginia, at the UVA Invite, starting on Sept. 21. 
The double-elimination tournament in Virginia, which will 
be held at the Snyder Tennis Center, will feature some of the 
top programs from around the nation including Wake Forest. 
The Demon Deacons boast the No. 1 singles player in the 
country in senior Petros Chrysochos and have two other top-
100 players. Wake Forest also finished the 2017-2018 season 
ranked No. 1 in the Oracle/ITA Division I Men’s National Team 
Ranking. The Virginia Cavaliers also have elite talent with ju-
nior Carl Soderlund earning a No. 9 ranking in singles and three 
other players within the top 125.
Schedules and draws for the tournament have yet to be re-
leased, but the competitors for Florida will be freshmen Sam 
Riffice and Lukas Greif; sophomores Andy Andrade, Brian Ber-
dusco, Oliver Crawford and Duarte Vale; junior Johannes In-
gildsen and senior McClain Kessler.
Freshman brothers, and Gainesville natives, Harrison and 
Greysen Cacciatore will not travel with the team to Virginia. 
They will instead compete in the South Carolina Fall Invite.
The Oracle and Intercollegiate Tennis Association preseason 
rankings were released last week, and eight UF players were 
ranked in the top 100. 
Ingildsen led the way with a No. 11 ranking followed by 
Crawford at No. 23, Vale at No. 57 and Andrade claiming the 
final spot at No. 100. 
Florida also has four doubles teams ranked including Ingild-
sen and Berdusco at No. 24. Kessler and Riffice come in at No. 
38, Vale and Greif at No. 41 and Crawford and Andrade just 
behind at No. 44. Riffice also earned the top spot on the ITA 
Freshman-Newcomer ranking.A wildcard bid is up for grabs this weekend which will earn 
the singles winner a qualifying spot in the Charlottesville 7k 
Challenger beginning Oct. 27. This will be the first action for 
the Gators since late May when their season came to an end at 
the NCAA Division I Men’s Tennis Championships for Singles 
and Doubles.
Several players within the program have said that this team 
has what it takes to contend for a national championship. In the 
Gators’ first meaningful play since late spring, the early returns 
on those claims will be tested.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFlorida set for opening weekend at 
UVA Invite in Charlottesville
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
Gators all over the NFL made big 
plays on Sunday. Forty-seven Flori-
da alumni appeared on 26 of the 32 
teams.
Rookie Antonio Callaway was the 
star for the Cleveland Browns against 
the New Orleans Saints after he failed 
to record a single catch in Week 1. 
The receiver collected a team-leading 
81 receiving yards on three catches, 
including a 47-yard touchdown grab 
that tied the game.
Callaway is expected to get even 
more targets next week with receiver 
Josh Gordon traded to the Patriots.
Fifth-year Chicago Bears tight end 
Trey Burton stood out on Monday 
Night Football when he caught all 
four of his targets for 20 yards and a 
touchdown in the win over the Seattle 
Seahawks.
Former Gators also shined on spe-
cial teams. Oakland Raiders rookie 
punter Johnny Townsend averaged 
47.3 yards with his four punts against the Denver Broncos on Sunday.
On the defensive side of the ball, 
Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end 
Dante Fowler Jr. made a clutch strip-
sack and recovered the fumble in the 
fourth quarter to ice the game against 
the New England Patriots. He is one of 
four Gators on the Jacksonville roster 
but was the only one to record a stat.
Jarrad Davis also made a big splash 
for the Detroit Lions’ defense on Sun-
day. The second-year defensive end 
tallied a team-high six tackles with 
two sacks and three quarterback hits.
Davis had another former Gator 
behind him on the Detroit defense. 
Second-year cornerback Jalen Tabor 
produced three tackles in the three-
point loss to the 49ers.
Carlos Dunlap of the Cincinnati 
Bengals was the third former UF de-
fensive end to produce on Sunday. 
The nine-year veteran recorded a 
tackle, a quarterback hit and three 
pass breakups in a win over the Balti-
more Ravens.
The Pittsburgh Steelers started 
three former Gators in their Week-2 matchup against the Kansas City 
Chiefs. Sixth-year linebacker Jon Bos-
tic stood out with five total tackles, 
good for second on the team. Howev-
er, the Chiefs’ third-year wide receiver 
Demarcus Robinson scored a touch-
down on his only catch against that 
Steelers defense in the five-point win.
Another former Florida defensive 
back stepped up in the wake of safety 
Keanu Neal’s injury in the team’s win 
over the Carolina Panthers.
Brian Poole finished the game with 
six solo tackles and seven total tackles 
after he was questionable to play with 
an ankle injury. The third-year corner-
back also recorded a 12-yard sack and 
a quarterback hit.
Washington’s Quinton Dunbar 
contributed five tackles and a pass de-
flection. His UF teammate, tight end 
Jordan Reed, did not have as good of a 
game. The tight end caught six passes 
for 55 yards but had a crucial fumble 
in the fourth quarter.
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgWeek 2: Callaway bursts onto the sceneAlligator File Photo
Junior Johannes Ingildsen is slotted at No. 11 on the 
ITA preseason singles rankings list. 
GATORS IN THE NFL16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
Buzzed  
Spelling Bee @ 7:30pm$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSpleted his three-game suspension. At Big 
Ten Media Days, Meyer stated he was 
aware of the 2009 incident, but had no 
knowledge of a separate domestic vio-
lence incident that preceded the Smiths’ 
divorce in 2015. 
The Eleven Warriors article says these 
were the only known police photos taken 
that night. 
UF releases information on Dan 
Mullen’s $36.6 million contract
The University of Florida released the 
details of Mullen’s contract on Monday. 
The coach will receive an annual salary 
of $6,103,000, which will make him the 
eighth-highest paid coach in the NCAA, 
according to the Houston Chronicle. To 
compare, the Houston Chronicle report-
ed that Alabama coach Nick Saban will 
be making $8.3 million in 2018. 
The contract also includes bonus 
incentives. They include $400,000 for 
winning the College Football Playoff, 
$200,000 for winning the SEC Champi-onship and $100,000 for making it to any 
bowl game.
The contract also has a buyout option 
for both Florida and Mullen. If Mullen re-
signs, he would have to pay the school 
$2 million. 
If Mullen is ﬁ  red without cause, his 
buyout will be $12 million. Half of that 
will be paid out within 30 days of the ﬁ  r-
ing and the rest will be paid out annually 
over the following six years.UF is still paying Florida’s previous 
two head coaches in Will Muschamp 
and Jim McElwain, both of whom were 
bought out of their contracts.
According to the Florida Times-
Union, McElwain will receive three $1 
million payments on July 1 every year 
until 2020, then one ﬁ  nal payment of 
$500,000 on July 1, 2021.
Muschamp will receive his last pay-
ment of $787,500 in November.NOTEBOOK,  from pg. 14Mullen will earn $6.103 million per year 
transition, and the UF players were the ﬁ  rst to ad-
mit that. 
Mullen came in and made a culture change, 
and sometimes, losing is just a part of adjusting to 
the new system. Of course no fan wants to see the 
end of a 31-game win streak over an SEC foe, but 
there’s no wake-up call louder than that, is there? 
Now the Gators go on the road into Neyland 
Stadium, which holds 102,445 rabid (if not loyal) 
fans. Victory’s not a simple task to ask for. In fact, 
it’ll be a very difﬁ  cult game for Florida to win. But 
Rome wasn’t built in a day. And if Florida loses, 
putting the head coach on the hot seat or calling 
for Feleipe Franks to be benched for the second-
straight season won’t make this UF team develop 
any sooner.
Scott Van Pelt made a very good point on his 
nightly SportsCenter show: It took Nick Saban 10 
seasons to build Alabama to what it is today, the 
country’s best program. 
Be patient Gator fans. You’ll be rewarded for it. 
Mark Stine is the online sports editor at The 
Alligator. You can follow him on Twitter @
mstinejr or contact him at mstine@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 1412 West Virginia. East Tennessee State and 
UTEP aren’t exactly the pinnacle of college 
football, so UF will be the Volunteers’ ﬁ  rst 
real test outside of that Week-1 matchup. 
One of the main points of emphasis for 
the Gators heading into Neyland Stadium 
has been sticking to individual responsibili-
ties on the offensive front. The O-line man-
aged to pave the way for Florida runners to 
rack up 222 rushing yards Saturday against 
Colorado State, but it still missed several key 
blocks against blitzing corners and in getting 
to the second level.
“We have to have complete mental focus on the fundamentals and the job we have 
to do,” center Nick Buchanan said, “and we 
just have to worry about executing. If every-
body executes, all the people execute, then 
we’ll come out with a win. That’s about it.”
Whether or not the front ﬁ  ve can achieve 
this is up for debate. The team hasn’t had 
a 100-yard rusher this season. Freshman 
Dameon Pierce posted 87 yards on ﬁ  ve car-
ries against the Rams on Saturday — the 
highest single-game total for the Gators this 
season — though most of that came off his 
68-yard touchdown gallop. 
It may get worse for the running back 
corps before it gets better. Sophomore Malik 
Davis’ broken foot will hold him out of ac-tion for an unknown period of time.
“That’s such a bad loss,” Perine said. 
“We know if he was out here, he’d give it 
his all, so we’re gonna do the same thing.”
The Gators may need Perine to step into a 
bigger role this weekend with Davis’ depar-
ture, which means “Rocky Top” will intrude 
upon his thoughts on a more consistent ba-
sis. Some offensive players don’t seem to 
mind it too much. Wide receiver Van Jef-
ferson attended high school in Tennessee 
and said he’ll have family — including his 
mother, sisters and 2-year-old daughter — at 
the game.
“They’ve got their own little thing,” Jef-
ferson said about the repetitive ﬁ  ght song. “I guess it’s catchy.”
Mullen shares the same sentiment, say-
ing he’d be whistling “Rocky Top” by the 
end of this week.
“Like every other or every third song, it’ll 
roll through within the crowd noise that we 
play at practice,” he said. “You get used to 
it, and it’s a catchy tune.”
But then there’s guys like Perine who, no 
matter what Mullen says, can’t fathom the 
idea of the song’s likability.
“(Mullen) said it’s catchy?” Perine asked. 
“Coach Mullen is a funny guy.”
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Gators have not had a 100-yard rusher through three games
Dan Mullen's Contract Incentives
$400,000 - College Football Playoﬀ   Champion
$300,000 - College Football Playoﬀ   Runner-Up
$250,000 - College Football Playoﬀ   Semiﬁ  nalist
$200,000 - Participation in New Year's 6 Bowl
$100,000 - Participate in Bowl Game
$100,000 - Reach SEC Championship Game
$100,000 - Finish in AP Top 10
$100,000 - "Academic Performance"
$75,000 - Named AP National Coach of the Year
$50,000 - Named SEC Coach of the Year