We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF Board of Trustees get new chair
He reguarly meets with Gov. Rick Scott, pg. 5.
PUPPIES
They are really good boys, pg. 10.GETTING ON TRACK
UF sprinter Kunle Fasasi moved from Nigeria 
to Gainesville in 2015 to pursue a collegiate track career, pg. 15.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 73
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Comedian John Mulaney will not 
be performing at UF, Accent Speak-
ers Bureau announced Monday. The 
bureau is searching for another co-
median to take his place. 
Accent chairwoman Shelby Bu-
chanan said Mulaney’s agents said he had “career opportunities that were too good to pass up.” Mulaney was scheduled to perform April 19 in 
the Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts. She said no backup acts were prepared. 
“We’re just as disappointed as 
people that we see on our Facebook 
page,” she said. “It’s been kind of a 
whirlwind.” 
Mulaney was available to re-
schedule the show after April 26, 
but Buchanan said that would have 
conﬂ  icted with exams and the end of school. The event, which was going to 
be co-sponsored by Student Govern-
ment Productions and Accent Speak-
ers Bureau, was part of Mulaney’s “Kid Gorgeous” tour, according to Alligator archives. He was supposed to be paid $85,000 for the perfor-
mance, but no refund has to be made 
because Accent pays speakers after performances. 
Zach Marshall, a UF event man-
agement sophomore, said it was un-fortunate because he was excited to see Mulaney perform. But he knows from his major that planning events is all about crisis management. 
“He is only human, so these 
things happen,” 20-year-old Marshall said. “In a situation like this, being transparent is the best thing that you 
can do.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgComedian John Mulaney 
cancels UF performanceBy Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Students could have another 
apartment complex to choose from 
come Summer 2020.
Campus Advantage, a Texas-
based student housing management 
company, submitted plans to the city 
to build a four-story apartment com-plex with an accompanying ﬁ  ve-sto-ry parking garage at 1900 SW 13th St., said Michael Orsak, senior vice president of Campus Advantage. Americas Best Value Inn currently sits at that address, but the owners have already agreed to sell Campus Advantage the property if the plan is 
approved. 
“We like this side in particular 
because it’s very close to the medi-
cal school of UF and the hospital,” he said. 
The complex will be built in a 
ﬁ  gure-eight shape and have 618 bed-rooms. More than 50 percent of the units will be studios, one-bedroom or two-bedroom, which will target medical students, hospital staff and 
interns, he said. They will also offer 
three- to six-bedroom apartments. 
Campus Advantage will settle 
rent prices after the total cost of con-struction has been accounted for, Orsak said. Rent prices will be com-petitive with other newer complexes like The Nine at Gainesville and The Standard at Gainesville. 
Amenities are still being dis-
cussed, but there will be a pool 
and at least eight study rooms. The 
company is considering including a courtyard with permanent ham-mocks hung up, grills and benches, he said. Campus Advantage has al-located more than 12,000 square feet of space for amenities. 
Orsak said the city could take up 
to nine weeks to approve the plan, but Campus Advantage intends to begin construction Oct. 1. 
“We’re looking forward to devel-
oping and owning and managing our own property in the marketplace,” he said. 
New apartment complex on Southwest 13th announced
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Although Heather Fitts came to Gainesville 
Police Department’s town hall to ask about after-school programs, she learned about a de-crease in the number of ofﬁ  cers employed and increase in violent crime reports.  
GPD Chief Tony Jones presented the de-
partment’s goals and accomplishments to about 40 residents at Gainesville High School on Tuesday evening. 
Jones said the increase in violent crime re-
ports by 8.4 percent is due in part to the suc-cess GPD has had in encouraging sexual as-sault victims to ﬁ  le reports. Property crimes, which mostly involve theft from unlocked ve-hicles, decreased by 3.5 percent from last year, he said. 
Jones said the department has closure rates 
above the national average, with 100 percent of homicide cases closed. Jones said Gainesville saw four homicides in 2017, an anomaly to the usual two a year.
Jones also announced the department will 
create its ﬁ  rst strategic plan to determine how to increase efﬁ  ciency from 2019 to 2022. The department will use surveys and input from 
GPD staff and Gainesville residents and already 
had tablets and laptops set up at the town hall for anonymous feedback.
“It will give us some benchmarks that we 
will need to strive for within the next three years,” Jones said in an interview. “You al-
ways gotta have a roadmap of where you’re 
going.”
GPD only staffs 279 ofﬁ  cers of its 307 al-
located positions, which Jones attributes to a national depletion of law enforcement ofﬁ  cers. The department lost ofﬁ  cers to resignation and retirement, and few new recruits have taken their places. Jones said federal agencies have recruited GPD ofﬁ  cers by offering better pay.
“We’re hurtin’ for police ofﬁ  cers, folks,” he 
said.Jones also updated residents on the depart-
ment’s 2012 Disproportionate Minority Contact Initiative, which reduced the arrests of black youth by 57.3 percent from 2014 to 2017. Jones 
attributed the initiative’s success to programs 
that encourage dialogue between ofﬁ  cers and youth and mentorship.
“What we try to do is tear down that barrier 
so that we can communicate,” he said.
Fitts, a 22-year-old Gainesville resident, said 
GPD should give east Gainesville students an equal opportunity to those of west Gainesville.  
“There’s an issue with equal enforcement,” 
she said. “Even though it’s 2018, race is still a 
GPD faces understaﬃ   ng, sees rise in violent crime reportsAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A FLOWING FIRE
Sam Konchan, a UF botany junior, spins a set of ﬁ  re fans in the backyard area of Flow Space, 
located at 117 NW 16th Ave. Spinning ﬁ  re is only one form of the ﬂ  ow arts through which 21-year-old Konchan ﬁ  nds peace. See the story, pg. 4. 
SEE 
TOWN HALL,  PAGE 5
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
HIGH  83° LOW  57°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Authors@UF: Whitney Sanford
Whitney Sanford’s book “Living 
Sustainably: What Intentional Communities Can Teach Us about Democracy, Simplicity, 
and Nonviolence” illustrates 
how groups of intentional com-munities are living out values such as nonviolence, social 
equity and sustainability. She 
will discuss her book at 6 p.m. 
in the Smathers Library, Room 
100. Between 2011 and 2015, Sanford visited more than 20 intentional communities across the U.S., including ecovillages, cohousing communities and Catholic worker houses and farms to see how these commu-nities translate values into ac-
tual practices of eating, building 
and governing. 
Libraries closed for Easter
Alachua County Library District will be closed for Easter Sunday. All branches will be closed. Book drops at branches and on-line services through the Library District’s eBranch at aclib.us will be available. All 12 branch locations and two bookmobiles 
will resume their regular sched-
ules April 2. For more informa-tion, visit aclib.us or call 352-334-3900. 
Take Back the Night
Strive UF will hold “Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence” from 5:30 
to 9 p.m. April 4 on the Plaza of 
the Americas. Survivors are in-vited to speak on the nature of their sexual assault and recov-ery. Free T-shirts or tank tops are available for the first 300 marchers. For more informa-tion, call 352-273-4450.
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights WorkshopsThe Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 5:30 to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road 
Library Branch, located at 3020 
SW 75th St. Attorneys from the Josiah T. Walls Bar Association and law students from the Levin College of Law will provide one-on-one assistance to those who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in applying to have their civil rights restored. 
These presentations are free and 
open to the public. Registration is not required. For more infor-mation, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
National Library Week
During National Library Week, which is April 8 to 14, Alachua 
County Library District joins li-
braries nationwide to celebrate the many ways libraries lead their communities with the transformative services, pro-grams and expertise they offer. Celebrations include National Library Workers Day on April 10 and National Bookmobile 
Day on April 11.
Fulbright Awareness MonthThe UF International Center 
will hold Fulbright Awareness Month until April 12. Multiple informational sessions for stu-dents, scholars, faculty and staff will provide opportunities to learn about the Fulbright appli-
cation process and hear about 
the experiences of past scholars and students. This year, infor-mation sessions will be led by Peter VanDerwater, the direc-tor of outreach at the Council for International Exchange for Scholars in Washington, D.C. To schedule an individual con-
sultation with VanDerwater, 
email canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. For more information, visit in-ternationalcenter.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 73
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, March 28, 2018
   To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSStarting the search for summer camps for your 
school-age children? UFHR Communication 
Services and WorkLife has designed a quick-
and-easy online reference for UF faculty and 
staff parents. Visit the WorkLife at UF website 
at hr.ufl.edu/worklife to learn more.The University of Florida’s Dairy Unit invites 
you to the 5th Family Day at the Dairy Farm 
on Mar. 31. This annual event is an open 
house to visit a working dairy farm. There  
will be 20 stations with educational informa -
tion, staffed by professors, graduate students 
and volunteers. Attendees can expect a fun-
filled, educational experience with research -
ers and veterinarians who work to improve 
Florida’s dairy production, animal welfare and  environmental sustainability. The event will 
begin at 9 a.m. and is located at 13515 NW 
CR-237 in Alachua.
Family Day at the Dairy Farm is presented by 
University of Florida’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences, with support from Flor -
ida Dairy Farmers.
For more information, visit: facebook.com/
FamilyDayattheDairyFarmVisit getonline.ufl.edu to learn the minimum 
requirements mobile devices must have in order 
to connect to UF’s Wi-Fi. The UF Computing 
Help Desk also has connectivity instructions 
available online at helpdesk.ufl.edu/self-help/
connectivity-instructions to help you get con-
nected.
The UF Computing Help Desk offers techni-
cal consulting if you’re having trouble getting 
connected or prefer hands-on help. Reach them 
24/7 by phone (352-392-HELP/4357) or 
email ( helpdesk@ufl.edu). Walk-in hours at 
HUB 132 are Monday through Thursday from 
7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m., Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 5 
p.m., and weekends from noon to 6 p.m.
Looking for 
Summer Camp 
Possibilities?Family Day at the FarmKnow How  
to Connect  
to UF’s Wi-Fi?
While the timeframe for each of these searches 
will vary slightly based on scheduling availability, 
in general, each will follow a similar process that 
includes preliminary interviews with the search 
committee as well as opportunities for top candi -
dates to engage with the campus community and 
to interview with key stakeholders.
All of the positions will remain open until filled 
and the university hopes to have all positions filled and ready to go by the beginning of the fall semes -
ter, if not earlier.
Faculty and staff interested in engaging with any 
of the finalists should be on the lookout for an-
nouncements of campus visits in campus commu -
nications.Four UF cabinet-level searches are currently 
underway and expected to be filled within the 
coming months.
In January, Jane Adams , UF’s current Vice Pres -
ident for University Relations, announced she 
would retire from UF in April after more than 
13 years of exemplary service at the University of 
Florida. As part of the search to fill her role, Pres -
ident Fuchs has established two leadership posi -
tions—a Vice President for Strategic Communi -
cations and Marketing as well as a Vice President 
for Government and Community Relations.
In November, the university also announced 
searches to fill the Vice President and General 
Counsel as well as a Chief Diversity Officer and 
Senior Advisor to the President.
On Friday, Mar. 30 — “Bike to Campus Day” 
— the UF Office of Sustainability will welcome 
bike commuters with free breakfast and infor -
mation about the “Gator Go: Bikes” program 
at the Plaza of the Americas from 7:30 a.m. to 
9:30 a.m.
On Saturday, Mar. 31, a community bike 
ride will be held from UF to Depot Park. The 
all-ages ride will take participants to bicycle in-
frastructure and friendly roads that make UF 
and Gainesville one of the best cities to bike. 
The ride will start at the Plaza of the Americas 
at 9 a.m. and conclude in Depot Park at ap -
proximately 9:30 a.m.
For more information about UF Bike Month, 
please visit sustainable.ufl.edu/news-events/
events/uf-bike-month or email info@sustain-
ability.ufl.edu.Four Cabinet-Level Searches 
Underway
UF Celebrates  
Bike MonthThe S.A.F .E. (Self-Defense Awareness and 
Familiarization Exchange) program is taught 
by a nationally certified instructor who is 
dedicated to helping members of the com -
munity become more aware of and better fa -
miliar with basic self-defense concepts. The 
course is a 2-hour class geared toward adult 
and teenage women. The class starts with a  
short introduction video, then progresses 
into a one and a half hour physical self-de -
fense familiarization presentation.
The class is free, but enrollment is limited to 
ensure the highest level of quality instruc -
tion. Below are the following classes in the 
Spring semester.
     •   Thursday, Mar. 29 6:00 p.m. 
     •   Wednesday, Apr. 11 6:00 p.m.      •   Monday, Apr. 30 6:00 p.m.      •   Monday, May 14 6:00 p.m. 
All classes will be held at the UFPD – Com -
munity Services Division classroom (Build -
ing 596). The UFPD is located at the corner 
of Museum Road and Newell Drive.
For more information or to register, please 
email the program coordinator, Officer Susan 
Pratt, at spratt@ufl.edu. Please provide your 
name, email address, phone number, and 
which class dates you would like to attend.UFPD Offers 
Self-Defense 
Program
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBy Madi Spector
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Sam Konchan’s neighbors 
called the police on him, he said he 
wasn’t committing arson.
He was just spinning a ﬂ  aming 
hula hoop around his body.
Konchan, a 21-year-old UF bota-
ny junior, has been performing with 
ﬁ  re and props for three years, but has been playing with props since 
his sister left her batons unattended 
when he was 12 years old. 
In the summer of 2015, while he 
was at Bonnaroo Music and Arts Fes-
tival in Tennessee, he was drawn to 
a girl’s LED hula-hoop performance.
As he watched her roll the illumi-
nated hoop from her forearm across her chest, like basketball players with balls, Konchan was mesmer-
ized. After the festival, Konchan prac-
ticed tricks for hours each day. Three years later, he’s improved his tech-
niques in ﬂ  ow arts. 
He practices in the ﬁ  eld by Ox-
ford Terrace II Apartments, at Depot 
Park, as well as on the Plaza of the 
Americas. He usually does it at night 
— when it’s easier to see at West 
Side Park. 
Konchan started his journey with 
a prop of tethered weights called 
“poi,” which is manipulated to look 
like spinning ﬁ  re balls. He also uses hula hoops, which have three to four 
wicked prongs, and a dragon staff,  
or a metal rod with pinwheel-like ends that can be twirled in the air.
Practicing brings him peace, Kon-
chan said.
“It’s this meditative state. It’s a 
ﬂ  ow state of mind,” he said. “You zone really hard on the present.” His ﬁ  rst professional performance 
was at the 2017 Imagine Music Fes-
tival in Atlanta. He walked around 
wearing multi-colored sequined leg-
gings and fake pink scales painted 
on his body.
Konchan worked as an unpaid 
character actor dressed as a merman 
and performed with LED props.
“It was great to be a part of some-
thing I believed in,” he said. “I love 
the vibe of people being themselves 
and opening themselves up.”
He plans to return to the festival 
in 2019 as the leader of a group of roaming character actors. In  2020, 
he hopes to be on stage as a ﬁ  re per-former.
Konchan said his family and 
friends have been supportive of his passion. He has received some nega-
tive jeers from strangers, who called 
him a f--, but he said he found the comments immature. He knows the ﬂ  ow arts community, which spreads 
across the globe, is accepting. A 
Facebook group he’s in, Inﬁ  nite 
Circles, currently has about 30,000 
members, he said.
Another local performer, AJ 
Henry, 26, has been practicing ﬂ  ow 
arts for four years. He and Konchan 
met three years ago in a Gainesville 
group of ﬁ  re performers called Am-
biance. The two are also part of a 
group called Phoenix Fire & Perfor-
mance Art that includes 10 people from Gainesville and Jacksonville.
Henry learned to breathe and 
eat ﬁ  re at Flashepoint, a festival for artists and jugglers, last October in 
Stuart, Virginia. He said he became 
addicted to practicing. 
There are numerous safety pre-
cautions when performing, he said. One misstep could lead to hospital-ization, so he always has someone present with a ﬁ  re blanket in case 
anything goes wrong. 
For Henry, the community offers 
lifelong friendships.
“When I go to a festival or a show 
in a different city, I know that I will 
either know someone there, or I will 
be able to make new friends,” he 
said. 
In the future, Konchan sees him-
self possibly working for The Walt 
Disney Co. as a performer. He said 
he wants to keep exploring the prac-tice because he thinks it brings peo-
ple together.
“With cellphones and technology 
now, people have a hard time just sitting down with their eyes closed 
and not ﬁ  dgeting,” he said. “But having something active and moving 
in calm states, it gives you time to 
zone in and be really peaceful.”UF student ﬁ  nds peace, community by juggling ﬁ  re and props WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.THOMAS KUNTZ WAS 
CHOSEN AS VICE CHAIR.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Board of Trustees unanimously 
selected an Iranian immigrant as its next 
chairman in a meeting last Friday.
Mori Hosseini, the CEO of a construction 
company named Intervest Construction Inc., 
was nominated by the board’s current chair-
man, Bill Heavener. Hosseini will assume his new role July 1, UF spokesperson Margot Winick, wrote in an email.
A new chair is chosen every two years, 
Winick said. Trustees vol-unteer to serve on the board and do not get paid, according to bylaws.
Prior to coming to UF 
in 2016, Hosseini was 
chairman for other boards, 
including the Board of 
Governors of the State Uni-versity System of Florida 
and Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Florida.
UF President Kent Fuchs said that as an immigrant from Iran, Hosseini recognized the immense value in a college education as a means to a better life.
“We’re very, very fortunate that he is the 
(next) chair of our board,” Fuchs said. 
Hosseini ﬁ  rst studied at Chelsea College 
in England for a few years before receiving his master’s in business administration from 
Embry-Riddle in 1982. Two years before he 
graduated, he founded Intervest Construc-tion Inc. in Daytona.
As a chairman-elect, Hosseini nominated 
board member Thomas Kuntz, also elected unanimously, to serve as vice chair.
Kuntz, also a former chairman for the Board of Governors, joined the board this Spring after being appointed by Gov. Rick Scott in January, according to Alligator ar-chives.
Fuchs said Hosseini is invested in improv-
ing Florida’s higher education and regularly meets with Gov. Rick Scott and other poli-ticians in Tallahassee about getting more 
funding for state universities in his free time.
“The word passionate is really the only 
word I can think of,” Fuchs said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgUF Board of Trustees votes in new chairman for two-year term
Mori Hosseini
THE ATTEMPTED BATTERY 
TOOK PLACE AT SLEEP 
INN AND SUITES.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested a 
Tuesday after a hotel clerk was at-
tacked Monday morning. Gainesville Police said he left his phone at the scene.
Anthony Carl Williams, 38, 
walked into the lobby of Sleep Inn and Suites, at 4110 SW 40th Blvd., at about 2 a.m. and sat near the clerk, Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobi-as, a GPD spokes-
person, wrote in an email. He 
whispered about 
a car and Wafﬂ  e House, and she told him they 
were out of rooms to rent and asked him to leave, according to an arrest report.
He refused to leave, and after she 
asked again, Williams took out a Bi-
ble and started talking about Chris-tianity, police said. The clerk told 
police Williams walked in and out of the restroom and then grabbed her by the neck with both hands, drag-ging her to the hotel’s kitchen, ac-cording to the report.
She struggled to free herself and 
screamed for help as he dragged her to the kitchen of the hotel’s din-ing room, took off her sweater and started unbuttoning her blouse, po-lice said.
A hotel guest heard the struggle 
and walked in, causing Williams to let go of the clerk and ﬂ  ee, police 
said. He left his phone behind, and police used a search warrant to go 
through the phone and identify Wil-liams, according to the report.
The clerk’s neck, stomach and 
left forearm were cut during the at-tack, police said.
Someone at the Wafﬂ  e House 
near the hotel told police they saw Williams that morning, and ofﬁ  cers saw him on security camera footage wearing the same clothes the clerk described, according to the report. 
The witness from the restaurant 
picked Williams out of a photo line-up, but the clerk chose a different 
person, according to the report.Police didn’t interview Williams 
about the crime because he was un-
der the inﬂ  uence of drugs or alcohol.
He also faces a charge of attempt-
ed sexual battery, a charge of false imprisonment and kidnapping, ac-
cording to the GPD report.
Williams was arrested Tuesday 
by Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
ﬁ  ce on an unrelated charge of drug equipment possession or use, ac-cording to court records. 
Williams was taken to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $4,000 
bond.
GPD arrests man a day after hotel clerk assaulted 
Williams
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Senate unanimously passed a 
resolution declaring support for 
early voting locations on college campuses Tuesday night.
Now that the resolution, co-
written by senators and sponsored by groups like Chomp the Vote and the Vote Everywhere Ambas-sadors, is passed, it will be sent to several Florida universities as well as state ofﬁ  cials, including Gov. Rick Scott, Rep. Chuck Clemons and Sen. Keith Perry.An early voting forum will be 
held at 6 p.m. on April 4 in Pugh Hall to offer information about how to pass legislation to allow for early voting locations on campus, said Sen. Sam Jenkins (Inspire, District C), who co-authored the 
resolution. 
Sen. Michael Rosen (Impact, 
Liberal Arts) won the open seat in 
the Information and Communica-tions Committee in a vote of 43-36 against Jenkins. 
Senate also unanimously 
passed a $572.99 bill for Lucha Latina, a new student organization 
aiming to help Latinas prepare for interviews and create bonds 
through a mentorship program.
Sen. Maria Perez (Impact, 
District D), who also serves as the president of the organization, said the purpose is to reach out to the community but also prepare 
its members. She wants to create 
a scholarship program for high school seniors in the area and help students prepare for the college application process. 
“We want to be able to create a 
safe space not only for Latinas, but all UF students,” Perez said.
Senate supports early voting at UF
big issue, and GPD isn’t equal in its hiring and arrests.”
Mayor Lauren Poe attended 
the town hall to hear from both GPD ofﬁ  cers and the residents 
they serve, he said. 
“We always know we can do 
better. We take our job very seri-
ously here,” Poe said. “We got a great leader in the chief, and we’ll constantly be trying to improve.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgAbout 40 people attended
TOWN HALL,  from pg. 1Announcements made 
during Jones’ presentation:
• GPD stopped using Pressure Point 
Control T echnique, which is used to deescalate potentially violent suspects by manipulating pressure points, in 2017. 
• Ofﬁ  cers attended mandatory in-service training on the updated use-of-force guidelines.
• The department’s Student Resource Ofﬁ  cer program was awarded “Unit of the Year” by the Florida Association of School Resource Ofﬁ  cers.
• GPD is looking to transition patrol vehicles from Dodge Chargers to Ford Interceptor SUVs.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Don’t forget about 
Puerto Rico
Ever since Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico Sept. 20, 
the island and its people have struggled to get by. It was the most powerful storm in about a century, and the island of about 3 million people was struck head on. 
You may assume that in six months things have got-
ten back to normal, but some residents in Puerto Rico are still without water, shelter and power. In the town of Yabu-coa, where 35,000 people sat through the eye of the storm, just 35 percent of the town is energized, according to Mother Jones. The town is providing water to its citizens by using 25 generators to power pumps. Signiﬁ  cant damage can be seen throughout the town, including piles of debris near city hall.
According to The New York Times, the hurricane knocked 
out all electricity for nearly 70 percent of all households and 
destroyed towns with ﬂ  oods and mudslides. Six months later, 
7 percent of the island’s population still has no power, accord-ing to the Los Angeles Times. 
In November, the island ofﬁ  cials estimated that after Hur-
ricanes Irma and Maria, they would need nearly $95 billion to rebuild the island. But the money received hasn’t been enough. Puerto Rico ofﬁ  cials have complained continuously that the federal government isn’t doing enough to help with recovery. 
If Florida got hit as Puerto Rico did, we wouldn’t be writ-
ing this editorial. The Red Cross would have stepped in. The National Guard would be working to help people from their homes and distribute food and water. The government would have passed emergency funding to ensure available resources for power and restoration of available water. You saw this af-ter Hurricane Irma as ofﬁ  cials ordered evacuations to protect residents and make sure supplies were ready. 
And while it’s more difﬁ  cult to give emergency aid to an 
island than a part of the contiguous U.S., we need to do more. And we need to start with representation. 
Out of the 540 people who represent the U.S. and its ter-
ritories in Congress, only one person goes to the Capitol on behalf of Puerto Rico. Her name is Jenniffer González-Colón, and she has no vote.  
And she’s not the only one. Representatives for Washing-
ton, D.C.; American Samoa, Guam; the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands also 
have no vote on legislation on the Congress ﬂ  oor. 
And while these representatives can propose legislation 
political clout, this lack of power is reﬂ  ective of how the U.S. 
views its territories: as second-class. 
Don’t forget about Puerto Rico. But most importantly, 
don’t forget about the people.
While some are still on the island waiting patiently, thou-
sands have left. The majority of the migrants have come to Florida, according to CNN. We must be conscientious of this. 
We must keep this in mind and try to help as much as pos-
sible. 
In an op-ed column in The New York Times, Daiza Aponte 
Torres, who is living in a New York hotel with her two daugh-ters, wrote, “We’re barely surviving … We were conﬁ  ned to our rooms all day. My limited English has made it difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd a job. I applied for welfare assistance so that I could feed my children, but the request was denied twice.” 
It can be difﬁ  cult to feel connected to the island when at 
the political level it faces an uphill battle for representation. 
It’s on us to make sure they feel welcome and ask our leg-
islators to represent the voice of Puerto Rico. ‘The Oﬃ   ce’ doesn’t get love and relationships right
This past weekend, I watched a lot of epi-
sodes of “The Ofﬁ  ce.” Episodes of this 
show are like potato chips — just one is never enough. And, pretty soon a third of 
the bag is gone. That’s how this weekend 
went for me: I blinked, and I’d watched ﬁ  ve epi-sodes in a row.
It’s one of the most uncomfortable yet com-
pelling things I’ve ever watched. I have to re-strain myself from yelling at the TV during al-
most every episode. Usually, my aggression is 
toward Michael Scott for doing things like kissing Oscar or 
promising young African American children he could pay 
for their college tuition when he’s deeply in debt. There’s 
never been a show like “The Ofﬁ  ce.” There’s never been a 
show that can elicit a cringe and a laugh so effortlessly at 
the same time.
But that is not the only reason I ﬁ  nd “The Ofﬁ  ce” inter-
esting. Some of the most memorable scenes and storylines on the show were the ofﬁ  ce romances: Jim and Pam, Mi-
chael and Holly, Dwight and Angela, Andy and Erin. The 
list goes on.
 In almost every case, the ofﬁ  ce romances that the char-
acters of the show favored consisted of two radically ho-
mogenous people with similar tastes, senses of humor and 
personalities. Jim and Pam goof off and see the absurdity in 
modern corporate life; Dwight and Angela hate everything 
and everyone except each other; Michael and Holly never grew up.
I ﬁ  nd this interesting and reﬂ  ective of how our culture re-
lates to love and romance in the real world. True happiness 
comes from ﬁ  nding your soulmate — this view is embedded 
within almost every episode of “The Ofﬁ  ce.” Jim and Pam, 
for instance, discovered the people they were with, Karen 
and Roy, respectively, weren’t their true loves; they were 
people they could share a good life with but not a fulﬁ  lling 
one. They discovered they were meant for each other and 
couldn’t exist or live full lives without each other.
Their romance is sweet; not rooting for them is like not wanting the Rebels to defeat the Empire. But their romance is ﬂ  awed, or at least the show’s 
view of love is ﬂ  awed. It transﬁ  gures romantic relationships into something they are not and 
can never be. Relationships are not glamorous, 
divine or messianic; relationships are not always 
wonderful and fun. Relationships are like gar-
dens, not theme parks. They take cultivation, care and work, but the fruits are inﬁ  nitely worth 
the labor.
My girlfriend and I have dated for almost four 
years now, and it has not always been pretty. Sometimes 
I wondered if we should break up; we have had disagree-
ments, ﬁ  ghts and doubts, and sometimes we have just not 
wanted to be around each other. I’m glad we have remained 
together, but why should we expect any different? We are 
two deeply ﬂ  awed people in close emotional proximity. 
We are bound to have problems. Indeed, we should expect 
them, not naively think we can pass over them.
And yet, we are quick to disillusionment at the ﬁ  rst hints 
of trouble. We have a fairytale conception of love. “The Ofﬁ  ce” preaches if we just found our special someone, ev-
erything would be better. What happens, though, when the 
feelings of love diminish as they always do? Because we 
expect love to be nothing but bliss, we struggle to account 
for why we don’t always feel love for our signiﬁ  cant others 
or why we don’t always want to be around them.
“The Ofﬁ  ce,” or hardly any form of pop culture for that 
matter, does not show this side of the coin. Our culture as-sociates love with feelings and wonders why love is so hard 
to ﬁ  nd — why it always eludes us. Feelings are like the wind 
— we have no idea where it comes from or where it is going. 
Feelings are the ﬁ  cklest things about us. To build a relation-
ship off of them is to inevitably bury yourself in quicksand.
Love is a lot of ambiguous things, but I know it is more 
than feelings. I wish I could tell Michael Scott that.
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His column 
focuses on popular culture.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Playlist:
Essential tracks to get you into local music, pg. 9 .Where to spend your weekend: 
Read about art and music events happening this weekend,  pg. 8.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Natalie Rao 
Avenue Editor
Each Spring, UF’s Phi Kappa Tau chapter 
turns from normal fraternity house to lush 
paradise — with nearly 100,000 pounds of sand included.
The tropical transformation is Phi Kappa 
Tau’s “Oasis,” a yearly party and concert that brings impressive electronic performers 
to Gainesville. Previous headliners include 
Kap Slap, Project 46, Candyland, Sam Feldt and SNBRN, with the headliner growing more popular each year.   
The annual event will take place from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Friday, with $10 tickets avail-able from fraternity members (more informa-tion on how to get tickets is available on the Facebook event page.) Local performers Les 
Voss and Netgate will provide opening sup-
port for the show.Crankdat, one of electronic music’s fast-
est rising producers known for both diverse originals and unique “Re-Cranks” and remix-es, will headline “Oasis” this year.
At just 21, Crankdat may be younger than 
a handful of the students he’ll perform for Friday. This youth shines through in the vi-brancy of his releases, which push the limits 
of production while still maintaining a clean 
sound design beyond his years. The artist has proven time and time again he can dive deep as well as dial it back. He has experi-mented in genres like trap, bass house, elec-tro house, dubstep and future. No matter the style, Crankdat always seems to do it justice while simultaneously breathing new life into the sound.
Here are some of his best tracks:
Need Somebody
This is one of Crankdat’s most recent re-
leases, and it could be one of his best. He turns up the bass for a ferocious founda-
tion while tying in higher-pitched, distorted synths that keep things unexpected.
I Hold Still (with Jauz, feat. Slushii)Last summer, Crankdat teamed up with 
Jauz for one of the most exciting bass collab-orations of the year. Together they created a 
song that’s both uplifting and heavy-hitting, 
with a light intro leading into a powerful bass house drop.  
Joyryde – The Box (Crankdat Re-Crank)Any doubt in Crankdat’s range of sound is 
squashed with his remix of “The Box.” The drop is absolutely relentless with gritty bass kicks, heavy percussion and varying vocal 
samples dropped in throughout.
Lil Yachty – 1 Night (Crankdat Re-
Crank)
Although Lil Yachty’s voice is recogniz-able, the radiant synth melodies and bouncy 
percussion of this remix make for a reinvent-ed sound that’ll have you smiling and danc-ing all at once.
Game Over (with Lookas)The name of this 2016 collaboration with 
Lookas is no surprise — the furious-paced 
production and ominous overall sound 
would make a ﬁ  tting match for a post-apoc-alyptic video game. With nearly 3 million plays on Spotify, fans seem to agree. 
DollarsAs one of his most popular releases with 
more than 1.5 million streams on Spotify, “Dollars” is also one of Crankdat’s most fun. 
With a production style that doesn’t take it-
self too seriously and lyrics that are impos-sible not to sing along to, we hope this one is a shoe-in for his set Friday.
Electronic producer Crankdat to perform in Gainesville
Here are six of his songs you must hear before Friday’s showBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Big Freedia is coming to High Dive 
tonight with all of the hype and booty 
shaking that fans know and love.
Local artists Hugo $anchez and 
Prayze will be opening for the New Orleans-based rapper. The doors for the show open at 8 p.m., and the show begins at 8:30 p.m.
As always, High Dive shows are 
open to guests 18 years or older, and those under 21 will be charged an ad-ditional $3 fee. Tickets for the show are available for $17 at highdiveg-ville.com and the High Dive box of-ﬁ  ce. Tickets can also be purchased at 
Hear Again Records for an additional 
$1 charge.
Big Freedia is an energetic rapper 
who shatters crowds with fast-paced, crowd-interactive bounce music 
meant to get audiences moving and 
shaking. Big Freedia is also known for addressing social issues within her music, particularly regarding LGBTQ issues. While Big Freedia uses femi-
nine pronouns, she told the Hufﬁ  ng-
ton Post in 2014 she prefers not to be categorized by gender.
“People get confused by if I am 
he or she,” Big Freedia said in an 
opening monologue for the song “Ex-
plode.”
“I am more than just Big Freedia. 
I am more than just Queen Diva. I 
am more than just Freddie Ross. I am me,” the Queen of Bounce said.
Big Freedia’s opener Hugo $an-
chez is an ever-expanding Gainesville hip-hop artist whose themes often 
grapple with politics and social jus-tice matters as well. His most recent 
album, “Bad Hombres,” delves into 
those topics.
“I think that art, for a long time, 
has had responsibility to shine a light on issues and express things that are 
difﬁ  cult to express … The role of the 
artist has always been to observe what’s going on around you,” $an-chez said.
$anchez approaches these topics 
with a modern take on a 90s sound. The rapper gets inspiration from old 
cartoons, video games, music videos 
and other millennial retro subject matter.
“I’m really just in love with that 
aesthetic for a lot of reasons, you 
know,” $anchez said. “First of all, the 
sound — artistically it really appeals to me, but also it intrigues me the way that it’s subversive, you know. There was a lot of bad stuff happen-
ing in the 90s. It wasn’t that great of 
a time.”
Sanchez said exploring media 
from his childhood has allowed him to peel back a curtain and see the ef-
fects of a lack of minority representa-
tion in that time.
“I realized as a Latino, as a brown-
skinned man, that the only time I saw 
minorities in ads or in commercials was in a food commercial or dancing or something,” $anchez said. “For a 
long time, the media and society have 
been telling people of color that they 
ﬁ  t into certain roles and certain roles only. They’ve been telling women 
the same thing ... I think all of that is 
crumbling now.”
For this same reason, $anchez said 
he feels connected to the 60s as an era of social unrest and youth activism.
“Despite the problems that they 
had, despite the struggles that they were ﬁ  ghting, despite who the rul-ing class was at the time, the art still came through,” $anchez said.
Despite his frustrations with the 
slow progress in minority represen-
tation, $anchez said he feels encour-
aged by the uptake in youth activism today, particularly surrounding the #NeverAgain movement against gun violence. 
 “It’s like these young protesters 
are saying,” $anchez said. “The older generations are failing us, and it’s because we haven’t jumped into the ring to ﬁ  ght for our own causes.”
In addition to his performance 
with Big Freedia, $anchez has several projects in the works. He is working on music videos and a new hip-hop album, which will be titled “The Burp 
Stack Rack Files.” $anchez is also 
working with other artists to expand beyond the hip-hop genre into a more rock and soul sound.Big Freedia ‘Queen of Bounce’ to perform tonight at High Dive 
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Big Freedia, who is largely credited with popularizing 
New Orleans’ bounce genre, will perform tonight.
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor
This weekend, Gainesville is allowing 
you to do more than simply look for treat-
ﬁ  lled Easter eggs. Gainesville is holding concerts, events and mini-festivals leading 
up to the Christian holiday on Sunday. 
No matter how you enjoy spending your 
time — whether your thing is experimen-
tal electronic music, opera or art — you’ll most likely ﬁ  nd something you’re interest-ed in, in our event breakdown below. 
March 29: An Evening with Friends 
at the University Gallery 
This event for the Friends of Art + 
Art History will be the ﬁ  rst of its kind. It will take place from 5:30 to 8 p.m at the University Gallery, located at 400 SW 13 
St. The gallery will show its “MFA Thesis 
Candidates Exhibition I.” It will offer ca-tering by Blue Water Bay. A silent auction featuring work by both faculty and locals will take place. Membership is required to attend. For more information and to reg-
ister, interested people can visit arts.uﬂ  .
edu/artistry. Annual membership starts at 
a $50 donation, according to the website. 
March 29: COFRESI, SIDE TRAKD 
and Losa Folk at High Dive
With an experimental sound that pulls 
from atmospheric synth melodies, skit-tering percussion and heavily distorted vocals placed in a relaxed ebb and ﬂ  ow of sound, Chicago-based producer COFRESI consistently breathes fresh air into elec-tronic music. His songs are unique and 
no two songs sound the same as the artist 
dips into genres like trap, future bass, rhythm and blues and more. COFRESI will bring that sound to High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., at 9 p.m. The event will also feature local performers opening: SIDE TRAKD and Losa Folk. Tickets are 
available at ticketﬂ  y.com starting at $12.
March 30: PhaseOne at Simon’s 
Diehard electronic fans can keep 
the music going Friday. Hailing all the way from Australia, electronic producer PhaseOne is traveling half a world from home to perform at Simon’s, located at 8 S. Main St. This artist may be one of the heaviest in the game right now, as he fus-es the in-your-face, rumbling basslines of dubstep with the ferocious guitar, percus-
sion and vocals of heavy metal to create 
a ruthless signature that has brought him all around the globe. Myprey, Ferra and FLTHYVBZ will open the show, which starts at 10 p.m. Tickets are available at eventbrite.com starting at about $12.
March 30 and 31: The Barber of Se-
ville at the University Auditorium 
The UF Opera Theatre will show a co-
medic opera titled “The Barber of Seville” 
at the University Auditorium, located at 
333 Newell Drive. The opera is by Italian composer Gioachino Rossini. The family-
friendly performance will be held at 7:30 p.m. Friday and 3 p.m. Saturday. Tickets can be found at the Performing Arts Box Ofﬁ  ce or at performingarts.uﬂ  .edu/tickest, with prices starting at $10 for students.
March 31: Spring Full Moon Fest In addition to celebrating the full 
moon, this miniature festival at First Mag-nitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., features performances by Stew, Everybody Gaines and Head Stash. Local groups Locochino and Aquanova will also come together to host the third 
“Stank Jam.” The event starts at 4 p.m. and goes until 11 p.m. Admission to the 
family-friendly event is free.
March 31: Mindwalk at Heartwood 
Soundstage 
Mindwalk, a local contemporary group 
with musicians of all ages, will bring its talent to Heartwood Soundstage, located at 619 S. Main St. The ensemble has performed at festivals like SunFest, Kis-simmee Jazz Festival and Gator Growl. Its smooth jazz show will start at 8 p.m. 
Tickets start at about $19 after fees and 
are available at heartwoodsoundstage.
com.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Australia-based artist PhaseOne’s fusion of heavy metal and bass music has taken him on tour all around the world. 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
The best events to attend this weekend in Gainesville
LOCALWEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to The Alligator
Flipturn is just one of many local bands making waves in Gainesville. Their 
most recent single, “Churches, ” dropped in February. Find it on Spotify.
By Emma Witmer 
Avenue Writer
If you love music and you’re sick of the ra-
dio, check this out.
Gainesville is home to a talented and di-
verse array of musicians who are churning out quality jams right under your nose. Maybe you’ve caught them at a show at The Atlan-tic, Dance Marathon or High Dive but never looked them up. Or maybe you’ve made it to massive events like Okeechobee Music and 
Arts Festival only to realize the talented group 
you’re seeing is actually from your college town.
Listening to local artists not only exposes 
you to new music, but it also allows Gainesville 
to continue to be the cradle of creativity it is 
today. And if one thing is for certain, some of these bands won’t always be in Gainesville playing affordable shows at local venues, so 
there’s no time like the present to get familiar 
with them.
From socially conscious rap to soulful 
big band to modern indie rock, there’s a lo-
cal group for everyone in Gainesville. Diving into the vibrant local scene may seem over-whelming, so here’s some essentials to get you started...
Flipturn – Vanilla
The Hails – Younger
Retrolux – Silhouettes
Pearl and the Oysters – Lake Alice
Alumine – Lele
Hugo $anchez – Brown Privelege
The Savants of Soul – Mr. Medicine Man
Flipturn – Churches
The Hails – Parking Lot
The Savants of Soul – Second Chance Lover
Whale Feral – Alice
Alumine – Cómo Te Ves
Pearl and the Oysters – Melinda Melinda
Retrolux – 21
Flipturn – Hypoxia
Hugo $anchez – Lil Tony Danza
Of course, there are even more artists and 
music developing all the time in the Gainesville 
area. This just scratches the surface of the tal-
ent in our town.Avenue’s Essential Playlist of talented local musicians
MUSIC
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
By Natalie Weymouth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Similarly to how they do it 
when their owners arrive home, 
more than 50 four-legged friends bolted through the gates of Dog-wood Park on Saturday morning as soon as they were released from their leashes.
The dogs were looking for 
treats. But instead of having to 
make googly eyes and beg, they 
had to scour the park for hun-
dreds of treat-ﬁ  lled Easter eggs if they wanted to ﬁ  ll their bellies.
The ﬁ  fth-annual Easter egg 
hunt at Dogwood Park & Day-
care, at 5505 SW Archer Road, 
raised $3,186 for Gainesville Pet Rescue, Danielle Cummings, the developmental coordinator at 
Gainesville Pet Rescue, wrote in 
an email. Families paid $10 for 
their ﬁ  rst dog to participate and $5 for each additional dog. 
All of the proceeds beneﬁ  ted the pet rescue’s efforts to save homeless, sick or injured ani-mals in Alachua County, Cum-mings said. The donations went toward veterinary services or products from business. 
Dogs posed for a photo booth 
in front of a pastel backdrop with bunny ears and a basket of eggs. 
Deirdre, a 1-year-old black 
lab mix, jumped straight into the water after being unhooked from her leash. She passed by about 20 multicolored plastic eggs ﬁ  lled with dog treats without even realizing. 
None of the dogs seemed to 
care about ﬁ  nding eggs. It was their owners who were competi-tive. One dog owner carried a plastic grocery bag with more than 40 eggs inside. 
By the end of the hunt, Deir-
dre, now covered in mud, only collected about eight.
“At ﬁ  rst, I had an angry soccer 
mom attitude,” said 24-year-old Lois Schwartz, Deirdre’s owner. “Then I realized how much fun she was having and that I was really there to help support other pups ﬁ  nding their homes so they can also have fun.”
The dog and owner who 
found the most eggs were award-ed a three-month membership to Dogwood Park & Daycare. Dog-wood members receive discount-ed prices for park entry, board-ing and daycare. 
Second place received two 
free nights of boarding, and third place received a bath card good for 10 baths at the self-service station.
The hunt lasted for a little 
more than an hour. Volunteers were available after to bathe the muddy pups in exchange for a donation to the rescue.
“I was so thankful for the 
doggy baths,” Schwartz said. “Deirdre didn’t have to get back in the car smelling all gross.”
Doggy Easter egg hunt raises money for local pet rescue
Natalie Weymouth / Alligator
Luna, a soft-coated wheaten terrier, ﬁ  nds a hidden treat at Dogwood Park & Daycare on Saturday. She was one of more than 50 dogs that attended the Easter egg hunt.
By Megan Ricker
Alligator Contributing Writer
Floridians want to buy locally grown 
plants, and they’re willing to pay more 
for them, according to a recent study.
A UF researcher asked 87 state resi-
dents to pick between different plants, 
including blueberry bushes, pineapple 
plants and kiwi vines. Some plants were grown locally and labeled with a “Fresh From Florida” sticker while the rest were imported. 
Hayk Khachatryan, the UF Food 
and Resource Economics Department assistant professor who led the study, wanted to see whether the label affected 
people’s purchasing decisions. As the 
participants viewed images of the plants on a computer screen, a camera tracked how often they glanced at features, in-cluding the “Fresh From Florida” label. 
Khachatryan said the study, which 
was published online Dec. 29, found consumers were willing to pay $7.17 to 
$7.22 more for plants with the logo than 
imported plants. The starting price for the plants was $15.98, the study said. 
“Consumers associate locally grown 
with health beneﬁ  ts and contributions to the local economy,” he said. 
Ben Bolusky, CEO of the Florida 
Nursery, Growers and Landscape Asso-ciation, wrote in an email that the as-
sociation was interested in understand-
ing how the research would impact the industry. Membership for producers to use the logo is $50 per year, he added.
“Retailers and landscape profession-
als will indeed beneﬁ  t from increased sales and increased awareness,” Bo-lusky said.UF study ﬁ  nds Floridians will 
pay $7 more for local plants
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Contributing Writer
After 12 hours under the sun, Cadet Jett 
Wright was exhausted. His muscles felt sore af-
ter competing in four sports throughout the day. 
But he knew every athletic match was lead-
ing up to a special moment in which he would ﬁ  nd out if his team would fall short of receiving the ﬁ  rst place — again — or not.
Despite never winning the gold during his 
time at UF, the business senior had a hunch this year would be different. He was right.
On Saturday, UF’s Air Force Reserve Ofﬁ  cer 
Training Corps team won the Lime Cup, a major sports competition held between AFROTC ca-dets. The last time the 14-person UF team won the tournament was 30 years ago in 1988, said Cadet Andrew Holland, a team co-captain. “It was surreal ﬁ  nally achieving it my senior 
year,” said 22-year-old Wright, the other team co-captain.
Seven schools in Florida and southern Geor-
gia competed at the University of Central Flori-da this year. It included four sports: beach vol-leyball, basketball, football and soccer. 
The UF team took the cup from the reigning 
champions — the University of South Florida — by nine points, said Holland, a UF construction management junior.
The Gators won on a ﬁ  nal drive down the 
football ﬁ  eld when they scored with nine sec-onds left on the clock. They beat the University of Central Florida, which hadn’t lost football in at least ﬁ  ve years, 14 to 7, Holland said.
Soccer came next, and by the time the ﬁ  nal 
buzzer of the match rang, UF had won the cup “by a mile,” announcers yelled.UF air force cadets win sports 
event for the ﬁ  rst time in 30 yearsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
4-6-18-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
Psyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14Seeking Friendly, Dependable,Team Orientated Employeesfor Fast Casual Salad/Sandwich Store.$8.50/HR to start w/FREE SHIFT MEAL. 
Rotating Week-ends. Apply IN PERSON
@ HoneyBaked Ham 618 NW 60th St, or
EMAIL @marketcafe@bellsouth.net.    3-30-18-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Another Saturday night without a 
date?
Read The Alligator.STEAM Play-Based Day Camp
HIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Archaeologists Needed!
Work in Gainesville area.
Applicant must be in good physical condition.
Anthropology majors preferred.
Full or Part-time (full days).
Contact Wes (713-822-3637).               
3-30-18-4-14
NEEDED:  3.5 HOURS, 1X PER WEEK
TYPE, FILE, OFFICE WORK under my di-rection at home on Archer Rd. Informal. Must be very good w/Win 10 on my laptop. English composition. I have references. $50/session, paid daily. 352-575-4508         3-28-18-3-14
1. U.S. CITIES: Which U.S. city is 
popularly known as “Beantown”?
2. MUSIC: What was the best-sell-
ing music single of all time?
3. MYTHOLOGY: In Greek mythol-
ogy, how many graces are there?
4. TRANSPORTATION: Which 
major airport is known by the three-let-
ter code DCA?
5. TELEVISION: What are the 
names of the two Muppet characters 
that heckle the cast from their balcony 
seats?
6. LITERATURE: What is the first 
name of Agatha Christie’s detective 
Miss Marple?
7. PSYCHOLOGY: What is 
triskaidekaphobia?
8. GEOGRAPHY: What is the larg-
est freshwater body in Africa?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What was the strongest earthquake 
recorded?
10. TOYS & GAMES: What is the 
main ingredient of Silly Putty? 
Answers
1. Boston
2. “Candle in the Wind” (1997, Elton 
John)
3. Three: Aglaia, Euphrosyne and 
Thalia
4. Washington National Airport5. Statler and Waldorf6. Jane7. Fear of the number 13
8. Lake Victoria
9. 9.5 magnitude, near Valdivia, 
Chile, in 1960
10. Silicone
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 26, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 
 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Touch, e.g.
6 Model in a bottle
10 SALT weaponry
14 “Ta-ta, mon ami”
15 Students’
lunchroom
17 Secondhand
wave of
excitement
19 Surprised cries
20 Court plea,
briefly
21 Bridal path22 “Uh-uh—
however ... ”
24 They may be
raised in casinos
25 Saudi neighbors27 Google Apps
component
29 Place to get
deliveryinstructions?
31 Pro bono TV ad34 “Hamilton” climax
35 27-Across
alternative
36 Has second
thoughts about
37 Member of the
fam
38 Hare care site
42 Thick43 Off the beaten
path
44 Arcade activity47 Welcome words
to a hitchhiker
48 Kicking partner?49 Ancient France51 St. Petersburg’s
river
54 Minister or imam,
say ... and, in twoways, a hint towords hidden in17-, 29- and 38-Across
57 Jaguar’s jaguar,
e.g.
58 Clarence Odbody
in “It’s aWonderful Life,”e.g.
59 Give a finer edge
to
60 Word with bill or
ball
61 In __: unborn
DOWN
1 Hockey
announcer’s cry
2 Actress Falco3 The Sultan of
Swat and The
Splendid Splinter
4 Like produce at
farm-to-table
restaurants
5 The Danube’s
cont.
6 “Run along now”
7 Pull with effort
8 “Assuming it’s
true ... ”
9 Guinea pig, e.g.
10 Taken from
above, as photos
11 Invigorating12 Jacque’s
thousand
13 Cyber Monday
events
16 “To clarify ... ”
18 Operating23 Show __24 Copenhagen
carrier
25 Former GM
division
26 Haleakala
National Parklocale
27 Round Earth map
28 Landlocked
African nation
30 Airport lineup
31 Made tense32 Doctrinal faction
33 Tennis great
Arthur
36 Cud-chewing
mammal
38 Go back (on)
39 Director Lee
40 Disruptive forum
visitor
41 With it, once
42 Cut into parts44 Brooks with two
Grammys45 Last 25-Down
model
46 Italian fashion
city
47 Iditarod runner49 Hockey
announcer’s cry
50 Pervasive glow
52 Turn sharply
53 Guthrie who sang
about Alice
55 Little trickster
56 Seine filler
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/28/1803/28/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 28, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 “__ show time!”
4 Get some rays
8 Weak, excuse-
wise
14 Stanley Cup org.
15 “See ya”
16 Change from five
stars to three,say
17 Drink with jam
and bread, insong
18 “You think
anyone caresabout MYopinion?”
20 Nocturnal birds
22 HBO miniseries
“Big Little __”
23 Easy-to-scam
people
24 Boatload (of)
27 Caramel-filled
candy
28 “Hold the
Hellmann’s”
29 Protein-building
acid
31 Mother in
Calcutta
35 “On the Beach”
novelist Shute
36 Texter’s #1 pal39 “Let’s see here ... ”41 Finish42 “You win”44 Ophthalmologist’s
concern
46 Myanmar, once47 Gives the 
go-ahead
51 Scent52 Overall concept
of the universe
55 Guthrie of folk56 Manufacture57 Designer Gucci58 Eye-of-newt
concoction
62 Sense of self63 “You can say that
again!”
64 Christmas
season
65 U.S. House
member
66 “You can say that
again!”
67 City near Tulsa68 Radical ’60s
campus gp.
DOWN
1 Visiting the area
2 “My Generation”
rock band3 Zigzag ski event
4 “Before I forget,”
in texts
5 “Say __”: doctor’s
directive
6 Buy time7 Longtime “Today”
co-host Couric
8 Some big dos9 Kauai garland
10 Exasperating11 “Holy smokes!”12 Drop by,
colloquially
13 Evergreens
shrubs
19 Drops on the
grass
21 Wood strip25 Glasses and
goggles
26 Achy
27 Acted without
restraint
30 Overused, as
jokes
32 Shade tree
33 Foxy34 “I’ll take that 
as __”
36 Lobster eater’s
protection
37 The “F” element
in CFC
38 Full-size cars of
the 1960s-’80s40 Lustrous white
gem
43 Kissy-kissy
45 Thomas __
Edison
48 Persian Gulf
ships
49 Crammed 
(into) ... and,
when aptly
hyphenated, like 18-, 24-, 39-, 52- and 58-Across50 Descends
suddenly
52 Used to be53 “All right, so 
long”
54 “Friends”
episode, now
55 Not 1-Down56 Kitty sounds
59 Groundbreaking
invention?
60 Quarterback
Manning
61 Marry
By Bruce Haight and Loren Smith©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/27/1803/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, March 27, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Fisherman 
1.  Put in your two cents5.  Stanza 
2.  ____ truck 6.  Now and ____
3.  Fancy 7.  Chain ____
4.  Jennifer ____GREALN
SAEIDVEVSRE
AIANG
ARGAEBG
GNTLEAETRTELE
NARRGEANSWERS: 1A-Angler  5A-Verse  6A-Again  7A-Letter
1D-Advise  2D-Garbage  3D-Elegant  4D-Garner  B-Las Vegas3-28-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This city was settled in 1905 and 
officially incorporated in 1911.
BONUS
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.All-American pitcher Kelly 
Barnhill and the rest of Florida's softball team is facing FIU today in a doubleheader starting at 4 p.m.Hudson declares for draft, Egbunu not returning
Florida guard Jalen Hudson conﬁ  rmed he is declaring for the 2018 NBA Draft 
without an agent on Tuesday. By not signing with an agent, Hudson remains eli-gible to return to the Gators next season. Center John Egbunu will not be back 
with UF in 2018-19 after announcing plans to turn professional on Tuesday.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Eighteen former Florida football players will 
have the chance to impress NFL scouts this 
morning at UF’s annual pro day.
Defensive lineman Taven Bryan and wide 
receiver Antonio Callaway headline the 2018 group of Gators looking to boost their draft stock.
The 6-foot-4, 291-pound Bryan — a pro-
jected ﬁ  rst-round pick according to NFL.com — played in all 11 games for Florida a season ago, ﬁ  nishing in the top ﬁ  ve among the team’s leaders in tackles, tackles for loss, sacks and 
quarterback hurries. His four sacks tied for the 
second most on the team last year behind de-fensive lineman CeCe Jefferson (4.5), and he also forced a team-high 22 yards lost off his 
sacks.
Callaway, on the other hand, was sus-
pended the entire 2017 season for his alleged involvement in a credit card scam along with 
eight of his teammates. Before missing his ju-nior year, he led Florida in receiving yards as a 
freshman and sophomore. His 1,399 receiving 
yards in that span were nearly twice as much as the next closest receiver.
Brandon Powell — another pro day par-
ticipant — was second behind Callaway with a combined 777 receiving yards in 2015 and 2016. Powell added a career-high 406 receiving yards as a senior in 2017.
Senior Duke Dawson is one of six defensive 
backs taking part in pro day. Dawson grabbed four interceptions (tied for a team-high) in 2017, including one he returned for a touch-down against Michigan on Sept. 2. He recorded 
pick-sixes on three of his six total career inter-
ceptions.
Marcell Harris and Nick Washington, two 
of the other ﬁ  ve defensive backs participating  Former UF players hoping to 
impress NFL teams at pro day
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer 
Right ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton took a 
modest lead off of second base in 
the bottom of the fourth inning. Af-
ter smacking a ball down the left-ﬁ  eld 
line and into the corner, the precious scoring opportunity could’ve been the only one Florida would have for the 
rest of the game, for all he knew. 
After catcher JJ Schwarz grounded 
out to FSU ﬁ  rst baseman Rhett Aplin on the ﬁ  rst pitch he saw, left ﬁ  elder 
Austin Langworthy took a cut on his ﬁ  rst pitch and hit a chopper once again toward Aplin. This time, however, the 220-pound senior couldn’t get to the 
ball as it squirted into right ﬁ  eld.
Dalton sprinted to third, rounded 
the corner and headed home. FSU 
right ﬁ  elder Reese Albert scooped the 
ball and heaved it to the plate. Catch-
er Cal Raleigh snagged the throw on a short hop just in front of the dish and turned desperately to apply the tag on Dalton.
But there was no catching the Flor-
ida right ﬁ  elder. Dalton slid in safely ahead of Raleigh’s tag and, in one ﬂ  uid 
motion, jumped into the air, spun 360 
degrees in midair and hopped around before slapping UF second baseman Blake Reese’s hand in celebration.
The run proved to be the most con-
sequential play of a 1-0 Florida win 
over the No. 5 Seminoles (20-6, 5-4 
ACC) in Jacksonville on Tuesday.
The No. 2 Gators (22-5, 4-2 SEC) 
started freshman Jack Leftwich on the mound in the rivals’ second matchup 
of the season. After getting smacked 
around in his last start (ﬁ  ve hits, six runs and four walks given up in 2.2 innings against UCF on March 6), 
Leftwich received the responsibility of 
squaring off against FSU with poise. The right-hander spun a near-perfect ﬁ  ve innings pitched, allowing one hit and one walk while striking out ﬁ  ve 
Seminoles batters. 
Leftwich perhaps could’ve gone 
further into the game, but coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan made the decision 
to pull him once Leftwich developed 
a blister on the middle ﬁ  nger of his pitching hand.
Leftwich credited his tendency to 
get ahead in the count as a big com-
ponent to his dominant outing.
“I talked to (pitcher Brady) Singer 
and all those guys, and he just said, 
'You’ve gotta focus on every pitch,’” Dalton's lone run helps Florida squeak by Florida State 
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Right ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton scored the only run of the night on Tuesday in Florida's 1-0 win over 
Florida State.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
It’s about time.
It’s about damn time.
On Tuesday, the NFL 
took a huge step in the right direction when it 
came to ﬁ  xing a major rule, or lack thereof, that has 
haunted the league over the 
last decade.
If you thought I was talk-
ing about how the NFL ﬁ  nally ﬁ  gured out what a freaking catch is, you are dead 
wrong.
I’m talking about a new targeting rule. 
Or should I say, the beginning of one.
Playing Rule Article 8, a new guideline 
announced by the NFL on Tuesday, states 
that if a player initiates contact with his helmet against an opponent, he will be called for a 15-yard penalty and may be ejected from the game. If the player is on 
defense, it will also result in an automatic 
ﬁ  rst down. It has always puzzled me 
as to why the NFL wouldn’t take that extra step to ensure 
player safety. Heck, even the 
NCAA has a targeting penalty that aims to protect defense-less players from hits to the 
head. 
But at least its profession-
al counterpart is starting to 
make the necessary changes as well.
While it’s not the same as college 
football’s deﬁ  nition of targeting — you 
can’t hit a defenseless receiver above the shoulders — the rule will no doubt make a signiﬁ  cant impact in the way the game 
is played.
It will help limit severe injuries, like 
the one Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker 
Ryan Shazier received during the 2017 season.
In a game against the Cincinnati Ben-NFL takes a step in the right direction 
on Tuesday regarding player safetyJake's on a Plane / Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
The beat of Lil Wayne’s “6 Foot 
7 Foot” fades to silence as Kunle 
Fasasi wraps his earbuds around his iPhone. He places them inside his or-ange and blue backpack, whispers a quick prayer and jogs over to Lane 6 inside Gilliam Indoor Track Stadium.
It’s late in the afternoon on March 
10. Kunle and the rest of the Florida men’s track and field team are in Col-
lege Station, Texas, for Day 2 of the 
2018 NCAA Indoor Championships.
The final for the 4x400-meter re-
lay is about to begin, and Kunle is 
leading off for the Gators.
Clutching his baton, the junior 
sprinter crouches close to the ground with his arms stretched in front of his body. He places his right heel into the metal footplate on the ground and — 
in the same routine motion — pulls 
his left leg in toward his bowed head.
There are three other athletes 
holding Kunle’s same position in their respective lanes.
He glances at the sprinter to his 
left. Then at the one on his right. He knows he’s looking at an opponent, someone who’s aching for his team to cross that white finish line first just as badly as he is.
But that’s not who Kunle sees.
Instead, he sees a slim-figured, 
6-foot-1 sprinter wearing a black Nike 
mesh headband tied at the back of his 
head. He sees his same black watch 
wrapped around his right wrist and an orange elastic bracelet hanging on 
his left. He sees another Kunle Fasasi.
At least, that’s what he tells him-
self before every race. He makes him-
self the opponent, and he visualizes it until that image becomes a part of 
him. Because in his mind, it’s more 
about Kunle than anyone else.
He has, after all, faced adver-
sity throughout his athletic career. Whether it was a coach who told 
him he wouldn’t succeed or a lack of 
training resources available to him in his hometown, Kunle only had one mindset throughout his journey to becoming a college athlete. 
“You have to work for what you 
want,” he said.
And that way of thinking is ex-
actly what got him here.
•   •   •
“Set!” the official’s voice echoes 
throughout the indoor track stadium.Kunle straightens his legs and lifts 
his body into a stationary position. 
The runner to his left does the same 
thing. Kunle peeps over at him.
He pictures himself at 7 years old, 
back when he spent most of his days 
inside his house in the small town of 
Ile-Ife, Nigeria.
Most children in Ile-Ife spend their 
free time outdoors playing sports, but Kunle’s interests fell elsewhere.
He was a homebody.
He preferred staying inside to 
watch classic movies like “Coming to America” and enjoyed spending time 
with his family.
He lived with his mom, Motun-
rayo; his dad, Adeyini; and his two 
older sisters, Biodun and Kemi.
Adeyini — who teaches physics 
and materials science at Obafemi Awolowo University in Ile-Ife — made academics a top priority for his children.
Earning good grades was always 
the No. 1 focus in the Fasasi house-hold.And Kunle was an introvert. He 
mostly kept to himself in the comfort 
of his own room.
But every now and then, Kunle 
would sneak away from his open books and study guides to play some 
friendly games of soccer with his 
peers.
“I loved everything about it,” he 
said.
His friends always thought he was 
quick and suggested he start to run 
track.
And after some early apprehen-
sions, he decided to give it a try.
•   •   •
POW.The sound of the starter gun rip-
ples through the stadium as Kunle and his competitors begin to sprint 
forward. Kunle feels the runner to his 
left dash ahead of him. He pictures 
himself at 17 years old.
At that time, the 2012 Summer 
Olympics were being broadcast on local television networks in Nigeria.Kunle sat in front of the TV in 
his living room and waited for the highly anticipated men’s 110-meter hurdles to begin. The race featured 
a pair of veterans in reigning world 
champion Jason Richardson of the United States, as well as world-record holder and defending Olympic cham-
pion Dayron Robles of Cuba. An af-
terthought in the field of competitors was American hurdler Aries Merritt, a 27-year-old from Marietta, Georgia, who had relatively little experience 
on the big stage.
Kunle’s eyes zeroed in on Merritt, 
who was sporting a red USA uniform 
on his chest and cornrows on top of his head.
He observed as Merritt flew off 
the starting line, pulling away from his opponents as he flung his body over each hurdle. He watched as Merritt leaned across the finish line, 
becoming the first American to win 
a gold medal in the men’s 110-meter hurdles since Allen Johnson accom-plished the feat in 1996.That moment solidified Kunle’s 
decision to become a track runner.
“I think I can do this,” he said to 
his father.
Kunle started searching for a 
coach to help him train. He reached out to one local man who refused to 
help him. He felt that Kunle was too 
skinny and didnt think he could run.
But Kunle persevered, knowing 
that no part of the journey would be easy.
“You have to work for what you 
want,” he said. 
Eventually, he found coach 
Ayokunle Odelusi.
Kunle wanted to train for the 
hurdles after being inspired by Mer-ritt’s Olympic race. But Odelusi didn’t have access to enough hurdles in 
Nigeria to train him for that event. 
He felt that one of Kunle’s strengths could be endurance, so he decided to train him for the 400.
Kunle trained with Odelusi five 
days a week.
He woke up every morning, said 
his usual prayer and departed for his 7:30 a.m. training session, which lasted anywhere from two to three hours. Until he finished high school, 
he rushed straight from practice to 
class.
One day, a sudden realization hit 
Kunle. If he was going to reach his full potential as a track athlete, he 
would have to move to the United 
States.
Living in America would provide 
him with the security he needed to  participate in sports while also get-ting a quality education. He’d have the proper resources, the proper 
training facilities and the proper envi-
ronment he’d need to be successful.
Read the rest of this story online at 
alligator.org/sports.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgGETTING ON TRACK: Sprinter Kunle Fasasi thriving at UF
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Junior sprinter Kunle Fasasi left Nigeria in 2015 to enroll at UF and join its men’s track and field 
team.
TRACK
Kunle Fasasi
Event: Sprints
Class: JuniorHometown: Ile-Ife, Nigeria16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2018
in drills today, both dealt with 
season-ending injuries in 2017. Harris tore his right Achilles ten-
don last summer, forcing him to 
miss the entire year. However, he racked up a team-high 73 tackles and recorded two interceptions in 
2016.
Washington injured his shoul-
der against LSU on Oct. 7, and 
missed the remainder of the sea-son. He started ﬁ  ve games at safe-
ty and was on pace to set a career 
high in tackles before getting hurt.
Special teams standouts Eddy 
Pineiro and Johnny Townsend 
will also participate.
Pineiro was a two-year starter 
for the Gators and led the nation 
in ﬁ  eld goal percentage in 2017, hitting 17 of 18 attempts. A fan 
favorite, Pineiro made 38 of 43 
total ﬁ  eld goals during his time in Gainesville, including a 5-for-5 mark on kicks 50 yards or longer.
Townsend, a punter, affected 
all three phases of the game for Florida. He led the nation in yards per punt in 2016 and 2017, aver-aging 47.9 and 47.5 yards, respec-tively.
Other members of UF's 2017 
roster participating in pro day are quarterback Malik Zaire, running back Mark Thompson, tight end DeAndre Goolsby, offensive line-
men Antonio Riles and Ricardo 
Benalcazar and defensive backs Joseph Putu and Garrett Stephens.
Quarterback Austin Appleby 
and running back Mark Herndon, who last played for UF in 2016, as well as former NFL defensive back Matt Elam, who last played for UF in 2012, will also take part 
in drills.
While the event isn’t open to 
the public, former Florida wide 
receiver Chris Doering will be 
providing coverage of the event 
for the SEC Network. Pro day is scheduled to start at 9:30 a.m. and will end in the early afternoon.
An article from FloridaGators.
com contributed to this report.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Harris to participate in pro day after missing 2017
Alligator File Photo
Safety Marcell Harris is one of 18 former Florida football players 
participating in UF's pro day this morning.
gals on Dec. 4, Shazier attempted 
to tackle Bengals wide receiver Josh Malone, leading with the 
crown of his helmet. When he 
made contact, his body instantly went limp and his left hand went toward his spine. He suffered 
a severe spinal injury, one that 
over four months later still re-quires him to occasionally use a wheelchair.
With all the pressure the NFL 
has received over lawsuits deal-ing with concussions and other head injuries from former players, it’s no surprise the league would 
want to implement this new rule.
According to NFL injury data, 
47 percent of concussions last 
season came from helmet-to-hel-met collisions, a large increase 
from 33 percent in 2015. Over-
all, the number of concussions in 2017 was higher than in previous years.
A form of the targeting rule 
was 100 percent necessary in the NFL. The players hit much harder than in college, and the overall impact of those hits can do a lot 
more damage to the body.
I know it’s just a start, but I’m 
hoping this new targeting rule 
will actually change the way the 
league views the seriousness of 
concussions and the risks caused by tackling the wrong way.
It’s about time the NFL did 
something meaningful to start protecting its players.
Jake Dreilinger is the assistant 
sports editor at The Alligator. Contact him at jdreilinger@alliga-tor.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Leftwich said in a televised interview after the game. “I try to at least get one of the ﬁ  rst two pitches in for a strike, and then that just 
sets up the whole at-bat.” 
For FSU right-hander Andrew Karp, nearly 
perfect wasn’t quite perfect enough. The red-
shirt junior threw hard all eight innings and 
let up just four hits, including the two in the 
fourth inning that ultimately led to his sec-ond loss of the season. He also struck out seven Florida batters and walked two. 
The Seminoles threatened to tie the game 
one last time in the top of the ninth. Two FSU singles set up men on the corners with one out. 
But UF closer Michael Byrne, who had 
come on in the eighth inning, struck out Al-
pin on four pitches and forced Raleigh into a 
soft dribbler to ﬁ  rst baseman Keenan Bell on the ﬁ  rst pitch he saw to seal the game, net-ting Byrne his sixth save of the season.
Leftwich, an Orlando native, said that 
while both schools have a heavy recruiting 
presence in his hometown, he’d been waiting 
for this speciﬁ  c opportunity for a long time.
“Just being a Gator fan, we don’t like FSU 
that much,” he said.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org
 BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Michael Byrne recorded his sixth save of the season