We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
CLANGA, CLANGA. Mullen returns home.
Mullen and the Gators have a lot to worry about in Starkville. 
Find out what the players and coaches said were their biggest 
challenges against the Bulldogs, pg. 14Tom Petty tributes across town
T ake a look at how Gainesville is commemorating Petty a year 
after his death, pg. 10
Impact Party sweeps
See a full breakdown of election results on  pg. 9FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 16
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
A former Gators running back is accused 
of slamming his girlfriend against the wall and 
choking her last Friday, Gainesville Police said.
Adarius Lemons, 21, of Oldsmar, Florida, was 
arrested Wednesday night, according to court re-
cords. 
Lemons was upset about a social media mes-
sage while arguing with the woman in her apart-
ment last week, a sworn complaint alleges. He 
smashed her iPhone on the ground several times. 
He then slammed the victim against a wall 
and bed, the complaint said. 
They continued arguing and went into the 
hallway. Lemons slammed her into two walls 
while choking her, police said.
Two witnesses in the apartment told police 
they saw Lemons choking her in the hallway, the 
report said. One witness tried to separate the two 
but could not. 
The woman could not breathe, and Lemons 
eventually let her go and left the apartment, ac-
cording to the report. During the struggle, she got 
a cut upper lip, a bloodied left big toe, a scratch 
on her left forearm, a cut on her right pinky and 
redness on her left elbow, the complaint said. 
Police ﬁ  led a warrant for Lemons’ arrest Mon-
day. 
Lemons announced his intention to transfer 
from UF on Twitter after the Gators’ loss to Ken-
tucky on Sept. 8.  
Lemons is charged with battery, domestic bat-
tery by choking and criminal mischief. He is be-
ing held in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a 
$65,000 bond. 
 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgFormer Gators 
running back 
arrestedBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
Stephen Stills is well acquainted 
with Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
When he wasn’t parading the 
ﬁ  eld in his Gainesville High School 
marching band uniform, he was 
selling Cokes to thirsty fans in con-
cession booths, UF President Kent 
Fuchs said. 
“He’s said he considers himself 
a part of the Gator Nation,” Fuchs 
said. “And now, it’ll be ofﬁ  cial.”Stills, an inductee of the Rock & 
Roll Hall of Fame and member of 
Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, will be 
this Fall’s commencement speaker at 
the university-wide ceremony, along 
with UF College of the Arts Dean 
Onye Ozuzu, Fuchs said. Neither 
speaker is being paid for the cer-
emony. 
Stills will be the ﬁ  rst guest com-
mencement speaker the university 
has had in decades — maybe 40 
years, said Stephanie McBride, the 
director of commencement. After changing the format of UF gradua-
tion, the university noticed an op-
portunity to bring in speakers.
“Before, we had so many cer-
emonies back-to-back, it would be a 
great request to ask someone to do 
10 ceremonies over four days,” Mc-
Bride said.
The speakers will present at a 
single commencement held for ev-
eryone, McBride said. The band and 
choir from the College of the Arts 
will also perform at the ceremony.
“We’re really taking time to cel-ebrate this college,” she said.
If Stills wanted to perform dur-
ing the ceremony, he would be wel-
come, Fuchs said.
When Fuchs asked Ozuzu on 
Sept. 15 to be the faculty speaker, 
she was surprised. Having just start-
ed her time at UF in August along 
with about 200 other new faculty 
members, Ozuzu was not sure she 
was the right person.
“We’re in a moment of welcom-
ing change,” she said. “In some 
ways, I represent 200 people that ar-
rived on campus brand new in the 
Fall. Having that voice represented 
makes sense in the moment.”Fuchs had also been open with 
Ozuzu about inviting her, a black 
woman, to speak at commencement 
partially to make sure the stage is in-
clusive, Ozuzu said.
Not only did he want to invite 
a speaker who would represent the 
university’s diverse community, but 
Fuchs also wanted a speaker with 
close ties to UF and Gainesville, he 
said.
Stills spent some of his childhood 
in Gainesville, Fuchs said. 
In the 1950s, Stills attended J.J. 
Finley Elementary School before Rock & Roll legend to speak at Fall commencement
Faculty member Onye Ozuzu will also speak.
SEE GRADUATION,  PAGE 5
THE PROJECT WILL COST 
ABOUT $10 MILLION.
By Gabrielle Seminara 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Not even heavy rain and muddied shoes 
could dampen spirits Wednesday.
In the middle of thunderstorms, about 
120 students, faculty and alumni gathered 
under a small tent to celebrate the ground-
breaking for the new Institute of Black 
Culture, called the IBC, and the Institute of 
Hispanic-Latino Cultures, or La Casita. The 
ceremony took place at 1510 and 1504 W. 
University Ave.
The rain ceased just in time for the of-ﬁ  cial groundbreaking. Wearing white con-
struction hats and yielding golden shovels, 
the speakers broke ground for both build-
ings, followed by cheers and applause.
Miguel Raya, a 22-year-old UF construc-
tion management senior, said students 
have been waiting a long time to ﬁ  nally 
start the project.
“This is a revitalization of civil rights on 
campus,” he said. “This is our space and 
we fought to revitalize it.”
Construction for the two buildings was 
delayed due to disagreements between fac-
ulty and students over whether the build-
ings should be combined. UF Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs originally proposed a 
single U-shaped building, but students ar-gued the plan would not properly honor 
the two separate communities.
UF President Kent Fuchs said in his 
speech the $10 million project is an impor-
tant part of the community.
“This project will topple walls of ig-
norance and topple walls of prejudice,” 
Fuchs said.
Akil Reynolds, the president of the 
Black Student Union, said during his 
speech he thinks it is important students 
have a voice on campus.
“Students should never feel guilty to 
ask for what we deserve,” Reynolds said.
Students will have continued input on 
the two buildings’ furniture and interior Institute of Black Culture, La Casita break groundChristopher King / Alligator Staff 
Lexie Atlas, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering sophomore, celebrates with her friend Kyle Levy, who won a District B 
Senate seat for the Impact Party. The results were read Wednesday night in the Reitz Union. Impact won 35 of 50 seats. 
SEE GROUNDBREAKING,  PAGE 5T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 16
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Madison Forbis 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Marlowe Starling, Paige Arneson,HIGH  94° LOW  73°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply Now for 2019-20 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. Students can file a 2019-
20 FAFSA as early as Oct. 1. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the 2019-20 FAFSA results from 
the federal processor is Dec. 15. 
Students are recommended to ap-
ply well before Dec. 15 to ensure 
the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the results 
of the FAFSA to the UF Office 
for Student Financial Affairs. 
Financial aid is awarded on a 
first-come, first-served basis, so 
apply as early as possible to be 
considered for the most aid. The 
2019-20 FAFSA will also be avail-
able on a new phone appplication called myStudentAid.
Gay Movie Night 
September’s Gay Movie Night 
will be held at 7:30 p.m. today at 
the Pride Community Center at 
3131 NW 13th St. This month’s 
movie is “The Skinny,” which 
is a comedy about four young, 
black, gay men and their lesbian 
best friend. They arrange to meet 
up in New York City one year af-
ter their graduation from Brown 
University. Their plans for a 
weekend of fun start off well and 
relaxed in each other’s company, 
as only old friends can be, but 
old tensions quickly resurface. 
Drinking, drugs, hidden desire 
and the demands of promiscu-
ity put friendship, trust and even 
lives at risk. A $2 donation is re-
quested to help cover the cost of 
snacks.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, 
October 19. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at 
that time to read information regarding the application process. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held 
at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on 
Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must be present at 
that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking 
college or university students. Preference will be given to those 
who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Grammy to Gainesville
Grammy Award-winner Chris Thile, a 37-year-old singer, songwriter, 
mandolinist and host of “Live From Here” on NPR, performs at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts Wednesday night. During the performance, 
Thile sang a cover of “True Love Waits” by Radiohead. 
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three counties’ election supervisors 
tried to put fears of a foreign inﬂ  uence to 
rest Thursday night.
About 25 people gathered to ask the elec-
tion supervisors of Leon, Marion and Oka-
loosa counties about the upcoming election. 
The purpose of the event was to address 
concerns of voter security and the safety of 
Florida residents’ ballots due to concerns 
raised during the 2016 election after reports 
of Russian hacking, said TJ Pyche, the di-
rector of outreach for the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections.
“Whenever we have an election, we 
want to make sure that people have conﬁ  -
dence in the procedures we have in place,” 
Pyche said. 
The election supervisors, Paul Lux of 
Okaloosa County, Wesley Wilcox of Marion County and Mark Earley of Leon County, 
addressed the crowd about ballot security 
and speciﬁ  c plans for November. 
Susan Macmanus, the event moderator 
, said one in three Americans believe that 
a foreign inﬂ  uence will change election re-
sults this November.
In Okaloosa County, all ballots are kept 
in a bank vault after they are made, Lux 
said. 
Leon County has amped up its security 
around ballot storage. It is installing more 
cameras and requiring photo ID to get in the 
door, Earley said. 
Sue Gruner, 62, of Gainesville, said she 
has always been interested in anything 
election-related and decided to attend the 
event at the last minute. 
The forum reassured her of Florida’s 
election procedures. 
“I had no idea the amount of security 
that exists,” she said.Election supervisors talk 
ballot security in Florida 
About 25 people attended the discussion.  4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
THE BAR WILL OFFER UP 
TO 100 CRAFT BEERS AND 
A FULL MENU.
By Christina Voltoline
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s newest addition to 
the craft beer community is coming 
downtown and receiving a warm 
welcome from veteran breweries.  
Big Top Brewing Co., which 
started in Sarasota, Florida, will 
open its doors to the public in mid-
October, said CEO Mike Bisaha. 
The brewery will be located next 
to Mark’s Prime Steakhouse down-
town. Customers can choose from 
up to 100 beer ﬂ  avors and a full 
menu, which includes gourmet 
burgers and tacos, Bisaha said. 
The brewery will offer uncon-
ventional ﬂ  avors of beers like PB&J, 
Pumpkin and Big Top’s newly 
award-winning beer, the Hawaiian 
Lion, which is a coconut coffee por-
ter. 
Bar-goers will ﬁ  nd a casual 
atmosphere dimly lit by vintage 
Edison light bulbs and two garage 
doors that open to the outside at the 
new space. The bar will also boast 
an “open brew” system, where cus-
tomers will have a direct view of the brewing process from their barstool, 
he said. Bisaha wanted the open 
concept to encourage visitors to ask 
brewers questions about how the 
beer is made. 
“It will be completely open to the 
consumer, meaning you can sit on 
one side of the bar, and the entire 
brewing process is happening on 
the other side of the bar with no wall or glass between you,” he said.
Big Top has received about 400 
applications for various positions 
at the brewery from bartenders and 
brewers to servers. Bisaha plans 
to keep the brewery a local affair, 
hiring local brewers, working with 
local farmers and partnering with 
local charities. 
“We’re excited to be a small 
part of the growth of craft beer in Gainesville,” he said. “Local is key 
to us.”
Over the past few years, 
Gainesville has become a hotbed 
for craft beer, and current breweries 
including First Magnitude Brewing 
Company have extended a warm 
welcome to Big Top, Bisaha said. 
“We really have a great camara-
derie in our market of craft beers, 
and that’s really in general the way that it is,” he said. 
Two streets over on West Uni-
versity Avenue, Alexander Whelp-
ton runs Gainesville House of Beer. 
He hopes the new addition to the 
craft beer scene will draw more 
people to the downtown area. 
“I think that a successful brew-
ery downtown would help all of 
the local restaurants, bars and ho-
tels, because it gives the people of 
Gainesville a good reason to come 
downtown,” he said. 
After running Gainesville House 
of Beer for seven years, Whelpton 
has learned the recipe for success in 
a college town is susceptible to sea-
sonal swings, he said.
“I think if they provide a really 
good service, a really good atmo-
sphere and a really good drink, then 
they shouldn’t have a hard time in 
marketing that,” Whelpton said.
Though Big Top will have to be 
on par with other successful bars 
like First Magnitude, Swamp Head 
Brewery and Gainesville House of 
Beer, competition should be the 
least of its worries, Whelpton said. 
He would love to serve some of Big 
Top’s beers in his own bar. 
“I would be extremely excited 
for any breweries to be added to the 
downtown area,” he said. “I believe 
that hide tide raises all the ships.” Big Top Brewing Co. to open in downtown Gainesville in October 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Vintage Edison light bulbs illuminate the inside of Big T op Brewing Co. The new brewery will open next 
to Mark’s Prime Steakhouse downtown in mid-October. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
For mor e inf o call 352-392-5500 or visit w ww.oconnellc enter.uu.edu
*Applies t o Price Level 3 & 4 Only . Ticket Limit: 8
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
moving away for a few years, UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando said. Stills was also brieﬂ  y en-
rolled at UF, and a rehearsal room in the Stein-
brenner Band Hall bears his name after he do-
nated to its construction, Orlando said.
Months before Stills was approached to 
speak at graduation, the College of the Arts 
nominated him to receive an honorary doctor-
ate, Fuchs said. It’s a coincidence Stills’ hon-
orary degree coincides with speaking on stage 
with the dean of the college who nominated 
him, he said.“Stephen Stills is an individual who contrib-
uted to the history of music, and he’s received 
almost every accolade for his work,” Fuchs 
said.
Fuchs said that although there have been 
recent tensions with the new format of gradu-
ation, he hopes the speakers will cause gradu-
ates to reﬂ  ect on the past and what they have 
accomplished while looking toward the future.
“In the end, we hope students will see that 
we’re adding rather than taking away from the 
graduation experience,” he said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGRADUATION,  from pg. 1Neither speaker is being paid.By Aaron Ritter
Alligator Contributing Writer 
They started off as toys. 
Now, they can record high-deﬁ  nition video, 
autonomously ﬁ  ght in war zones and, in Ala-
chua County, help ﬁ  ght ﬁ  res.
A new $24,000 drone was added on Tues-
day to Alachua County Fire Rescue’s ﬂ  eet of 
six, which includes drones that ﬁ  ght ﬁ  res, aid 
in search-and-rescue operations and assess 
damage after disasters, said Scott Fielding, the 
network specialist for the ﬁ  re department.
Liberty Health Sciences, a local medicinal marijuana company, donated the latest addi-
tion, which the team affectionately calls “Reef-
er One.” The matte-black drone has a host of 
features, including a $12,000 camera capable 
of infrared and HD video, Fielding said.
Although the drones do not drop water or 
ﬂ  y victims to safety, they provide invaluable 
intel when it is needed most, Fielding said.
Each aircraft in the department’s ﬂ  eet 
serves a specialized purpose. Some can ﬁ  t into 
a ﬁ  rst responder’s backpack and be deployed 
on the go, while the bulkier “Reefer One” can 
use its infrared camera to ﬁ  nd a missing person 
in the middle of the night.“We can throw that up in the air and see 
their thermal signature,” Fielding said. 
The department also used drones to as-
sess the damage caused by Hurricane Irma 
and partnered with Florida State University’s 
Emergency Management Homeland Security 
Program to search overhead for people who 
needed medical attention during the protest 
outside the Richard Spencer speech in 2017.
“We were able to help guide our emergency 
personnel into a crowd,” Fielding said. 
The advancements in drone technology 
have grown exponentially since the depart-
ment started using them in 2014. Although Fielding initially struggled to convince his 
peers of the drones’ potential, over the last 
four years the department has invested about 
$14,000 into the technology, Fielding said. 
Anna Marchek, a 19-year-old UF nutritional 
sciences sophomore, owns a “Karma” drone 
by GoPro, but she did not know the county’s 
ﬁ  re department uses drone technology. 
“I think drones have beneﬁ  ts and down-
sides,” she said. “There is no way you could 
use drones to physically ﬁ  ght ﬁ  res.”
Marchek supports the idea of using drones 
if they are used efﬁ  ciently.
“I think it is smart,” Marchek said. “If they 
are used for detection purposes, I support it.”Alachua County Fire Rescue receives new $24,000 drone  
The department has been using drone technology since 2014.
THE NATIONAL GOAL IS 1 MIL-
LION PEOPLE.
By Annelise O’Donnell
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF Health is participating in a nation-
wide initiative aimed at advancing precision 
medicine, but it will need the help of 20,000 
people to do it. 
The All of Us research program is a Na-
tional Institutes of Health initiative that seeks 
to collect health information from more than 
1 million people across the U.S. in the next 
decade. UF aims to recruit one in 50 of the 
national goal over the next ﬁ  ve years, ac-
cording to a UF Health press release.
Researchers will use the data to study 
the impact of differences in lifestyle, envi-
ronment and genetic makeup on individual 
health in an effort to advance proactive and 
personalized health care, according to the 
release.
The program held recruiting events at UF 
Health and Depot Park Friday and Saturday, 
respectively. Twenty-six people contributed 
information at the two events, and about 30 
more agreed to be contacted for more infor-
mation, said Brittney Roth, the project man-
ager for All of Us at UF. 
Rather than focusing on a speciﬁ  c dis-
ease, All of Us will serve as a resource for 
numerous studies covering a variety of health conditions, Roth said.
“Participants are helping build research 
for a better tomorrow,” she said.
People participating can choose how 
much medical information they want pro-
vide, she said.
Participants give general consent, which 
includes completing surveys about their 
health and demographic information. Those 
who wish to offer more can give research-
ers consent to access their electronic health 
records. People also have the option to fully 
participate by contributing physical mea-
surements and providing blood and urine 
samples, Roth said. 
The initiative hopes to strengthen its 
reach into underrepresented populations. UF 
is part of the SouthEast Enrollment Center, 
a consortium of four major academic health 
care organizations in Florida and Georgia, 
and it has its sights set on the rural popula-
tions of North Florida and South Georgia. 
The SouthEast Enrollment Center has 
2,000 total participants and about 250 full 
participants at UF, Roth said.
Destino Roman, a 20-year-old UF prepro-
fessional biology junior, said he would par-
ticipate in the research program. He believes 
it’s on the right track for the innovation of 
health care. 
“I can see a world where one doesn’t 
have to rely on the ‘best ﬁ  t’ and can instead 
ﬁ  nd the ‘perfect ﬁ  t,’” he said. UF Health to gather data from 
20,000 people for new study
pieces and can stay updated online, said Wil-
liam Atkins, the senior director of Multicul-
tural and Diversity Affairs. They can visit the 
institutes’ website to see the latest meeting 
minutes, PowerPoints and audio recordings.
Atkins said the project should take about 
a year, with both buildings scheduled to be 
ﬁ  nished next Fall.
Carl Simien, the director of Black Affairs, 
told the audience he believes the new IBC 
building will carry on the legacy of the pre-
vious historic building. The buildings were 90 years old when they were demolished in 
2017.
Current freshmen could not experience 
the old La Casita and only know of the Re-
itz Union space, said Sophia Betancourt, an 
18-year-old UF exploratory engineering fresh-
man. She said the current space is small.
“Spaces like this are important so people 
can have somewhere to call home,” she said.
Edward Zambrano, a 22-year-old UF politi-
cal science senior, took home a souvenir jar 
of dirt from the site. But for him, it was more 
than a token.
“This is a symbol of a new beginning,” 
Zambrano said.GROUNDBREAKING,  from pg. 1The project will inish next Fall.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOREditorial
Column
The perks of being a wallflower Senator
One of the more amusing parts of this 
election season was writing my col-
umns as if nothing was going on (since 
it would be more, or less, improper to 
use my column as a platform for self-
promotion). But now, elections are over, so I can 
talk about them.
The spectrum of politically-inclined folks, 
in my view, ranges from policy-loving to cam-
paign-loving folks. I’m not exactly a campaign-
loving boy, since I will admit that I am typically 
pretty reserved, introverted, whatever. But yes, 
you gotta talk to people, you gotta listen to people and you 
gotta desperately shepherd them toward voting sites if you 
wanna win.
This season, I ran for my third Senate term. I honestly 
wanted to talk about standing around. I have ﬁ  gured out at 
this point that I put around 50 hours or so of canvassing for 
every election I’ve ran in. Stand in the same place for an ex-
tended amount of time, and you will start to notice things.
When I ﬁ  rst ran for senator of Inﬁ  nity Hall, I stood out-
side the entrance. I ran as an independent during that race, 
and because I didn’t have any political party shirts, I ac-
tually wore a suit for those sweltering 50 hours outside. 
Worse, I was a bit less used to campaigning back then, and 
I guess you could say I was pretty damn shy, so I really just 
meandered around the handrail and opened the door for 
people since I was too scared to talk to them.
Inﬁ  nity Hall had a really weird Asian doorman that elec-
tion season. That’s not even that weird since it’s a really 
nice residence hall that looks like a hotel.
As the days went by, I noticed the same people walking 
the same dogs. It sounds really impressive to say this, but I 
started to recognize the cars that came by. (I mean, it was 
really just one car that had distinct light-up rims.)
I bet you all the cents in my bank account that I even 
recognized the same darn birds that came around the area. They perched in the same tree and whispered 
the same sweet nothings into my ear every after-
noon. I’m no bird expert, but I can distinguish 
between a hoot and a tweet.
The next year, I instead stood around in 
the Murphree Area during campaign season. I 
ditched the suit for a T-shirt afﬁ  liated with a po-
litical party, and there I was standing around in 
the courtyard making friends with birds. When 
my legs started to fail me, I would lean against 
the stone wall of the archway that I suppose you 
could consider my perch.
Oh, I guess I made friends with people too. Back at In-
ﬁ  nity, I eventually mustered up the courage to start hand-
ing out ﬂ  yers. People saw me as they left in the morning. 
People saw me as they came back at night and asked what 
I was doing. One way to avoid bothering somebody is to 
have them talk to you, I suppose.
So yes, I got to know people. I got to know their names, 
then their stories — the classes they had, the activities they 
participated in. In the case of the Murphree Area, some peo-
ple who lived there last year stayed in the area, and I got to 
see them again. Sometimes, I didn’t say anything and just 
observed as they rushed by or chatted with their friends. 
It’s not all-encompassing, but I ﬁ  gured who knows who and 
how, all by just standing there in the same place.
I like to think I really got a sense of my community by 
standing out there all those hours. It’s important to get to 
know your community because, as senators, it’s our jobs to 
advocate on the behalf of and ﬁ  ght for our communities. To 
all the new and old senators elected or re-elected this past 
season, I look forward to keeping an eye on everything you 
accomplish for your constituents.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government. The lecture hall is freezing. Your professor’s voice is just 
as frigid. Worse, it’s monotone and emotionless. As 
she drones on about calculus and the upcoming exam, 
your mind wanders into a daydream.
Crystalline mountain springs feed a rolling stream 
teeming with salmon. A wide-open pasture of blooming colors 
and lofty green pine trees lays before you like a great green 
sheet. A horse grazes in a distant ﬁ  eld beneath a vista of 
snow-capped peaks. It’s warm in the sunshine. You turn your 
face up to the sun, close your eyes and catch its rays on both 
cheeks like a cheery human sunﬂ  ower. Everything looks and 
smells as if it were washed with Tide Spring Meadow deter-
gent. This is your fantasy — you’ll do with it as you please. 
Your daydream has now completely hijacked your attention, 
so you jettison your last tether to reality and close your eyes.
But as you explore your outdoor make-believe, something 
pulls at your elbow. Your meadow is replaced with the slate 
gray of a table. “Someone wake him up,” you hear your pro-
fessor say in an icy tone. A cold puddle of drool clings to your 
left wrist. You can feel stares on the back of your head. Em-
barrassment washes over you. Your friend passes you a note. 
Scrawled in pencil, it reads:
Darts and Laurels
The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee exploded on Thurs-
day. Conﬁ  rmation hearings for Judge Brett Kavanaugh have 
devolved into partisan posturing and political tennis as Demo-
crats and Republicans bat attacks back and forth. Sen. Lindsey 
Graham all but yelled, “What you want to do is destroy this 
guy’s life, hold this seat open and hope you win in 2020.”
What Graham failed to remember was that it was Republi-
cans, not Democrats, who prevented the nomination of Judge 
Merrick Garland to the court despite him being a moderate 
choice for the position. They were the ones who stalled until 
President Donald Trump took the White House to nominate 
their choice, Judge Neil Gorsuch.
Let’s get it over with. A dart to Kavanaugh for his Trumpian 
loss of composure, calling his own conﬁ  rmation hearing a “na-
tional disgrace.” Twin darts to Sens. Ted Cruz and Graham for 
making this process so difﬁ  cult and partisan. We could have 
an independent investigation into the matter and be done with 
it. A sympathetic laurel to Christine Blasey Ford, who accused 
Kavanaugh of sexually assaulting her and gave four hours of 
testimony about the alleged assault and her life. We hope no 
more women will endure what Ford did Thursday.
In other news, Tesla C.E.O. Elon Musk is getting sued be-
cause of a tweet. It seems to be happening a lot these days. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission ﬁ  led the suit Thurs-
day, and it alleges that Musk lied to the public when he said he 
had the funds to take Tesla private at $420 per share.
The lawsuit is long and full of legal jargon about ﬁ  nance 
and investors. You don’t really need to know all that stuff. 
What you need to know is that, according to the lawsuit, Musk 
rounded that number up to 420 after his girlfriend, the singer-
songwriter Grimes, told him that it would be funny to canna-
bis smokers. This is why we don’t own Tesla stock. “420 blaze 
it” is not sound ﬁ  nancial advice. We are, however, looking 
forward to Elon’s weed-powered SUV coming out in 2020.
So many darts to Musk for trying to make a lame joke that 
fell ﬂ  at. Oh, and another dart for allegedly lying to the public 
about his stock prices. A laurel to his girlfriend for giving us 
all a good, hearty, ironic laugh.
The last round of pure laurels is reserved for Eric Johnson, 
47, who police say stole underwear from Walmart and tried 
to sneak bath salts into Alachua County Jail Wednesday. We 
can’t endorse that behavior, but we can deﬁ  nitely award lau-
rels for more crime-related comedy. Maybe Johnson and Musk 
should get together and collaborate on the nation’s next ﬂ  eet 
of drug-powered vehicles.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Last week, I met with UF President Kent 
Fuchs regarding the commencement 
ceremony changes, and one notion 
he communicated to me stood out. He 
ﬁ  rmly believed, despite almost 12,000 
signatures that said otherwise, that he was 
only adding value to UF students’ gradua-
tions, not taking anything away. One of the 
big reasons behind this was that now we 
could get a notable guest commencement 
speaker at our university-wide graduation 
who would excite all graduates. This speaker 
was even teased with a reference to Ellen De-
Generes, so needless to say, the bar was set 
pretty high. Yesterday, UF announced that 
this individual would be Stephen Stills.
I will start by conceding that Stills has 
a distinguished music career and his status 
as an inductee of the Rock & Roll Hall of 
Fame is remarkable. This, however, does 
not take away from the fact that after the 
news was announced, many of us found 
ourselves consulting Google and YouTube 
to ﬁ  nd out who he was. Reaction to the 
news on social media was underwhelming to say the least. I mean no dis-
respect to Stills and his remark-
able career, but if Fall graduates 
could not be given the gradua-
tion ceremony they wanted, in 
the venue they desired, then 
they should, at the very least, get 
a guest commencement speaker 
they know, recognize and are 
excited to hear from. I couldn’t 
get away from the fact that this 
commencement speaker seemed like some-
one even Accent Speakers Bureau wouldn’t 
book on campus. This is not because Stills 
is not famous or talented but because UF 
students grew up in a different time and 
era than his music. It’s no secret that when 
it comes to a guest commencement speak-
er, graduates want to hear from individu-
als we can relate to and have grown up 
admiring.
This booking was a big opportunity for 
UF to reassure upcoming Gator graduates 
that this new commencement ceremony structure wouldn’t be so bad. 
Sadly, we, as future graduates, 
continue to be disappointed. I 
personally ﬁ  nd it hard to contin-
ue to reassure Fall graduates that 
their graduation will be memora-
ble when UF has ignored student 
opinions, booked ceremonies in 
the Florida Gym and Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom, scheduled 
these ceremonies to conﬂ  ict, 
limited family attendance in smaller ven-
ues based on tickets and now has booked 
a guest commencement speaker whom 
parents know more about than graduates 
themselves. UF is doing themselves no fa-
vors with this new graduation system, and 
I can’t ﬁ  nd an explanation other than that 
which many are already thinking: UF sim-
ply doesn’t care.
They care so little that they didn’t even 
bother to spend any money on this guest 
commencement speaker. That’s right, the 
ﬁ  rst guest commencement speaker at a UF graduation in almost four decades will not 
be paid a penny for his speech. Meanwhile, 
Pitbull is being paid $130,000 plus travel 
expenses to speak for Hispanic Heritage 
Month next month. 
To so many of us, it’s extremely dis-
heartening that for years we have had to 
try our hardest to earn our diploma, and 
now UF administration can’t even seem to 
bother to try or put any effort into planning 
a noteworthy Fall graduation. To Fuchs, I 
would say the following: It’s difﬁ  cult to 
add value to our graduation when you 
book a guest commencement speaker you 
didn’t even bother to pay a cent for.
Anthony Rojas is a UF second-year politi-
cal science master’s student who organized 
an online petition to return UF’s gradua-
tion ceremony to its prior format after grad-
uates of color were rushed from the stage in 
May. The petition gained 8,200 signatures 
in its ﬁ  rst day.The Fall commencement that keeps disappointing: speaker and allColumn
Anthony Rojas
opinions@alligator.org
If you’ve been to a home foot-
ball game in the past year, 
you’ve experienced the elec-
tricity that ignites the stadium 
as “We are the Boys from Old 
Florida” fades into “I Won’t Back 
Down” by Tom Petty. Phone ﬂ  ash-
lights glow throughout the stadium 
as about 90,000 people belt the 
chorus at the top of their lungs. 
It’s our way to pay homage to the 
Gainesville great who we lost a 
year ago next week. I can’t speak for everyone 
else, but every time I hear that song it makes 
me proud to say I also live in Gainesville, if 
only for a few short years.
When I think about living in Gainesville, 
it’s sometimes easy to be pessimistic. Most 
of my daily thoughts include the heat, the 
rain, my insane course load and the fact that 
it usually seems like nothing fun ever hap-
pens in Gainesville. In the past year, I have 
deﬁ  nitely thought more than once that it’s 
pretty crazy a music legend like Petty could 
originate from a such a dull place. 
Before Petty died, I didn’t know much 
about him. I knew he grew up in Gainesville, 
and I could rattle off the titles of some of his 
biggest hits. Other than that, I didn’t have 
much knowledge of his musical career or 
his rise to fame — so this week I decided 
to change that. I started reading "Petty: The 
Biography" by Warren Zanes. Not only did I 
learn about the late musician’s rocky climb 
to the top of charts across the world, but 
I also learned a little bit about Gainesville 
too. For those of us who view Gainesville 
through the lens of a college student who 
just wants to get out of here, it’s natural to 
think that Petty existed in a bubble and that 
his contributions to the musical and cultural 
revolution of the ‘70s and ‘80s had nothing 
to do with where he grew up, but I would 
argue that isn’t true at all. 
Gainesville, along with most of Florida, became a hub for aspiring musi-
cians during that era. Petty and 
his peers were rule breakers. The 
musicians who inspired him — 
Elvis Presley, The Beatles, The 
Allman Brothers Band — repre-
sented a cultural shift in America. 
Young people were not content 
to sit back and let the norms of 
the post-World War II world dic-
tate their lives; they were pushing 
against it with every ﬁ  ber of their beings. 
Musicians in Gainesville, from legends like 
Petty to those whose sounds never made it 
past the city limits, played an integral part 
in that movement with every gig, and we 
would be remiss to discount that. 
It has been about 50 years since the 
height of that revolution, and it seems like 
we are right in the midst of a new cultural 
shift in America. Once again, young people 
are making waves in the fabric of society 
to stand up for how they want their coun-
try to operate. We hear it in our music, we 
see it on social media and we talk about it 
with each other every day. Students on this 
very campus are staging demonstrations to 
let their superiors know that they won’t go 
unnoticed. We might not be in Los Ange-
les, New York, Chicago or any other city 
we consider a cultural hub in America, but 
that does not mean our culture isn’t shifting 
right in front of us. 
Attend some local bands’ gigs, talk to 
your peers and ﬁ  nd your own way to ex-
press yourself and your thoughts. We may 
not fully appreciate it now, but we just 
might look back in a few decades and real-
ize that our experience in Gainesville was 
not all that different from Tom Petty’s. 
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.Cultural revolutions can happen 
everywhere, even in GainesvilleColumn
“Nostalgia bing-
ing” is some-
thing many of us 
have grown to 
love. For some, 
it’s comforting to watch Jerry, 
Elaine, George and Kramer do 
absolutely nothing on “Sein-
feld.” For others, watching 
Fran Fine and Mr. Shefﬁ  eld 
fall for each other makes them believe, 
at least for 30 minutes, that love is real. 
Personally, I’m guilty of watching every 
episode of  “Friends” at least ten times — 
and in case you’re wondering, I’m deﬁ  -
nitely a Monica.
We love to watch television with sim-
ple plots that remind us of a seemingly 
less complicated world. Even if we aren’t 
old enough to fully remember the ‘90s in 
all of its glory, most of us are nostalgic for 
the denim-ﬁ  lled, braless era. To an extent, 
we’re obsessed with it, and ‘90s sitcoms 
have become a quintessential component 
of this ever-growing infatuation.
Unfortunately, like most guilty plea-
sures, our fascination with ‘90s TV does 
not come without its ﬂ  aws. Although os-
tensibly harmless, exposing ourselves to 
some of the themes presented in these 
shows can quickly become problematic. A 
lot of our favorite old-school shows actu-
ally perpetuate ideas like sexism, misogy-
ny, homophobia and racism. 
In “Friends,” Ross has a conniption 
when Rachel hires a male nanny. Fran 
Fine is consistently patronized for wear-
ing short skirts on “The Nanny.” Kelly Ka-
powski’s life goal on “Saved by the Bell” 
was to be either a housewife or an actress. 
In “That ‘70s Show,” Jackie told Donna 
that being athletic would be a “turnoff” to 
her boyfriend, Eric, after she beat him in 
basketball. Oh, and let’s not forget, all 
of these shows almost exclu-
sively star people who are thin 
and white.
Can we really consider our-
selves progressive and accept-
ing of diversity if we continue 
to watch and support media 
that shames members of the 
LGBTQ+ community or propa-
gates gender roles? 
While I do believe it’s possible to in-
gest these shows with a clear conscious, 
I also think our viewings should include 
an addendum.  
The main issue I see with keeping 
these shows in circulation is that along 
with lovable characters and laughable 
storylines, antiquated ideas also remain 
in circulation. Because of this, we need to 
watch these shows armed with the knowl-
edge and understanding that we shouldn’t 
carry over the presented ideas or actions 
into the real world. We must remain cog-
nizant of the fact that humans are inevita-
bly inﬂ  uenced by media every day and as 
such, we must ﬁ  ght that inﬂ  uence. 
In other words, we can continue to 
love these shows, but we can’t pretend 
they aren’t problematic. We have to be 
sure to check in with ourselves and our 
own values and ensure our worldviews 
are not changing based on a show written 
30 years ago.
These scripts were written in a differ-
ent time for a different audience, living 
in a different society. We can’t view the 
characters as role models, or aspire to live 
a life parallel to theirs. It’s important to 
keep in mind that, despite our love for 
them, these shows have serious issues.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism and 
political science senior. Her column ap-Let’s stop pretending ‘90s 
sitcoms aren’t problematicColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Squeals of laughter filled the Duval Ear-
ly Learning Academy cafeteria as students 
chased each other around, their oversized 
backpacks flapping like wings behind them. 
Instead of teachers rounding up the stu-
dents, their dads or father figures chased 
after them, taking care not to spill any straw-
berry milk on the floor. 
In addition to the students’ father figures, 
UF athletes, members of the Kappa Alpha 
Psi Fraternity, Inc., police officers and emer-gency first responders attended the annual 
“Dads Bring Your Child to School Day” for 
students who did not have a father in atten-
dance.
Since the academy started participating in 
this county-wide event two years ago, Princi-
pal Catherine Barnes has seen an increase in 
parental involvement in the classroom and 
on field trips, she said.
“We’ve seen more men involved,” she 
said. “I have more men bringing kids to 
school now than women.”
All of the school’s students receive free or 
partially reduced lunch, Barnes said. “We are in a low socioeconomic area,” 
she said. “We are in an area where a lot of 
our students have seen or experienced a lot 
of trauma.”
Barnes invites officers and first respond-
ers to help build trust between her students 
and law enforcement, she said.
“Relationships with the police and first 
responders are not adversarial,” Barnes said. 
“It’s great for them to see them as people 
they can talk to or touch.”
Grant Holloway, a UF track and field 
athlete, helped students perfect their Gator 
Chomps, demonstrating that the correct form is right over left.
The 20-year-old UF sport management ju-
nior said he learned how to make sunflower 
cereal soup, one student’s made-up culinary 
concoction, and do magic tricks from the 
children he talked to at Wednesday’s event. 
He said he plans to continue volunteering at 
the school. 
“Thirty minutes for them may seem like 
an hour or it may seem like a whole day,” 
he said. “Just coming out here and sitting 
here with them—they may think about it the 
whole day.”Dads, athletes, police become father figures for kids        
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Students were welcomed by a line of first responders from Gainesville when 
they arrived at Duval Early Learning Academy Wednesday morning. The school 
hosted “Dads Bring Your Child T o School Day. ”Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Journey Lee, 5, and grandfather Cedric Lee enjoy breakfast together before school during 
“Dads Bring Your Child T o School Day” at Duval Early Learning Academy Wednesday morning.
By Vanessa Blankenship
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students’ Instagram feeds 
might soon be flooded with Gaines-
ville’s newest açai bowls. 
The Good Berry Açai Bowls, lo-
cated at 16 NW 18th St. in Midtown, 
held its grand opening Tuesday, 
said Joan Pouparina, 21, who co-
owns the shop with his 23-year-old 
girlfriend, Ariel Sonnino. The pair 
serves up traditional açai bowls 
with an emphasis on presentation. 
“Our big thing is decorations, 
the aesthetic of the bowl,” Poupa-
rina said. “Not only is it very good 
for you, organic and taste delicious, 
but we try to be very presentable as 
well.” 
Each bowl comes with granola, toppings and a choice of drizzle. A 
small bowl costs $6 and comes with 
three toppings, a medium costs $8 
with four toppings and a large costs 
$13 with five. Toppings include 
fruit, almonds, chia seeds, hemp 
seeds and coconut flakes. Custom-
ers can also drizzle honey, Nutella, 
condensed milk, dulce de leche or 
agave on top, Pouparina said.
The store’s prices are similar to 
other açai restaurants in Gainesville 
like Big Island Bowls, where bowls 
range from $8 to $10. 
The co-owners graduated from 
Florida State University and met 
while studying abroad in Valencia, 
Spain. On their first date, they went 
to a health café in Valencia known 
for its açai bowls. 
They decided to replicate the açai bar in the U.S. together.
The owners plan to expand the 
menu within the next two weeks. 
New additions could include cre-
ate-your-own salads, fruit smooth-
ies, avocado toast and Nutella 
toast, Pouparina said.   
Sophia Codispot, a 20-year-old 
UF chemical engineering junior, 
visited the new restaurant Thurs-
day. She ordered a small bowl with 
strawberry, banana and blueberry 
with a honey drizzle. 
She said that while other açai 
bowls can have a gritty consis-
tency, she found The Good Berry’s 
açai bowls just right. 
“Sometimes it’s like the texture 
is kind of weird, but this is actu-
ally pretty good, I’d say,” Codispot 
said. 
@vanessablankie
vblankenship@alligator.orgThe Good Berry Açai Bowls opens store in Midtown
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Good Berry Açai Bowls, at 16 NW 18th St. in Midtown, 
held its grand opening Tuesday.
Bowls range from $6 to $13 .FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
  Advertise in the 2018 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY!  
352-376-4482GAME  DEADLINE  RUNDATE
Charleston Southern  Aug 29  Aug 31
Kentucky  Sep 05  Sep 07
Colorado State  Sep 12  Sep 14
LSU Oct 03 Oct 05
Georgia (Jax)  Oct 24 Oct 26
Missouri (Homecoming)  Oct 26  Nov 02
South Carolina  Nov 07  Nov 09
Idaho  Nov 14  Nov 16
SEC Championship  Nov 28  Nov 30Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
Edition 2018
DEADLINE
OCT. 26RUN DATE
NOV. 2More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long 
festival. Tell them where to eat and 
how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming souvenir Edition which is 
passed out along the parade route.
Call 352-376-4482  
advertising@alligator.orgHOMECOMING
Contact the Alligator 
Advertising Department today.Kick Off a Season of Great Business
ELECTION RESULTS
Beaty T owers 
Impact Party
1 seat
135 votes
Broward - Rawlings Area 
Impact Party
1 seat
379 votes
District A 
(32601, 32609, 32614) 
Impact Party
10 seats
2,040.6 votes
District B 
(32603, 32605, 
32606, 32653)  
Impact Party
6 seats
931.5 votes
District C (32607) 
Impact Party
7 seats
267.8 votesDistrict D 
(32608)  
Inspire Party
13 seats
410.8 votes
District E 
Impact Party
1 seat
69 votes
Family Housing 
Impact Party
1 seat
6 votes
Graham Area 
Impact Party
1 seat
104 votes
Hume Area 
Impact Party
1 seat
101 votesInﬁ  nity Hall
Impact Party
1 seat
102 votes
Jennings Area 
Impact Party
1 seat
179 votes
Keys Residential 
Complex 
Inspire Party
1 seat
24 votes
Lakeside Residential Complex 
Impact Party
1 seat
63 votes
Murphree Area 
Inspire Party
1 seat
203 votesSprings Residential 
Complex 
Impact Party
1 seat
170 votes
T olbert Area 
Impact Party
1 seat
97 votes
Yulee Area 
Impact Party
1 seat
143 votes
Note: Districts with multiple 
seats were added and divided 
for the average.By Gillian Sweeney
and Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writers 
Tears ﬁ  lled Zarella Berrocal’s eyes 
Wednesday night, even though she won her 
District D Senate seat.
She said no one has worked as hard since 
the Inspire Party’s inception as Joel Kratt has. 
But, he lost his seat as the Tolbert Area sena-
tor by only 23 votes.
He said he will only run again in Spring if 
someone can convince him to. Berrocal prom-
ised him she would be the one to do that.
“I’ve learned a lot over the past year,” 
Kratt said. “I’ve grown as an individual, as 
a leader. I’ve learned strength through strug-
gle.”
UF students elected Impact Party as the 
majority in the Student Senate during Tues-
day’s and Wednesday’s Student Govern-
ment elections. Of the 50 seats up for grabs, 
based off of students’ residential areas and 
zip codes, Impact claimed 35, while Inspire 
locked in 15. Inspire only won seats in three 
areas: District D, Keys Residential Complex 
and Murphree Area.
Inspire lost ﬁ  ve seats in the Senate this 
election. 
Impact won 30 seats, and Inspire won 20 
in last Fall’s election. With the increase in Im-
pact seats this semester, the party will now 
have a stronger majority in the Senate.
This Fall, 8,388 students voted in the elec-
tion, Supervisor of Elections Henry Fair an-
nounced. This is 211 fewer students than last 
year.
Fifty candidates ran with Impact, and 43 
candidates ran with Inspire, according to a list 
of candidates provided by Fair.
Impact President Anmol Shah grinned as 
Fair announced the election results from the 
Reitz Union staircase, peering down onto the 
party members on the ground ﬂ  oor. She de-
cided not to run in this election so she could 
lead Impact, Shah said.  
She said she knew the candidates on the 
Impact ticket put in enough work to win, but 
she went into the night knowing anything 
could happen.
“I didn’t expect anything,” Shah said. “This time last year, I won my District C seat 
by one vote.”
Molishka Heriveaux jumped to hug her 
friend Tyler Kendrick when she found out the 
Impact senator won the ﬁ  rst seat of the night 
in Beaty Towers.
Heriveaux claimed the Graham Area seat 
for Impact. She ran unopposed in the election.
“I’m very energized and lucky to be here,” 
Heriveaux said. “Everyone worked their butts 
off.”
Krishnah Sivakumaran’s smile dropped 
when he heard Inspire swept District D, 
which he ran for on Impact’s ticket.Sivakumaran said he felt both excited 
and nervous going into the evening. He cam-
paigned for hours over the last few days.
“I have a passion for SG and tried to run a 
few times before,” Sivakumaran said. “I just 
wanted to represent the students.”   
Inspire President Ashley Grabowski said 
the losses will not prevent senators from mo-
tivating Impact to listen to underrepresented 
voices in the Student Body.
“We speak for every Gator,” Grabowski 
said.
Kratt said he will still work to get Nov. 6 
classes at UF to be optional or canceled so stu-dents can have time to vote on Election Day, 
which was one of Inspire’s platform points.
Although he lost as the Broward - Rawl-
ings Area Senator to Impact, Branden Reis 
said the outcome does not change the friend-
ships he has made.
“Our symbol is a light bulb, but it doesn’t 
burn out,” Reis said. “Everyone has a bad 
day, but it’s how we pick ourselves up.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgImpact retains Senate majority, Inspire seats turnover
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
TOM PETTY
By Lindsey Breneman
Alligator Staff Writer 
Nearly a year after Gainesville 
lost a music icon, he will live on 
among patrons at Swamp Head 
Brewery. 
The brewery is releasing a new 
beer Oct. 16 called “Among the 
Wildﬂ  owers,” after Gainesville na-
tive Tom Petty’s 1994 hit “Wild-
ﬂ  owers.” The beer is an American 
Kölsch, which is light and crisp, 
said Brandon Nappy, the 37-year-
old marketing director of Swamp 
Head.
The company chose the hit be-
cause everyone enjoys the beauty 
of wildﬂ  owers, just like Petty’s 
music, Nappy said. 
“It was a beer that really brings 
people of all walks of life together, 
like his music or a ﬁ  eld of wild-
ﬂ  owers,” Nappy said.
Part of the reason the brew-
ery wanted to create the beer was 
because of the exclusive Friday 
pre-release of “An American Trea-
sure.” It is a four-disk album, each 
dedicated to a decade of Petty’s ca-
reer, comprised of 60 tracks, many 
of which were never released.
Thirty locations across the U.S., 
including Swamp Head, played the album simultaneously. The brew-
ery is only one of the two Florida 
locations that participated in the 
pre-release.
Donna Quinn, a member of 
Tom Petty Nation, a worldwide 
Petty fan club, kept the record 
from Reprise Records under lock 
and key until the songs went live 
at 6 p.m. Tuesday. Quinn deliv-
ered the songs and hosted the 
event. 
“It was wonderful,” Quinn said 
after the event. “There was a lot 
of emotion and love and the whole 
crowd, people of all ages, enjoyed 
it. It was amazing.”
The new album was auctioned 
off at the end of the party, Quinn 
said.
As a lifelong Petty fan, Nappy is 
excited and honored to be chosen 
as one of the few locations to par-
ticipate in the pre-release event. 
He thinks that it was chosen be-
cause Swamp Head is emblematic 
of Gainesville, like Petty.
“Tom Petty is a legend interna-
tionally, but in Gainesville he’s on 
a whole other level,” Nappy said.
@thatlbren
lbreneman@alligator.orgSwamp Head Brewery to release Tom Petty beer
The beer will launch Oct. 16.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Swamp Head Brewery is releasing a new American 
Kölsch beer next month called “Among the 
Wildﬂ  owers, ” after late Gainesville native T om Petty’s 
1994 hit song “Wildﬂ  owers. ” The can’s design includes 
a guitar and wildﬂ  owers.
PETTY’S ESTATE RELEASES SONG 
YEAR AFTER HIS DEATH.
By Emma Witmer
Alligator Staff Writer 
Tom Petty’s voice will continue to ﬂ  ood 
the airwaves nearly a year after his death.  
Reprise Records and Petty’s family trust 
released a previously unheard track about 
the artist’s hometown Sept. 20. The song 
“Gainesville” was recorded in 1998 and was 
supposed to be included in the album “Echo,” 
which was Tom Petty and The Heartbreakers’ 
10th studio album, according to iTunes. 
Now, 20 years later, it has made it to the 
ears of audiences everywhere. 
In the track “Gainesville,” Petty sings 
about ﬁ  nding adventure in the small towns 
and nearby beaches in the area with lyrics 
like “Sandy loading up the van,” and “We got 
down to Clearwater. You’re OK anywhere you 
fall.”
The release of “Gainesville” comes as a 
preview of a 60-song release of “An American 
Treasure,” which includes both new and pre-
viously released tracks, according to Rolling 
Stone.
As soon as he found out about the song, 
Nicholas Etrick, a 22-year-old UF materials 
science and engineering senior, said he imme-
diately listened to it because he loves Petty’s 
music. 
“It kind of gives you a scope back into his 
years before he became famous, going back to 
his roots in Gainesville,” Etrick said.
Petty captures the melding of the college 
community and Gainesville locals, Etrick said.  
“There’s still a carefree atmosphere of di-
versity and freedom and just a really homey 
and calm vibe to the town,” he said. 
In addition to this audio release, the mu-
sic video for “Gainesville” is projected to re-
lease this weekend. The video shows archival 
footage taken by Petty decades ago as well as 
new shots of Petty’s favorite spots, said Ja-
son Hedges, the lead singer of Heavy Petty, 
a tribute band. Hedges worked on the video 
project.
“The idea is to have this timeless feel,” 
Hedges said. “It was kind of like we were ﬁ  n-
ishing a project that he was working on, but 
who knows.”
@EmWitmer
ewitmer@alligator.org A love song 
to Gainesville, 
from Tom Petty
By Katie Boykin 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Tom Petty said whatever he 
wanted in the driveway of his 
Malibu home.
Warren Zanes, the author 
of “Petty: The Biography,” re-
called what it was like to inter-
view the late rock star while 
he spoke in Gannett Audito-
rium Thursday night. Zanes 
said Petty was most honest 
when he spoke off-the-record. The book was proposed on 
that driveway.
“S--- went down in the 
driveway,” Zanes said. 
The audience of about 140 
Tom Petty fans and students 
cracked up when Zanes dis-
cussed how he authored his 
book. 
Clay Calvert, a journalism 
professor in the UF College of 
Journalism and Communica-
tions, interviewed Zanes for 
40 minutes, and the audience asked the author questions. 
The college paid Zanes $3,000 
to speak, Calvert said.
In his book, Zanes wanted 
people to know Petty was hu-
man, not an untouchable rock 
star, he said. 
Petty asked for some time 
to think after he read the 
manuscript of the book, which 
intimately detailed his drug 
abuse, Zanes said.
“He was worried that if one 
young person glamorized drug use because of him, he felt like 
he couldn’t do it,” he said. 
Nathan Larubbio, a 
19-year-old UF sports man-
agement sophomore, said he 
came to the event because he 
was a fan of Petty’s music.
“It was cool to hear how it 
wasn’t just outside research, 
he was actually a friend of 
his,” Larubbio said. “He had 
a kind of ﬁ  rst-hand, behind-
the-scenes, ﬁ  rst-take of Tom 
Petty’s life.” ‘S--- went down in the driveway’: Tom Petty 
biographer talks about new book, Petty
Warren Zanes, the author, was paid $3,000.1950 2017 BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
BEST BUY ON THE COAST
Yacht Club Homesite with boat slip.
Gated, Luxury, Community.
ONLY $49,880. Way under value!!!
WWW.WATERFRONTLIFEFL.NET
1.855.459.1128
Florida Waterway Sales, LLC. Licensed Real 
Estate Broker        9-28-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Live &Online Public Auction
Tues, Oct 2nd, 2018 at 9:00 A.M.
Transform Décor & Technical Event Solutions
1231 NE 8th Ave, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33304
Wide variety of party equipment for all types 
of events. Large inventory of new and used 
top quality merchandise and equipment: 
Accents, Professional Lighting, Lounge 
Seating, Outdoor Seating, Bars, Bar Stools, 
Coffee Tables, Linens, Slipcovers, Catering 
Equipment, Staging Equipment, Mirrors, 
Textile, Disco Balls, Audio/Visual Equipment, 
Pipe &amp; Drapery, Office Equipment, 2014 
Freightliner 2500 High Roof Sprinter, 2015 
Isuzu NPR HD Diesel Box Truck w/lift gate, 
Mitsubishi 3 Stage 3,500 lb cap. LPG Forklift
and much more.
Catalog and photos available at 
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: 10/01 from 10AM-3PM and day of 
sale 8AM-9AM, 15%-18% BP.
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS | AB-1098 AU-3219,
Eric Rubin                       9-28-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N      9-28-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
WE BUY UNWANTED CARS & TRUCKS
 WITH TITLE
352 792-2435 or tai2chi2@yahoo.com
10-1-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $990/mo.   352-359-1508    
10-8-18-12-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-52-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
10-5-18-6-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      9-28-1-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Holographic Kinetics: Advanced Healing Modality
Identify and clear mental, emotional and 
behavioral health issues. Many areas can 
be helped (Anxiety, fear, depression, PTSD, 
suicidal thoughts, addictions, and more)
www.healingwithspirit.net      MA90891
10-5-18-7-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.      9-28-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Dishonor
6 Stored in a cask, 
say
11 Stick in the water
14 __ panel
15 Violet in a bed
16 Itsy-bitsy
17 Bronzed My Little 
Pony figurines?
20 Sport with electric 
weapons
21 Auto pioneer
22 Nota __
23 Golden Age TV 
star
25 Test subject with 
whiskers
27 Hawkers of thin 
cookies?
31 Give an address
32 Wobbly table 
stabilizer
33 Home run path
36 Seasoned 
seafarer
39 Renaissance 
immortal known 
as the “Father 
of the Scientific 
Method”
41 It might go for a 
buck
42 “__ arigato”: 
Japanese 
“thanks a lot”
44 Without a break
45 Balls for cats?
48 Celebrity socialite
51 Openly display
52 Noble gas
53 In the thick of
54 Took off
58 GNC offering, 
and a chemical 
hint to three long 
puzzle answers
62 Letters on a 
returned check
63 What drama 
queens do
64 Hall partner
65 Composer’s 
choice
66 2018 awards 
event hosted by 
Danica Patrick
67 Sneak preview, 
say
DOWN
1 Tennis great 
with three Grand 
Slam titles
2 Jazz Age toon3 Wound 
application
4 They’re low-risk
5 “... __ the set of 
sun”: “Macbeth”
6 Landmark 
Manhattan 
theater
7 Marvin __
8 Holiday and Days
9 Surveillance org.
10 Floor hockey 
venue
11 Titlist?
12 Blue Cross rival
13 Trip odometer 
control
18 Colgate feature
19 Wanes
24 It may be loaded 
with books
25 Luke’s sister
26 Laundry unit
27 Misnomer for 
a modern golf 
driver
28 Name on 
the “Alice’s 
Restaurant” 
album
29 Gradually get 
tired
30 Paris Agreement 
subj.33 Baldwin brother
34 Artist Magritte
35 Some UPS 
deliveries
37 Put one’s feet up
38 “More than I 
wanted to know”
40 Cochlear 
transplant site
43 Bad way to run
45 Sawyer’s pal
46 Kicks out
47 Surfer’s greeting48 Confident way to 
solve crosswords
49 Compact
50 Mickey’s pal
53 For one
55 Aware of
56 Apple stalk
57 ExxonMobil 
trading name
59 Date
60 Brief interjections
61 Challenge for a 
stylist
By Mark MacLachlan
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/28/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/28/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 28, 2018
ACROSS
1 *Top selection
9 Bring pleasure 
(to)
15 Horror film line 
that usually gets 
its speaker in 
trouble
16 With  
conviction
17 Final Yahtzee 
roll, e.g.
18 Defies
19 Omaha-to-
Milwaukee dir.
20 Epidermal flaw
21 Its practice 
doesn’t make it 
perfect
22 *Preliminary 
sketch
28 Cowboy 
leggings
30 Quite small
31 __ culpa
32 Indian 
noblewoman
33 Utopia
35 Degrees of 
creativity,  
briefly
36 *Overly 
defensive 
stance
39 Track 
calculation
40 Very long time
41 Support for a 
stroller
42 Seminarian’s 
subj.
43 __ bran
44 Stun gun brand
45 *Newbie
49 Kareem, once
50 Interoffice PC 
connection
51 Vehicle that 
really moves?
54 Canal zone
57 “Lives of 
the Mayfair 
Witches” trilogy 
author
60 Video game 
figure
61 Agonize about
62 Deal with a 
bounced email
63 *Stud poker 
element
DOWN
1 Roofing unit
2 Vigorous spirit
3 “Got anything 
__?”4 Mil. three-striper
5 High on the 
Scoville scale
6 Rodeos, e.g.
7 Equip anew
8 Back nine 
opener
9 Wealthy
10 “Ecce homo” 
speaker
11 Hunt stealthily
12 Source of lean 
red meat
13 PC key
14 Fleur in  
heraldry
22 Assigns relative 
value to
23 Mayberry kid
24 2018 Pro 
Football Hall of 
Fame inductee 
Terrell
25 “It’s just a 
scratch”
26 Not as messy
27 “Nothing to it!”
28 Less refined
29 Deal with
33 Put on quite an 
act
34 Cubs’ digs
35 Heck of a party
36 Swedish tennis 
great37 Astern
38 Amazon  
berry
43 Kind of band
44 Mine feature
46 Please  
mightily
47 Be at 
loggerheads
48 Cost
51 Brawny rival
52 Big name in  
PCs
53 Bookish sort54 What a sequence 
of single strokes 
from the start 
of each starred 
answer to the 
next often adds 
up to
55 Thoroughfare: 
Abbr.
56 “Life Is Good” 
rapper
58 Farm girl
59 Dungeons & 
Dragons bird
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/27/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, September 27, 2018
1.  Condense 
1.  Disconnect 5.  “____ Men and a Baby”
2.  ____ bag6.  Prank
3.  Haven, refuge 7.  Almost
4.  StoutGISTDE
CHTDAERHEET
CNAIT
RAGGEAB
HRESTELENALYR
CKTYSOANSWERS: 1A-Digest  5A-Three  6A-Antic  7A-Nearly
1D-Detach  2D-Garbage  3D-Shelter  4D-Stocky  B-Bangladesh9-28-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to the world’s longest 
unbroken sea beach in the world. 
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
UF swimming and diving teams impress at FAU
The Gators' men's and women's teams placed first in 29 of 32 events Thurs-
day night in Boca Raton. Read our story online at alligator.org/sportsFormer UF wide receiver 
Percy Harvin (pictured) and 
defensive lineman Alex Brown 
will be inducted to the Florida-
Georgia Hall of Fame on Oct. 
26.FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Bulldogs fans have been foam-
ing at the mouth awaiting Dan 
Mullen’s return. 
Tomorrow they’ll don their ma-
roon and white attire with their 
shiny cowbells to match as they 
greet their former Mississippi State 
head coach with the hostile noise 
of their bells and whistles.
Florida has spent all week mim-
icking the notorious banging of 
those cowbells in preparation for 
what’s expected to be an emotion-
al trip to Starkville to face No. 23 
Mississippi State.
But despite the immense threat 
that the atmosphere of Davis Wade 
Stadium will pose, the Gators have 
deflected much of their attention to 
the team that will take the field op-
posite them.
“It’s gonna be kinda tough go-
ing into another crazy environ-
ment,” said UF offensive lineman 
Jawaan Taylor, “but we just have 
to keep our head in the game and 
do what we have to do.” 
Taylor and the Gators’ offensive 
line will face a challenge unlike 
any other they’ve seen this season 
in the Bulldogs’ defensive front.
The experienced and physical 
tandem of defensive end Montez 
Sweat and defensive tackle Jef-
fery Simmons is arguably one of 
the best in college football with a 
combined 14.5 tackles for loss on 
the season. 
They are one of only two pairs 
of defensive linemen in the nation 
to each record at least 7.0 TFLs 
through the first four games, and they anchor a Bulldogs defense 
that leads the SEC and ranks sec-
ond nationally in tackles for loss 
(43).
“Boy, they’re tough,” Mullen 
said about the Bulldogs’ D-Line. 
“I mean most people I think say, 
they’re probably the best defensive 
line in America, and I know the 
depth that they have at that posi-
tion too. You know not just the one group that comes on the field 
that’s extremely talented. They’re 
really three deep on the front with 
depth and can roll fresh bodies at 
you, and there’s not a huge drop 
off as the guys come in.”
Florida has a few impressive 
defensive stats of its own head-
ing into this weekend’s matchup, 
too. The Gators rank 10th nation-
ally and second in the SEC (behind Mississippi State) in pass defense. 
They lead the nation with 14 take-
aways, and defensive end Jachai 
Polite is tied with Oregon’s Justin 
Hollins for the national lead in 
forced fumbles (three).
And the return of linebacker 
David Reese and defensive end 
CeCe Jefferson proved vital last 
week when the team trounced 
Tennessee 47-21.Dan Mullen returns to Starkville for 
Florida’s second straight road game
Picks Column: 
Week 5
Staff Report
The Dan Mullen hot takes are among 
us. The alligatorSports staff travels to 
Starkvegas this weekend to see for our-
selves the alleged anti-Mullen outrage. 
And among all of that clanga clanga, we’ll 
all bare witness to some of the maroon-
faced hatred. 
That’s not to say there aren’t other 
storylines worth paying attention to. 
“Silence” is a theme among two schools 
notorious for demanding it. Florida State 
fans are back on the Taggart bus and 
are out in full force #talkinboutthenoles. 
And Tennessee walks the green mile in 
its next three games against Georgia, Au-
burn and Alabama. 
This week, we’re actually going 
to look at a good game. Well, a higher 
quality game, anyway. This matchup is 
like the Brett Kavanaugh hearing if both 
teams were Kavanaugh. Assistant editor 
Jake Dreilinger and online editor Mark 
Stine debate this sleazy monstrosity. 
Ohio State will win because…
I don’t think that Ohio State will ex-
actly “silence the white noise” (boy, did 
my stomach turn writing that), but I don’t 
think Penn State will be able to finish this 
game within three points or less. 
Even though this game is being played 
in Happy Valley, the Buckeyes have the 
more versatile and more efficient offense. 
Dwayne Haskins is an incredibly efficient 
passer, completing 75.7 percent of his 
passes and firing 16 touchdowns to only 
one interception. Then Tate Martell will 
enter the ballgame on occasion and make 
the Nittany Lion defense worry about his 
speed and ability to extend plays with his 
legs (he averages 6.72 yard per carry). 
PSU quarterback Trace McSorley, 
on the other hand, only completes at a 
rate of 53.8 percent and has eight pass-
ing touchdowns and a pair of picks to his 
name. 
On the ground Ohio State reps two 
quarterbacks that are willing runners and 
backs in J.K. Dobbins and Mike Weber PICKS
SITE: Davis Wade Stadium (cap. 
61,337)
KICKOFF: 6 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
Justin Ahlum / Alligator Staff
Florida right tackle Jawaan T aylor (65) said the team is going to try to block out the infamous 
cowbells at Davis Wade Stadium in Starkville. "We just have to keep our head in the game, " he said.
Feleipe Franks makes mistakes.
He can stare down receivers. 
He can leave the pocket too early 
or make the wrong read or pull 
the trigger too late. But what we 
learned from the Tennessee game 
(very little) is that Feleipe is grow-
ing. 
There’s one play in the UF-UT 
matchup that perfectly sums up 
my feelings: the first — and only 
— snap of Florida’s second drive of the second quar-
ter. 
Franks takes a 
shotgun snap with 
three receivers to his 
left. Wideout Freddie 
Swain, who’s lined 
up closest to the line, 
tries to run an in-
termediate crossing 
route. He’s bumped at the line-
of-scrimmage by linebacker Will Ignont but continues 
his path to the first-
down marker and 
across the field to the 
near sideline. 
Franks looks to 
Kadarius Toney and 
Trevon Grimes first, 
who are each run-
ning streaks down 
the field. When he sees they’re 
both covered, he turns his at-tention to Swain, who has been 
picked up by a safety running 
between the hashes. Franks has 
spent four comfortable seconds in 
the pocket at this point, but he’s 
starting to feel the heat from the 
outside rush. He scrambles to his 
right and looks to his checkdown, 
running back Jordan Scarlett, but 
he’s covered by another lineback-
er. ‘A QB away’ might be happening this season, folksMorgan Meets the Eye / Opinion
Morgan McMullen
@MorganMcMuffinSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The Gators have scored 10 goals in 
their past two games after going on a 
six-game scoreless streak earlier in the 
year. Florida is riding the momentum 
for the moment, but a certain team from 
Starkville, Mississippi, may just be the 
test UF needs to entirely conﬁ  rm that 
reports of the Gators’ demise have been 
greatly exaggerated.
Mississippi State has only lost twice 
this year. Both of those losses came in 
conference play, so the Bulldogs will 
hope to get back on track before it’s too 
late. Here’s what to expect from MSU — 
a team attempting to reclaim its legiti-
macy after a strong start to the season — 
and UF, a team that’s just now ﬁ  nding its 
identity heading to Starkville:
A burgeoning offense
Last week was a good one for the 
Gators (4-6-1, 2-1 SEC).
UF convincingly defeated Kentucky 
on the road 6-0 and LSU at home 4-1, 
gaining a spark it desperately needed. 
Lauren Evans and the rest of the team 
raised awareness for pediatric cancer af-
ter its game against the Tigers, and mid-
ﬁ  elder Lais Araujo was recognized for 
her stellar performance over the past two 
games as the SEC Offensive Player of the 
Week.This Friday, however, the Gators will 
face their toughest SEC competition yet. 
Mississippi State received 29 votes in the 
latest top-25 tally. Neither Florida nor its 
last two opponents received any. With 
UF looking to continue its hot streak and 
the Bulldogs attempting to overcome 
their bad start in SEC play, MSU could be 
Florida’s biggest roadblock to its recent 
success.
 
Starkvegas has the hot hand
Araujo may be on a hot streak heading 
into Friday’s game, but the Bulldogs have 
an offensive juggernaut of their own.
MSU forward Zakirah McGillivary 
brought home her second SEC Fresh-
man of the Week honors after a clutch 
goal from 25 yards out completed the 
Bulldogs’ upset over then-No. 13 South 
Carolina. McGillivary has netted six goals 
over the course of the season for Missis-
sippi State, one more than Araujo. Four 
of those goals were game-winning shots. 
Araujo has her work cut out for her. 
The Bulldogs’ defense has been stingy, 
only giving up nine goals in 10 games 
with six shutouts in that span. The Gators 
will need to rely on the dynamic play 
from Araujo and the rest of the offense 
to break through MSU’s line of defense.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org
  Gators face tough competition on the road against Bulldogs
Alligator File Photo
Midﬁ  elder Lais Araujo leads the Gators in goals (5) and points (13). She’s also tied for second 
on the team in assists (3). 
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and wom-
en’s tennis teams have no time 
to rest on their laurels following 
successful opening weekends. 
Both Gators teams will be com-
peting in their respective ITA 
All-American Championships 
beginning this weekend. 
The men’s team is traveling 
to Tulsa, Oklahoma, while the 
women’s team heads out west 
to Paciﬁ  c Palisades, California.
Junior Jo-
hannes Ingild-
sen, sopho-
more Oliver 
Crawford and 
freshman Sam 
Rifﬁ  ce were 
all slated to 
appear in the 
main single’s draw as of last 
week, according to a team of-
ﬁ  cial. 
Sophomore Duarte Vale is on 
the alternate list in the No. 10 
slot for the main draw. If Vale 
does not move up, he will com-
pete in the qualifying rounds 
with sophomore Andy Andrade. 
Senior McClain Kessler, 
sophomore Brian Berdusco, 
freshmen Lukas Greif and Har-rison Cacciatore all appear on 
the pre-qualifying singles list. 
Kessler is also 10th on the alter-
nate list for qualifying singles. 
Freshman Greysen Cacciatore is 
listed as an alternate on the pre-
qualifying list and is nine spots 
away from competing.
As for doubles, the duo of In-
gildsen and Berdusco is in the 
No. 4 spot on the main draw al-
ternate list. If they do not move 
up, they will compete with the 
teams of Kessler and Rifﬁ  ce, 
Vale and Greif, and Crawford 
and Andrade in the qualifying 
doubles round. 
Notably, these duos are all 
different from last week at the 
UVA Masters Invite, where UF 
claimed all three doubles titles. 
Coach Bryan Shelton is current-
ly experimenting with his lineup 
to see which combinations work 
best.
Lineup information for the 
women’s team is not currently 
available, but coach Roland 
Thornqvist’s squad will look to 
build on an opening weekend 
that saw sophomore McCart-
ney Kessler claim a share of the 
singles title at the Miami Fall 
Invite.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org Florida travels to ITA All-
American Championships
  Morgan  Jake  Mark S  Alanis
UF @ MSST (-7.5)  UF  MSST  MSST  MSST
UVA @ NCST (-5.5)  NCST  NCST  UVA  NCST
USC @ AZ (+3)  USC  USC  USC  AZ
STAN @ ND (-5.5)  ND  STAN  STAN  ND
VT @ DUKE (-5)  DUKE  VT  DUKE  DUKE
BYU @ WA (-17.5)  BYU  BYU  BYU  WA
SCAR @ UK (-1.5)  SCAR  UK  UK  UK
OSU @ PSU (+3.5)  OSU  PSU  OSU  OSU
  Mark L  Edgar  Graham  Nick
UF @ UF (-7.5)  MSST  UF  UF  MSST
UVA @ NCST (-5.5)  NCST  NCST  NCST  UVA
USC @ AZ (+3)  AZ  USC  AZ  USC
STAN @ ND (-5.5)  STAN  STAN  STAN  STAN
VT @ DUKE (-5)  VT  DUKE  VT  DUKE
BYU @ WA (-17.5)  WA  BYU  WA  BYU
SCAR @ UK (-1.5)  UK  UK  UK  UK
OSU @ PSU (+3.5)  OSU  OSU  OSU  PSU“EXPERT” PICKSFRIDAY
Women’s Swimming and Diving @ Miami
3 p.m.
Soccer @ Mississippi State
8 p.m. / SEC Network+
SUNDAY
Men’s/Women’s T ennis @ ITA All-American
All Day
Men’s Golf @ Nike Collegiate Invitational
All Day
Volleyball @ Alabama
2 p.m. / SEC Network+
TUESDAY
Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-American 
Championships
All Day
Women’s Golf @ Windy City Classic
All Day
Men’s Golf @ Nike Collegiate Invitational
All Day
Women’s T ennis @ ITA All-American 
Championships
All DaySATURDAY
Women’s Swimming and Diving @ FGCU
11 a.m.
Men’s/Women’s T ennis @ ITA All-American
All Day
Football @ Mississippi State
6 p.m. / ESPN
MONDAY
Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-American Championships
All Day
Men’s Golf @ Nike Collegiate Invitational
All Day
Women’s Golf @ Windy City Classic
All DayTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Ingildsen
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Sports meme of the week“I think what you got (is) a more physical 
presence there,”’ said defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham. “And anytime you can add a physical 
presence, you have a chance to be better against 
the run.”
To say this weekend’s game could be a defen-
sive battle might not be too far-fetched if it weren’t 
for guys like MSU quarterback Nick Fitzgerald.
The senior embodies every aspect of a dual-
threat quarterback with his arm strength, size and 
quickness. 
He is responsible for nine MSU touchdowns 
this season and leads all SEC quarterbacks in 
rushing touchdowns with ﬁ  ve.
“He brings so many different things to the ta-
ble,” Mullen said of his former quarterback. “He’s 
a veteran guy, he’s hard to shake, he’s played a 
lot of football games.”But the Gators have conﬁ  dence in their red-
shirt sophomore quarterback Feleipe Franks, who 
has thrown for 12 touchdowns with just two in-
terceptions this year.
“He’ll do everything to try to win games and 
get ﬁ  rst downs for this team,” receiver Tyrie 
Cleveland said. “You know, you’ve got to give 
him credit. From last year to now, he improved 
a whole lot. Thank him for this, the whole work 
ethic and the leadership.”
Florida hasn’t played a game in Starkville since 
2009 and enters the contest leading the all-time 
series 33-19-2.
“We have another opportunity to go out this 
week and prepare and go out and play the game 
we all love,” Franks said. “Great test for us, an-
other road game, awesome environment. We love 
those kind of games. So we’re excited, and we’re 
ready for it.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Franks excited for opportunity
Here’s the learning moment for 
Franks. We watched last season as 
Franks would either try to make 
something happen on his own or 
take a sack as opposed to throw-
ing the ball away. I remember feel-
ing a tinge of anticipation from the 
Neyland Stadium press box watch-
ing this unfold in real time. This 
play could’ve shifted momentum 
toward Tennessee. A quarterback 
on the run who has a penchant for 
making mistakes.
But this is the new Feleipe 
Franks. He keeps his eyes down-
ﬁ  eld, ﬁ  nds Swain has run out of 
the safety’s zone coverage and hits 
him in stride. Swain takes it the re-
maining 50 yards, and Florida runs 
away with the game. 
This isn’t the only instance of 
Franks making better decisions 
with the ball. His numbers this sea-son are absolutely out of character 
for a QB who threw eight picks on 
229 attempts (3.5 percent intercep-
tion rate) in 2017. So far, he has 
had two on 95 attempts (2.1 per-
cent interception rate). 
Franks still makes mistakes. His 
completion percentage this season 
(52.6) is two points lower than 
last year. He still makes weird de-
cisions while running. That John-
Elway-styled dive on his run late in 
the second quarter was... curious, 
to say the least. Don’t get me start-
ed on his neglect of Malik Davis on 
the two-point conversion attempt 
against Kentucky.  
But he’s taking steps toward 
learning from those mistakes. You 
can see it happening more every 
week. He’s starting to throw the 
ball away when he’s in trouble. 
He’s starting to look like a more 
prototypical Dan Mullen quarter-
back. 
More importantly, Feleipe Franks is looking competent in 
Florida’s backﬁ  eld. When was the 
last time you could say that about 
any UF quarterback?
“A quarterback away from con-
tention,” has been the reprieve of 
many Gators fans since Will Grier 
left the program. While Florida 
may not contend for an SEC title 
this season, an additional two years 
of Franks behind the wheel doesn’t 
sound as bad as it did last season. 
I’m sure Gator Nation would 
love to have former Clemson quar-
terback Kelly Bryant transfer here. I 
know Mullen would start him ASAP 
if that turns out to be the case, and 
I wouldn’t blame him. But Franks 
is good enough for now, and will 
only improve with time. 
Morgan McMullen is the sports 
editor at the Alligator. Follow him 
on Twitter @MorganMcMufﬁ  n and 
contact him at mmcmullen@alliga-
tor.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14share the load and have combined for 622 
yards and ﬁ  ve touchdowns. 
Oh yeah, and on the other side of the 
ball Ohio State is only allowing 17 points 
per contest.
Penn State should keep this game rath-
er close, and the “white noise” in Beaver 
Stadium will be high octane, but this Buck-
eyes team is just too loaded. 
- Mark
Penn State will win because…
I’m not going to sit here and predict 
that Penn State will win this game easily. It 
will face Urban Meyer and the Ohio State 
Buckeyes in Happy Valley with all eyes on 
the game and come out on top in a con-
vincing win. 
It’s not that easy. It’s never that easy.Both Penn State (55.5 points per game) 
and Ohio State (54.5 points per game) 
boast the nation’s highest scoring offenses. 
And since the last two matchups between 
these two powerhouses have been decided 
by a ground total of four points, it’s mostly 
anybody’s game.
Mostly.
Penn State wins this game. Why?
It has already had a near-loss experi-
ence. The Nittany Lions nearly fell in the 
season opener against Appalachian State. 
Ohio State hasn’t even come close to los-
ing yet.
I believe this will play a major factor in 
the outcome of the game. Penn State al-
most knows what it’s like to feel the sting 
of defeat. The Buckeyes do not.
Read the rest of this column online     
at alligator.org/sportsPICKS,  from pg. 14Ohio State vs. Penn State