We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Students begin interviewing with SG parties
Sunday was the ﬁ  rst day for interviewing, pg 5.
A UF student is running for a Florida House seat
Read why he’s running , pg 3.GATORS BLOW LEAD IN LOSS TO UGA
The Florida women’s basketball fell to 2-7 in 
SEC play on Sunday following a 66-57 loss to Georgiaa, pg. 14By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Jhody Polk was sentenced to eight 
years in prison for home invasion and theft in 2007. 
Seven years and one law clerk certiﬁ  ca-
tion later, Polk was released from Lowell Correctional Institution in Marion County with a goal to attend UF’s Levin College of Law.
But the 34-year-old’s status as a felon 
prevents her from pursuing law, serving in a jury and even voting.
“I get out with all these expectations 
and hope and a new way of thinking,” she said. “But no matter what I did, I couldn’t get a good job.”The Voting Restoration Amendment, 
an amendment on the ballot in Novem-ber, will decide if 1.5 million felons in Florida like Polk will get their voting rights restored. The initiative, sponsored by Desmond Meade of Floridians for a Fair Democracy, was approved for the ballot Tuesday. Sixty percent of Florida voters would need to vote yes on the amendment to make it law.
The initiative would restore the voting 
rights of Floridians with non-violent felony convictions who have completed their sen-tences but not for those convicted of mur-der and sexual assault crimes.
A petition to make the amendment 
surpassed the 766,200 signature require-VOLUME 112 ISSUE 51
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
The ﬁ  rst time Jessica Grobman told anyone 
about her medical secret was in sixth grade when 
she shared it with her middle-school best friend. 
The 11-year-old and her friend peered at a com-
puter monitor in their school’s media center as 
Grobman spelled out H-I-V on the keyboard. 
“What’s that?” her friend asked.
“I don’t know, but I have it,” she replied.
Grobman, who was born with the disease af-
ter contracting it from her mother, didn’t know it 
when she typed those letters. But 12 years later, 
as a social worker having graduated from UF with a Bachelor of Arts in education, she was shocked 
to see her disease had become undetectable. Al-
though she was not exactly cured, it was close 
enough.
She grew up in Boynton Beach with supportive 
parents who reminded her every night, at precisely 
7 p.m., to take her nightly pill. They did their best to make sure she stayed healthy, she said.
But when she would visit her doctor, she was 
always the youngest in the waiting room.
“It has been a very lonely disease, a very lonely 
journey,” she said.
Outside of taking ﬁ  ve daily pills and getting a 
monthly IV injection, she said she was just like the other kids.
“I didn’t really think that it was this huge thing, 
because nothing in my life was really affected by it,” she said. “I still did sports, I still went to school.”
She was just like the others until sex education 
was brought up in science classrooms and class-mates became sexually curious in middle school. 
That’s when she realized she couldn’t do what 
others could because of the “big, scary thing,” she said.As Grobman learned about the stigma of her 
disease, she often felt discouraged to take the pills she needed.
“That was something that I really had to over-
come,” she said. “Taking these pills wasn’t be-
cause there was something wrong with me to the 
outside world, but I really needed to do this to stay 
alive.”
Dr. Jennifer Janelle, who’s a part of UF Health’s 
Department of Infectious Diseases, said doctors 
can prescribe medications, but they can’t force pa-
tients to take them. It’s about living with the dis-
ease, she said, but to “not let it deﬁ  ne you.”
Grobman said she ﬁ  rst realized the importance 
of taking her own health seriously three months 
before graduating from UF. It happened when she 
was hospitalized for more than a week with sal-
monella after accidentally eating raw chicken.
She hadn’t taken her medication for four 
months before the hospital visit, she said, because sometimes she didn’t want to feel like she had the 
disease.
Dr. Janelle said HIV patients have a ﬂ  uctuat-
ing T cell count, the type of white blood cells that ﬁ  ght infections. Only when the count falls below 
200 cells per cubic millimeter does the disease be-
come AIDS. Grobman said her T cell count after 
contracting salmonella was about 280. A normal T cell count is 500 to 1,200, according to UF Health.
“I got myself together, and now I am where I 
am,” she said. “But I had to be pretty low for a little bit to learn that lesson.”
In a routine blood test last Monday at the Ala-
chua County Health Department, Grobman felt surprised when she found out her disease was undetectable despite missing a few days of her 
preventive viral medication. In two months of Living and loving with HIV: UF alumna tells her story
Alan Alvarez / Alligtor Staff
Jessica Grobman, 23, smiles as she speaks about living with HIV. Last week, she 
found out her disease had become undetectable. See a video at alligator.org.
Florida voters will vote on 
felon voting rights this year
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County received full reimbursement 
from UF for the public safety costs accrued 
when Richard Spencer spoke at UF. 
The county sent UF an invoice for $302,184 
on Jan. 10, according to Alligator archives. The itemized invoice broke down costs includeing law enforcement, court security, ﬁ  re rescue, jail and Combined Communication Center services. Alachua County received UF’s check Friday, said county spokesperson Mark Sexton. 
The county’s reimbursement came one day 
after the city of Gainesville announced it had de-
cided not to bill UF for the $224,105 it spent for 
public security surrounding the Spencer event in October, according to Alligator archives. 
City Commissioner Helen Warren said the 
city’s decision to foot the bill is part of main-taining a strong relationship with UF, according to Alligator archives. 
Although the city chose not to request re-
imbursement, Warren acknowledges UF’s rela-tionship with the county is different than it is with the city. 
“I think there’s a lot of differences between 
the personality and the mindset of the relation-
ship that the city is trying to have with the uni-
versity than what the county’s efforts are, and obviously that’s reﬂ  ected in some of the actions that they take,” she said. 
UF declined to comment on the reimburse-
ment check sent to the county and has yet to disclose the total amount they spent on the Spencer event. The Alligator couldn’t conﬁ  rm where the money came from to pay the county.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgUF reimburses county $302,000 
for Richard SpencerSEE HIV,  PAGE 4
SEE FELON,  PAGE 4•   •   •
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
HIGH  67° LOW  41°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in the Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings 
are free to attend and open 
to all. For more information, 
visit talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org/.
Fulbright Lecture Series
As part of the Fulbright Lecture 
Series, Maya Stanfield-Mazzi 
will talk about indigenous tex-
tiles in colonial Latin America at 1 p.m. Wednesday at the UF International Center in the 
Hub. Stanfield-Mazzi is a UF 
associate professor of art his-tory, specializing in art of colo-nial Latin America. She earned her Ph.D. from the University of California, Los Angeles and 
conducted her dissertation re-
search in Peru with the help of a Fulbright-Hays fellow-ship. This first 2018 Fulbright lecture, entitled “Indigenous 
Textiles in the Colonial Latin 
American Home: Luxury, Lineage and Leisure,” is a free event and open to the public. 
Refreshments will be served.
Tango classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? 
The UF Argentine Tango Club 
will hold free classes for all UF 
students. No dance experience is necessary. Join them from 6:15 p.m. to 8:15 p.m. Sundays 
at the Reitz Union, Dance 
Studio A.
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-zation, is holding “Stomp the Swamp for Autism” to benefit the UF Center for Autism and 
Related Disabilities (CARD) 
at 10 a.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Autism is a developmental disorder that 
affects one in every 68 chil-
dren and their families. In Gainesville and surrounding areas alone, more than 3,500 families are affected by autism. 
CARD supports individuals 
with autism and their families through training and assis-tance. To learn more about au-
tism and to register for “Stomp 
the Swamp,” visit card.ufl.edu or check them out on Facebook.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ race
Registration is now open for 
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers’ Five Points of Life Race Weekend on Feb. 17 and Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. 
Gainesville’s largest running 
race begins at the UF Cultural Plaza. Both days will include food, free massages and mu-
sic. There will be free coffee 
and pastelitos from Mi Apá Café from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Feb. 18. All proceeds go to the Five Points of Life Foundation 
which educates and raises 
awareness of the five ways to share life with others through the donation of blood, aphere-
sis, marrow, cord blood, organs 
and tissue.
Free citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League 
will offer free citizenship class-
es from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. ev-ery Thursday until March 29 at the Millhopper Library Branch, 
located at 3145 NW 43rd St. To 
register, email info@latinawo-mensleague.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
 Finland's president skates to 
overwhelming re-election 
win
 Finland's president crushed his 
competition to win a second six-year term Sunday, scoring 
a landslide victory in an elec-
tion that saw the incumbent getting more than five times the support of his closest chal-lenger. With all ballots count-
ed, President Sauli Niinisto 
had 62.7 percent of the vote, while his leading rival, Pekka Haavisto of the Greens, had 12.4 percent.
Russian opposition leader ar-
rested amid election protests
 Protesters gathered across 
Russia on Sunday to sup-port opposition leader Alexei Navalny's call to boycott the March presidential election, and Navalny himself was ar-
rested while walking to the 
Moscow demonstration. Late Sunday night, hours after po-lice detained him, Navalny said 
on Twitter that he had been 
released before a trial. Russian news reports cited police ear-lier as saying he was likely to be charged with a public-order 
violation for calling unauthor-
ized demonstrations.
In State of Union, Trump to 
make case that America is back
 Seeking to move past the shad-ow of the Russia investigation, President Donald Trump in-
tends to use his first State of the 
Union address to cite economic progress under his watch while pushing for bipartisanship with 
Democrats on issues such as re-
building roads and bridges. The White House said Sunday that the president would point to a robust economy and low unem-
ployment during his first year 
and the benefits of a tax over-haul. Aides have said Trump is expected to set aside his more 
combative tone for one of com-
promise and bipartisanship.
Cape Town to set up disaster op-
erations HQ for water crisis
 South Africa's police and mili-
tary will help secure water col-
lection sites in drought-stricken 
Cape Town if authorities must 
turn off most taps on what they 
call "Day Zero," a date cur-rently projected to fall in the first half of April, the city said 
Sunday. Hospitals, key eco-
nomic and industrial areas and 
densely populated areas with a higher risk of disease would be exempt from a water cut-off, 
said municipal authorities. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 51
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
By Irfan Kovankaya
Alligator Contributing Writer
If elected, a UF student would 
become the youngest Democrat to 
be in the Florida House of Represen-
tatives.  
Shreyas Amol Jethwani, a 
21-year-old UF political science ju-nior, ﬁ  led to run for the 21st Dis-
trict on Jan. 19, according to the 
Florida Division of Elections. For 
the primary race in August, he is up against Democratic candidate Jason 
Haeseler, an associate director of 
utilities at UF. The winner will then 
run against Republican incumbent 
Chuck Clemons in November.
Jethwani has yet to release his 
platform, but it will focus on four major points: education, economy, 
health care and the environment, he 
said. The campaign’s kick-off party 
will be at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Feb. 15.  
“We need someone who actu-
ally looks at their district and says, ‘We have these issues facing us. I don’t care if there’s a ‘D’ or ‘R’ next to your name,’” Jethwani said. “The problems are here, and we need to work to ﬁ  nd solutions.” 
District 21 consists of western 
Alachua, Gilchrist and Dixie coun-ties. The district has been Repub-lican since 2012, according to the 
Florida Division of Elections.
Jethwani said he originally want-
ed to work on or manage a 2018 po-
litical campaign. Since ﬁ  fth grade, he has been marching, calling rep-
resentatives and “reminding them 
that their constituents are human 
beings.” 
But after President Donald 
Trump was elected, he said he need-ed to do more. He said as a Demo-
crat, he opposes all action taken by 
the Trump administration. So he de-
cided to run. 
Jethwani said he serves as the 
political director for the Florida Col-
lege Democrats state board and the 
UF chapter. He was an organizer 
for former Secretary of State Hillary 
Clinton’s 2016 presidential cam-
paign, while also volunteering for a dozen other campaigns and causes. 
Despite his progressive values, 
Jethwani said it’s important to reach across the aisle.
“It’s not about being anti-es-
tablishment,” he said. “It’s about changing the establishment. Forcing the establishment to recognize the 
will of the people.”
Marcie Stefan, Jethwani’s cam-
paign manager, said Jethwani has 
an ability to communicate with peo-ple and reach across the aisle.
“You’re going to be seeing a lot 
of people running for the ﬁ  rst time, inspired by the results of the elec-tion, especially people that are con-
sidered minorities,” the 38-year-old 
said. 
Jethwani said he knows his age 
may be an issue for many but after years of lobbying and organizing, 
he’s conﬁ  dent in his abilities.
“I’m tired of waiting for someone 
else to run,” he said. “I’m tired of 
waiting for someone else to cham-
pion the issues that I want to cham-
pion.” UF student running for Florida House of Representatives
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Shreyas Amol Jethwani, 21, spoke during a UF Senate meeting. He’s now 
running to represent the 21st District, which includes Alachua County.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018Alexandria Slupecki / Alligator 
The Vietnamese Student Organization’s traditional dance group waved their fans for their 
performance on Saturday night for the organization’s “T et” celebration, or the Vietnamese New Year. They also performed with umbrellas and bamboo hats as part of the holiday tradition.
By Hannah Maggiore
Alligator Contributing Writer
In traditional bright-colored dresses, 
about 20 Vietnamese students twirled umbrellas and spun bamboo hats Sat-urday night to celebrate their culture.
The Vietnamese Student Organiza-
tion hosted their annual cultural show, “Tet,” or Vietnamese New Year, at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. About 450 people attended to see historical 
skits, colorful fans and Vietnamese pop 
music, marking the start of a new year.
“Tet” is Vietnam’s most important 
holiday and marks the beginning of 
spring and the lunar new year, said 
Kim Vo, VSO’s internal vice president. 
The UF organization has been put-
ting on celebrations for the holiday for more than 40 years.
“Every year’s show is different, and 
we want to showcase our culture,” 
said Vo, a UF health science junior.This year’s theme was “EmBARK on 
a New Year,” celebrating the zodiac’s 
Year of the Dog, the 20-year-old said.
Performances included various 
dances from the organization’s tradi-tional and modern dance groups and alpha Kappa Delta Phi. Different skits discussed how the holiday originated, including the importance of rice in Vietnamese culture.
Guests ate cultural food and chil-
dren received “lì xì,” or lucky money, which brings good fortune.
Jacqueline Egelfeld, a 19-year-old 
UF health science freshman, said she finds Vietnamese culture fascinating and has learned the basics of the lan-guage. She also went to the celebration to support a friend who was perform-ing.
“Even though my friend is in it, I’m 
excited to see (the modern dance), it shows the culture in a unique way,” Egelfeld said.Vietnamese students celebrate the New Year through dance, skits
treatment, her viral load — the number of copies 
of the HIV virus in her blood — dropped from 
56,000 to 40.
In people with HIV, copies of the virus attack 
T cells and multiply, Dr. Janelle said. Health pro-viders measure the viral count to monitor the dis-
ease. The viral count of an undetectable patient, such as Grobman’s, is fewer than 50.
HIV patients whose disease is undetectable 
have a lower risk of passing the disease to some-one else, including during childbirth, as long as 
their viral count doesn’t increase.
Grobman is now 23, and the disease isn’t as 
scary anymore. Instead, it’s become her secret 
weapon. 
She uses the disease as a “character detector,” 
she said. 
People make assumptions, and only a few 
have stuck around after she tells them she’s HIV 
positive. Although the virus is not transmitted 
through skin-to-skin contact, drinking from the 
same glass or even kissing, Grobman said some people don’t understand that and avoid her.
However, it helps her keep only the people 
who truly care about her close.
Over the years, she’s grown less reserved 
about the virus, she said, especially when it 
comes to romantic relationships.
Josh Morales, Grobman’s current boyfriend, 
met Grobman through Tinder in December. When they began talking, she was very upfront 
about the disease, Morales said.
“The main thing in situations like this is just 
to talk about it, have a conversation,” Morales, 
23, said.
Morales admitted he was a bit scared in the 
beginning, but as soon as he researched HIV and 
saw she was taking the necessary precautions to 
take care of herself, he became more comfortable with it.
The disease isn’t a burden so much as a part of 
Grobman that she embraces, she said.
“You got to love (the disease), if you love me,” 
she said. “It’s not going away. Knock on wood, I 
pray I get cured, but if I don’t, that’s something 
that we’re going to be dealing with together.”
     @_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgHIV,  from pg. 1Her ‘viral count’ is undetectable
ment, gathering a total of 806,681 veri-
fied signatures, according to the Division of Elections website. The organization collected 19,981 verified signatures from Alachua County.
“Being black and being a felon, you 
get this negative stereotype,” Polk said. “There was nothing in Florida besides the grassroots volunteers that would make me feel comfortable enough.”
Florida is one of four states — includ-
ing Virginia, Kentucky and Iowa — to permanently bar former felons from voting. More than 6 million Americans are disenfranchised because of past in-carcerations, according to a report by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University. A quarter of them live in Florida.
Florida offers felons clemency, or the 
process of petitioning the governor to re-store civil rights. However, restoration is not guaranteed.
Desmond Meade, the president of 
the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition and ex-felon, was unable to vote for his wife when she ran for office in 2016. Since founding the voting restoration movement, he has spoken to the Unit-ed Nations and U.S. Congress advocat-ing against disenfranchisement. Meade spoke at Pugh Hall in November, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
Julie Thaler, a lead organizer in the 
Say Yes to 2nd Chances petitioning cam-paign, said the group’s next challenge is making sure amendment supporters are registered to vote in November. The initiative is a nonpartisan issue, Thaler said. She attributes the petition’s success to its grassroots approach to activism.
“It’s not about politics. It’s about hu-
man rights,” she said. “It’s about for-giveness.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
FELON,  from pg. 1Florida offers felons clemencyTHIS BRINGS THE NUMBER UP TO 
AT LEAST 28 PEOPLE CONNECTED 
WITH THE FRAUD.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Seven additional people have been 
charged as part of a parking fraud ring that 
led to an arrest of a UF Transportation and 
Parking Services employee in March.
Cierra Lerosa Moore, 30; Theodore Na-
thaniel Johnson Jr., 40; Robert Lee Thomas, 
35; Vonketrick Antoine Walker, 20; Sharde Kiara Talley, 27; Lakedrian Brianna Ikeyal 
Crawford, 24, and John Glenn Goston, 40, 
were all charged between Jan. 19 and Tues-
day with grand theft and fraud, according to 
court records. 
The arrests were in connection to 36-year-
old Tiffany Nichole Robinson, a former UF Transportation employee, who was arrested 
by University Police for writing 25 fraudulent checks worth a total of $8,401.75, according 
to Alligator archives.
It was part of her job to issue refunds for 
returned parking decals 
and disputed fines, accord-
ing to Alligator archives.
In July, UPD discov-
ered Robinson had written thousands of fraudulent 
checks and created 33 fake 
parking vendor accounts, 
which she used to issue the checks for returned 
parking decals and disputed parking cita-
tions that didn’t occur, according to Alliga-
tor archives.
At that time, UPD also determined two 
other individuals, Shabree Harden and Her-schel Walker, helped Robinson cash the 
fraudulent checks at different locations, 
including three different Gainesville Pub-
lix stores and a Chevron Stop and Shop in Hawthorne, according to Alligator archives. 
Harden told police she cashed 23 fraudulent checks Robinson and Walker gave her and returned the cash to Robinson.
Before the seven recent charges, 18 other 
people were charged with grand theft in con-
nection with Robinson’s fraud case, likely 
cashing checks Robinson created as Harden and Herschel Walker had.
The following were charged with grand 
theft greater than $300 but less than $5,000:
-Elizabeth Maureen Terry, 19-Kimberly Diana James, 26
The following were charged with grand 
theft greater than $5,000 but less than 
$10,000:
-Kenneth Lawrren Mccray, 32-Diamond Patricia Gillum, 21
-Cristina Emery Jenkins, 24
-Alice Peterson Jackson, 63-Donna May Webber, 41
-Ivid Mary Ortiz, 25
The following were charged with grand 
theft greater than $10,000 but less than 
$20,000:
-Derri Dometric Dancy, 44-Reginald Denral Richardson, 30
-Lashonda Katreece Colson, 44
-Cristina Emery Jenkins, 24
-Tara Lorraine Donley, 46
-Kanacialal Nashay Morris, 37
-Juilliard Lanier Roberts Jr., 42-Harris Jones III, 39
-Robert Jermaine Davis, 44
-Montrell Leonard Bryant, 24
-Antonio Eugene Patterson Jr., 27
In the recent batch of arrests, Moore, 
Johnson Jr. and Thomas face grand theft be-tween $10,000 and $20,000 and fraud charg-es. Vonketrick Walker, Talley and Crawford 
were each charged with grand theft between 
$5,000 and $10,000 and fraud. Goston was 
charged with grand theft between $300 and 
$5,000 and fraud.
Including the seven newly charged co-
defendants, 28 total have been tied to Robin-son’s alleged fraud.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgUPD: Seven others charged in UF parking fraud ring
•   •   •Robinson
MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
SHE WAS STOPPED AFTER 
ATTEMPTING TO STEAL MORE 
THAN $100 IN MERCHANDISE, 
POLICE SAID.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman tried to steal mer-
chandise from a Walmart on Friday morn-
ing and hit, screamed and spat at employees and police who tried to stop her, Gainesville 
Police said.
Keiarra Lanae Redd, 18, 
pretended to scan 19 items 
worth $132.71 at a self-
checkout aisle in Walmart, 
located at 5700 NW 23rd 
St., and walked out of the 
store at about 10 a.m., according to an arrest re-port. A Walmart employee 
stopped Redd and tried to bring her back 
into the store. “I don’t have time for this,” Redd said, 
according to the report, before shoving the 
employee.
Police ofﬁ  cers helped bring Redd back 
into the store, but she tried to leave again, twisting away from an ofﬁ  cer and yelling 
“don’t touch me,” according to the report.
Redd called an ofﬁ  cer who put her in 
handcuffs a “racist a-- b----,” police said.
She hit another ofﬁ  cer, leaving a bruise 
on the left side of the ofﬁ  cer’s face, accord-ing to the report.
Eventually, Redd stopped ﬁ  ghting and 
began screaming in the face of police, sling-ing spit onto the eyelids and cheeks of police 
ofﬁ  cers, according to the report.
She was charged with petty theft, resist-
ing an ofﬁ  cer without violence, simple bat-tery and battery on a police ofﬁ  cer. She was 
taken to the Alachua County Jail, where 
she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$40,000 bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgGPD: Woman hits, screams 
at and spits on police 
POLICE SAY SHE DRAGGED 
AN EMPLOYEE AND 
DESTROYED MERCHANDISE.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Newberry woman shoved her way 
into a closed Publix on Friday night and 
dragged an employee by their apron 
through the store, Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Janine Lynn Farn-
sworth, 55, went into a 
Publix, located at 14130 
W. Newberry Road, as 
an employee let the last customer out at 
about 10 p.m., accord-
ing to an arrest report. The employee told her 
the store had already 
closed, but she pushed employees out of 
her way to get inside, according to the report.
Farnsworth then tried to knee a Pub-
lix employee in the crotch, but missed, police said. She grabbed another employ-
ee by the apron and used it to drag him 
across the store, according to the report.
Farnsworth ran up and down the 
aisles destroying about $200 worth of products, police said.
When police arrived, she tried kicking 
and hitting them as they tried to arrest her, according to the report.
Farnsworth told police she went into 
the store and broke products but did not 
know why, according to the report.
She was arrested on charges of bur-
glary with battery, attempted battery, 
battery, criminal mischief and two counts of resisting arrest with violence. Farn-sworth was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of an $18,000 bond.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgACSO: Woman pushed her 
way into a closing Publix
Farnsworth
Redd
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
For his ﬁ  rst time running for a 
Student Government Senate seat, 
Michael McAllister’s chose to in-
terview with the new Challenge 
Party. 
McAllister, a UF computer en-
gineering freshman, was the only student who interviewed with the 
party Sunday. 
He said he considered run-
ning with Inspire, but when Chal-
lenge started last Friday, he saw 
a group of leaders who wanted to make Student Government more diverse and acceptable.
“Seeing Janae’s courage to 
speak out and voice the truth 
about Student Government know-ing all the backlash she’d receive, 
it showed me she was really com-
mitted to improving the lives of 
students and that really made me want to slate with Challenge,” the 
18-year-old said. 
On the ﬁ  rst day where students 
could interview with SG parties 
for Senate seats representing UF’s colleges, 41 students interviewed, 
Erica Baker, the supervisor of elections, wrote in an email. One 
student interviewed with Chal-
lenge Party, eight students inter-
viewed with Impact Party and 32 
students interviewed with Inspire Party. No independent students 
registered. 
In Fall 2017, 139 students in-
terviewed on the ﬁ  rst day, with 96 students interviewing with 
Impact Party and 43 students in-
terviewing with Inspire Party, ac-
cording to Alligator archives.
In Spring 2017, about 45 stu-
dents interviewed on the ﬁ  rst day, all with Impact Party, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
After transferring from Valen-
cia College last semester, Aanchel 
Shah, a UF political science ju-
nior who is running for a College of Liberal Arts and Sciences seat 
with Inspire Party, said she wants 
to advocate for transfer students.
“I feel like transfer students 
are often neglected by the campus as a whole,” the 21-year-old said. 
“People that are in Senate tend to 
be traditional four-year students, 
so it’s easy to look over experi-ences that don’t affect them.”
Andrea Rangel, a UF nursing sophomore and a current Impact freshman senator, said she’s look-
ing to be a part of Senate again by 
running for a sophomore seat.
Rangel, 19, said she’s running 
with the party again because she enjoyed her past term.
“I feel that there’s so much 
tangible change that could be done with Impact,” she said. “I 
want to move forward and see 
what we could really bring this 
semester.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgStudents begin interviewing for Student Government positionsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Menstrual products should available campus-wide
Imagine this: It’s about noon, and you’ve 
been feeling awful all day. No need to worry though — this happens to you ev-ery few weeks. You’re in pain, you’re tired and you’re experiencing inexplicable mood 
swings paired with irritability. You want so badly to curl up in a ball in your bed and lie there for the rest of the day. But you can’t.
This happens to you every month, yet society 
still doesn’t accept this as an excuse for missing school or work. You go to the bathroom because the one thing that prevents this from completely taking over your life is full. You have to change it. But, you realize you didn’t bring an extra one. What do you do now? 
Great question. I’m so glad you asked. 
For any of you who haven’t picked up on what I’m talk-
ing about yet, I’m talking about periods. Believe me, I know 
you want to read about this as much as I want to write about it. But it’s time we give it the attention it deserves.
A campaign called Gators Matter, Period. is a coalition of 
UF students and community members ﬁ  ghting for free men-strual hygiene products on campus. Maybe you’ve seen a Change.org petition circulating throughout social media. 
But you probably didn’t hear a lot of conversation about it.
In recent weeks, however, periods have been on every-
one’s minds and social media feeds. The leaders of this co-
alition have been tirelessly attempting to get free menstrual products on UF’s campus. Initially, a Student Government committee struck down the motion, stating only half the student population would beneﬁ  t from it.
Since the initial rejection, SG gave students a glimmer 
of hope. It announced products would be available in the 
GatorWell ofﬁ  ce and possibly at the Field and Fork Pantry 
starting in February. Supporters of the movement are far from satisﬁ  ed, but it’s a step in the right direction. And I agree. It’s not enough. What message are we sending wom-en with this partial solution? Deﬁ  nitely not that we respect them or their needs.
Being respected and valued is an important part of 
mental health. It is incredibly difﬁ  cult to thrive and reach your full potential while feeling as though your needs are unimportant. It’s enough stress having to deal with the actual physical and psychologi-cal effects of periods. We shouldn’t also have to worry about what to do if we don’t have a pad or 
tampon. We certainly shouldn’t have to ﬁ  ght this 
hard just to have basic needs met.
I don’t mean to devalue men here. I under-
stand men know periods exist, and many sup-port this movement. In fact, some of the biggest driving forces for this movement were men. But I think in general, most men don’t know as much 
about menstruation as they think they do. It happens every month, right? It’s not a big deal.
Well, not exactly. According to the website for the Ofﬁ  ce 
on Women’s Health within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 75 percent of women with regular period cycles report unpleasant physical or psychological symptoms before their period. That means in addition to the unpleasant physical changes, many of our brains change. Women can experience depression, anxiety, anger, irritabil-ity, sensitivity to rejection, feeling of being overwhelmed and social withdrawal. This is even if we have access to 
products and feel understood by those around us.
Guys, we don’t want to make you uncomfortable, but 
periods aren’t a comfortable thing for anyone. A lot of 
times, we don’t even know when it’s going to come. We shouldn’t have to feel ashamed or worried about what to do if we forget to pack a tampon and we get a surprise visit from our “Aunt Flo.”
Periods are a natural part of life and womanhood. Men-
tal health can be negatively impacted by the stress of not 
having products and having to improvise. Let us talk about 
it, and let us have products. It will help you, too. And even if it weren’t, the fact that someone else is being helped should be enough.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
junior. Her column focuses on mental health.‘I got fake people 
showin’ fake love to 
me,’ and it’s worse 
than you think
When we think of identity theft, we often consider drained bank accounts and staggering credit scores. We think of it as a crime committed for direct and im-mediate ﬁ  nancial gain, not for perceived popularity. But, similarly to what it has done to most aspects of 
society, social media is changing the standards of identity theft.
On Saturday, The New York Times published an article en-
titled “The Follower Factory,” a feature story focused on social media’s so-called “black market,” where companies sell fake followers. These fake proﬁ  les often draw information from real ones, resulting in what many consider to be identity theft.
The article cites the speciﬁ  c example of a Minnesota teenager 
named Jessica Rychly. Nearly all aspects of Rychly’s identity, the one available to the public through her social media accounts, 
were used to bring a fake proﬁ  le to life. 
The account would publish tweets in languages she did not 
speak or understand, and would often interact with and retweet 
content from pornography accounts. Her story, unfortunately, is not unique.
According to research from the University of Southern Cali-
fornia and Indiana University, it’s possible 48 million — or about 15 percent — of Twitter’s total reported active users are auto-mated accounts designed to simulate real people. Furthermore, 
the Times reported at least 55,000 of the accounts use personal 
details of real Twitter users, including minors.
Despite most social media websites prohibiting purchasing 
followers, a number of companies exist solely for that reason. Websites such as Devumi openly sell followers to a wealth of high-proﬁ  le individuals such as television stars, professional ath-letes, TED speakers and pastors. Websites like Devumi function because, as of right now, no law prohibits their actions. The only reason why people wouldn’t buy and sell fake followers is if they 
had a strong moral conscious. And we all know, for the most 
part, much of the world is seriously lacking in that department.
Companies like Devumi don’t stop at the seemingly innocent 
act of increasing the follow-to-follower ratio. According to the Times, these fake followers can also act as “phantom foot soldiers in political battles.” In other words, the aggressive political battle you saw between your aunt and a realistic stranger could have been a throw down between her and a computer, meant to stir up and control political conversations.
The world needs to start paying attention to these fake ac-
counts. With an ever-increasing focus on social media presence, a social media identity can be just as crucial as a real identity. College admissions ofﬁ  cers or potential employers could ﬁ  nd your name attached to outrageous political posts or wildly inap-propriate pornography. No matter how clean you try to keep your social media accounts, someone else could be sabotaging you without you even knowing about it. 
We can only hope the government takes action against this 
growing epidemic soon enough, allowing for legal action to be taken against those who steal social identities. Until then, how-ever, we urge you all to consider the repercussions of purchasing fake friends. It’s more than an extra like; it’s someone’s identity. It’s someone’s life. It’s 2018, and it’s time we start taking social identity theft as seriously as we take all other forms of identity theft.
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Last Thursday, the world got 
just a little bit closer to an 
impending environmental 
and nuclear apocalypse. 
The Doomsday Clock ad-
vanced by 30 seconds, bringing 
us just two minutes to midnight.
What is the Doomsday Clock, 
you ask? Well, in 1947, the Bulle-
tin of Atomic Scientists, which is a 
monthly academic journal based 
in Chicago, debuted the clock on 
its cover as a symbol — and a warning — of 
incoming danger from nuclear tension and 
other international issues around the globe.
The clock is meant to urge world leaders 
and the public to recognize these risks (and hopefully act on them.) In the past decade or so, the Doomsday Clock has primarily responded to technological advancements, 
weapon arsenals and, perhaps most telling, climate change.
We are now the closest to midnight we 
have been since 1953 during the Cold War, 
and the scientists behind the clock have 
spoken quite candidly about why that is. 
“The failure of world leaders to address 
the largest threats to humanity’s future is 
lamentable,” the Bulletin website reads. “(Citizens) can demand action to reduce 
the existential threat of nuclear war and un-checked climate change.”
But herein lies the problem. If one of the 
Bulletin’s biggest pieces of advice is that 
members of the public step up and ask for 
change when it comes to the major world 
issue of climate change, we need those 
members of the public to actually want it. In 
other words: Citizens need to know about climate change, understand it and accept it 
as scientiﬁ  cally accurate. They must feel so 
strongly about it that they actually want to 
stop it.
To the cynic (or maybe just the realist), 
this already sounds like a daunting task. In the U.S., we feel surprised when even close to 60 percent of the American electorate par-
ticipates in something as straightforward as bubbling in a choice for president. At every 
step of the way, politicians gerrymander 
districts, disenfranchise voters and make it harder for even the most diligent of citizens 
to acquire objective, relevant information about political issues. What are 
we supposed to do about climate 
change, then, if we are to push 
our world leaders to take action?
I think at least some of the 
solution rests in the way we edu-cate our youth, from kindergarten 
through high school and beyond. 
I recognize I place a lot of signiﬁ  -
cance on public education and 
children in both my columns and 
conversations, but it's just what 
makes sense. The things we learn in our earliest years of education help shape our 
priorities, perspectives and biases as we get 
older.
Think of your own experiences in school. 
How did you learn about American history? 
How were you taught sexual education? How did those subjects become impor-
tant — or not so important — in the way you now see your peers, your family, your 
world?
Now think about your education in sci-
ence. Was climate change ever emphasized? 
If so, great. Maybe it went by the name of  “global warming” or “pollution.” But I 
doubt most people’s elementary-, middle- or high-school educations truly underscored the importance and dangers of climate 
change. This knowledge certainly wasn’t fully covered, much less prioritized, in the 
education of older generations — and look 
where that’s gotten us.
So maybe it’s time for a change. If we 
wants somebody to step up and demand 
change on behalf of a damaged world en-
vironment, we need to emphasize it in our 
educational system. We need kids, teens and college students to learn about soil ero-
sion, saltwater intrusion and biodiversity. 
We need the public to care not just about 
their recycling bins, but also the broader im-
plications of the fossil fuel industry. 
When our politicians speak, listen. Then, 
with your pens, your ballots, your social 
media, your phones — politely tell them to 
shut up and listen to you.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column focuses on 
education.Welcome to the U.S., 
otherwise known as the world’s largest free 
speech zone.
Unfortunately, too 
many college administrators don’t see it that way.
On campuses across Florida 
and the rest of the nation, people 
in charge of higher education have established euphemistically named 
“free speech zones” that limit the 
places where students can hold peaceful demonstrations, distribute literature 
or give speeches to passersby. The clear im-
plication: The rest of the campus is not open 
to free speech.
They rationalize these restrictions by 
claiming they are for the safety and security of 
students. In reality, they are an abasement of 
everything a university education is supposed 
to be about.
College students do not need to be pro-
tected from ideas with which they disagree. A 
primary function of the university is to expose 
students to such ideas, whether they come 
from professors, fellow students or guest 
speakers. From this exposure, students learn 
to implement critical thinking skills to prop-
erly assist them in their decision-making.
State Rep. Bob Rommel, of Naples, has 
introduced legislation to help make sure the state’s public universities live up to that stan-
dard. A companion bill in the Senate was 
introduced by state Sen. Dennis Baxley, of 
Ocala. 
The Campus Free Expression Act would 
bar state schools from setting aside areas that 
restrict students from exercising their consti-
tutionally-protected First Amendment rights. 
“To me, it’s just shocking that in the Unit-
ed States of America, we actually need a bill to protect freedom of speech,” Rommel told 
the Tallahassee Democrat.
It may be shocking, but it’s true.
A survey by the Brookings Institution, a 
nonproﬁ  t public policy organization based in Washington D.C., found a majority of college 
students believe it is acceptable for a group of 
students to “loudly and repeatedly shout” to prevent a speaker from being heard. Nearly 20 
percent of students said it was acceptable to use “violence to prevent the speak-
er from speaking.” 
In the face of such shout downs 
and violence, there has been a backlash against the suppression of speech on college campuses, and 
that is reﬂ  ected in the numbers. 
Fewer schools have free speech 
zones today than did just a few 
years ago. That’s a positive trend.
But eternal vigilance is the price 
of freedom. We need to guarantee that in case the pendulum swings 
back in the direction of those who would 
shout down their political opponents, the law 
will be there to deal with them.
While most of the recent cases have in-
volved left-wing students (and sometimes ad-
ministrators and faculty) attempting to silence 
conservative speakers, over the last decade 
or so this has been a problem that knows no 
ideological boundary.
In 2006, the assembly rights of University 
of Central Florida students were restricted 
when the radical left-wing Students for a 
Democratic Society (SDS) was barred from 
holding a protest under the school’s “free 
speech zone” policy. In a more recent case 
that received national attention, white su-
premacist Richard Spencer was shouted down 
by hecklers at UF.
Neither the reincarnated SDS nor the ris-
ible Spencer are going to win many hearts and minds. But even if they were, the First 
Amendment is content neutral. Hate speech, 
whether from left or right, is protected speech. It should be combated not with truncheons or a heckler’s veto, but with more speech, with 
better ideas, with well-articulated argument.
Those who resort to violence and shout 
downs are simply demonstrating they do not 
have much conﬁ  dence in their ideas.
Administrators who impose free speech 
zones are demonstrating they do not have much conﬁ  dence in their students.
We must show we are willing to defend 
the speech of all citizens, including students. Free speech zones have no place on college 
campuses.
Demetrius Minor is the Florida coalitions 
director for Generation Opportunity.One approach to climate change: 
educating our nation’s youthThe only free speech zone in Florida 
ought to be the state of FloridaColumn Guest Column
Demetrius
Minor
opinions@alligator.org
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
With a flourish of a sword made 
of tin foil and cardboard, 55-year-old 
Paula Pope challenged every driver who passed the Southwest 34th Street sidewalk she was standing on.
“Arg, are you informed?” The two signs Pope, a protester, 
was holding — “Vote Ted Yoho out!!” and “‘freedom caucus’…my arse” — wasn’t what grabbed the eye of the 4:30 p.m. Friday commut-ers. 
It was the pirate’s outfit she de-
scribed as “clothes I should have do-
nated to Goodwill years ago.”
About 40 people, dressed in their 
best impression of pirates, stood out-
side the offices of Crime Prevention Security Systems, located at 4701 SW 34th St., holding signs and sing-ing songs.
“We tax the poor to feed the rich 
and promise you great jobs/ You silly fools, that’s not the rules/ You can eat the slop of our hogs! Hey yo ho yo ho a pirate’s life for me,” the group, organized by Alachua County Labor Coalition, sang. 
The labor coalition said Rep. 
Ted Yoho is prioritizing his donors 
over his constituents. Security com-
pany owners John A. Pastore Jr. and Randi Elrad spent $10,000 on Yoho’s campaigns since he was first elected, making them one of the largest con-tributors in Alachua County, lead or-ganizer Jeremiah Tattersall said.
He said the protesters want Yoho 
to participate in more in-person town halls, instead of town halls over the phone. Tattersall said the tele-town halls are curated because 
only certain people are invited and 
only some can ask questions. He said town halls are not a representa-tion of citizens’ real issues. Yoho’s last in-person town hall was in April, according to Alligator archives.
“We are here to demand through 
his largest contributors, because he listens to them, another town hall,” 
Tattersall said. 
Yoho’s office did not respond to 
the Alligator’s request for comment.
Protesters want the same oppor-
tunity to be heard by Yoho as his 
donors, said Shelia Payne, a ACLC staff member. 
Payne said she works for the 
Veterans for Peace organization and said the group has never met with Yoho on military issues. She said she has tried to contact Yoho by email-
ing, calling and visiting his office 
continuously without much success for eight years.
“It’s frustration,” Payne said. 
“It’s not being heard and not being represented.”
The labor coalition organized an-
other protest at a company owned by Yoho supporters, Exactech, in 
July 2017.
Crime Prevention Security Sys-
tems sent a cease and desist letter 
to protest organizers Jan. 17. Bobby McAfee, the company’s marketing director, wrote in an email that the company expects the protest will be peaceful and said the group had the “right to have fun and play dress-up.” He did not comment on the letter. 
An hour and a half after the pro-
test began, as the sprinklers went off in front of Crime Prevention Se-curity Systems, Tattersall addressed the protesters. He told the group they would organize more protests against Yoho’s financial contribu-tors.
“We are here to highlight how 
broken our democratic system is 
in which contributors like the co-
owners of Crime Prevention Systems have access while us, the skallywag landwellers here, don’t,” Tattersall said. “Yoho, he’s a product of this broken democratic system.” 
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgDressed as pirates, people protested Yoho financial  donors
Far Right: “The fact that T ed 
Yoho represents a progressive town like ours I find just very backwards, ” explained Joe Courter, a 67-year-old Gainesville resident. Courter held his sign at the protest on Friday evening outside of Crime Prevention Security Systems on Southwest 34th Street.  
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Lee Malis, 58, strums his guitar and sings along with other protesters on Friday during the pirate protest against Rep. T ed Yoho. Malis wrote a pirate-themed song specifically for the protest.
Left: Garrett Quinlivan, 76, 
plays his drum at the Rep. T ed Yoho Pirate Protest on Friday evening, which was organized by the Alachua County Labor Coalition. Quinlivan said he attended the protest to respond to John A. Pastore Jr. and Randi Elrad, co-owners of Crime Prevention Security Systems, donating money to Yoho. MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Left: Jousting knights, 
dragons and royalty were featured throughout the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire.
Bottom Right: Kai 
Hartless poses with his newly-purchased wooden sword at the 32nd Annual Hoggetowne Medieval Faire at the Alachua County Fairgrounds. The faire will reopen on Feb. 2.
Bottom Left: Two men play 
the ﬁ  ddle and mandora at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday afternoon. The faire also featured countless other musical performers sharing pieces that reﬂ  ected 
A weekend of knights: Hoggetowne Medieval Faire startsBy Wyatt Schreiber
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cheyenne Copenhaver, 12, 
pressed her face and small hands 
against the glass case to get a good look at what was inside. Poop. 
“It doesn’t smell like poop,” she 
said. 
Copenhaver was one of about 150 
people who came to the Florida Mu-seum of Natural History’s preview Thursday evening for a new exhibit, “The Scoop on Poop! The Science of What Animals Leave Behind.” The exhibit features Guinness World Record holder George Frandsen’s 
collection of coprolite, otherwise 
known as fossilized feces. 
“It’s really important to me for 
people to get to see it and learn about it,” Frandsen said.
“No other museum has a display 
like this.”
The fly-swarming exhibit opened 
to the general public Saturday and 
will run through May 6. 
Frandsen said he loaned thou-
sands of fossils, with there being 
about 100 medium-sized ones on display, and countless more tiny fos-sils in jars. The Guinness Book of World Records counted him as hav-ing 1,277 pieces in 2015, but he said he’s collected thousands more since. 
His largest fossil, named “Pre-
cious,” is four pounds, millions of years old, most likely came from an ancient crocodile and is on display for visitors. 
Akito Kawahara, curator at the 
museum, said it’s an incredible sub-ject — every kid talks about poop and everyone deals with it every day. 
“It’s amazing,” he said. “It’s one 
of the fundamentals of our natural world.” 
Kawahara gave a presentation 
during the preview, going into de-tail about different animals and their many uses for poop. 
Based on the crowd’s reaction, 
some favorites included the pygmy sperm whale, which shoots a “poo-nado,” a thick cloud of fecal matter, at predators and the dung beetle, which is known for creating and rolling large balls of poop, Kawahara 
said.
The museum wants to bring in 
exhibits that have solid science and big ideas behind them, said Julie 
Waters, the exhibit coordinator for the museum.
Some animals depend on poop for 
food, others use it to mark their ter-ritory and some use it to lay eggs in, Waters said. 
“It’s a gross, necessary part of 
life,” she said. “We hope our visitors walk away with appreciation of hid-den levels of biodiversity.”10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Eric T opp, a 59-year-old Gainesville resident, volunteers to restore a bike alongside 
Angelo Sanjurjo, 11, of Gainesville at the Bike Repair Clinic, a cyclist education course, Saturday at the Freewheel Project shop, a nonprofit located at 6185 Main St.  
Courtesy to the Alligator
A researcher holds a fossilized dinosaur poop. Visitors to “The Scoop on Poop” exhibit can touch an 80-million-year-old fossilized poop.
By Madison Zizmer
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students, all in black, stood in front 
of a screen. 
Behind them played footage from the 
Women’s March on Washington. as they 
mimicked the protesters’ chants and expe-riences. 
More than 100 people came to see the 
“Voices from the March,” a multimedia theatrical experience, Saturday afternoon in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. About 10 UF students acted in the play, which was created out of 150 interviews about 
with people who participated in the 2017 
Women’s March in Washington, D.C. 
Jeffrey Pufahl, the director of the play, 
said he wanted to show the UF community what the reality of social justice looks like and allow students to tell their stories of the march through art. UF’s College of the Arts donated $1,500 for the production.
“The students had to dig deep in them-
selves to find their story and to find what they wanted to say to the world,” Pufahl said. “That is a big step.” 
UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Pro-
gram; the Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies and the Center for Arts in Medicine also supported the play, Pufahl said. 
Andy Prescott, a 31-year-old UF mas-
ter’s acting student and actor in the play, said he wanted the audience to learn that talking to people with different perspec-tives helps a community grow. 
“(The theater) gets you talking,” he 
said. “It doesn’t matter who you are, what background, just go out and see some biz-zare stuff and really just reflect on it.”UF students recreate scenes 
of Women’s March in D.C. Poop now on display at the Florida Museum of Natural History
By Stephanie Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor is being na-
tionally honored for creating 
a sharkskin-based technology 
that will help stop bacteria 
from growing on ships and breathing tubes.
Anthony 
B. Brennan, a UF materi-als science and engi-neering pro-
fessor, will 
be inducted 
as a 2017 
Fellow in the National Acad-
emy of Inventors in Wash-
ington, D.C., on April 5. His inventions led him to start his company Sharklet Technolo-gies, which is funded by the 
U.S. Navy’s Office of Naval 
Research, he said. 
“I just feel honored and 
extremely surprised,” Bren-
nan said. “Never would’ve 
guessed it.”
Brennan said he used 
sharkskin-inspired patterns to create a microscopic technol-
ogy that is put on a surface, 
such as silicon or copper. The pattern creates a barrier that makes bacteria growth diffi-
cult. He first thought of the idea 
in 2002 when he saw a sub-marine he thought looked like 
a whale, Brennan said. He then started looking at marine animals until he came across nursery sharks. 
He found that while pet-
ting a shark, from nose to tail, the skin is smooth, but going backward, it’s rough because 
of the skin pattern.  
The 66-year-old profes-
sor said he tried to compare 
the layered diamond-shaped sharkskin to a mathematical 
model and thought about how 
it could be applied to a ship. 
When he was able to de-
velop the technology, it was 
the first time green algae 
didn’t grow on a surface with-out toxins, he said. 
Zahara Jaffer, 46, an assis-
tant director at the UF Office 
of Technology and Licensing, 
nominated Brennan for the fellowship, Brennan said. 
Jaffer said many people 
make significant discoveries, but Brennan was able to form his discovery into a tangible thing that can help society. 
“He’s just one of those 
people that doesn’t stop,” she said.UF professor to 
be recognized for invention in April
Brennan
He first thought of 
the idea in 2002 
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE 
PARTICIPATED IN THE EVENT.MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDDon’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389
NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. 
Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount 
Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles 
from UF campus. Owner is looking for the 
right person or persons to take over practice. 
Area features opportunity to experience the 
benefits of an abundance of out door life with 
the benefits of nearby cultural activities in 
and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA 
Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-
18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or VisaThe Alligator Office2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.orgBy Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FINDPayment by major credit card ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, Coins, Currency, CollectiblesCall: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-31-18-6-14
Experienced Musicians Wanted
- Keys and Guitar - Musicians needed to 
play Sundays at local church. Will be
paid for their time based on experience
and skill. Call (352) 371-9646. Address:
7003 NW 39th Ave, Gainesville, FL.
2-2-18-5-14
ATTENTION STUDENTS, RECENTGRADS, PILOTS, ASTRONAUTS, ANDEFFICIENT INDIVIDUALSResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-2-18-5-14
HOUSE/DOG-SITTING OPPORTUNITYMay 28th - June 22nd. 2 acres in McIntosh, FL (16 miles south of Gainesville). 5 dogs $900 plus bonus if job done well. Please call 352-207-2717    2-5-18-5-14
Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!
- Create your own schedule- Close to campus
- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hr
Must be able to touch type 60wpm
WWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.MATH/PHYSICS TUTORING
PhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-
gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. 
Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-
ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-
15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, 
perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit 
our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    
1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Pearl Harbor site
5 Breaks under
pressure
10 Fabric woven with
metallic threads
14 Dec. 2515 Aerosmith
frontman Steven
16 Apple tablet17 “Blueberry Hill”
R&B singer
19 Telephoto, for one20 Had lunch, say21 Cry from one
who’s all thumbs
22 Boot camp
nickname
23 Title passenger
train with an“ever-lovin’ light”
27 Integer after zero28 Bank job
29 Frosty coat
32 Plant’s sticker
34 Arabic “son of”37 Cho-Cho-San
story on which aPuccini operawas based
41 “Total Request
Live” network
42 Bedouins, e.g.
43 90 degrees from
norte
44 Ear-related
46 007 creator
Fleming
48 Body of water
bordering most ofConnecticut’scoast
55 Ancient
Peruvians
56 Place to order a
Reuben
57 __ Paulo, Brazil
58 Chow or lo
follower, in
Chinese cuisine
59 Undesired
medicationconsequence ...and what canliterally go withthe end of 17-,23-, 37- and 48-Across
62 Marching
musicians
63 Opinion pieces64 Fishing decoy65 Gold medalist
Korbut
66 Bottom-of-the-
barrel
67 CopiesDOWN
1 Britain-based
relief agcy.
2 Prized violin3 Abhorrent4 Navy sub initials
5 Moe, Curly or
Larry
6 Lorelei, for one
7 Roster of invited
celebs
8 Signer’s writer9 Sign of a sellout
10 Purple flowers11 Pre-dinner drinks
12 Japanese comics
13 ’50s Ford flop
18 Bump off22 River through
Paris
24 Screenwriter
Ephron
25 Attempts to
score, in hockey
26 Saucy29 “I’m thinking ... ”
30 Grain in Quaker
cereals
31 Getting
promotions
32 Little League
precursor
33 Center of a wheel
35 Sandwich letters36 “Science Guy”
Bill38 Roger who broke
Babe’s record
39 Times often
named for
presidents
40 Alternative to
Vegas
45 Where Amin
ruled
46 Least active
47 “Yeah, right!”
48 Dance under a
bar49 Tatum of “Paper
Moon”
50 Puff __: snake51 Requires52 Exhaust53 Mother-of-pearl54 Adores to death,
with “on”
59 Spread, as
discord
60 NYSE debut61 Ga.’s southern
neighbor
By John Guzzetta
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/29/1801/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, January 29, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Longtime
employer of 
26-Down
10 Double shot?
15 “Geek sighting!”16 “Mad TV” alum
Lange
17 Runway-ready
18 Boarding pass
data
19 Pay stub abbr.20 Kid gloves, so to
speak
21 Turn down22 City on Lake
Michigan
23 African capital
formerly called
Salisbury
24 “Cool, dude!”
27 Court dance
28 Hard-to-count
quantity
29 Emit a powerful
magnetic force?
32 It’s all downhill
from here
33 Hoofed it
34 Comics pooch35 They’re matched
by foundations
37 Take forcibly38 Like milk of
magnesia
39 “You Gotta Be”
soul singer
40 Old-time feature
film preceders
41 Corduroy feature
42 Rose __: reddish
mineral
43 Big name in hair
trimmers
44 Big Ten sch. that
competes for thePaul BunyanTrophy
47 Singer __ Marie
48 Exposes to public
scorn
50 Goldbrick
51 Ruins things?52 Pains53 1790s political
powder keg
DOWN
1 “Honey, I’m Good”
singer Grammer
2 “Sesame Street”
roommate
3 Street __4 ’60s protest org.
5 Units of pressure
6 Owner of a
legendary lantern
kicker
7 Put through the
wringer again?
8 “Can’t argue with
that”
9 Brand sold at
Pep Boys
10 Official cocktail of
New Orleans
11 Agent that
undermines from
within
12 “Cure Ignorance”
magazine
13 Victoria, to
William IV
14 One of many
taken in school
21 Rhapsodized
22 Britt Reid’s alter
ego
23 Shore weather
phenomena
24 Med school
admissions data
25 __ of time26 “Miracle on Ice”
commentator
27 Cooler
29 Hog calls30 Obey a court
order
31 Parcel (out)
33 1980s-’90s Notre
Dame footballcoach Lou
36 Medieval Turko-
Mongol settlers
37 Comfortable39 National flower of
Mexico
40 Jacket material
41 Strauss piece42 Common
applicator
43 Like an Irish
Terrier’s outer
coat
44 Flaky mineral45 Long-distance
calling org.?
46 “Miracle on Ice”
loser
48 __ Romana49 Battle of Britain
gp.
By Andy Kravis©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/27/1801/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, January 27, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Optimistic 
1.  Take out, remove5.  ____ rate 
2.  Trust, rely on6.  Older person 
3.  Modified 7.  Bank, often
4.  HolderBTUAPE
NCPKAUSPLEU
REEDL
EVBIEEL
MNDEEDAENRDLE
REEABRANSWERS: 1A-Upbeat  5A-Pulse  6A-Elder  7A-Lender
1D-Unpack  2D-Believe  3D-Amended  4D-Bearer  B-Studebaker1-29-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: In 1889, incoming President Harrison ordered 
a full set of this company’s carriages and 
harnesses for the White House.
BONUS1. When was the last time before 
2016 that the Chicago Cubs won 100-
plus games in a season?
2. Two major-league players each 
smacked a triple to reach 3,000 career 
hits. Name either one to do it.
3. New Orleans QB Drew Brees set 
a regular-season record in 2016 for 
most 400-yard passing games in a 
career. Who had he been tied with at 14 games?
4. When was the last time before 
2016 (Kentucky’s Malik Monk) that 
a player scored at least 47 points in a game against the University of North Carolina’s men’s basketball team? 
5. The Vegas Golden Knights, in 
their inaugural NHL season (2017-18), set a record with an eight-game winning streak. Name either of the two teams that won five in a row in their first NHL season.
6. Who did the U.S. men’s hockey 
team beat in the final game to secure the Olympic gold medal in 1960?
7. Brooks Koepka, in 2017, tied a 
men’s U.S. Open record for lowest 
score to par (16 under) in winning the event. Who else did it?
Answers:
1. It was 1935 (100-54).2. Paul Molitor in 1996, and Ichiro 
Suzuki in 2016.
3. Peyton Manning.
4. Duke’s Dick Groat scored 48 
points against North Carolina in 1952.
5. The New York Rangers (1926-27) 
and the Edmonton Oilers (1979-80).
6. Czechoslovakia.7. Rory McIlroy, in 2011.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 29, 2018King Features Weekly Service15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFormer UF football 
players Keanu Neal (left) and Maurkice Pouncey (right) participated in the 2018 NFL Pro Bowl on Sunday.Women's golf team competing at Florida Challenge
The Gators open their spring season today at the Black Diamond Ranch in 
Lecanto, Florida. The tournament is being hosted by the University of South 
Florida and features eight total teams, including Miami, UCF, Jacksonville, FIU and Louisville.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GEORGIA 66, FLORIDA 57
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
As the third quarter's ﬁ  nal 
seconds ticked away, Florida clung to a ﬁ  ve-point lead. With Georgia dribbling out the clock for the ﬁ  nal shot of the period, UF guard Funda Nakkasoglu and forward Haley Lorenzen double-teamed Georgia’s Que Morrison and forced a turnover. Nakkaso-
glu grabbed the loose ball, raced 
down the court and banked in a 
buzzer-beating layup.
However, big games from 
Nakkasoglu and forward Pau-
lina Hersler weren’t enough on 
Sunday afternoon as the Gators 
(10-12, 2-7 SEC) fell to No. 21 Georgia 66-57 at the O’Connell Center.
Nakkasoglu picked up right 
where she left off after Thursday night’s loss to No. 2 Mississippi State, where she contributed 19 points on 7-of-13 shooting from 
the ﬁ  eld. Against Georgia, the 
junior transfer shot 5 of 13 from 
the ﬁ  eld and made 7-of-10 free-throw attempts, ﬁ  nishing the game with 18 points.
Hersler started the afternoon 
strong, hitting her ﬁ  rst three attempts from the ﬁ  eld. The 6-foot-3 senior from Sweden tied her season high with 19 points and grabbed seven rebounds.
After the game, Hersler was a 
little surprised by her own per-formance.
“It’s something you don’t re-
ally predict,” she said. “You’re trying to take it possession by possession. I think the guards did a really, really good job of feeding us in the post.”
The Gators normally aren't 
afraid to shoot from the perime-ter, but they took a conservative approach against the Bulldogs with a season-low 16 three-point attempts. They made only two of them.
“They guard you,” Florida 
coach Cameron Newbauer said. “They close out tight. That’s what they do. They’re a great defensive team. That’s their M.O.”
Florida came out strong 
against its SEC foe, quickly jumping out to a 13-6 lead after a Nakkasoglu step-back jumper. Nakkasoglu and Hersler com-bined for all of UF’s 14 ﬁ  rst-quarter points.
In the second quarter, the 
theme turned to defense. The Gators forced Georgia (19-2, 7-1 SEC) into contested shots, with the Bulldogs making just two of their 14 attempts from the ﬁ  eld  Struggling Gators fall again in SEC play to No. 20 Bulldogs
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Chris Chiozza dribbled to the top 
of the key and made a deep jump 
shot over Baylor's Manu Lecomte, 
opening Florida' scoring against the 
Bears on Saturday. On the ensuing possession, Chiozza stole the ball from forward Tristan Clark, sprinted 
down the court and found teammate 
Egor Koulechov for a three-pointer in transition.
On the No. 20 Gators' ﬁ  rst two 
possessions of an 81-60 win over 
Baylor (12-9, 2-6 Big 12) on Satur-
day at the O’Connell Center, Chi-ozza’s early basket, steal and assist foreshadowed the kind of night he would have. One that included 20 points, six assists and two steals.
“I’m not surprised by anything 
(Chiozza does) anymore,” Kou-lechov said.
It’s hard to be surprised by the 
performances and moments Chiozza churns out each night. On Saturday, he scored 13 consecutive points for the Gators (15-6, 6-2 SEC) off three 
three-pointers, a pair of free throws 
and a jump shot to put UF up 15 with 4:52 left in the ﬁ  rst half.
Against Missouri on Jan. 6, Chi-
ozza intercepted a pass with four seconds left in the contest and made a game-winning layup. And against Gonzaga on Nov. 24, he played a season-high 46 minutes while drop-
ping 26 points, 10 assists and eight  Big moments from Chris 
Chiozza continuing in 2018
SEE MEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu's 18 points against Georgia on Sunday weren't enough to propel the Gators 
to a win over the Bulldogs.
BASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Walk by McKethan Stadium this 
week and listen. Really listen.
Tune out the scooters zooming 
past and the birds squawking away 
and the busses humming along, 
and you’ll hear the persistent ping 
of metal meeting baseball, baseball meeting leather. Yes, in just three weeks, the defending national cham-pion Florida baseball team will make McKethan Stadium home once again with a season-opening series against Siena beginning on Feb. 16. Based on the sounds already surrounding 
the ﬁ  eld, it’s clear practice has be-
gun. 
But before that series arrives, and 
before UF mounts a defense of its ﬁ  rst-ever baseball title, and before the Gators send another potential No. 1-overall draft pick out as their Friday night starter, start your sea-son by listening to those bat pings, or those glove pops. 
If you do, you may notice that 
something is different. That the sound is different. That this whole team is different. And how could it not be? No Florida baseball player in the 106-year history of the pro-gram has ever laced up his cleats to defend a national title. Plus, nobody on the current team knows what it’s like to lose. 
Foremost among that group are 
the sophomores, who won a na-tional championship in their only season at Florida. But even seniors, like team captain JJ Schwarz, have always advanced to Omaha for the College World Series.
The Gators got bounced in both 
his freshman and sophomore years, but at least they got that far. 
Seniors on last year’s team still 
remembered the humiliation of get-
ting ousted from their own Super 
Regional with losses to the College of Charleston and North Carolina in 2014. This year’s team only has two seniors, and neither have ever known anything but elite baseball in their time at UF. 
So how is coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
prepping a team that has never 
known failure for the obstacles that 
could cause it to crumble? In short, by trying to forget about the success. 
“The preseason polls don’t mean 
O'Sullivan: UF "not defending a national 
championship ... It's a diﬀ  erent team"
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Every competing senior on the Florida 
women’s tennis team won her singles 
match in a 4-0 rout of Cal State Fuller-ton on Saturday, leaving UF’s freshmen unable to finish their matches. But dur-ing Sunday’s matchup with Louisiana-Monroe at the Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville, it was the team’s first-year players’ turns to close out their oppo-
nent.
While senior Josie 
Kuhlman won the 
first singles match of the day (6-1, 6-2), it was freshmen Katie Kubicz (6-1, 6-1) and McCartney Kessler (6-3, 6-1) who won the 
next two matches, leading to another 4-0 sweep for the Gators. The victory earned the team a spot in the ITA Division I Women’s National Team Indoor Cham-pionships in February.
The doubles portion of the day started 
out slowly for the Gators, with Louisi-ana-Monroe taking the lead in all three matchups. However, Florida eventually settled into a groove, and the duo of se-nior Anna Danilina and freshman Victo-ria Emma cruised to victory (6-2) in the first doubles win of the day. Shortly after that, the team of Kuhlman and Kessler closed out its match (6-3), clinching the doubles win.
“It’s important to start out well,” 
coach Roland Thornqvist said. “Both days — (Saturday) and (Sunday) — we 
did not, but we were good enough to play 
out of those holes.”
After the first true spring competition 
of the year, the freshmen on the team ap-pear to be getting the hang of collegiate 
play, especially with the aid of their se-
nior teammates.
“When I’m nervous, (Danilina) can 
call the plays,” Emma said regarding her 
doubles partner. “She really helps me out with nerves, especially this past week-
end.”
Florida will play its next match on Sat-
urday against Florida State at the USTA 
National Campus in Orlando. While Emma is excited about the opportunity, 
she said that a matchup with FSU is no 
different than any other tennis match.
“A lot of Florida fans think it’s a huge 
rivalry,” Emma said. “They aren’t in our conference, so they aren’t really our ri-
vals. It’s just another match and another 
chance to get better.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators sweep LA-Monroe 
behind play of freshmenMEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
Junior Alfredo Perez’s roar echoed inside 
the Perry Indoor Facility at the Ring Tennis 
Complex on Sunday. He’d just turned an awk-
ward serve that bounced off the net from his 
opponent into an aggressive backhand winner.
The shot kept Perez alive in the first set 
tiebreaker of a highly competitive match he’d 
eventually win, 7-6(6), 6-2, over South Florida 
senior Grayson Goldin.
The Gators dominated the Bulls 4-0 in the fi-
nal round of the Florida Regional ITA Kick-Off Weekend after also sweeping South Alabama 
in Saturday’s semifinal. With the two wins, 
Florida will advance to next month’s ITA Divi-sion I Men’s National Team Indoor Champion-ships.
Rain forced the match’s singles play to move 
indoors after UF secured the doubles point with victories at the No. 2 and No. 3 positions.
“The conditions inside are certainly a lot 
faster,” Florida coach Bryan Shelton said. “For 
our guys, it’s really important to strike first.”
And for the most part, they did. Perez, 
sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and freshman 
Andy Andrade were the only Florida players to 
compete in the day’s singles action due to lim-
ited indoor space. All three played with pas-sion and intensity.
“Our energy and competitive spirit are just really, really good,” Shelton said.
Ingildsen improved to 2-0 on the year in 
singles with a 6-3, 6-3, defeat of junior Alberto 
Barroso-Campos on the No. 2 singles court.
Following Ingildsen was Perez, who entered 
Sunday’s match looking to improve after dis-
appointing performances on the No. 1 singles 
court from the week before.
“The match meant a lot to me,” Perez said. 
“I wanted to do my part for the team because I 
haven’t done my part the last couple matches.”
Andrade won the fourth and final point for 
the Gators, marking the second consecutive match clinched by a freshman. After easily winning his first two matches of the dual sea-son, Andrade battled in three sets against USF 
sophomore Jakub Wojcik. A final score of 6-2, 
4-6, 6-3, brought the match to a close and final-ized UF’s bid to the upcoming national event.
Three dual matches into the season, Shel-
ton remains most impressed by the comradery 
among this year’s team. 
“When you see your teammates there for 
you, pushing and encouraging you, you want 
to go even deeper,” he said.
The Gators will now prepare for Saturday’s 
matchup against Florida State, which will be held at the USTA National Campus in Orlando.
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgUF’s perfect weekend seals ticket 
to National Indoor ChampionshipsGYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
In a sold-out O’Connell Center 
on Friday night, the Florida gym-
nastics team put on a show for its 
home crowd. Its efforts didn’t go 
to waste as the No. 5 Gators (3-1, 1-1 SEC) overcame No. 1 Oklaho-ma 198.150-198.125. In addition 
to two perfect 10.0s in one night, 
Florida also took first in three of its four events. 
“The team, they fought with a 
lot of heart, a lot of grit,” coach 
Jenny Rowland said.
Senior Alex McMurtry domi-
nated the night, notching 10.0s 
against Oklahoma (3-1, 1-0 Big 
12) on beam and vault, both the 
first in the nation this season. Her perfect scores on Friday night made her the first gymnast in UF history to post two 10.0s in the 
same meet.
She also became the second 
gymnast in program history to 
record a 10.0 in all four events 
over the course of her career, a 
feat also performed by former Gator Bridget Sloan. McMurtry’s performance marked her ninth total 10.0 in her time at Florida, 
elevating her over Sloan’s previ-
ous school record of eight.
“I know I’m capable of that 
10.0,” McMurtry said. “I just had to trust my gut and go for it.”
The meet started off slowly for 
the Gators, who trailed Oklahoma in each round. A shift in momen-
tum came during the floor routine 
when senior Kennedy Baker post-ed a 9.975 and tied Oklahoma’s Maggie Nichols for first.
Freshman Alyssa Baumann 
followed by finishing her floor routine with a 9.925, just enough for Florida to clinch the victory by .025.  
“I hadn’t really looked at the 
score, but I knew we needed a good one to anchor it,” Baumann said. “I just went out there and did what I could.”
UF hosted its first top-ranked 
team at home on Jan. 12, a night that ended in a 197.250-197.125 loss to then-No. 1 LSU. Coming 
off their win over Oklahoma, the 
Gators are trying to not let the vic-tory get to their heads. The team is maintaining a humble attitude as it heads into its next meet on 
the road against No. 17 Auburn 
on Friday.
“You get to a point in the sea-
son where it’s good when there’s 
no surprises,” Rowland said. “We 
may have a bump in the road here and there. We’re still learning.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org.Florida moving on from victory over top-ranked Oklahoma  
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Alex McMurtry became the first gymnast in UF history to record multiple 10.0s in one meet. 
“I just had to trust my gut and go for it, ” she said.
Kuhlman
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2018
Take the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Reach 50,000+ sports  
fans by featuring your  
ad on the NCAA Tournament  
Bracket! This special bracket  will be a pull out section that Gator 
fans can use for the whole three  
weeks of March Madness to track  
their favorite teams.
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Starting at
$227.12
includes full colorRESERVE YOUR SPACE TODAY!
376.4482
Contact Alligator Advertising
Run Date
Mon, March 12thDeadline
Thurs March 8th
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, BaseballMonday
Wednesday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Monday
Pick up your
Operation PetSnip
Feline P ackages 
star ting a t $50
Canine P ackages 
star ting a t $80
Low-cost spay/neuter 
352.373.5855
alachua
humane .org/spa y-neut er
for ﬁ  ve points in the frame.
After a back-and-forth third quar-
ter, Florida took a seven-point lead into the fourth thanks to Nakkaso-
glu’s buzzer-beater.
However, Georgia used a huge per-
formance from junior forward Caliya 
Robinson to propel itself to 31 fourth-quarter points. Robinson went 5 of 8 
from the ﬁ  eld and knocked down two 
clutch free throws to put the game 
away late. She ﬁ  nished the afternoon with 22 points on 10-of-16 shooting.
“There’s a lot of good forwards in 
this league,” Hersler said. “It’s just a 
matter of getting used to it.”The Gators get the week off — hav-
ing played every Sunday and Thurs-
day since New Year’s Eve — before 
returning to action against Missouri 
on Feb. 5 in Columbia. Newbauer said the bye week couldn’t come at a bet-ter time.
“We’ve been banged up and it’s 
been extended minutes for our start-ers,” Newbauer said. “I know they’re very excited just to have a handful of days off this week and recoup, focus on some academics and just get our bodies back to fresh.”
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org
 WOMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14Robinson scored 22 points
rebounds. 
“We need Chris to continue being aggressive 
like that,” Florida coach Mike White said. 
Chiozza’s play isn’t anything 
new for the Gators. The senior 
has scored double-digit points 
in 15 of 21 games this season. He also leads the conference in assists per game (6.1) and is second in steals per game (1.9).
Chiozza’s contributions to 
the Gators forced Baylor coach 
Scott Drew to create a game plan centered around limiting the senior guard's offensive output. 
“We tried to take away his passing, and he got 
us with his scoring,” Drew said. “That’s where great players can do more than one thing and hurt 
you in more than one way.”
While his passing ability has been consistent 
during his time at Florida — he led the Gators in 
assists in the 2015-16 season and ﬁ  nished second 
every other year behind Kasey Hill — Chiozza’s 
shooting has signiﬁ  cantly improved in his last sea-son as a Gator.
Against Baylor, he showed that he is a threat 
regardless of what type of game he plays, whether it’s getting assists or baskets.
“Great players, you can pick and choose,” 
Drew said. “He’s one of the best point guards in 
the country and everyone will agree on that, but 
when he’s scoring on top of his facilitating, then he just goes to another level.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14Chiozza leads conference in assistsanything,” he said of the rankings 
that place the Gators at No. 1. “I know that sounds cliché, (but) every-body feels good about their team right now. I think the biggest thing for us is 
to be able to turn the page.”
Getting players to forget about the 
deﬁ  ning moment of their baseball ca-
reers, if not their lives? That’s a hard 
sell, as O’Sullivan learned during fall 
ball. 
He said he spoke with players ex-
tensively about leaving their success in the past and about how those tri-umphs mean nothing now. Still, he noticed some cockiness creeping in. 
He’s hoping it disappears by the 
start of the season. 
“We’re not defending a national 
championship,” he said. “We’ve got 
different players. It’s a different team. 
So I want this team to write their own chapter, their own book.”
A good place to start such a book might be to go over all the holes Flor-ida has to ﬁ  ll after it lost half of its starting lineup and its ace to the MLB 
Draft. 
Starter Alex Faedo? Drafted 18th 
overall by the Detroit Tigers. Catcher 
Mike Rivera? Drafted by Cleveland in the sixth round. Shortstop Dalton Guthrie? Drafted by the Phillies in the sixth round. Utility man Christian Hicks? Graduated. Frequent designat-ed hitter Mark Kolosvary? Drafted by 
the Reds. 
One name not on that list, howev-
er, is senior — and Florida’s ﬁ  rst-ever 
team captain under O’Sullivan — JJ Schwarz. 
Schwarz was drafted in the 38th 
round by the Tampa Bay Rays and elected to return to school. It was as-sumed at the time that scouts were 
put off by his desire to ﬁ  nish college. 
It turns out that wasn’t the case. His asking price was just too high after he hit a career-low .259 with a career-worst 56 RBIs in 2017. 
“It was deﬁ  nitely something I didn’t expect and kind of really hit me personally,” Schwarz said. “I made peace with it, and I think it’s the best 
decision I’ve made.”
O’Sullivan was thrilled to have 
his star catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman back 
for another year, and Schwarz has already assumed a prominent leader-ship role by holding teammates ac-countable for bad body language. 
For a team that has never known 
disappointment, his cautionary tale of 
a draft slide could be motivation for 
players to hit harder and pitch better. Or his inﬂ  uence could do little outside of his spot in the lineup. Regardless, like his teammates, he’s eager to ﬁ  nd out. 
“That’s a big battle I’ve been fac-
ing,” he said of waiting for 2018’s ﬁ  rst game. “I’m really anxious to start 
the season and see what this team’s 
made of.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Schwarz elected to return to Florida
Alligator File Photo
Florida catcher/ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz decided to return to school 
after being selected in the ﬁ  nal three rounds of last year's MLB Draft.
Chiozza
