We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Police: Man arrested for trying to steal pork chops
He concealed the packages in his pants, according to the report, 
pg. 5
Cookiegazm hosts grand-opening
It is now based out of a downtown Gainesville location, pg. 4HOME AWAY FROM HOME
Former UF women’s tennis player Belinda 
Woolcock went from an apprehensive 18-year-old to an NCAA champion, pg. 15VOLUME 112 ISSUE 48
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Women’s rights supporters march along the sidewalks of West University Avenue chanting and holding signs during Gainesville’s “Celebration of Women” . The event commemorated the one-year anniversary of the Women’s March.By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A year after women marched 
in Washington, D.C., following 
President Donald Trump’s in-
auguration, protesters slipped their pink-knitted hats back on, 
picked up handwritten signs and 
marched down West University Avenue on Sunday afternoon.
About 450 people met on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza, which was covered in chalk-written messages, including “Destroy 
the hetero-patriarchy” and “#IM-
PEACH.” Genevieve Curtis, the event organizer, told the crowd 
they were “ﬁ  ghting the good 
ﬁ  ght.”
Twelve speakers, including 
education advocate Chanae Baker and domestic violence survivor Alexandria Davis, shared inspira-
tional messages and talked about 
women’s issues, such as voter in-volvement and gender equality.
Then, the crowd marched 
down West University Avenue to Southwest 13th Street and back. 
As the marchers paraded on 
sidewalks, restaurant employees stood outside clapping and driv-ers honked. One motorcyclist 
loudly revved her engine to show 
support.Organizations tabled on the 
plaza, including Be the Kind, a local volunteer group accepting 
donations of menstrual products 
and undergarments for homeless women.
“There are often women who 
choose between buying food or buying hygiene products,” said 
Lisa Merlo Greene, the group’s 
founder. “To us, having to choose between your dignity and eating 
just seemed like such a horriﬁ  c 
choice to make.”
Molly Ayers, a 16-year-old 
dual-enrolled Santa Fe College student, sat on the grass with her family and listened to the 
speakers. She attended last year’s 
March for Science and Women’s March in Tallahassee with her 
mother and enjoys being politi-
cally active.
“I like to do these marches be-
cause I like to make a difference,” she said. “Someday I’ll tell my grandkids, ‘I was at the women’s 
marches, and I made a change.’”
Ayers hopes to one day be-
come a marine biologist and work for a sea turtle conservation. In 
the meantime, her concerns range from North Korean missiles to de-
pleting environmental protections 
under the Trump administration, Gainesville celebrates Women’s March  anniversary   
SO FAR, 117 BIRDS HAVE BEEN 
REPORTED AROUND CAMPUS.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
As Ana Castro sat in her accounting 
class in Gerson Hall on Thursday, she 
heard the consecutive thumps of birds ﬂ  y-ing into the glass doors outside her class-room.
“Sometimes, two or three times in a 
row you just heard thumps, and you’d see the birds falling or just ﬂ  ying away,” the 20-year-old UF accounting sophomore said.
Throughout the duration of her class, she heard 20 thumps and found 10 dead birds on the ground after class.
Castro said there was nervous laughter 
and jokes like “accounting kills,” echo-ing in the classroom. Eventually, the class moved on.
 “A lot of us didn’t know how to react,” 
she said. “It was really hard to concentrate in class, and I really thought it was some-thing so sad to see.”
University spokesperson Janine Sikes 
said UF Environmental Health and Safety picked up seven dead birds Thursday and is looking into the issue.
The Bird Collision Project, a group on 
campus to account for birds ﬂ  ying into UF By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
After a Student Government committee 
rejected a proposal to provide free men-
strual products to students, some took to Facebook to organize protests and tempo-
rary alternatives to the proposal.
Nikita Bozicevic, a 20-year-old UF lin-
guistics sophomore, posted on a Facebook 
page for UF students Wednesday and sug-
gested students create a “take what you 
need, leave what you can” system for men-strual products in campus bathrooms.
“I ﬁ  gured we can come up with some 
way to help people, because that’s the 
goal,” she said.The SG Budget and Appropriations Com-
mittee unanimously voted against a code revision to use students’ activity and ser-
vice fees to pay for pads and tampons Jan. 15 after about 20 minutes of deliberation, according to Alligator archives.
Bozicevic said she read about the deci-
sion on Facebook and decided to take ac-tion. She said she was skeptical about how popular her idea would be. She put her phone down for an hour after she made the 
post and came back to ﬁ  nd likes and com-
ments. She created a Facebook group “Ac-cessible Menstrual Products at UF,” which has 137 members, as of press time.
Sophia Ahmed, a 20-year-old UF mate-Birds dying after crashing 
into UF buildings, windowsUF students organize for free 
tampons, pads initiativeAbout 450 protesters participated
SEE MARCH,  PAGE 9
SEE BIRDS,  PAGE 4 SEE TAMPON,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
HIGH  78° LOW  60°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Spring SG Elections
Spring Student Government 
elections are almost here. To 
learn more about qualifying or running for office, attend the 
informational meeting at 6:30 
p.m. Tuesday in the Reitz Union 
Chamber. Qualifying and slat-
ing for candidates will be on the 
second level of the Reitz Union on the following days/times: 
from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. Sunday, 9 
a.m. to 7 p.m. Jan. 29 and from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Jan. 30. Spring SG elections will be held from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and Feb. 21 at locations across 
campus. For more information, 
visit sg.ufl.edu/elections.
UF Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center will host the Spring Study 
Abroad Fair from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Wednesday on the Reitz 
Union North Lawn. Study 
abroad programs help students discover new cultures, increase 
global awareness, enhance for-
eign language skills, make new 
friends and establish new con-
tacts. Overseas internship op-
portunities are also available. 
Most financial aid can be used 
for study abroad programs. In 
turn, the programs can be used to fulfill Summer residency re-
quirements. For more informa-
tion, stop by the Hub, located at 
1765 Stadium Road, in Suite 170 
or visit online at abroad.ufic.ufl.
edu.
Latinx Studies Lecture Series 
Talk: The Great Recession & Precarious Wealth Among 
Middle-Class Mexican-Origin 
EntrepreneursDr. Zulema Valdez, an associ-
ate professor of sociology at the 
University of California, Merced, 
will visit UF on Thursday. She 
will speak in Grinter Hall, Room 
376 from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
The event is free and open to the 
public. In addition to her aca-
demic pursuits, she participates 
in several organizations and ac-
tivities aimed at advancing so-
cial justice, diversity and inclu-
sion efforts in higher education 
and the sustainable food envi-
ronment and volunteers with the Insight Garden Program at 
Chowchilla Women’s Prison in 
California’s Central Valley.
Let’s Talk: Meaningful Dialogue 
in Difficult TimesThe Center for the Humanities 
and the Public Sphere is host-ing Libby Roderick, the associ-ate director at the University 
of Alaska and associate editor of Difficult Dialogues National 
Resource Center, for a public lecture regarding difficult dia-
logues in the humanities at at 2 
p.m. Feb. 3. This lecture, which 
is free and open to the public, 
will offer several strategies for effectively and respectfully en-
gaging with fellow citizens on 
the most important topics of our 
times. For more information on 
the event visit: intersections.hu-
manities.ufl.edu/index.php/up-
coming_events/libby-roderick/.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionA picture is worth a thousand words. You can no write your-
self into the art museum. Words 
on Canvas is a poetry and prose 
writing competition at the Harn 
Museum of Art, located at 3259 
Hull Road, for UF and Santa Fe 
College students inspired by art. The selection of artwork fea-tures a variety of media, which 
come from the Asian, African, 
Contemporary, Photography 
and Modern collections. 
Winning contestants will be 
awarded prizes. See guidelines 
at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncan-
vas. The deadline is Feb. 25. 
Florida Museum of Natural 
History to host 5K race Feb. 10
Registration is now open for 
the Watch Your Step! 5K race 
on  from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. Feb. 10 at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. Early regis-
tration ends Tuesday, and it's 
cost is $25, or $20 for UF stu-dents with a valid Gator 1 Card. 
Late or race-day registration is $30, or $25 for UF students 
with a valid Gator 1 card. For more information, visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
watch-your-step-5k or call 352-273-2055.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the VOLUME 112 ISSUE 48
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez de Sotomayor,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall, Grace   
  Kenny, Carly McCullough
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  GRAND OPENING
SATURDAY 01.27.18
FOR 4 HOURS ONLY get up to 20% off the entire store!
SALE starts 1:00pm - 5:00pm1029 W. UNIVERSITY AVE.
 @CLIMAXSMOKESHOPGAINESVILLEFREE FOOD AND PRIZES! 
FLASH SALES ALL DAY 
LONG ON CERTAIN ITEMS!
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
FUN ANDFITNESS
2018
Help students gain a healthy perspective by advertising in The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is  
dedicated to giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.
Contact Your  
Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline: Wed., Jan.  31
Run Date: Wed., Feb. 7SIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Left to right: Gainesville locals Jeff Boissoneault, 32; Molly Barlow, 25; Hayden Anderson, 25, and Catherine Boissoneault, 30, taste some of the various foods offered at the Winter BBQ event held at the Depot Park event space on Saturday afternoon. A portion of the proceeds from the barbecue, which was hosted by local restaurant The T op, will beneﬁ  t Grace Marketplace, a nonproﬁ  t homeless assistance shelter in Gainesville.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Left to right: Gainesville residents Cody Wilson, 28, and Wil Fady, 27, hang out at the Winter BBQ event sponsored by The T op restaurant at the Depot Park event space, located at 200 SE Depot Park Ave. on Saturday afternoon. The two men are using the Kendama, which is a Japanese toy.
BBQ Fundraiser  4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018buildings, has counted 117 bird deaths caused 
by collision since 2016, Mark Hostetler, a pro-fessor in UF wildlife ecology and conservation said. During winter, when birds are migrating to South America and fly through Florida, it’s problematic, he said.
He said people are seeing the birds, called 
cedar waxwings, crash into buildings on the west side of campus.
“Cedar waxwings are everywhere, and 
they go in flocks,” he said. “Sometimes they just can’t recognize what they’re seeing.”
Hostetler said the project has determined 
what buildings are most problematic for birds on campus, including Newins-Ziegler Hall, Broward Dining Hall, Jennings Hall and the Harrell Medical Education Building.
“When they’re flying about foraging, some-
times they can’t discern the highly reflective windows, the sun’s just right — they think they can fly through them,” he said.
To try to solve this problem, Hostetler said 
he and his team hung cords from the top of the window to the bottom every four inches apart, which is less than the average wing-span of the birds. He said this treatment helps break up the image the birds see reflecting on windows.
Hostetler said the treatment, which is cur-
rently on the third floor of Newins-Ziegler Hall, is effective. Since its installation at the beginning of Summer, there has been zero strikes.
“Imagine when they see a tree in the sky 
with no bars through it, they think they can fly into it,” he said. “But when you see those black lines on it, they think there’s something there and they can’t fly through it.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgBIRDS,  from pg. 1Some buildings have been 
more problematic than othersA protest is planned this weekBy Catie Wegman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cookiegazm started as two 
UF students in 2015 making 
cookies in their apartment for some extra cash.
Aaron Seemann, who was 21, 
and his friend Daniel Leal, who was 19, made cookies for their friends and neighbors, Seemann said. However, the Cookiegazm name spread quickly. 
On Saturday into early Sun-
day, more than 600 people came to the company’s grand opening for their brick and mortar store, 
located at 12 SW 2nd St., in 
downtown Gainesville.
“We have plans to go to a na-
tional level,” Seemann said.
In January 2016, Seemann 
said Cookiegazm worked out of Omi’s Tavern, located at 101 SE 2nd Place, for about a year and a half. In August, they had a soft opening for their own store.
But now they’re ready to 
tackle this next step, so they hosted the grand opening to let people know that they can come in, sit down and enjoy a cookie.
Kayli Bryant, a UF marine 
science and Spanish freshman, who orders Cookiegazm every two weeks, waited in line for about 25 minutes to satisfy her sweet tooth with one of their de-licious cookies.
“It’s so good, and the cook-
ies are unique,” the 18-year-old 
said.
Seemann said he never 
thought Cookiegazm would be-
come this big.
Although there is competition 
in the area, Seemann said he be-lieves Cookiegazm will continue to do well due to their student-oriented mindset and location.“I think that’s what differen-
tiates us from Midnight Cookies, is that we sell more than cook-ies — we sell Cookiegazm,” See-mann said.
Cookiegazm hosts grand-opening for downtown location
Courtesy to The Alligator
Daniel Leal, 22, founder of cookie-delivery company Cookiegazm, poses 
with a batch of his cookies in October 2016. 
THE HACKATHON 
ATTRACTED MORE THAN 
500 STUDENTS.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
To the tapping of keyboards, 
Sneha Patel fell asleep under a 
table in the basement of Marston 
Science Library Friday night.
The UF computer science fresh-
man wasn’t cramming for a big 
exam or racing to finish an essay. 
She was one of more than 500 
students who participated in a 36-hour hackathon.
“I realized that I could not sleep 
for so many hours,” the 17-year-old said. “I didn’t believe that.”
The fourth annual Swam-
pHacks attracted 532 students from schools around the Southeast to develop programs from scratch, 
attend workshops and meet new 
people, said co-organizer Chandler Griffin, a 20-year-old UF computer science junior. This year’s hack-athon also included Swamp Tank, 
an opportunity for professionals in 
the computer science field to men-tor participants. 
Students could work to win 
prizes and internships from Sw-ampHacks’ sponsors including Facebook, Microsoft and Real-Truck, or just explore their inter-est in computer science.
“Each year we’re just trying to create more of an environment 
for not only computer science stu-
dents but also non-computer sci-ence students and engage them in this type of world that’s just con-
stantly growing,” he said.
Edwin Carvajal, a 20-year-old 
UF computer engineering junior, 
made a mad dash for a spacious table with plenty of outlets when 
the hackathon began Friday, he 
said.
He worked until 4 a.m. Satur-
day developing a program that 
stores data in a decentralized way, 
which would make it more diffi-cult for personal information to be stolen, he said. The weekend of uninterrupted coding gave people 
the opportunity to create some-thing groundbreaking, Carvajal said.
“This really creates, like, a hub 
for spontaneous growth and cre-
ativity,” he said.
Jeremiah Lantzer, a software 
engineering junior at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, and his three teammates walked away as first-
place winners for their program 
Wi-Fido, an app that can recog-nize security breaches in home internet services.
If the app finds a certain device 
transferring significant amounts of data outside of the home, it shuts down its connection and gives us-ers the option to block the device, 
he said.“It’s really a way for the user 
to take control of their own cyber 
security rather than letting some-body else do it for them,” the 20-year-old said.
The team won Amazon Echo 
Show smart speakers and Xbox One game consoles for develop-ing the program, but developing something that could help others 
was the most rewarding part of the 
experience, he said.
“Every now and then you build 
a hackathon project that just feels 
really good,” he said. “Something 
like this, if it were ever to be re-leased, could really help a lot of people.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
More than 500 students participate in 36-hour hackathonIt’ used to be in Omi’s Tavern 
rials science and engineering sopho-more, joined the campaign’s Face-book group and organized her own 
“bleed-in” protest, called “Are you 
seeing red?” 
Participants plan on meeting on 
Turlington Plaza and painting wash-
able fake blood on the back of their 
pants Tuesday at 9 a.m., Ahmed said.
While the group’s plans are still 
in the beginning phases, Ahmed said she wishes SG could have done more.
“It pisses me off,” she said. “We 
advertise all the time that we’re a top-10 public institution, and a lot of other public institutions give out free 
menstrual products. Why can’t we be 
similar like them?”
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgWhat Facebook users have 
to say about the issue:
Jennifer Smith Pitman: “Really? There 
is a CVS and a T arget just across from 
campus. How about you buy something ahead of time and carry it with you?”
Megan Morey: “Let me just say they 
do provide free condoms. Sex you can say no to. They do not provide free menstrual products. Periods I can’t say no to. It happens whether i want it to or not, just saying. ”
Joanie Trapp: “Personally I think it’s 
lame that they use the “It only benefits 50% of the UF population, ” as a “con” argument. How about, wow...if the number is roughly 50%, that is a lot of students using that benefit, probably a higher percentage than use bike racks, or maybe just as many who use urinals. Imagine!”The Alligator staff’s 
top favorites 
• Slutty chocolate chip
• White chocolate 
macadamia
• S’mores
• Peanut butter
• Cookies and cream
• PB&J
TAMPON,  from pg. 1MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
THE PARK WAS CLOSED FOR 
ABOUT FOUR MONTHS.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Earl P. Powers Park on Newn-
ans Lake reopened Friday after four 
months of repair from damage caused during Hurricane Irma.
The park, located at 5910 SE Haw-
thorne Road, experienced severe ﬂ  ood-ing, damaging the boat ramp and ﬁ  sh-ing pier. Fallen trees and debris blocked canal access to the lake, said county 
spokesperson Mark Sexton. The boat 
ramp was rebuilt, and the Florida Fish 
and Wildlife Conservation Commis-sion cleared out vegetation from the canal. The parking lot and restrooms 
reopened Friday, but the playground, 
picnic area and ﬁ  shing pier will remain 
closed for further repairs, he said.
“It was quite a complicated process 
and big job to make sure that access to 
the lake was safe,” he said.Sexton said the county hopes the 
Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy will pay for the repairs, a sum they do not yet know.
Gainesville resident Tony Ivey sat 
on the sparkling metal boat ramp and lobbed his ﬁ  shing line into the murky 
waters of the canal Saturday morning. 
The park has been the 59-year-old’s fa-vorite ﬁ  shing spot since he was 5 years 
old.
“It means a lot,” he said. “(Being) 
around the water is really relaxing.”
Ivey said ﬂ  ooding left most of the 
park underwater. Even the picnic ta-bles were ﬂ  oating, he said.
Despite the damage, Ivey said he 
was grateful to have his ﬁ  shing spot 
back.
“I really missed it the months that 
it’s been down,” he said. “I really missed it.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgNewnans Lake park reopens after Hurricane Irma damage
Jessica Giles /  Alligator 
Pictured is Earl P . Powers Park on Newnans Lake, which reopened Friday after Alachua County ofﬁ  cials spent about four months repairing damage caused during Hurricane Irma. 
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Man stops police chase to tell 
police to turn oﬀ   lights and sirens
POLICE SAID THE MAN HAS NEVER HAD A 
FLORIDA DRIVER’S LICENSE.
A Gainesville man, who was being followed by po-
lice, stopped his car and yelled at the ofﬁ  cer he was 
almost home — then kept going, Gainesville Police said.
Jordan Lee Curtis, 19, was speed-
ing in a dark-colored Honda at about 1 a.m. Friday through Northwood Pines 
when a police ofﬁ  cer turned on emer-
gency lights and tried to pull Curtis 
over, according to the report.
Curtis continued to drive west on 
Northwest 53rd Avenue, ignoring the lights and sirens behind him, police 
said.
Curtis stopped only long enough to open his car door, 
lean out and yell at the ofﬁ  cer to turn off his lights and sirens because he was almost home, according to the 
report. Curtis closed the door and continued to drive for 
nearly a mile from where the ofﬁ  cer started following him to his home, police said.
The ofﬁ  cer handcuffed Curtis and searched his car, 
ﬁ  nding less than two grams of marijuana in two plastic 
bags, according to the report.
Curtis said he didn’t stop because he didn’t have a 
driver’s license. The ofﬁ  cer found Curtis has never had 
a Florida driver’s license, according to the report.
He was charged with having no valid driver’s license, 
possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana and at-tempting to elude an ofﬁ  cer. He was taken to the Ala-chua County Jail where he was released Friday morning on his own recognizance.
He could not be reached for comment.Former UF student drove into 
traﬃ   c, had drugs in car, police said
HE TOLD POLICE THERE WAS 
POSSIBL Y A CRACK COCAINE 
PIPE IN THE CAR, POLICE SAID.
A former UF student was pulled over Friday afternoon 
with marijuana, cocaine, Xanax and paraphernalia in the 
car, Alachua police said.
Matthew Scott Evron, 22, stopped traf-
ﬁ  c at the intersection of Northwest 140th Street and Northwest 143rd Place when he turned right onto Northwest 143rd Place and drove over the sidewalk, nearly into a light pole and into oncoming east-bound trafﬁ  c, according to an arrest re-port. A police ofﬁ  cer saw Evron turn and pulled him over.
Evron told police he was driving from Gainesville to 
Gainesville, according to the report. Police said his eyes were glazed. He admitted there was possibly a crack co-caine pipe in the car, police said.
Police found a marijuana grinder with residue in it, 20 
Xanax bars, two pieces of cocaine and a crack pipe with cocaine residue in the car and 15 Xanax bars on the person, according to the report.
Evron told police he smoked marijuana and took two 
Xanax pills earlier, APD said.
Police gave Evron a ﬁ  eld sobriety test and took a sample 
of his urine.
He was charged with driving under the inﬂ  uence, pos-
session of drugs equipment, possession of marijuana, pos-session of cocaine and possession of Alprazolam. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail and released after paying a $34,000 bond.
Evron received a Bachelor of Science in chemistry in Fall 
2017, John Hines, a university spokesperson, wrote in an email.
Evron could not be reached for comment.Gainesville man arrested for hiding 
stolen pork chops in his pants, police 
said
THE PAIR HID SIX PACKAGES OF PORK 
CHOPS, WORTH $42.31, POLICE SAID.
A Gainesville man walked out of Walmart on Thurs-
day night with three packages of pork chops in his 
pants, Gainesville Police said.
Kevin David Roberts, 56, and a 
woman he was with each took three packages of pork chops from the meat department of Walmart, located at 1800 
NE 12th Ave., at about 6 p.m., accord-
ing to an arrest report. The woman hid 
the pork chops in her purse, and Rob-erts hid them in his pants, police said.
The pair walked to the exit with the 
concealed pork chops, worth $42.31, but were stopped by a Walmart security ofﬁ  cer, according to the report. The woman threw the packages on the ground, and both left in a blue Ford Focus, which police pulled over a mile 
away, according to the report.
Police patted Roberts down and felt a bulge in his 
pants. An ofﬁ  cer asked Roberts what was in his pants, 
and he said, “meat,” according to the report.
Roberts tried to run from ofﬁ  cers but was caught a 
short distance away and arrested.
Roberts declined to say anything else to police, but 
the woman admitted to taking the pork chops and then leaving them at the store, police said.
Roberts, who has two prior theft convictions, includ-
ing a felony, was charged with petty theft and taken to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $10,000 bond. The woman was not charged. 
                                                     @Lewis__Robert                                                 rlewis@alligator.orgBy Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Curtis
Evron
Roberts
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
Does anyone else remember those little 
“karate belts” we tied to the ends of our recorders in music class? Perhaps a tiny white ribbon for a successful rendition of “Hot Cross Buns,” or a bead hung on 
a black string for the advanced version of “Ode to Joy?”
When I attended elementary school in Mi-
ami, I had the privilege of having at least one hour of music or art class each week. During that time, teachers would show us how to read sheet music and let us play bongos and tambourines. We would try our hands at recreating Vincent van Gogh’s “The Starry Night” and mush clay in our palms to make fantastical creatures and beasts. And in my 9-year-old head, I thought, “Sure, PE is fun, but this is the best part of the day.”
Too often we see dramatic drops in funding for arts and 
music education, and the discrepancy in our priorities only becomes starker as we get older. We let elementary-school-ers play make-believe but only for a little while. Once those kids hit middle school, it’s time for them to “get ready for high school,” take challenging math classes and leave some of that artfulness behind. And by high school, it’s all about Advanced Placement, Advanced International Certiﬁ  cate of Education and dual enrollment classes — after all, it’s al-most time for college, right?
Of course, general education is important. Standard 
English, science, math and social studies classes are not only a necessary component of well-rounded academics but also can prove equally, if not more, stimulating than some humanities electives. That being said, a well-educat-ed population requires investment in subjects like art, mu-sic and poetry that we so often discard the second someone whispers the phrase “budget cuts.”
So, what can we do when politicians and school districts 
divert money away from the humanities? On some level, we must take matters into our own hands. If you volun-teer with students in your community, whether in elementary, middle or high school, ask them about their favorite subjects and hobbies. If they’re excited about art and drawing, ask them to see their sketches — or better yet, make time to draw with them. If you have the time, vol-unteer in mentorship or after-school programs.
Contact your elected ofﬁ  cials and write to 
your local papers. Advocate for the kid next door who really wants to learn a musical instru-
ment. Recommend ways of beautifying your neighborhood schools or improving the educational programs in your area. If you don’t see it, suggest it!
Unsure of who to talk to? Here are some tips, tricks 
and fun facts. The website resist.bot allows you, through Facebook Messenger or text message, to ﬁ  nd out who your representatives in Congress are and message them quickly and safely. 
Don’t know what to say? Add your own personal anec-
dote — a positive or negative experience you’ve had with public education that you want ofﬁ  cials to know — and tell them why you think they should emphasize public educa-tion and the humanities during their tenures. Some quick facts you may ﬁ  nd useful: According to PBS, increased mu-sic education has led to higher IQs in elementary-school children, as well as heightened test scores and improved spatial intelligence. Sometimes the results truly are tan-gible.
My ﬁ  nal suggestion is as follows: Fellow college stu-
dents, quit shaming people for having majors outside our favorite or chosen ﬁ  elds. Whether you enjoy engineering or physics, architecture or culinary arts, what have you — let’s all just celebrate that we’re in college and we’ve made it this far, huh?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.
We should encourage children to explore art, musicEditorial
News headlines last week were dominated by the govern-
ment shutdown and Deferred Action for Childhood Ar-rivals program deals. These big ticket items, as important as they are, have taken away focus from another just as infuriating issue in President Donald Trump’s adminis-
tration.
According to Reuters, the U.S. government wants to increase 
the protection of the “conscious and religious freedom” of health care workers whose beliefs may inhibit them from carrying out speciﬁ  c procedures.
In a press release Friday, the Department of Health and Hu-
man Services (HHS) announced its Ofﬁ  ce of Civil Rights (OCR) proposed a new rule to enforce 25 existing statutory conscience protections for Americans involved in HHS-funded programs, 
which protects people from being coerced into participating in ac-
tivities that violate their conscience. This often includes perform-ing procedures such as abortion, sterilization or assisted suicide.
This announcement followed one released the day before, 
stating the OCR will add a new Conscience and Religious Free-dom Division within its ofﬁ  ce. The purpose of the division is to implement proposed regulation of freedoms within HHS-funded programs and to enforce statutes that protect individuals and or-ganizations from being compelled to participate in procedures 
when it would violate their religious beliefs or moral convictions.
This new division of the OCR will reverse former President 
Barack Obama-era health care rules that disallowed health care 
workers from denying treatment.
While we certainly support religious freedom and encourage 
workers to stand up against things they feel are morally wrong, we can’t say we agree with the revamp of these rules or the in-stallment of this new ofﬁ  ce.
When a person chooses a profession, they do so with a full 
understanding of their duties. They do so knowing they may not always agree with the needs of their clients and not everyone shares their beliefs. This is true of every profession — not just health care. We believe if a health care provider is not willing to perform all of their responsibilities, they should choose another ﬁ  eld or another health specialty. 
When health care providers refuse care requested by a pa-
tient, they not only put their patient at a disadvantage, but they put them in potential danger. The moral justiﬁ  cations of this are 
something we cannot fathom.
Moreover, the new rules have the potential to lead to a rise 
in discrimination based on things like gender, race or sexual 
orientation. For example, according to The Washington Post, in 2015 a Michigan pediatrician refused to treat a baby solely based on the fact its parents were lesbians. In areas where health care providers are scarce, the results of these new rules could prove detrimental. Should the local pediatrician, OB-GYN or primary care doctor deem someone morally wrong to treat, clients could 
be forced to travel far distances for health care or ﬁ  nd themselves 
with none at all.
We believe if you are a health care worker and you deem 
it morally acceptable to perform controversial procedures, get trained in every possible one. 
We are living in an age where it could soon be rare for an 
American to ﬁ  nd a doctor willing to perform procedures they need or who are even willing to see them at all. These people who could soon ﬁ  nd it challenging to receive necessary health 
care are in need. Doctors shouldn’t 
deny treatment 
based on religion 
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Earlier this week, Presi-
dent Donald Trump 
underwent a four-hour examination of physical 
and cognitive health. As 
of late, some were concerned 
about Trump’s erratic speech 
patterns, exhibited narcis-
sism, often poor judgment and 
rash decision making. He was deemed healthy, passing the 
cognitive test — the Montreal 
Cognitive Assessment, widely used to test for early signs of Alzheimer’s disease and 
other forms of dementia — with a report-
edly perfect score. This test is fairly high in validity but is not used to assess psy-
chiatric disorders such as narcissistic per-
sonality disorder, anxiety or depression.
I’m not going to sit here as an under-
graduate psychology student and give a 
deﬁ  nitive list of which mental disorders or impairments should preclude a person 
from being president and which should 
not. For that matter, I will not even try 
to craft a list of which should inhibit a 
person from functioning in any role of inﬂ  uence or leadership. What I will do, 
however, is discuss the difference, in my 
opinion, between cognitive impairment and psychological disorders. They should 
be examined and treated differently, in 
terms of both care and attitude.
According to a study by the Duke 
University Medical Center, in which bio-
graphical sources for the ﬁ  rst 37 presidents were analyzed, half had been afﬂ  icted by 
mental illness. To add to that ﬁ  nding, 
more than a quarter met the criteria for 
mental illness while in ofﬁ  ce. About 24 
percent met the criteria for depression, in-cluding former Presidents James Madison 
and Abraham Lincoln. Nearly 8 percent 
showed evidence of anxiety disorders, in-
cluding former Presidents Thomas Jeffer-
son and Woodrow Wilson. And close to 8 
percent showed signs of bipolar disorder, 
including former Presidents Lyndon John-
son and Theodore Roosevelt.
None of these men were perfect. No 
one is. Did these mental disorders make 
their lives harder? Probably. Could these mental disorders have impacted their 
ability to lead? Maybe. Here’s the thing, though: 
We cannot let mental disorders rule people out of positions of power. There is a theory that a 
high percentage of upper-level executives are psychopaths. 
I’m in no way saying being a 
psychopath is a good thing, 
but this clearly is not hinder-
ing their success and ability to lead.
I know a vast majority of 
you probably hate Trump or at least dis-like him. You’re allowed to hate him and 
to be dissatisﬁ  ed with his leadership style 
and/or his personality. You can wish that he be impeached or decide to re-
sign. However, what you should not do is 
make a blanket statement that people af-
fected by psychiatric disorders (whether 
ofﬁ  cially diagnosed or merely theoretical) 
are unﬁ  t to do their jobs.
I think I’ve given Trump more than 
enough attention for the time being, so let’s talk about you, dear reader. I don’t 
know what you’re struggling with or 
what is going on inside your mind. I hope you have someone in your life — a friend, 
parent, mentor, therapist or whomever 
it may be — that you can talk to about what’s happening in there.
While a certain level of cognitive abil-
ity is desired depending on your role, you 
should not feel as though you are incapa-
ble of achieving what you wish based on 
a diagnosis. Don’t let anyone say you are less capable because your brain is wired 
differently than others’. We live in a time 
with a wide range of available treatment 
options, from behavioral-cognitive thera-
py to medication and so much more. Take advantage of whatever your resources al-
low you to. I hope you can embrace and 
conquer what your mind decides to throw 
your way. What Trump does a lot of the 
time is unnerving and, quite frankly, ter-
rifying. But I hope he, like all of us, can 
play to his strengths and overcome his 
weaknesses to be a better, more stable 
leader.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism 
and psychology junior. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.Mental health problems do not 
correlate to poor leadership skillsColumn
On Jan. 13, Hawaii experi-enced 38 minutes of fear from a supposed incoming ballistic missile attack when a state employee clicked 
the wrong item from a drop-down menu. One would think the U.S. government would handle nuclear prevention programs with the same degree of sophistication that makes these weapons possible. Instead, the warning for the inescapable likelihood of thou-sands of deaths and the beginning of nuclear war was determined by the same interface that 
students use to save their homework.
Since the end of the Cold War, the idea of 
mutually-assured destruction has allowed peo-
ple to develop the ill-conceived notion that the possible use of nuclear weapons can be over-looked. America’s leaders fall into the trap of using an empty threat of nuclear weapons as a magical tool to achieve foreign policy goals. To-day, in a time when the U.S. should be a para-
gon for diplomacy, it has become an origin for 
rising international tension.
Just this past Tuesday at a Vancouver confer-
ence composed of 20 nations, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson warned if North Korea does not give up on their nuclear program, “they them-selves will trigger an option.” The American public must understand the danger of nuclear weapons to pressure government ofﬁ  cials to 
handle nuclear policy as cautiously as possible 
as the weapons are dangerous.
Although today it may seem absurd that 
people in the 1950s hid under desks to protect themselves from nuclear attacks, contemporary views on nuclear power are just as clouded about current technology. The average Ameri-can probably thinks of the mushroom cloud from the attack on Hiroshima or Nagasaki to 
represent the power of nuclear weapons, but 
technology has dramatically developed since then. A modern-day hydrogen bomb can be at least 1,000 times more powerful than the type of atomic bomb dropped in Japan. In 1945, sci-entists at the Los Alamos National Laboratory estimated it could take as few as 10 hydrogen bombs to end the human race.
Conventional thermonuclear weapons are 
not the only nuclear weapons to threaten civi-lization. It took about 120,000 people to build the ﬁ  rst atomic bomb, but it no longer takes such scientiﬁ  c genius and manpower to harness the power of nuclear weapons. Small extremist groups have the potential to turn conventional explosives into a nuclear weapon in the form of a radiological dispersion device, or “dirty bomb,” to release radiation. According to the Institute for Science and International Secu-
rity, a nonproﬁ  t organization that 
monitors global nuclear threats, groups like the Islamic State have long discussed the possibility of us-ing easily obtainable radioactive ma-terial, such as cobalt-60, in a dirty 
bomb. Cobalt-60 is a highly radioactive isotope used in medical technology that can be danger-ous in relatively small amounts. Leo Szilard, a 
scientist who worked on the Manhattan Proj-
ect, calculated that just one-tenth of an ounce of cobalt-60 present on every square mile of earth would make the planet uninhabitable. Sci-ence has developed over time to create scarier and deadlier weapons; nuclear policy has yet to match today’s technology.
Like all aspects of government, it is impor-
tant for experts to be part of the discussion to 
make the best decisions. However, nuclear pol-
icy is different. Unlike topics like education or health care, if someone says uninformed deci-sions on nuclear policy could destroy millions of lives, it is not an exaggeration. Scientists and policy experts who focus on nuclear power can provide insight even the brightest politicians could not understand on their own. Secondly, Congress must reform the procedure for a U.S. 
nuclear strike. While there are checks and bal-
ances within the federal government for other political actions, the president currently has the ability to order a nuclear strike without the inﬂ  u-ence of another branch of government. In an era where a president holds such a polarizing view on a choice with grave consequences, Congress should be required to approve a nuclear strike to better represent the views of the American 
people.
Due to dramatic shifts in political culture, 
words and actions that would have been con-
sidered extreme in the past are now common-place. When President Donald Trump threatens to use his “much bigger and more powerful” nuclear button, he threatens to kill hundreds of thousands of people. As a part of the world’s community, Americans cannot stand for such 
threats to innocent human life.
Joshua Udvary is a UF environmental 
engineering junior. His column appears on 
Fridays.
The power of nuclear weapons shouldn't 
be underestimated, and we need to actColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
she said.
She wore a handmade pink beanie and car-
ried a sign depicting Trump as a dinosaur about 
to be hit by a Korean missile.
“We have a tyrant for a president,” Ayers 
said, explaining her drawing. “He has political 
beliefs that don’t belong in the modern world.”
Curtis said she had never organized an ac-
tivist event before Sunday, but she began plan-
ning this march a month ago after noticing a 
lack of Women’s March events in Gainesville. 
She said she will host the event next year, and it will be “bigger and better.”
“I think what we saw today was an abso-
lutely inspiring declaration of the community that they’re not gonna tolerate the lesser treat-
ment of women,” she said. “We’re going to 
speak power to truth, and we are going to re-move people who abuse their power.”
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
3914 SW Archer Rd 352-377-6020
STOP DREAMING.
START DOING.
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or 
cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/18.Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at Butler Plaza GNC location. Check out our daily specials. Expires 03/03/18.$5 OFF  
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $25 OR MORE$10 OFF
ANY PURCHASE 
OF $50 OR MORE
A large crowd gathered on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Sunday for Gainesville’s “Celebration of Women” event 
commemorating the one-year anniversary of the Women’s March in Washington, D.C.
Jordan Bourne / Alligator Staff T aylour Marks / Alligator StaffT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
RIGHT: Megan Wardell, a 
19-year-old UF public relations and political science freshman, carries a sign quoting Michelle Obama’s speech from the 2016 Democratic National Convention during the march portion of Gainesville’s “Celebration of Women” event. LEFT: A woman wearing 
the signature pink knit hat of the Women’s Resistance 
movement sits among a crowd 
of protesters on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. MARCH,  from pg. 1The event featured 12 speakers who spoke about gender equalityBy Victoria Salomon
Alligator Contributing Writer
In celebration of the 45th anni-
versary of Roe v. Wade, about 300 
people met and spoke about ad-
vances and obstacles in women’s 
rights Saturday night.
The local chapter of the National 
Women’s Liberation held the event 
at The Wooly, located at 20 N. 
Main St. It’s the fifth year they’ve held the event, said Brooke Eliazar-Macke, a member of the organiza-tion’s steering committee and one 
of the event organizers. She said 
the intention was to celebrate the decision and feminism itself. 
“We want to show this decision 
was not the gift of a judge,” Elia-zar-Macke said. “It was the effort of organized feminist demand, and its historic impact remains signifi-cant.”
At the event, attendees could give donations to the organization or pay for tickets for raffles such 
as local businesses’ gift cards. The 
organization is working on advanc-ing women’s abortion rights by making sure local clinics are prop-erly licensed for the procedure.
The event is one of the many car-
ried out by the National Women’s Liberation to ignite social change, Eliazar-Macke said. They also hold 
seminars and classes focused on 
historically successful ways of or-ganizing social movements.
Erica Bales, another member of 
the organization and the steering 
committee, said they’re working 
on making affordable birth control more readily accessible to local communities. In the future, Bales 
said she hopes more locals get in-
volved with the organization and engage in activist action.
“Find the cause you believe in 
and work for that,” she said.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
Victoria Salomon / Alligator   
Amy Coenen and her daughter, Ella, share the stage with another member of the National Women’s 
Liberation right before announcing the first winners of the raffle inside The Wooly, located at 20 N. Main St., on Saturday night. The anniversary show was put together to celebrate the 45th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade U.S. Supreme Court decision.
THIS YEAR’S EVENT 
FEATURED NEW 
ZUMBA AND HIP-HOP 
FITNESS SESSIONS.
By Kaylee Weber
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students worked up a 
sweat as they ran up each step 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Friday evening in hopes of win-ning a free Victoria’s Secret 
Pink sports bra.
About 200 students came to 
Gates 13, 14 and 15 for Pink’s 
annual “Too Fit To Quit” event. Following free workout ses-sions, the company’s campus representatives gave attendees more freebies than previous years, including 100 Pink Ul-timate Sports Bras, valued at $25 each, said Sara Preston, a UF Pink campus representative who helped organize the event.
“We actually chose the title 
of this event, ‘Too Fit to Quit,’ because we wanted people to really stick to their New Year’s resolutions,” the 20-year-old UF telecommunication junior said.
In addition to stadium work-
outs, this year’s event featured two new types of fitness ses-sions: Zumba and Latin-infused 
hip-hop taught by UF student 
instructors.
This year’s event featured a 
challenge-by-choice approach to the fitness sessions, where students could fluctuate be-tween workouts and difficulty levels as needed, Preston said.
Bryan Alava, a 21-year-old 
UF biochemistry junior, in-structed about 50 students in his Zumba workout session.
“However hard the class 
may be, there’s always ways to make it at everyone’s level,” Alava said.
While some attendees just 
came for the free goodies, oth-ers like Maria Paula Vargas, a UF accounting senior, said she took the workouts to heart as 
she followed Alava’s Zumba 
moves.
“I canceled my gym class to-
day to come here instead,” the 22-year-old said.Victoria’s Secret Pink holds 
workouts, gives away bras 
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ten-year-old José carefully poured cups 
of flour and rice through a funnel attached to 
a balloon to create his very own stress ball.
“His name is Timmy,” he said, after draw-
ing a green smiley face on his new handcraft-
ed creation. 
José was one of the 25 people who went 
to the free community health fair Saturday 
afternoon at Iglesia Hispana de Alachua, lo-cated at 13719 NW 146th Ave. José’s mother declined to give his last name, citing privacy concerns. The event was held by Children Beyond Our Borders, a Florida nonprofit or-ganization focused toward ensuring the so-cial well-being of immigrant children, their families and additional under-represented 
groups.This was the fourth time the event has 
been held, but the first with dental volun-
teers from UF Dentistry, said Juan Leon, a 
volunteer director for the nonprofit.
The 20-year-old UF biomedical engineer-
ing sophomore said he helped organize the 
event to provide free health care to anyone in the community who might need it.
“Health care should be a human right 
given to all,” he said.
The UF Mobile Outreach Clinic provided 
checkups and assessments, said Dr. Diana 
Montoya-Williams, a UF Health pediatrician 
and board member of Children Beyond Our Borders.
Mariana Piedrahita, a 21-year-old UF in-
ternational studies senior and Child Beyond Our Borders intern, leads children activities.
“The overall importance is reaching out 
to the community and educating them about their health resources,” Piedrahita said.UF mobile clinic continues 
efforts to serve immigrants 
Eman Elshahawy / Alligator 
Nurses prepare to see the list of patients who signed up for free clinic services on the 
UF Mobile Outreach Clinic, in front of Iglesia Hispana de Alachua, located at 13719 NW 146th Ave. in Alachua.
Feminists meet to speak about Roe v. Wade anniversary
By Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF study found people who lose 
weight are likely to regain weight faster 
than previously thought. 
The study published in December 
led by Dr. Kathryn Ross, a UF College of Public Health and Health Professions assistant professor, followed 75 partici-
pants, who had lost weight for 12 weeks, 
over the course of nine months after an initial weight loss period. 
They found a majority of participants 
regained the weight they initially lost, in 
contrast to the former belief that people 
were able to maintain weight loss for a period of time, Ross said.
Participants reported data using digi-
tal scales that would automatically send data to the researchers, Ross said. Re-searchers then looked at the data to fig-
ure out when people’s weight began to 
switch from maintenance to regain.
Initially, researchers believed they 
would find three stages in a person’s weight: loss, maintenance and regain, 
Ross said. But in reality, participants did 
not experience a maintenance stage. 
According to Ross, the study found 
those who were older, female and mar-
ried had a slower rate of weight regain.
Next, researchers will study what peo-
ple do before they begin to regain weight 
and why they do it, Ross said. 
“This supports an emerging model of 
obesity treatment that weight manage-ment really needs to be seen as more of a continual care model or chronic disease model,” Ross said. UF study: People regain 
weight faster than expectedBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk. Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-31-18-6-14
ATTENTION:Looking for a dependable, caring caregiver to care for my daughter and help her with daily activites & personal care. Female only please.  Call Marilyn at 352-339-2798    1-26-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORING
PhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Cried on cue, say
6 Nimble-fingered
10 Auntie on
Broadway
14 Africa’s Sierra __15 Butterlike topping
16 Beatnik’s
“Understood”
17 *Grocery store
19 Join the chorus20 Like the chains in
a chain necklace
21 Camp beds22 Swear (to)25 Pair in a dinghy27 Employee’s
reward
28 *Vessel for a
cheesy dip
33 Cone-dropping
trees
34 Recycling
receptacle
35 Maps within maps36 Therapists’ org.37 *Ballroom dance
that’s also aphoneticalphabet “F”
39 Shatner’s
“__War”
40 Cash in, as
coupons
42 “I __ only kidding”43 Shoulder muscle,
for short
44 *All-terrain high
shoe
46 Sandburg and
Sagan
47 Highest in quality48 Gives a thumbs-
up
49 Wrinkle-removing
injection
52 Acquires, as
debts
55 State firmly56 Stream crossing
for pedestrians ...and what isliterally providedby the interiorletters in theanswers tostarred clues
60 Filet mignon
order
61 World power
initials until 1991
62 How contracts
are signed
63 Iditarod vehicle64 Fishing rod
partner
65 Occur as a resultDOWN
1 1980s TV ET2 Corporate VIP
3 Also
4 Tiresomely long5 Downfall6 Nerdy sort
7 Sommer of
cinema
8 Get nourishment
from
9 Trike rider
10 Applies
incorrectly
11 Score after deuce
12 Ermine cousin13 They’re often
scrambled
18 Tiny farm
denizen
21 Main impact22 Repetitive
barking
23 Taiwan’s capital24 Rabble-rousing
outburst
26 “Hasta la vista”28 Predicament29 Quarterback’s
“Snap the ball atthe second ‘hut’”
30 Fizzles (out)31 Verdi opera with
Desdemona
32 “You should be
ashamed!”34 Lays an egg on
stage
37 UPS alternative
38 Word before or
after pack
41 Nudged sharply
43 Best Western
competitor
45 Lazy
46 Underwood who
performs the
“Sunday Night
Football” opening48 Classroom 
stand-in
49 Happy hour
places
50 Mirror shape
51 Ran like mad53 Smoke detector?54 PC corner key
56 Calico coat
57 Put down
58 Oxlike antelope
59 Barely manage,
with “out”
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/22/1801/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, January 22, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Color in the
brown family
5 Dusty trail figure
9 Board that
decides without
voting
14 Flow hindrance
15 Not expected
17 Ducklike bird
18 Company that
pioneered metal
drivers in golf
19 Perrier units
21 Only one fed.
holiday falls on it
annually
22 A hockey player
may check with
one
23 Thing to get
one’s claws into
27 Often-glazed
delicacy
28 Tail of a cartoon
dog?
29 Actress __-
Margret
30 Hosp. areas
31 Lake Itasca, 
vis-à-vis the
Mississippi
35 Out indefinitely
38 Certain landing
aid
39 Sara Roosevelt’s
maiden name
40 Gordon
Shumway’s titlealias, in a sitcom
41 “I didn’t need to
know that”
42 Book after Exod.
43 Settled things46 They go on until
dawn
50 More at the end?
51 Many a boat, to
its skipper
52 Strong denial
54 Fulfill, as a
promise
58 Advanced59 Pac-12 student60 Colon, in
analogies
61 Parachute fabric
62 Bldg. units63 Pipe organ
component
DOWN
1 O.T. book2 Fancy
enamelwork
3 Endodontic
therapy4 Says
5 Tries to pick up
6 Political
commentator
Navarro
7 Drummer’s
creations
8 2010
CommonwealthGames host city
9 One making a
splash?
10 Rail stop between
Stuttgart andMunich
11 State in both the
Pacific andMountain timezones
12 “A __ Fury”: “Star
Wars” DVDsegment
13 More than
competent
16 They may involve
cheap shots
20 Urban omnivore24 Word of amore25 Mob hiree26 Show
displeasure
27 Carefully timed
operation
32 Worst of the
worst
33 Flirts with34 Lover of Geraint
36 Bad state for
sailing
37 Seat for a priority
boarder
38 Part of a bargain,
maybe
40 Hyper
44 “__ be a shame 
if ... ”
45 Mediterranean
sauces
46 Do only what he
says47 “Rescue Me” star
Denis
48 “Did I do that?”
TV nerd
49 Sitcom with a
1974 wedding
episode
53 Sporty car roof
55 A big one might
be fragile
56 Geometric suffix
57 Eighth mo. in the
old Romancalendar
By Alex Bajcz©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/20/1801/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, January 20, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Force
1.  Baby5.  Pass out
2.  House ____6.  ____ station 
3.  Stumbling block7.  Damaged, shattered
4.  Heavyset weapon MSPOIE
FTNNAINATFI
RATNI
ATIPNRE
BKETSCAENROBK
ANOCNNANSWERS: 1A-Impose  5A-Faint  6A-Train  7A-Broken
1D-Infant  2D-Painter  3D-Setback  4D-Cannon  B-Tasmania1-22-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to about 
500,000 people. 
BONUS1. When Boston’s David Ortiz had 
127 RBIs in his final season in 2016, 
whose record did he break for most 
RBIs in his last major-league season?
2. In how many consecutive seasons 
did the Dodgers’ Sandy Koufax toss a 
no-hitter?
3. When was the last time before 
2016 that the University of Michi-
gan’s football team scored at least 
45 points in each of their first four 
games?
4. San Antonio’s Tim Duncan, in 
2016, became the third player in NBA 
history to win at least 1,000 games in a career. Name the other two.
5. Who was the first U.S.-born coach 
to win the Stanley Cup?
6. Name the winningest coach in 
U.S. men’s national soccer team his-tory.
7. Who was the last American wom-
an before Mikaela Shiffrin and Lind-sey V onn to be the Alpine skiing over -
all World Cup champion?
Answers
1. “Shoeless” Joe Jackson had 121 
RBIs in his last season in 1920.
2. Four seasons — 1962-65.3. It was 1947.
4. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (1,074 
wins) and Robert Parish (1,014).
5. Bill Stewart, with the Chicago 
Blackhawks in 1938.
6. Bruce Arena was 81-32-35.7. Tamara McKinney, in 1983.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
January 22, 2018King Features Weekly Service15 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides
Which UF team does columnist 
Ethan Bauer think is "the model sport" at Florida? Find out, pg. 16Three Gators head to Super Bowl LII
With the New England Patriots and Philadelphia Eagles winning their re-
spective conference championships on Sunday, former UF football players 
Mike Gillislee (Patriots), Trey Burton (Eagles) and Jaylen Watkins (Eagles) 
are set to compete in the Super Bowl on Feb. 4.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
With a raucous home crowd surrounding them, the 
Gators broke their huddle and trotted out for one more 
defensive possession. Eight seconds remained in the game,  and Ole Miss needed a bucket to pull back into the lead.
Junior guard Alissa Alston dribbled to her right, sped 
into the paint and elevated for a potential go-ahead la-
yup.
But Florida forward Haley Lorenzen met her under 
the rim, forcing her shot off the backboard and into the 
arms of Dyandria Anderson with one second to go.
The defensive stop capped off on a near-perfect fourth 
quarter for UF (10-10, 2-5 SEC) on Sunday, as it won its second consecutive conference game in a 61-60 sequel to the two teams’ double-overtime thriller two weeks ago.
After the stop, the Rebels’ bench erupted, believing 
Alston had been fouled. While the replay was unclear on if there was contact on the attempt, Lorenzen said she and her teammates executed their defensive strategy to perfection.
“I just let the instincts take over," Lorenzen said. "I 
just did my best to not foul her and contest the layup.”
The game itself was a tale of runs. The Gators jumped 
out to a 10-point lead early in the second quarter before allowing Ole Miss (11-8, 1-5 SEC) to go on a 15-2 run to end the half. In the third, the Rebels used a 13-4 stretch to extend their lead to 11 with six minutes remaining in the quarter.
Long-range droughts haunted UF throughout. Florida 
did not make a three-point shot in both the second and third quarters for the ﬁ  rst time this season. The team made just ﬁ  ve shots from distance all game, its second-lowest output of the year. It was the third consecutive game that the Gators have failed to make more than sev-en three-pointers in their new offensive scheme, which 
encourages long-range shots.
However, Florida appeared to break out of its recent 
shooting slump from the ﬁ  eld as whole. UF connected Gators stage late comeback, defeat Ole Miss at O'Dome 
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
After completing its third meet of the 
season, the Florida gymnastics team add-
ed another win to its record, putting up its ﬁ  rst SEC victory of the year.
Florida (2-1, 1-1 SEC) overcame Ken-
tucky (4-1, 1-1 SEC) 196.325-195.950 on Jan. 19 in Lexington to clinch its second victory on the road. UF’s win comes after a loss in its home opener against No. 1 LSU  by a margin of 0.125 on Jan. 12.
The meet between the Gators and 
Wildcats marked the ﬁ  rst time both teams entered with top-10 rankings in 84 total meetings. The Gators only trailed Ken-
tucky once at the end of the ﬁ  rst rotation 
and didn't fall behind again as they out-scored UK for the 20th year in a row.“The team was able to keep their conﬁ  -
dence up and keep moving through most of the lineup,” coach Jenny Rowland said in a release.
The meet featured Florida leading in 
three of its four events. In vault, senior Ra-chel Slocum landed a season-high 9.925, good enough to tie 2017 SEC Freshman of the Year Mollie Korth for ﬁ  rst as well as get her her ﬁ  rst vault title of the year. UF’s other two victories came from sophomore 
Rachel Gowey, who claimed ﬁ  rst in uneven 
bars with a score of 
9.825. Gowey also tied two Wildcats on bal-ance beam. Her score of 9.900 helped boost the Gators standing in 
the event after senior Kennedy Baker fell off the beam earlier in the lineup. 
All-Americans Baker and Alicia Boren 
were able to work their way into the all-around rankings, placing second and 
third, respectively, behind Korth. 
In addition to the team taking three 
events, Florida also saw a multitude of 
personal victories. A total of ﬁ  ve gymnasts left the Memorial Coliseum on Friday night with season-best scores and another ﬁ  ve matched their previous season-highs. 
“We worked better together as a 
team,” Rowland said. “The energy was 
fantastic.”
A story from FloridaGators.com con-
tributed to this report. 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org  Florida moving on from ﬁ  rst SEC winEmma Green / Alligator Staff
After losing its ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve SEC games, the Florida women's basketball team is on a current two-game winning streak, 
defeating Ole Miss 61-60 on Sunday afternoon.
MEN'S BASKETBALLFLORIDA 61, OLE MISS 60
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Kentucky guard Shai Gilgeous-Alexander collected a re-
bound on a missed KeVaughn Allen layup with just over 
ﬁ  ve minutes remaining in the game. Eight seconds later in transition, Gilgeous-Alexander turned the ball over, al-lowing Florida to respond with two free throws to cut the 
Wildcats’ lead to 56-55. 
During the Gators men’s basketball team's 66-64 win 
over Kentucky at Rupp Arena on Saturday night, Gilgeous-
Alexander’s turnover was just one example of what went wrong for the Wildcats. They ﬁ  nished the game with 16  Staunch defense 
sparked UF's win 
over Kentucky SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16
SEE MEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16Gowey
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
It was a once-in-a-lifetime mo-
ment Belinda Woolcock never saw 
coming.
Standing on the courts of the Dan 
Magill Tennis Complex in Athens, 
Georgia, on May 23, 2017, Belinda 
had just won the final singles match of her dual-match career as a col-lege tennis player, notching a 6-1, 6-3, victory over Stanford’s Caroline Doyle.
Belinda waited on the sidelines 
of the dimly lit playing area, keeping her eyes trained on teammate Ingrid 
Neel as she got closer and closer to 
finishing off her opponent.
When a forehand from the Car-
dinal’s Taylor Davidson went out of play to clinch the win for Neel, Be-linda sprinted toward her teammate, her arms opened wide in celebration as Gators fans screamed and cheered from the stands.
The first few seconds after the 
Florida women’s tennis team won the 2017 NCAA championship — the seventh national title in program history — is a memory Belinda will never forget.
Belinda’s experience with the col-
legiate sports world in the United States wasn’t necessarily a life-long 
goal of hers, but a pro tennis career 
certainly was in the forefront of her mind.
This was one of the reasons why 
she decided to travel 9,685 miles away from her native country of 
Australia. But the decision certainly 
came with its difficulties.
Belinda developed a strong back-
ground in tennis during her child-hood years in Melbourne — a city in Victoria, Australia.
She was introduced to the sport 
when she was 5 and began compet-ing in tournaments when she was 7.
Eleven years later, after becoming 
one of the top amateur tennis players 
in Melbourne, she had a decision to 
make: Did she want to pursue col-lege tennis or enter the professional circuit?
There were pros and cons to both 
choices.
Belinda’s primary focus as a 
young talent was improving her world ranking to gain opportunities 
as a professional.
While college tennis would help 
her hone her skills, she wouldn’t 
receive the level of global recogni-tion competing in the NCAA that she would if she went pro immediately.
Australia’s attitude toward col-lege athletics was also a deterrent.
According to Belinda, the country 
looks down upon playing sports at the university level.
“If you really cared about tennis, 
you played professional,” she said.
However, Belinda found herself 
in a rut with Tennis Australia, the governing body for tennis in her home country.
She noticed minimal improve-
ment in her game, which she largely blamed on her training environment. There weren’t many women her age competing at the same level she was, limiting her practices to one-on-one 
sessions with a private coach.
Belinda’s father, Geoff, noticed 
her lack of development under Ten-
nis Australia as well, attributing it to her isolation from competing at a high level with others.
“Belinda thrives in a team envi-
ronment,” he said. “The whole idea of competing for somebody, whether 
it’s a college or your country, really 
gets her going.”
In April 2013, Belinda realized 
the United States was the best op-tion for her. She began reaching out to schools including Florida, Duke, Texas and Tennessee and told her parents she wanted to play college tennis abroad.
While Geoff was elated, her 
mother, Jane, did not share his same level of excitement.
Jane feared that college wouldn’t 
be a good fit for Belinda and was concerned she wouldn’t get to wit-ness her daughter improve.
Belinda assured her that she 
could still play professionally after 
leaving school, but Jane’s insecuri-
ties weren’t eased immediately. It took a lot of research for her to fully support the idea of a collegiate expe-rience for her daughter.
Belinda showed her mother re-
search she’d done on the schools she was interested in, organizing lists of information in spreadsheets and 
sending her mother videos of tennis 
players who’d competed at the uni-versity level before playing profes-sionally.
After watching the videos and 
examining Belinda’s research, Jane’s perspective changed. She gave her daughter full support and the green light to start visiting schools. Soon 
after, Belinda committed to Florida.
The night before she left for the 
U.S., her nerves started kicking in.
Her mind lingered on the fact she 
didn’t know anyone in Gainesville 
and wasn’t sure what to do when she arrived.
Belinda was flying to the other 
side of the world all by herself and not coming home.
The anxiety quickly got the best 
of her.
While Belinda was in the process 
of packing her things, her sister, Sar-ah, walked into her room and found her crying.
Belinda wanted to be welcomed 
and liked, but the fact she was mov-ing to a foreign country created a lot of unknowns.
Sarah helped Belinda calm down 
by giving her some final reassuranc-
es. The next day, Belinda was off to 
the U.S.
During her first semester in 
Gainesville, Belinda thrived in a 
team environment. The constant 
companionship and competitive set-ting instilled passion back into her tennis game.
However, the homesickness she 
felt in her first six months of college overshadowed the excitement sur-rounding her new classes and team-mates.
Belinda felt an uneasiness that 
could only be calmed by talking to her family.
Geoff said frequent FaceTime 
calls became the go-to solution to keeping Belinda grounded. They kept her reassured that she’d made the right decision any time she was down on herself or questioned if she’d made a mistake.
The first time Belinda came home 
during her freshman year, Jane real-
ized her daughter had made a good 
choice.
Belinda was playing with more 
confidence, at a more upbeat tempo 
and seemed happier overall.
Before she moved to Gainesville, 
she would allow her emotions to boil over if she wasn’t playing well.
But after enrolling at UF, she ma-
tured under the guidance of coach Roland Thornqvist, becoming  more accepting and composed when she 
lost.
Halfway through her collegiate 
career, however, Belinda hit a break-
ing point.
She returned home to Austra-
lia during the summer between her 
sophomore and junior seasons ques-
tioning if the United States was still the right option for her.
Belinda was frustrated that her 
pro career rankings had come to a halt while she competed at the col-legiate level.
In the NCAA, tennis teams use 
the fall semester to compete in ex-
hibition tournaments to prepare for 
the spring season, limiting players opportunities to participate in profes-sional events.It became a gut-wrenching situa-
tion for Belinda.
If she competed in college tour-
naments, her personal ranking in the 
pro circuit would suffer, but if she 
competed in pro tournaments, Belin-da risked losing her spot in Florida’s lineup.
After spending the summer back 
home training, Belinda realized not much had changed in Australia.
The only thing keeping her there 
was her family, as a lack of organiza-
tion and structure in Tennis Austra-
lia had put the program in disarray.
Belinda realized she couldn’t 
think of a reason to leave UF.
It was important to her that she 
completed her degree. If she put a halt on her education to play pro ten-nis, it would be difficult to go back to the U.S. later to finish her education.
When Belinda came back to 
Florida for her junior season, she set her eyes on finishing her collegiate career strong, specifically claiming a national title with her teammates.
Two years later, the Gators 
clinched their seventh NCAA title in program history with their 4-1 defeat over Stanford in Athens.
To read the rest of this story 
online, go to alligator.org/sports.
Home away from home: Woolcock’s decision to leave Australia paid off
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Former Florida women’s tennis player Belinda Woolcock went from an apprehensive 18-year-old 
nervous about leaving home to an NCAA champion full of confidence.
•   •   •
•   •   •
MEN’S TENNISWOMEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s tennis team kicks off 
its dual-match season today against UCF as 
the No. 9-ranked program in the country. The Gators have won all 16 previous matchups 
with the Knights, including a 7-0 sweep in 
2013 when the teams last met.
Sophomore Johannes Ingildsen and junior Alfredo Perez open the season with top-10 singles rankings and will play to-gether as the No. 1 doubles 
pair in the nation.
Seven players on UF’s 
roster are returning from 
last year, but it’s the fresh-
men who have impressed coach Bryan Shelton. Du-arte Vale, Oliver Crawford and Andy Andrade made up the nation’s second-best recruiting class in 2017.
“I think that all three of our freshmen have 
certainly done enough to deserve a place in the lineup,” Shelton said.
Andrade went 14-3 in the fall season and 
won the Ivy-Plus Invitational in his debut as a Gator. Crawford and Vale both competed in the main draw at last week’s City of Sunrise Pro Tennis Classic. In his second match of the qualifying rounds, Vale defeated UCF’s No. 1 singles player, senior Kyle Lovett, in straight sets (6-4, 6-4).
In five seasons under Shelton, Florida has 
never lost its season-opening match. Today’s contest will be played at the Ring Tennis Com-
plex at 6 p.m.
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgUF hosts UCF tonight in season opener of dual-match play 
Perez
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2018
on 45.3 percent of its shots, its highest mark 
since its game against Jacksonville on Nov. 
28. Sophomore guard Delicia Washington was efﬁ  cient from the ﬁ  eld, hitting 7-of-12 shots while pulling down 10 rebounds for her ﬁ  fth double-double on the season. After the game, her voice was audibly wavering. 
“I was hype,” Washington said, attributing 
her diminished voice to shouting assignments to her teammates. “Communication plays a big role. It led us to the win.”
Lorenzen’s 6-of-10 shooting — including 2 
for 2 from beyond the arc — and 13 rebounds secured her 11th double-double of the year. 
In the fourth quarter, Florida found itself down by 13 and seemingly running on fumes. But the Gators came out on ﬁ  re, exploding for a 16-0 run in just over seven minutes. After a pair of Ole Miss layups reclaimed the lead for the Rebels, Lorenzen grabbed an offensive rebound after a missed three-pointer from 
Washington and banked it home to reclaim 
the lead for good.
Coach Cameron Newbauer said he appre-ciated the energy and enthusiasm from the crowd. During his team’s fourth-quarter run, Newbauer tried to pump the fans up, waving at them from the sideline to get out of their seats.
“That’s one of those moments that you 
want everyone to see it and understand what we just did,” Newbauer said.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n 
mmcmullen@alligator.org.
WOMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14Lorenzen made 6-of-10 shots from the ieldAll-American gymnast Alex McMurtry cele-
brated after her team lost a competitive match to LSU on the evening of Jan. 12. Or, at the very least, she didn’t care at all about the loss. 
Neither did her teammates Alicia Boren, 
Rachel Slocum and Kennedy Baker, who joined her on the podium at the team’s post-match press conference in the bowels of the O’Connell Center. The quartet laughed, joked and smiled until coach Jenny Rowland ar-rived. 
“Literally nothing matters,” one of the ath-
letes sang. “It’s only January 12th.”
Rowland joined in and giggled as well. 
If you follow any other sport at UF — espe-
cially the revenue-producing sports of men’s 
basketball and football — you know this at-titude is uncommon. It’s one thing for a coach to take positives from a loss. It’s another to joke about the loss as if it didn’t happen.
If Mike White laughed and joked after what 
will probably end up being an inconsequen-tial loss to Loyola-Chicago on Dec. 6, half the 
fan base would’ve been on the verge of aneu-
rysms. 
That wasn’t the case following the gymnas-
tics team’s loss, and that’s part of what makes it the best sport at UF, as well as a model for what a great team looks like. But of course, its spirit isn’t the only thing. A better place to start making the case for the gymnastics team as a model for teams everywhere is the tra-ditional barometer for athletic achievement: Competition. Or, better yet, success. 
Florida’s gymnastics team ﬂ  ourishes year 
after year. Despite the loss to LSU, this year’s group is still expected to contend for a national title, having lost little from last year’s talented 
group while hauling in the nation’s top-ranked 
recruiting class.
That’s no surprise considering the team 
has made the NCAA Super Six 11 out of the last 12 years and won three consecutive titles from 2013-15. That’s beyond competitive — it’s borderline dominant.But the team doesn’t let that success and 
the accompanying pressure and prestige get to it. The athletes haven’t lost sight of the power of sports to transcend balance-beam falls and perfect 10s alike. That’s clear from the group’s adoption of Bailey, a young girl with an inop-erable brain tumor. 
On ﬁ  rst glance, that probably sounds pre-
dictable. How many stories have you heard about athletes going to visit sick children in the hospital? Don’t get me wrong — it’s a great thing to do. But that’s often where such rela-tionships end. 
That isn’t the case with UF’s gymnasts and Bailey. 
Team members like Rachel Gowey and Slo-
cum — who Bailey calls “Gumball” — Face-Time Bailey regularly. Team higher-ups allow her to attend practice. And against LSU, UF’s 
ﬁ  rst home meet of the 2018 season, Bailey was 
introduced alongside the rest of UF’s gymnasts before the competition. 
When’s the last time you heard about a 
football or basketball team doing something like that? 
That isn’t to say it doesn’t happen. It is to 
say it’d be nice to see it happen more because sports have the potential to be more than a 
ﬁ  nal score.
The UF gymnastics team understands that. 
Finally, aside from its regular excellence on 
the mat, the team is also just fun to watch. 
I don’t think I have to tell any sports fan 
attending the University of Florida how mis-erable it feels to watch a bad basketball or football game. Gymnastics, however, is con-sistently delightful. 
Every routine carries the potential of a fall 
as well as the reﬁ  ned grace of athletes who are at the pinnacle of their craft. 
Those three elements — competition, com-
passion and fun — combine to make gymnas-tics the best sport at Florida. They also make it OK to be happy after a loss, whether from con-ﬁ  dence in improvement given their history of success, the realization that one match doesn’t 
matter very much in the grand scheme of life 
and death, or the fact that competing was en-joyable regardless of the outcome. 
That’s an attitude other teams at UF — and 
teams everywhere — would do well to em-brace. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Contact 
him at ebauer@alligator.org.UF gymnastics is the model sport at Florida: Competitive. Compassionate. Fun.
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriSweet and Bauer / Opinion
turnovers, just two players in double-digit ﬁ  gures (10 points each) and the second-lowest point total of the season.
“I feel like we were so much more poised than they 
were,” UF guard Jalen Hudson said. “I feel like the 
experience helped.”
Florida beneﬁ  tted from a poor shooting night for 
Kentucky. Prior to facing the Gators, the Wildcats 
were shooting 48.6 percent from the ﬁ  eld and 35 per-cent from beyond the arc. On Saturday, UK shot 40 percent from the ﬂ  oor and just 23.5 percent from the three-point line, both of which were still better than Florida, which also struggled to knock down its shots.
Kentucky’s turnovers, however, limited its offense. 
In the game’s ﬁ  nal 20 minutes, the Wildcats turned the ball over nine times. While it only led to six points for the Gators, the miscues kept the ball out of Ken-tucky’s possession.
“We showed a lot of resiliency,” UF coach Mike 
White said. “Turned them over enough (and) defend-ed at a pretty high level.”
Florida’s defense played a huge role in keeping the Wildcats at bay. Two of Kentucky’s leading scorers 
— Gilgeous-Alexander and guard Kevin Knox — only 
put up 10 and nine points, respectively, on a com-bined 8-of-22 shooting from the ﬁ  eld.
The scoring troubles from deep forced Kentucky to 
work the ball inside, where it dropped 38 points in the paint, good for over half of its 64 total points.
UF coach Mike White praised his team’s ability to 
play a good defensive game.
“This team’s gotten a lot better,” White said. “I 
know we’re a hell of a lot better defensively than we were in October.”
While their defense stepped up in a big way on 
Saturday, the Gators were able to get by because of the Wildcats’ mistakes. Kentucky collected more re-bounds, made more shots from the ﬁ  eld and received more points from its bench.
But the turnovers and the limited scoring helped a 
smaller Florida team secure the win.
“Every game we go into, we’re the smaller team,” 
Hudson said. “We kind of take the underdog mental-ity.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14UK had nine second-half turnovers
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF men's basketball coach Mike White was pleased with his team's defense 
against Kentucky on Saturday. "We showed a lot of resiliency, " he said.
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Florida's gymnastics team has reached the Super Six 11 times since 2006.
