We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators lose fourth consecutive SEC 
game
The Florida women’s basketball team fell to Ken-tucky 56-53 on Thursday night at the O’Connell Center, pg. 14March for MLK kicks oﬀ   celebrations
See the photo story, pg. 8
UF Senate rules, procedures, subject to review
The UF Supreme Court met to rule on the issue, pg. 10By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time in more than 
30 years, Colette Cimino is a college student again.
And the biggest change she sees 
is the technology.
“I submitted a small essay this 
week online, and my professor 
gave me feedback later that night,” 
Cimino said. “They didn’t have that in 1985, let me tell you.”
As a full-time employee with UF, 
Cimino, who works as an adminis-
trative assistant in the UF Health 
Cancer Center, can take up to six credit hours per semester tuition-free as part of UF’s Employee Edu-
cation Program.
Anywhere between 500 and 
800 full-time employees, who 
have worked for UF for at least six months, use the program to study 
at either UF or Santa Fe College, 
said Kenya Williams, the program’s 
director.
Most are working toward their 
associates or bachelor’s degrees, but some — about 25 percent of last Fall’s participants — use the pro-gram to get their master’s degrees, Williams said. The program gets about $305,831 each year, wrote UF spokesperson John Hines in an email.
Aside from working 40 hours 
per week for their jobs, many of the students have families and children of their own to raise, Williams said.
“They’re juggling everything,” 
Williams said. “The whole balance of life — and then adding school on top of it.”
But for Cimino, 53, the program is a second chance, she said.
When she was last in school 
in 1985, Cimino was 21, married, pregnant and pursuing business ad-ministration at Nassau Community 
College in Long Island, New York.
Her plan was to deliver the baby 
when it was due in June, ﬁ  nish her 
degree and start a career to support her child.
But instead, her daughter, Kara, 
was born 2 ½ months premature.
For the ﬁ  rst few weeks she tried 
to balance it all. Cimino divided her time between her part-time job at 
a nearby dentist’s ofﬁ  ce, college 
classes and the hospital wing where 
nurses watched over Kara.
It quickly became impossible, 
she said.
“Life got in the way,” Cimino 
said. “And I cared way more about my baby girl than making every-thing work at the time; she was my priority.”
From there, she and her hus-
band divorced; she moved in 1986 with Kara to Gainesville, after Cimi-no’s father took a job ﬂ  ying the UF Health Shands Hospital helicopter.
“Try being a single parent, work-
ing full time with high-stress jobs,” she said. “As much as I would have liked ﬁ  nishing school, it was never really an option.”
Cimino always had the idea of 
returning to school in the back of her mind but didn’t think of it as a possibility until her co-worker at the Cancer Center told her about UF’s Employee Education Program. Cimino realized she could transfer her credits from Nassau Communi-ty to Santa Fe and use the program to help subsidize it.
“It was a big possibility all of a sudden,” she said. “I was thinking, ‘Well that would just be really stu-pid if I didn’t do this.’”
Now, ﬁ  ve days into her ﬁ  rst se-
mester in more than three decades, Cimino said she feels proud fulﬁ  ll-ing her long-standing personal goal. She said her only fear is having to take math again.
“Honestly, I don’t even remem-
ber much algebra or calculus, and I’m going to have to do algebra II, probably,” she said. “But it’ll be worth it.”
Omar Lopez is ﬁ  nishing what he 
started.
In 2012, during Lopez’s sopho-
more year at UF, he went from studying on campus to struggling to hold his family together and man-aging unexpected poverty.
His mother Omarya’s health de-clined to the point where she could 
no longer walk on her own. The ar-
thritis in the 45-year-old’s back and 
her spinal stenosis, which causes 
strain on the spinal cord’s nerves, 
were the worst they had been since 
being diagnosed as a teenager.
“The thing with parents is that 
they’ll never say to their child, ‘I 
need help.’ That’s just not who VOLUME 112 ISSUE 45
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF PRESIDENT FUCHS 
RECEIVED AN INVOICE FOR 
MORE THAN $300,000.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County is requesting more than 
$300,000 from UF to reimburse the cost of 
public safety resources provided for Richard 
Spencer’s event on campus in October. The county mailed UF a letter and invoice 
for $302,184 Wednesday morning asking to 
be reimbursed for the cost of provided public safety resources, said Mark Sexton, the com-munications and legislative affairs director for Alachua. Sexton said the reimbursement 
has no due date. 
The City of Gainesville will discuss charg-
ing UF for security costs in a general body 
meeting Jan. 25, said city spokesperson Chip 
Skinner.
“It’s my understanding that UF ap-proached the county and asked for resources to help and that there was an expectation of 
reimbursement,” Sexton said.
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said the 
university had not received the letter but was aware of it. He said the issue is under review.
Security costs, split between UF and 
other agencies, were estimated to be about $600,000, according to Alligator archives.
Alachua’s law enforcement — total-
ing $260,494 — accounts for most of the Wednesday invoice, while ﬁ  re rescue ser-vices costs just under $20,000.
The invoice also lists $15,829 for the 
Alachua County Combined Communication Center services, which includes overtime pay for 911 and non-emergency operators and radios that were rented for public safety 
ofﬁ  cers to use, Sexton said. Court security 
and jail services combined made up $6,343 of the invoice.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCounty wants reimbursement for Richard Spencer event
Back to school: At UF, a job can come with an education
SEE EDUCATION,  PAGE 5•   •   •Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Omar Lopez, a lead scientiﬁ  c systems developer with the UF Center for Biotechnology Research, is en-
rolled in UF’s Employee Education Program, which allows full-time employees to take up to six credit hours tuition-free. Lopez, 25, hopes to get his associates degree by the end of the year.FEATURE FRIDAY
“It’s my understanding that UF ap-
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
HIGH  71° LOW  42°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights: Welcome back
Today, the Reitz Union will 
hold its New Year’s rendition of GatorNights. Start the semester with the Stuff-A-Gator activity 
(which is only available for the 
first 300 people and they must check in first) or dance all night in the atrium with live music from DJ Mr. Magnum. We’ll have a special performance by comedian Moses Storm at 9:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF 
students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Science photo contest entry dead-
line Monday
The Elegance of Science art com-
petition is now accepting entries and is open to UF students, fac-ulty and staff. Submit your two-dimensional research images or photos that incorporate scientific tools or concepts for a chance to win cash prizes. The con-test is organized by the Florida Museum of Natural History 
and Marston Science Library. 
Submissions are due Monday. For contest rules or to view past winners; visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/eos or call 352-273-2013.
Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center will host the Spring Study Abroad 
Fair on Jan. 24 from 10 a.m. to 
3 p.m. on Reitz Union North Lawn. Study abroad programs help students discover new cul-tures, increase global awareness, enhance foreign language skills, make new friends and estab-lish new contacts. Overseas in-ternship opportunities are also 
available. The International 
Center encourages prospective “Global Gators” to stop by the Hub, located at 1765 Stadium Road, Suite 170 or visit online at abroad.ufic.ufl.edu.  
Student Government elections
SG Spring elections are coming up soon. Qualifying and slating for candidates will be in the SG Office in the Reitz Union on the following days/times: Jan. 28 from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m., Jan. 29 
from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Jan. 30 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 45
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan de Sotomayor Alvarez,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
January 20, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
TODAY from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Visit us at 
either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetTHE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Copy Editors, Photo Interns, 
Contributing Writers.
Visit the Independent Florida Alligator’s OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the editors 
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
AdvancementSIGN 
UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox everyday for the newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
The new T aco Bell cantina-style restaurant, located at 1404 W. University Ave., is the ﬁ  rst of its kind to have opened in Florida.
By Eugenia Soto 
Alligator Contributing Writer
An NPR Latin American correspon-
dent told UF students Wednesday 
about a time in Venezuela he had to 
wait several days to convert $40 into 
Venezuelan currency due to the coun-try’s inﬂ  ation. 
UF’s Center for Latin American 
Studies and the College of Journalism and Communications hosted John Otis, who is based in Bogotá, Colombia, and has been covering Colombian and Ven-ezuelan events for more than 20 years. 
He gave his talk “Venezuela: Using 
Democracy to Crush Democracy” in Pugh Hall. About 45 people attended — most of the audience was Venezu-
elan, shown by a raise of hands.
Otis discussed the transition be-
tween President Hugo Chavez to 
President Nicolas Maduro. When run-ning for president, Chavez started as 
a seemingly humble military and self-proclaimed people’s man.
When Chavez was elected in 1998, 
he used that momentum to change 
the constitution, which disrupted the country’s checks and balances, Otis said. 
Over the years, this caused a critical 
deﬁ  cit of everything, from democracy to food and currency, he said.
“You go through the motions of de-
mocracy, but you deliberately violate 
the spirit of democracy,”  he said.
Rosana Resende, a UF Latin Ameri-
can Studies lecturer, helped organize 
the event because she wanted to give students an opportunity to hear real-
world information from someone who 
is in the ﬁ  eld covering news as it hap-pens.
“Universities are places where we 
are dedicated to learning, but that learning comes in many different ways,” she said. “You go to the horse’s mouth.”NPR correspondent talks 
Venezuela, democracy4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida Senate bill could bring 
some changes to the Florida College 
System, including Santa Fe College. 
Senate Bill 540, also known as 
the “Community College Competi-
tiveness Act of 2018,” would make 
changes to performance metrics, limit bachelor’s degree program enrollment, change the name of the Florida College System and re-establish a government-appointed board to oversee the system. If it passes, the bill would go into effect Oct. 1. Although the legislation may 
have a large impact on other state 
colleges, Santa Fe President Jack-son Sasser said its impact on Santa Fe would be limited, given the col-lege’s partnership with UF and high performance rates.
“All of it applies to us but with 
less restriction than some of the other (colleges),” Sasser said. 
The bill, which is currently un-
der review by the Appropriations Subcommittee on Higher Educa-tion, is a revised version of SB 374 that was vetoed by Gov. Rick Scott last year, according to a WLRN ar-ticle.  The bill would change the name 
of the Florida College System back to the Florida Community College 
System. Sasser has no problem with 
the name change, he said. 
“As a matter of fact, if I could 
have kept ‘Santa Fe Community College’ as the name when we start-ed off with baccalaureate degrees, I would’ve done that,” he said. “That’s what we are.”
Jacobi Bedenﬁ  eld, 21, a Santa Fe 
organizational management junior, feels the term “community college” fails to encompass everything state colleges have to offer. 
“It’s because we have kind of 
moved on from the traditional mis-sion of community colleges,” he said. 
Despite his disapproval of the 
name change, Bedenﬁ  eld is in favor of the Supporting Students for Aca-demic Success program that the bill would create. This program would assist students in an associate de-gree program with succeeding in college classes and transferring to a baccalaureate program. 
“The program will be used to 
help all students, but especially non-traditional students and under-prepared students,” he said.
The bill proposes to restrict the growth of baccalaureate programs by placing a 20 percent cap on en-rollment. Currently, 4 percent of 
Santa Fe students are enrolled in a 
baccalaureate program, Sasser said. The restriction would be a non-is-sue for the college because of the connections it has with universities throughout the state, particularly UF, he said. 
The bill would also change per-
formance metrics to place greater 
emphasis on an on-time gradua-
tion. Although this could be harm-ful for other state colleges, it would likely beneﬁ  t Santa Fe since they consistently perform well, Sasser said. The college received the 2015 Aspen Prize for Community Col-lege Excellence and was one of the few state colleges that received an 
increase in funding based on their 
performance, he said. 
“I think it’s a fair way to mea-
sure Santa Fe but it’s not fair juxta-posed against the others,” he said. 
If the bill passes, Sasser isn’t 
worried about the future of Santa Fe. 
“I think it’ll be business as nor-
mal,” he said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
Santa Fe College could see changes if Florida bill passes 
Molly Vossler / Alligator 
Pictured is the Santa Fe College clock tower. Santa Fe College could see 
changes in performance metrics measurement and name if a bill passes.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Robert Lewis 
and Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writers
U.S. News and World Report 
ranked UF College of Education’s 
online program No. 2 and UF On-
line’s bachelors program No. 12 
on lists published Tuesday.
The ranking for the College of 
Education was down from No. 
1 on last year’s list of America’s 
Best Online Graduate Education Programs while the UF Online’s bachelors program rose eight places on a list of U.S.’s Best On-
line Bachelor’s Programs, accord-
ing to two UF press releases.U.S. News and World Report 
considers student engagement, student services and technology, 
faculty credentials and training 
and peer reputation when it cal-culates its rankings, according to its website.
“We are thrilled with the 
rankings,” said Evangeline Cum-mings, the assistant provost and director of UF Online, which was also ranked first in Florida.
Cummings said the program 
will continue to improve year af-
ter year until it’s No. 1 nationally.
“I think (the ranking) reflects 
years of work and effort to pro-
vide a program of the same, or of an even higher quality, of that of our residential students,” Cum-mings said.
Cummings said UF’s online 
program is unique in the U.S. be-cause courses are taught by the same professors who teach on-campus, and every online student 
has their own academic adviser.
UF College of Education’s on-
line program carried its streak 
as best in the state on the list re-leased Tuesday but was replaced by Clemson University as No. 1, 
ending UF’s two-year streak as 
the best in the nation, accord-ing to Alligator archives. The list ranks the top 40 online graduate education programs of 292.
UF and Florida State Univer-
sity, which tied with Auburn at 
No. 13, are the only two Florida 
schools to make the list. 
Tom Dana, the UF College of 
Education senior associate dean, said quality interaction between 
students and faculty sets UF apart 
from other online programs. 
“We’re thrilled that for three 
years in a row we’re considered among the best in the nation, and we’re good role models for other 
colleges of education,” Dana said.
The online graduate program, 
which offers nine web-based de-
gree programs, caters to teachers, counselors and superintendents looking to improve their certifica-tion.
Director of E-Learning Jason 
Arnold said the college cares more about the students’ experi-ences than rankings. 
“We’re very meticulous about 
making sure that each experi-ence students have in the online course is positive,” Arnold said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.org
Online programs at UF are top ranked in annual list 
THERE ARE BELIEVED TO 
BE ABOUT 175 MONKEYS
 IN THE PARK.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
An invasive species of monkey in Silver 
Springs State Park isn’t just a nuisance. A study shows they also pose a public health 
risk.
Many of the invasive rhesus macaques 
monkeys in Silver Springs State Park, east 
of Ocala, carry the herpes B virus and can transmit it to humans, according to a study that will be published in February by the 
Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion.
 The park, which has about 175 ma-
caques, is still considered safe for visitors, but park officials have urged visitors to 
avoid monkeys, wrote park manager Sally 
Lieb in an email. 
The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-
tion Commission released a statement say-
ing it supports the removal of the monkeys 
in order to eliminate the threat they pose to humans.Transmission is most likely to occur 
when humans come into contact with a 
macaques’ bodily fluids, the report said.
 Although there have been no reports 
of human infection from the macaques at 
Silver Springs State Park, the CDC still con-
siders there to be a risk.“Given the current information avail-
able, we must consider the presence of the population of invasive rhesus macaques in 
Florida to be a public health concern,” the report said.
Catholic Gators Outdoors Ministry 
might move its hiking trip from the park 
to avoid the macaques, said Nick Lomas, a 
UF religion sophomore.
“That, as a trip leader, would make 
me hesitate and probably go to another 
spring,” the 19-year-old said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgMonkeys at Silver Springs State Park have virus, study saysthey are.” Lopez, 25, said. “But I 
knew she was getting sick, I knew she needed me there for her.”
That’s when Lopez, then on a 
four-year track to getting a bach-
elor’s degree in political science, 
made one of the hardest decisions he’s ever made: putting his educa-tion on hold.
Lopez had it in mind even then 
he’d eventually use the program 
to resume his classes, so it never 
felt like the end of his education. Besides confiding in his closest friends, Lopez never wanted to 
make his withdrawal public.
“I felt shameful leaving,” he 
said. “My friends didn’t judge 
me, but I didn’t want it out there known.”
He transferred from his part-
time job at the UF Housing and Residence Education help desk, where he was making only $8 to $9 hourly, to a full-time position 
with benefits so he could cover his 
mom’s expenses.
Lopez had sent his mom to their 
native hometown Bayamon, Puerto 
Rico, to rest and recover with fam-
ily. Eventually, Lopez said he had 
to give up their home in Orlando 
and everything in it. They had too much of a financial strain to keep the house where they would have spent the holidays together. As Lo-pez worked, his younger brother Bryan lived in a friend’s home to finish out high school.
They had barely anything left, 
he said.
“Either you work more or you 
go hungry; you learn how to make hot-dog soup,” Lopez said of what his meals would entail when he fell short on money. “I had a big tub 
of oatmeal, and made anything you 
could imagine on oatmeal.”
Only when his mom returned 
from Bayamon, healthy again at the 
end of 2012, did Lopez feel the bur-
den lift and sought to return to his 
studies.
Having never stopped working 
full-time with UF, now as a lead 
scientific systems developer with 
the UF Center for Biotechnology 
Research, he started classes again 
in Summer 2015 using the program and plans to get his associates de-gree by the end of this year, he said.
“It felt like a second chance,” 
Lopez said. “I left in such an ugly way. I was always disappointed in myself, so being able to go back and start over, even if it was only 
one class at a time, I feel like I am 
moving along.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgEDUCATION,  from pg 1Between 500 to 800 UF employees use the program each semester
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Colette Cimino, an administrative assistant with UF Health’s Cancer Center, last attended college in 
1985 but left to raise her daughter, Kara. Now, with UF’s Employee Education Program, which allows full-time employees to take up to six credit hours tuition-free, she’s back in school and taking three credit hours at Santa Fe College.
“...we must consider the presence of 
the population of invasive rhesus 
macaques in Florida to be a public 
health concern.”
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Having high-speed rail in America would be a 
dream, but right now it’s simply not practical
Anybody who’s ever traveled across Eu-
rope has likely experienced the mar-
vels of a well-connected high-speed rail network. Within a few hours, pas-
sengers can traverse entire countries, 
all while being able to relax along the way. All major cities have proper and up-to-date in-
frastructure and stations, and the lines have been constructed in such a way that nearly any 
town or village either has its own stop or is a 
relatively short drive away from one.
The problem isn’t that the U.S. lacks the funds to go 
through with such an audacious infrastructure plan; it’s 
instead a matter of serious practicality and feasibility. The 
country of France is smaller than the state of Texas, and 
the entire western portion of Europe could ﬁ  t comfortably 
within the continental U.S.
Europe still has some of the same geographical bar-
riers as the U.S. (mountains, rivers, lakes) and has cer-tainly overcome what they can, so I doubt the Rockies or 
Mojave Desert would cause a system-halting obstruction 
over here.
One could assume initially the discrepancies are a re-
sult of one resource Europe has in abundance over the 
U.S. — history. Despite Europe having been populated 
and developed for far longer than the U.S., the locomotive 
was still invented at a time in history in which both loca-
tions could accommodate it, and both Europe and Amer-ica’s ﬁ  rst rails were not incredibly far apart. The steam 
locomotive ride in Europe occurred in 1804, while the 
ﬁ  rst in America was only 23 years later, in 1827.
I understand 23 years is a relatively long time in mod-
ern history, but I also know laying down rail lines was 
not a very expedient process in the early 19th century, for 
either side of the Atlantic.
It’s not like the U.S. was lazy in the 19th and 20th cen-turies or lackluster in its railway development. 
The U.S. still operates more than 140,000 miles 
of rail in the 21st century. Yet despite having the largest network of rails of any country on 
Earth, the U.S. still has hundreds of millions 
less travelers via rail than the European Union.
The EU might have 300 million more citi-
zens than the U.S., but the data is quite con-vincing on the per capita level. A piece by the 
Economist states “per capita, the Japanese, the 
Swiss, the French, the Danes, the Russians, 
the Austrians, the Ukrainians, the Belarusians, and the Belgians all accounted for more than 1,000 passenger-
kilometers by rail in 2011; Americans accounted for 80.”
The Economist article does a great job brieﬂ  y explain-
ing all of the main reasons for this discrepancy; however, 
I think some factors might be more important than others.
For one, the immense geographical size of the U.S. 
makes travel by rail unreasonable in both the dimensions of time and money. A three-hour train ride in Europe can 
take you across entire countries, while the same amount 
of time in America couldn’t get you out of Texas. A train 
ride across the width of France (Brest to Strasbourg) takes 
less than seven hours, which is about the amount of time 
an Amtrak ride from Boston to Washington, D.C. would 
be. Cross-country journeys take days, and unless you are 
on vacation and have the time and interest to enjoy sev-
eral days on a train, they are simply not reasonable.
Because train travel covers so much distance and is 
so lengthy in the U.S., it is, as an expected result, quite expensive. And when it may cost less time and money to 
ﬂ  y between cities, why would anyone opt for rail?
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.ColumnAh, syllabus week. For some, this ﬁ  ve-day period is used for 
organization and recalibration after a long month free of classes 
and responsibilities. For others, the infamous syllabus week is a 
nonstop bar crawl through Midtown and a chance to sow their 
wild oats before the stress and pressure of their 18-credit sched-ule crushes their very soul.
This semester, you chose to fall somewhere in the middle. 
After attending all of your early morning classes and completing 
all of your monotonous syllabus quizzes, you decide to reward 
yourself with a night on the town. 
After what felt like nearly an hour of standing in line outside 
the Rowdy Reptile, you have ﬁ  nally reached the promised land: the front door. You ﬂ  ash the bouncer your ID, waltz in, grab a drink and head outside to your favorite spot on the picnic table. 
It’s been a while since you had the time to make it out to the 
bars, so you take a second to see what new phrases have been 
etched into the wooden table. You scan the surface and notice 
some writing you’ve never seen. You lean in closer so you can 
read it better. The words say… 
Darts & Laurels
As usual, the ﬁ  rst dart of this week is dedicated to our 
one and only commander in chief, President Donald Trump. Earlier this week, the Department of Homeland Se-curity announced the Trump administration plans to end 
protection for natives of El Salvador. 
Previously, those from El Salvador, as well as several 
other nations, have been able to live in the U.S. under Tem-
porary Protected Status, or TPS, a program the U.S. started after their countries suffered humanitarian crises. The ter-
mination of TPS will force nearly 250,000 Salvadorans to 
either ﬁ  nd another way to remain in the U.S. legally or ﬁ  nd a different country to move to within the next 18 months.
This news comes after nearly 300,000 Central Americans 
and Haitians living in the U.S. were told they no longer had 
protection from deportation in early November 2017. 
Luckily, however, according to the Associated Press, six 
senators say they’ve reached a bipartisan deal protecting 
young immigrants and bolstering border security. If this deal comes to fruition and is all it appears to be, it could 
be the laurel we have all been waiting for. Although we are 
still waiting for this story to develop, we can only hope the results are positive.
On a more local level, UF students this week were struck 
with a devastating reality when Student Senate Pro Tem-pore Janae Moodie resigned, claiming her party — Impact — and Student Government as a whole tokenize minority students. This dart  is awarded to organizations like SG 
and the people who make it hard for minority voices to be 
heard. Even in 2018, we are struggling to achieve inclusiv-ity and avoid bias based on race and gender. We can only hope Moodie’s speech makes those few in power positions reconsider their tactics. 
On a lighter note, an obvious laurel we may all be taking 
for granted right now is that we are back in the Swamp. Sure, this might mean we’re back to stressful afternoons in Marston Science Library and an inﬂ  ux of forgotten responsi-
bilities, but nonetheless, we are lucky to be here and lucky 
to have an opportunity to further our education at a top 10 public university. 
At least for us, the past few weeks of vacation allowed 
us to retreat into a coma of relaxation but also into a stupor 
of seclusion. As we ease back into our social lives, we have 
once again been reminded of how great it is to live and learn with our best friends by our sides and to have so many 
wonderful opportunities at our disposal.
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINTFRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Don’t be afraid to make a resolution, 
even if you have failed in the past
Happy New Year, dear 
reader! Welcome back to Gainesville, to school and to your unbridled independence. Did you 
miss it? Judging by my extensive Twitter research, it would ap-pear that a lot of you did. While I was conducting my all-impor-tant social media research, I also came across another common thread. Many people seem to have already crashed and burned in the pursuit of their 
New Year’s resolutions. This trend is not 
unique to 2018 — nearly every year I have been a user of social media I have noticed 
this. People exit the year with big plans 
and lofty goals for self-improvement. We 
set goals to accomplish everything from 
going to the gym to eating healthy, from 
stopping bad habits to being more positive. 
And each year, we get upset when we are unable to meet these goals.
New Year’s resolutions are unavoidable. 
Not everyone makes them, but enough people do that it is nearly impossible to 
make it through the transition between 
years without someone bringing them up. 
We ask each other if we have made any, 
and even if no one asked us, we can often 
ﬁ  nd ourselves bringing them up as conver-
sation or simply to make them more real. If everyone you know knows you resolve to 
go to the gym three times each week, you 
feel a lot worse if you stop going. Not only are you letting yourself down, but every-one else knows you are failing. I hate that this is true — that we habitually care more about other people’s images of us than we do about our own — but we cannot deny that often it is the truth.
I have seen many people saying they are 
choosing not to make a resolution. When asked why, they say it is because they know they will be unable to keep it. They had never been successful with one before; why would this year be any different? Well, that is the whole point of resolutions: 
to be different, to make changes, 
to improve, and to become even just a little bit closer to the per-son we want to be. In order for this to happen, we have to be dif-ferent. We have to be motivated 
and convinced that this is truly what we want. If you decide along the way that you 
have done enough or that you really don’t 
want to keep up with your resolution, that is ﬁ  ne. It’s your choice; it’s your life. How-
ever, you should not avoid making a reso-
lution simply because you are afraid to fail. 
If we didn’t do things simply because we 
were afraid to fail, we would never accom-
plish anything at all.
We cannot forget that Jan. 1, while sig-
naling the start of a new year and a new 
calendar, is truthfully just another day. It 
is a great day to start living your life the way you want, but, then again, so is any 
day. Any day is a great day to pick a new 
goal, start a new hobby, stop a bad habit or 
generally start being who you want to be. 
However, don’t let this knowledge or any 
fear or apprehension diminish your desire 
to improve yourself and your life. Make and chase a New Year’s resolution, or make a 
resolution any day. Get that gym member-
ship or go to that group ﬁ  tness class. Make something healthy to eat. Call your mom more. Study more. Be nicer. Just as any day is a great day for this, so is Jan. 1. So is Jan. 12. Here’s to 2018, Gators. Let’s get it.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column usually ap-
pears on Mondays.Column
Since kindergarten, we have been asked the question: What do you want to be when you grow up? Al-though each of our predictions may have changed over time, we will 
soon have that answer.
Let’s be clear: As alluring as the life of 
a college student may be, the entire point of attending college is to get a job. We of-ten become consumed by classes and clubs, only to soon forget those classes and clubs are what prepare us for the jobs we aim to get after graduation.  According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, recruiters ranked internships as the most important factor when hiring recent graduates. Intern-ships provide a temporary window to the real world, but the importance of searching for a quality internship is sometimes over-looked.
Preparation for summer internships be-
comes a problem when people like to reside on extreme ends of the spectrum. One poor choice is to wait until the very end of this semester to begin to look for an internship. By that time, all the good internships will be taken, and the late arrivers will be forced to settle for leftovers. On the other end of the spectrum, some choose to ﬁ  nd an internship by the middle of Fall semester, so they no longer have to worry about summer plans. The weight is lifted off their shoulders, but they may miss out on a better opportunity available later in the academic year. Wheth-er from premature decisions or lack thereof, months of limitless possibilities can trans-form to a wasted summer. According to LinkedIn data, the ﬁ  rst three months of the year have the highest activity for the hiring of summer interns. Now is the perfect time to begin searching.
I wanted to share this column because of 
my internship experience this past summer. I am an engineering student who took one of the ﬁ  rst job offers received. From ﬁ  nger painting to mechanics of materials, it was time for years of schooling to contribute to the real world.
Hopeful perceptions quickly vanished 
by the ﬁ  rst day. “Conducting risk analysis on product performance” translated to call-ing customers about their satisfaction with the company’s equipment. The ﬁ  rst person I called was dead. I was expected to get references from past customers, but most customers hadn’t been contacted since the 1970s. After a month had passed and I ﬁ  n-ished calling everyone on my list, my posi-tion was eliminated. No one at the company had any investment in teaching me; I was temporary labor to complete a task no one really wanted to do.
Blinded by the opportunity to have a job 
in my career ﬁ  eld, I chose an internship be-fore appropriately weighing my options. I hoped to ﬁ  nally establish a bridge between college courses and practical application. In-stead, I only have advice on how to avoid a bad experience this summer. Search online for employee reviews on the company. Ask if the company has an established intern-ship program or if this is the ﬁ  rst time it’s offered. Most importantly, apply to multiple positions, but only ones that actually seem interesting. Although it may seem any op-tion is a good option, especially when seek-ing the ﬁ  rst internship, avoid internships that perfect scanning skills and implement the optimization of coffee preparation.
No one can predict the future. One can 
prepare with full effort to ﬁ  nd the ideal in-ternship and still have a bad experience, but the chances of a bad experience only increase with a lack of effort and dedicated time. The knowledge from 14 years of edu-cation can be applied to pursue a passion that could have been approved by one’s kindergarten self. Preparation for the real world has been a lifelong pursuit up until now; don’t allow a three-month experience to dictate the future.
 The writer of this column would like to 
remain anonymous.
Don’t pick just any summer internshipColumn
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Edward Zambrano, a 22-year-old UF political science senior, and Grace Burmester, a 
30-year-old faculty member from the School of Forest Resources and Conservation, create signs for the Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration March and Kickoff. 
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
People march at the Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration March and Kickoff outside Reitz Union on Thursday evening.
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Diana Moreno, the assistant director of UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, rallies peaceful protesters to march at the Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration March and Kickoff.
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
UF students gather to create signs for the Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration March and Kickoff at Reitz Union on Thursday evening. 
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Contributing Writer
With rain drizzling down and 
colorful handmade signs in tow, 
students marched across campus, 
singing, “This Little Light of Mine.”
About 90 students gathered at the 
Reitz Union amphitheater Thursday 
evening for the Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs’ annual Martin Lu-
ther King Jr. March. Diana Moreno, 
an assistant director of MCDA, said 
the group hopes to revive the cel-ebration of King’s legacy. The Black Student Union, Hispanic Student 
Association and the Black Graduate 
Student Association also contribut-ed to the planning of the event.
Prior to the march, students 
made their signs, writing out some 
of King’s famous quotes or writing 
about social issues that pertained to them.
Maite Torres, a first-year College 
of Education graduate student who helps oversee high school classes, carried a sign that read, “If you don’t fight for all womxn, you fight for no womxn.”
“I’m out here because a lot of my 
students talk to me about this, and I think it’s important to support those students in the role that I’m in,” she 
said.
As the march began, participants 
passed by students reenacting civil 
rights movements, including  Colin Kaepernick kneeling and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals pro-
tests.
Dwayne Fletcher, the president 
of BSU, spoke at a gathering after 
the march about being active in times of discrimination and offered 
to help students get involved in ac-
tivism.
“It’s not just about marching — 
make sure you do your part,” he said. “What are you going to be do-ing on Monday?”Students unite to start Martin Luther King Jr. celebrations
MLK EVENTS
• Jan. 19 - Moment to Movement 
Workshop at 6 p.m. at Pugh Hall
• Jan. 20 - MLK Day of Service 
at 8 a.m. at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
• Jan. 23 - MLK Keynote — 
Quinta Brunson at 7 p.m. at Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
• Jan. 25 - Advocacy in Action 
Panel at 4:30 p.m. at Ustler Hall
• Jan. 27 - Campus Multi-Faith 
Progressive Dinner at 6 p.m. at UF HillelFRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
“USE THE TWO-STEP METHOD!”
1. ASK ONCE FOR WHAT YOU WANT. 2. ANSWER IS NOT “YES?” ASK ONCE FOR LESS. RESPECT THE ANSWER.I FEEL 
RESPECTED.I RESPECT 
THAT.
WANNA 
HAVE SEX?
NOT RIGHT 
NOW.WHAT IF WE 
JUST KISS? MMM...NOT 
REALLY 
FEELING IT.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County is moving for-
ward on constructing two projects 
intended to promote economic de-velopment: a park to recycle gar-
bage into resources and a county-
wide bike trail system. 
Although the projects are di-
verse in nature, both are meant to stimulate economic growth, said Edgar Campa-Palafox, the county’s economic development coordina-tor. The Alachua County Resource Recovery Park will serve as a 
breeding ground for manufactur-
ing companies and provide an an-ticipated 200 new jobs, while the implementation of the Trail Towns Program is intended to grow eco-
tourism in the county. 
The county is seeking a $1.5 
million grant from the Florida Job 
Growth Grant Fund to help with the construction of a 37-acre Re-source Recovery Park, which will be adjacent to the Alachua County Transfer Facility. The grant would cover 33 percent of the project’s 
costs, and the county would sup-
ply the remainder of the funding, Campa-Palafox said. 
Regardless of whether grant 
money is secured, the county plans to break ground on the park by the middle of this year. The park is planned for North Waldo Road, about two miles from Gainesville 
Regional Airport, and will be par-
ticularly helpful for east Gaines-ville’s economy, Campa-Palafox said. 
The eco-industrial park will in-
clude sewers, roads, utilities and stormwater facilities necessary to attract manufacturing businesses that specialize in processing recy-
clable materials, he said. 
“That way it’s going to help us 
not only train jobs in our commu-
nity but also increase our recycling rate in Alachua County,” he said. 
The county is also working to-ward establishing a Trail Town Program — an extensive network of bike trails that will connect cy-
clists with businesses in the area. 
“What we’re trying to do with 
the program is really capitalize on 
that growing tourism industry,” Campa-Palafox said. 
Although the county hasn’t ap-
plied for any grants regarding the Trail Town Program, they have begun looking into various funding 
options, Campa-Palafox said. 
Amanda Brown, a 27-year-old 
UF alumna, fell in love with cycling 
during her time at UF because of the trails Gainesville has to offer. 
“I know that a lot of people visit Gainesville just for (the Gaines-ville-Hawthorne) trail,” she said. “And continuing to expand upon 
that and connecting more of the 
city through bike trails — that’s huge for the economy.”
Brown said she believes in-
vesting in more bike trails is worthwhile for the city not only economically, but also for its envi-ronmental beneﬁ  ts. 
“Cars aren’t sustainable,” she 
said. “The way in which we’re go-ing we’ve got to look to alternative transportation methods.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org
County plans to boost economy with new park, bike trailsSTUDENTS LOST 600 MINUTES 
IN INSTRUCTIONAL TIME WHEN 
THE DISTRICT CLOSED FOR 
COLD WEATHER.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
The school day just got longer for Alachua 
County Public School students — but only by 
seven minutes. 
On Tuesday, the district announced the 
school-day extension will last from Jan. 17 to 
June 1, a day before school lets out, to make 
up for the 600 minutes missed last week. 
The added time will make up for the two 
days of classes lost due to cold weather and possible black ice, according to a press re-lease. The National Weather Service and lo-cal emergency management informed ACPS driving school buses in the conditions would be hazardous, said ACPS spokesperson Jackie 
Johnson. 
“For safety’s sake, the decision was made 
to close schools,” Johnson wrote in an email.
The state mandates the time is made up, 
but the schools decide how to distribute the 
extra minutes, the release said.
During Hurricane Irma, the school system canceled school for six days and the state re-quired it make up four. ACPS scheduled school on three days that are built into the academic calendar in case school needs to be canceled — Dec. 18, Dec. 19 and April 2 — and Jan. 2, according to the press release. 
Parents had mixed reactions to the daily 
extensions. After the district posted the exten-sion to social media, Facebook commenters thought the extra time was insigniﬁ  cant in the school day, while others praised school district ofﬁ  cials for not adding on days to the end of the year, June 4 and 5, which was considered.
Lisa Worthy said her daughter, a Gainesville 
High School tenth grader, Rachel, watched movies during the days added in December 
and would likely do the same during the add-
ed days in June. While Worthy said the one minute added to each class period won’t have a large impact on Rachel’s education, it is a better option than sending students to school after ﬁ  nals.
“I think this was a good decision on the part 
of the district as a solution to making up the missed instructional time,” Worthy said.
Staff writer Robert Lewis contributed to this 
report.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgACPS announces school days 
will be extended next week
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Kevin Masaro (left), 23, co-founder of Always True Co., speaks with attendees of 
The #Unlitter Project. This event was hosted to repurpose Always True’s inventory and to bring the community together. 
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
By Katherine Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are making strides 
toward reducing obesity by stimulating 
the brain. 
The College of Medicine conducted 
research on the role of the central ner-vous system in relationship to metabo-lism that can trigger fat loss, said UF professor Philip Scarpace, who headed 
the research lab. Scientists at the UF De-
partment of Pharmacology and Thera-peutics published a study Monday with 
information on potential methods to 
combat obesity in the future.
“This (study) is demonstrating that 
you can maintain body weight that has first been lost with a diet by just in-creasing metabolism,” Scarpace said.
In the study, researchers treated one 
group of rats with a drug called Mela-notan II, which caused the animals to 
suppress their appetite, and compared 
it to a control group, Scarpace said. 
Throughout the study, as the treated 
rats’ appetite grew, they managed to maintain lesser weight than the untreat-
ed rats. 
“The goal would be to develop a 
similar type of drug that does the same 
things, but which can be given orally and does not have any side effects,” 
Scarpace said.
Isabelle Côté, a postdoctoral associ-
ate in the lab, said the research is lim-ited because the translation between the 
administration of the drug to rats and that to humans isn’t comparable, which is still under review. 
“(We) found it interesting that the 
food intake was back to normal for the 
animals as they were before but they 
maintained their weight loss,” she said. UF researchers toward 
new weight-loss 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
If Spencer Baker died on duty 
as an active commander in the U.S. 
Navy, with five children and as the sole-income earner, his family would suffer deep emotional and financial hardships. 
So when his eldest son, UF stu-
dent Reilly Baker, realized his tu-
ition wouldn’t be compensated by 
the state if something happened to his father while serving, he was shocked. 
But now, Florida’s Constitution 
Revision Commission, a group that meets every 20 years to examine the Florida Constitution and propose measures to be put on the 2018 bal-lot, is considering a proposal that would provide free tuition to fami-
lies, like the Bakers, of fallen military 
members, law enforcement officers, firefighters, paramedics and emer-gency-medical technicians.
“I was a little bit taken back that 
it wasn’t something already cov-ered,” Baker said. “I guess I already assumed that college being paid for was under (the GI Bill) umbrella.” 
Gov. Rick Scott supported the 
measure during his State of the State Address on Tuesday. 
“These brave men and women 
died as heroes and it is important that the state does everything pos-sible to take care of the families who lost a loved one who was working to protect our communities,” Scott said.
The proposal was filed in Octo-
ber by Commissioner Emery Gainey, who is director of the Law Enforce-ment Relations, Victim Services and Criminal Justice Programs for the Of-fice of the Attorney General, accord-ing to the commission’s website. He also is a 25-year veteran of the Ala-chua County Sheriff’s Office.
Gainey said law enforcement, 
correctional and correctional pro-bation officers’ families tuition are already covered by Florida statutes in case of death while on duty. The goal of his proposal is to cover them and add EMTs, paramedics and Flor-ida military members in Florida’s constitution, which is more difficult to change.
The child of a fallen officer will 
be able to receive the benefits until his or her 25th birthday, Gainey said. 
“If their father or mother was 
killed in the line of duty, the chances of them going to college has been re-duced substantially,” he said. 
UF doesn’t track students who 
come from military or first-respond-
er families, UF spokesperson Margot 
Winick wrote in an email. 
Gainesville Police spokesperson 
Officer Ben Tobias said parents put on the uniform for work every day, knowing they might not come home. He said even though law enforce-ment officers are covered by Florida statutes, statutes are malleable by legislators. Adding the proposal to 
the state’s constitution would be 
more concrete. 
“It’s just got to be a blessing in 
disguise to have that taken care of,” he said. 
The department’s most recent 
loss of an officer while on duty was Lt. Corey Dahlem, who died April 4, 2007 in the hospital 19 hours af-
ter a drunk driver hit him while on 
foot patrol, according to Alligator ar-chives. He was survived by his wife and two young-adult children.
“Thankfully, these truly tragic 
instances don’t happen as much as they possibly could,” Tobias said. 
Free tuition for children of fallen servicemen, group says THE DECISION WAS 5-0.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
At a Student Government Supreme 
Court hearing Wednesday night, the court reaffirmed their ability to oversee unconsti-tutional Student Senate rules.
Senator Michael Hoffman (Inspire, 
Hume) petitioned the UF Supreme Court on Oct. 30, arguing that Senate rules and 
procedures are not considered Student Body law, and therefore can’t be regulated 
by the judicial branch. 
“I wouldn’t want the Supreme Court 
to interpret the Senate’s rules for it, just like the Senate can’t interpret the Supreme Court’s internal rules,” Hoffman said.
In his speech, Hoffman said the Court 
would be violating the separation of pow-ers doctrine if it had the power to interpret 
rules that affect the internal operations of 
the Senate. 
But the Court disagreed and unani-
mously ruled 5-0 that they can interpret the Senate rules and procedures if it found a part of it to be unconstitutional. 
Hoffman said the court didn’t rule 
against his position, but rather said they couldn’t interpret Senate’s rules and pro-cedures unless they found something to be unconstitutional.
“I’m optimistic that the opinion will 
balance the need for the Supreme Court to prevent unconstitutional actions while al-
lowing the legislature to operate indepen-
dently,” Hoffman said.  
Chief Justice Meagan McCarthy said 
Hoffman was asking the court to explain if they had the power to rule on the Senate rules and procedures. 
“The Supreme Court needs to have the 
ability to check power,” McCarthy said. “We are not saying the Senate can’t make its own rules and procedures, but we’re saying that in the case there is something unconstitutional or in the case that a stu-dent wants to bring a petition, that the Su-preme Court has the jurisdiction to hear 
that.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgUF Supreme Court: It can review Senate rules, procedures
ONE HAS BEEN ARRESTED AND 
FACES 16 CHARGES.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Gainesville teens who were accused 
of breaking into a smartphone repair store to 
steal thousands of dollars worth of phones and then selling them to another phone-repair store have been identified by police.
Police arrested 19-year-old Brian Keith 
Johnson Jr. on Tuesday on 16 charges includ-ing grand theft, dealing in organized stolen property and fraud, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report.
A sworn complaint has been issued for the 
second suspect, 18-year-old Corey Motanise 
Larry.
Early Dec. 22, the two men broke into Or-
ange Phone Care on Southwest 34th Street, the report said. In addition to taking phones, they 
caused more than $3,000 worth of damage.
Later that day, Johnson sold an iPhone 6 
16GB to Re-Tech Repair Experts on Southwest Archer Road for $50, the report said. He gave a photo ID and thumbprint to sell the phone.
The following day, Johnson and Larry 
went to the Oaks Mall’s food court and used 
an ecoATM kiosk, an unmanned kiosk that al-
lows customers to sell their used phones, po-lice said. Johnson sold an iPhone 6 128GB for $95, and Larry sold an iPhone 7 128GB at a kiosk for $205, according to the police report.
Johnson then sold three additional phones 
to Re-Tech for $400, police said. The next day, he sold one last phone to Re-Tech for $90.
Johnson was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail and remains in lieu of a $141,000 bond.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgGPD: Two Gainesville teens robbed, pawned cell phonesT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
“Somewhere Along the Way” is downtown Gainesville’s newest coffee shop and art 
gallery. The art collection features glassware, paintings, wood sculptures and handmade pottery.  
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, JANUARY  12, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Lake Foreclosure Resale $29,900Before foreclosure sold for $134,900. Special Financing.Selling- off Jan. 27thInfo: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com877.712.3650 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.     1-12-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
GOOD QUALITY
RATTAN DINETTE SET
Glass-top table, 4 chairs. $150. Call or text 
352-256-7977    1-12-18-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, January 23rd at 10:00 AM
Whittelsey Wood Products
16301 NW 15th Ave, Miami, Fl 33169
Sale will consist of Veneer Processing 
Manufacturing Plant Auction including: 
Langzauner Lz 4-S 4200 Veneer Saw, 
Fisher+Ruckle Omnimaster Plus Veneer 
Splicer, Holzher 1265 Supercut Vertical 
Panel Saw, Butfering Optimat SCO 213 
Diamond CE 2 head Sander, Nederman 
S-series Bag filter S-500, Joos Hp-115 Hot 
Press, Osama Technologies S2R-1600 Top 
and Bottom Glue Spreader, Champion Air 
Compressor, International 4400 Trucks, 
Flatbed Trailers with Piggyback Kits, Yale 
and Heister Forklifts, Princeton Piggyback 
Forklifts, Wood Product Inventory consist-
ing of Veneer, Burl, Plywood, Lumber and 
Specialty Woods and Architectural Products, 
Warehouse Equip., Pallet Racking, Office 
Furniture, Office Equip. & much more!
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#2017-025084- CA-01
Preview: Mon, January 22nd from 10:00 
A.M. to 4:00 P.M. and 1 hour prior to sale - 
15%-18% BP - $100 refundable cash deposit 
to register (800) 840-BIDS - info@moecker -
auctions.com AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin    
1-12-1-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Charming Historic Cottage 2 BR 1 BA.Near Law school. CH/A, screened porch, granddaddy oaks. Available Now2703 NW 2nd Ave. 900 mo w/approved cred-it. No pets 352-332-5836     1-19-18-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, Coins, Currency, CollectiblesCall: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14
Psychology Office looking for Spring 
Semester Volunteer Office Interns. Two 
full-day a week commitment. Credit may 
be available through UF psychology and 
English Departments. Excellent writing and 
communication skills important.
Send vita/resume with letter of interest to
info@cpancf.com
1-17-18-6-14
Seeking PT help with admin and misc tasks. No exp nec, but professional communication, attention to detail, and willingness to learn are a must. Tasks include processing orders, data entry, folding apparel, and others. Exp with USPS, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office, and inventory are preferred. Flexible sched-ule is okay, but we need around 15 hrs/week split over 2-3 days. To apply, please send a resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com  1-19-18-5-14
Seeking part-time copy editor for scuba-related articles and educational texts and materials. Must have prior editorial/copy editing experience and must have advanced grammar knowledge. Please send resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com   1-19-18-5-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subject: alge -
bra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-16-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)The Child's Garden
The Importance of Math in the Classroom
Welcome back to another great school year. 
I would like to take this opportunity to talk about the importance of incorporating math 
in the early education setting. Many schools 
get lost in the idea that literacy is the most 
important feature in a preschool setting. Here at The Child's Garden, we believe in a well-rounded program that promotes all ar-
eas in early education.
It can be overwhelming when searching for 
a preschool. Many schools focus on literacy, reading and writing. While this is, of course, extremely important, numeracy skills are 
equally important too.
Children who participate in math at an early 
age develop critical thinking and problem 
solving skills, which are important for all 
academic areas of growth. The University 
of Irvin California conducted a study which 
shows children who do well in math enter-
ing into school, generally continue to do well 
throughout school.
It has been estimated that children receive 
up to 1000 hours of literacy before entering 
school. Whereas mathematics is sometimes 
just recognizing numbers 1-10, rote count-
ing, and sorting, we like to incorporate math 
into every area of our busy day. While read-
ing, children are encouraged to count the 
number of items on the page. While build -
ing with blocks, we talk about structure and 
shapes. In housekeeping, we count baby 
dolls, plates, utensils, food, etc. We discuss 
who has more, less or the same. At cleanup, 
we count to see how long it takes us from 
one day to the next. Sometimes we switch it 
up and count backwards. 
Other areas we continue to promote math 
are at snack time, children are snack-mon -
itors, they count the number of friends to set 
snacks out for and how much to give each 
friend so all have equal amounts. Pouring 
water into cups to promote measurement 
skills. We partake in cooking class, which uses measurements and science skills. We focus on all shapes, including 3D shapes, 
looking at size, shape, and sides. We ask 
open-ended questions: Where?, What?, 
Why?, to help improve critical thinking skills.
Preschool mathematics is much more than 
counting to ten. Preschool math is the door-
way to the growth of future scientists, engi -
neers, architects, chefs, etc. We are proud to 
give all children the correct tools they need to 
help succeed in school and life.
Louise Crisp                                    1-12-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Compass output
5 Gershwin title
color
9 Presidential
daughter Reagan
14 Bird’s-nest, e.g.15 Ounce16 Zac of
“Baywatch”
17 Instruction for
dolphin riders?
20 Reader with
reprints
21 Flight attendant’s
indication
22 Flashy genetic
enhancements?
25 Ticket26 Oscar role for
Forest
27 Piña colada
liquor
28 Like “black
diamond” slopes
29 Hot-dog it?31 New England
cape
33 __ generis
34 Groaners in a
routine?
38 “I’m such a
moron!”
39 Car nut
40 Campbell of
“House of Cards”
43 Filled entirely46 What bills may
become
48 “Amscray!”49 Pace often rapid50 Time capsules?54 Alternative
medicinepractitioner’sterm for amainstreamdoctor
56 One might have
tears in it
57 Use second
fiddles in a
pinch?
61 Quick
62 Name of kings in
Denmark,Norway andSweden
63 Light bulb,
metaphorically
64 Pioneer of song
who “crossed thewide mountainswith her lover Ike”
65 Risqué66 APB quarryDOWN
1 Jenny’s offspring
2 Capitol sight
3 Disastrous end4 Extends over
5 Compete for the
job
6 Online chuckle
7 Female
marsupials havetwo
8 Taken back, as
words
9 Equal
10 Love
11 Ed’s wife on “The
Honeymooners”
12 Ad time
13 Shoe part18 Lots of bucks19 Is afflicted with22 Depression23 Put down24 “Did you really
think I’d go forthat?”
28 Largest number
in many a column
30 Homes for
creatures of thenot-so-deep
32 Org. in a 1966
mergeragreement
33 Raw, brown or
white stuff35 Third of a kid’s
poem trio
36 TV streaming
option
37 “Game of
Thrones” evilness
41 Wine label info
42 “Hitchhiker’s
Guide” beings, forshort
43 Many a
hieroglyphicinsect
44 Claim45 Semihard Swiss
cheese
47 Declaration at a
group wedding
50 Target of budget
trimming
51 Complete52 Birch of “American
Beauty”
53 Showy bulb55 Hunted one58 Ford’s Crown __59 Like comets60 Easy mark
By Priscilla Clark and Jeff Chen
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/12/1801/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 12, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Splendor
5 Lara Croft targets
10 In that case
14 Jamba Juice
berry
15 “Tommy” is one
16 Chewy Hershey
candy
17 Step on it19 Activates, as a
security system
20 Tossed course
21 Company that
introduced
Styrofoam
22 Spacek of
“Bloodline”
23 Things to avoid25 Foamy pick-me-
up
27 Defeat 
decisively
30 Tied in the 
harbor
33 Flowing garment36 __ Paulo, Brazil37 Roman poet who
coined “carpe
diem”
38 Creator of
Iceland’s 
Imagine PeaceTower
39 Sleep on it
41 “SNL” writer/actor
Michael
42 “Becket” star
44 Auction ending?45 Inert gas46 Not very often47 Like some poll
questions
49 Youngsters51 Hamlet cousins54 Put down56 Crone59 Knuckleheads61 Wild bunches62 Count on it64 Lawn pest65 “That’s too bad”66 It might be a
whole lot
67 Follow
instructions
68 Covert agent69 Safari shelterDOWN
1 Bear feet
2 Aquaman’s realm
3 __ Cup: classic
candy in a yellowwrapper
4 Hot and spicy
5 Young Spider-
Man portrayer
Holland
6 Pundit’s piece7 Short note
8 Wild fight
9 Suppressed, with
“on”
10 False friend11 Bet on it12 Shade trees
13 Way too interested
18 Dumpster output
22 Put up with24 “Well, sorrrr-ry!”26 Massachusetts
college or its town
28 “Holy smokes!”29 Stir31 Letter between
Delta and Foxtrot
32 “It Ain’t All About
the Cookin’”memoirist Paula33 Pigeon calls
34 Poker stake35 Bank on it39 Chap
40 Cause of a buzz
43 Adventurous trip45 “Another
problem?”
48 Forget-me-__:
flowers
50 Shoulder 
warmer52 Jenna, to Jeb
53 Unsmiling
54 Firing range
supply
55 Doofus
57 Pond plant
58 Small valley60 Editor’s mark62 You may feel 
one on yourshoulder
63 Even so
By C.C. Burnikel©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/11/1801/11/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 11, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Computer ____
1.  Team ____5.  ____ saw
2.  Make damp6.  ____ off
3.  Backslide7.  Instill 
4.  Covert YMOERM
SMCTOALSKLI
APRET
IOENSMT
PELERSAJEITCN
ESTRCEANSWERS: 1A-Memory  5A-Skill  6A-Taper  7A-Inject
1D-Mascot  2D-Moisten  3D-Relapse  4D-Secret  B-Jack Lemmon1-12-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor was voted the “45th Greatest Movie 
Star of All Time” by Premiere Magazine.
BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections
 20 Events/NoticesJosie Kuhlman and the Florida 
women's tennis team begin their spring season today at the UNLV Invite, pg. 15Mullen finalizes coaching staff
Florida football coach Dan Mullen completed his coaching staff on Thursday af-
ter hiring Ron English as his safeties coach. Mullen also announced the position assignments for his 10 assistants. Billy Gonzales and John Hevesy will serve as co-offensive coordinators, while T odd Grantham will be defensive coordinator.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
It’s been seven years since the Florida 
gymnastics team overcame No. 1 LSU in a regular-season meet. But after opening the 2018 season with a win over West Virgin-ia on Jan. 5, a night that saw junior Alicia Boren register the highest all-around score ever to open a season in program history, No. 7 UF is hoping to end that streak.
The Gators will open SEC play against the 
Tigers tonight at 6:45 p.m. at the O’Connell Center.
LSU enters Gainesville with six All-Amer-
icans and the No. 5 ranked freshman class in the nation. It began regular-season action on Jan. 5 at home against then-No.19 Ar-kansas, with a 197.150-195.350 win. Florida faced the Tigers twice last year, falling to its conference rival by 1.55 points in the regular season and by 0.15 points in the SEC Cham-pionships.
For the Gators’ four freshmen, tonight’s 
meet will be their first time competing at the O’Connell Center. Ranked as the No. 1 re-cruiting class in the country, the group start-ed off strong against West Virginia, with at least one freshman posting a top-five score in each of the four events.
“I’m excited for the team as well as the 
freshmen,” Boren said. “It’s such a big com-petition being that its against LSU.”
Florida’s first-year gymnasts are led by 
Jazmyn Foberg, who earned third place in UF faces LSU tonight at home
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida guard Egor Koulechov received 
a pass at the top of the arc five minutes 
into the game and drained a three-point shot to tie the score at seven apiece. In the early stages of UF’s 71-54 win against Mis-
sissippi State on Wednesday, Koulechov 
scored the Gators’ first 13 points of the contest.
He finished with a game-high 23 points, 
17 of which came in the first half. 
“It’s nice to see him playing with con-
fidence,” Florida coach Mike White said.
At times this season, confidence seemed 
to elude the graduate transfer. Against Gonzaga on Nov. 24, Koulechov shot a seasonlow 11.1 percent from the field. His next six games were full of inconsistency, scoring eight points or less in three of the 
contests while also recording a 21-point 
performance against Cincinnati.
White told reporters on Dec. 31 that 
Koulechov was dealing with plantar fasci-tis, providing a possible explanation for his struggles.
But in Florida’s last four games, the na-
tive of Volgograd, Russia, has reemerged as a scoring threat. He’s leading the Gators 
in points per game (19.8) during SEC play 
and is shooting 65 percent from the three-point line.Koulechov finding his rhythm 
at start of conference play
SEE MEN'S BBALL,  PAGE 16SEE WOMEN'S BBALL,  PAGE 16UK 56, UF 53
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Trailing by two with less than seven seconds re-
maining in the fourth quarter, the Gators inbound-
ed the ball in front of their bench. After a cross-court pass from forward Haley Lorenzen found guard Funda Nakkasoglu open on the right side of the court, Nakkasoglu attempted an off-balance three-pointer. 
Her shot bounced off the left side of the back-
board and ended Florida’s hopes of picking up its 
first SEC win of the season as UF came up short 
against Kentucky, 56-53, at the O’Connell Center 
on Thursday night.
When asked about the decision on the final 
play, coach Cameron Newbauer reaffirmed his 
support in Nakkasoglu, who’s leading the team in 
scoring this season with 15.2 points per game.
“She makes tough shots. It’s what she can do,” 
Newbauer said. “So that’s why we went to her.”
The loss moves Florida to 0-4 in SEC play, de-
spite the team holding a lead in the fourth quarter or overtime in three of the four contests.
“Obviously, it’s frustrating,” Newbauer said. 
“You don’t wanna focus on the results, but tonight 
we felt like we had a chance. We’ve just got to 
keep getting better, keep fighting.”
The Gators have failed to shoot over 40 percent 
from the field in every SEC matchup this season 
and continued their struggles against Kentucky on Thursday.
In the first quarter alone, UF made only 4-of-17 
shots, scoring 10 points in the process. At half-time, Florida was shooting 23.3 percent on 30 at-tempts from the floor.
“It’s coming out ready to play from the start,” 
senior Haley Lorenzen said. “We’ve gotta fight Florida’s shooting woes continue in fourth consecutive SEC loss  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu missed a potential game-winning shot in UF's three-point loss to Kentucky on Thursday. "She makes tough shots. It's what she can do, " coach Cameron Newbauer said. "So that's why we went to her. "
FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
Eight members of the Florida 
men’s tennis team will compete in 
the qualifying rounds of the City 
of Sunrise Pro Tennis Classic this 
weekend in Sunrise, Florida. The tournament marks the start of UF’s spring season after earning a pre-
season ranking of No. 9 in the na-
tion.
Of those competing, sophomore 
Johannes Ingildsen and freshman Duarte Vale both hold national sin-
gles rankings in the ITA preseason 
poll at No. 7 and No. 39, respective-ly. Junior Alfredo Perez holds the No. 8 ranking but will not partici-
pate this weekend.
One hundred twenty-one play-
ers from around the world will join 
the Gators and fight for 14 remain-ing spots in the tournament’s main 
draw, which is set to begin on Tues-
day. Last season, the team played in a similar event in Plantation, Flori-da, where both Ingildsen and Perez 
advanced to the main draw but lost in the opening round.
Florida held off-campus practices 
this week to prepare for the clay 
courts at the Sunrise Tennis Club, 
where the tournament is being held.
Dual-match play will begin for 
the Gators on Jan. 22 when they 
host unranked UCF at the Ring Ten-
nis Complex. The Knights are one 
of six non-conference opponents UF will face before SEC play opens in March. Of those six teams, three hold top-25 rankings: No. 2 Ohio 
State, No. 17 Michigan and No. 21 
Florida State.
UF finished 19-10 in dual match-
es last season and advanced to the 
Round of 16 in the NCAA Tourna-
ment, where eventual national champion Virginia swept Florida 4-0.
When they returned to action in 
the fall, the Gators had an encour-aging two months of play. Ingildsen won his draw at the Gator Ranked +1 Tournament and competed in 
the Oracle ITA National Fall Cham-
pionship in November, where he went 2-2. At the same tournament, teammate and All-American Perez went 3-1. The two played together as a doubles pair and won the ITA 
All-American Championship, earn-
ing themselves the No. 1 doubles ranking in the nation.
In his first tournament as a Gator, 
Vale won the singles and doubles ti-tle at the Gator Ranked +1 Tourna-ment. Vale is currently ranked No. 39 in singles.
Freshman Andy Andrade also 
won his first collegiate tournament with his undefeated performance at the Ivy-Plus Invitational in Septem-ber.
In the coming months, coach Bry-
an Shelton’s roster of young stars and experienced leaders will fight for the program’s first national champi-onship. Last fall, Shelton outlined 
the Gators’ competitive perspective.
“We have to continue to approach 
every single day the same way as if 
there is no tomorrow,” he said.
 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgUF opens season today at City of Sunrise Pro Tennis Classic
Alligator File Photo
Gators men’s tennis coach Bryan Shelton and eight of his 
players kick off the spring season today in Sunrise, Florida.
TRACK & FIELDAlligator File Photo
Florida women’s tennis player Josie Kuhlman earned All-SEC First T eam honors last season on the way to UF winning its seventh national championship in program history.
Gators moving on from NCAA title, begin 2018 at UNLV Invite
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s tennis team end-
ed 2017 as NCAA champions and the No. 
1 ranked team in the country. But in 2018, 
nothing is guaranteed.
UF lost several of its top players this off-
season, including seniors Belinda Woolcock 
and Kourtney Keegan, as well as freshman 
Ingrid Neel. Neel, who won the clinching 
singles match in Florida’s 4-1 national cham-pionship victory over Stanford on May 23, decided to forgo the rest of her collegiate ca-reer and turn pro.
Despite the departures of key contribu-
tors, the team has high hopes for freshmen Victoria Emma and Katie Kubicz. Emma’s resume includes competing in the U.S. Open 
Junior Championships in 2015 and 2016 and 
winning the Florida Player of the Year award in 2015, while Kubicz was ranked seventh in the 18-and-under division in Poland and placed second in the doubles portion of the 
Polish Winter Championships in 2016.
Meanwhile, Florida’s returning cast of players — all of whom are seniors — are 
aiming to bring the Gators back to the NCAA title match for the second year in a row. Josie 
Kuhlman, an All-American in 2015, is look-
ing to improve on last year’s performance af-ter earning a nod to the All-SEC First Team.
Brooke Austin returns to the fold after a 
2017 campaign that didn’t live up to expecta-tions. Austin earned SEC Player of the Year and was the NCAA doubles national champi-on with Keegan as a sophomore, but ended last spring excluded from the ITA top 125 
singles rankings.
The No. 3 Gators will kick off the spring 
season at the Freeman Memorial Women’s 
Tennis Championships beginning today at 
the Fertitta Tennis Complex on UNLV’s cam-
pus. 
The three-day event will feature three 
other top-10 teams in No. 1 Stanford, No. 5 North Carolina and No. 6 Pepperdine. The 
tournament is set to begin this morning at 
10.
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgWOMEN’S TENNIS
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and women’s track 
and field teams will compete at the Com-modore Invitational in Nashville, Tennes-
see, today and Saturday for UF’s second 
meet of the 2018 indoor season.
The men’s team, ranked No. 1, and the women’s team, ranked No. 6, combined for five first-place finishes Saturday at the Or-ange and Purple Classic in Clemson, South 
Carolina.
The men’s team is led by senior KeAn-
dre Bates and sophomore Grant Holloway, 
both of whom were named to the Bower-man Preseason Watch List on Tuesday. 
Both were semifinalists for the Bower-
man award last season, which is given to the top student-athlete in collegiate track and field.
Freshman Benjamin Lobo Vedel, com-
ing off a first-place finish in the 300-meter in his Gators debut Saturday, was named the USTFCCCA Division I Men’s National Athlete of the Week on Tuesday.
The Denmark native’s 300-meter time 
of 32.80 seconds tied the fourth-best mark in collegiate history and broke the Danish record of 33.07 seconds run by Nick Eke-lund-Alexander in 2013.
The women’s team features senior Lloy-
dricia Cameron, an SEC champion in the shot put, who took first place in the event in the Orange and Purple Classic.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgFlorida hoping to build off early-season success in NashvilleMEN’S TENNIS16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 2018
the ﬂ  oor routine against West Virginia 
with a score of 9.825. Foberg was named SEC Freshman Gymnast of the Week on Tuesday following the solid perfor-
mance. 
“I think my favorite part is just the 
team altogether,” Foberg said in a re-
lease after the WVU meet. “Having fun, dancing, singing (and) just cheering 
each other on.”
In addition to standout showings from 
the team’s freshmen, the meet against 
West Virginia was also led by Boren, who placed ﬁ  rst in ﬂ  oor and beam, and senior Alex McMurtry, who placed ﬁ  rst in bars and vault. McMurtry shined in the Gators’ ﬁ  rst matchup against LSU 
in 2017, posting a perfect 10.0 on vault. 
The team will look to Boren and McMur-try to continue to shine when Florida makes its home debut tonight.
“I’m so excited deﬁ  nitely to get back 
in front of our home crowd,” Boren said. “They bring a lot of energy.”
A video posted to WCJB.com contrib-
uted to this report.
@alanaa_gomez 
agomez@alligator.org GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Boren, McMurtry leading team Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Egor Koulechov has bounced back from his early-season shooting struggles, connecting on 65 percent of his three-point attempts over UF's previous four games.
His play is one of the main reasons 
UF (12-4, 4-0 SEC) is on a six-game 
winning streak and is undefeated so far in conference play.
Koulechov’s 65-percent shooting 
from beyond the arc during SEC action is a vast improvement from the 19-per-cent mark he averaged in eight games between Nov. 24 and Dec. 22.
Although Koulechov is providing the 
spark Florida’s offense has been look-ing for, he’s still prioritizing the team over himself.
Following Wednesday’s win, he 
drew attention away from his perfor-mance and instead focused on UF’s shooting as a whole.
“We’re really conﬁ  dent right now, 
but we don’t let it get to our heads,” he said.
The grad transfer’s conﬁ  dence in 
himself and his teammates will be needed when UF faces Ole Miss (9-7, 
2-2 SEC) in Oxford on Saturday at 1 
p.m.The Rebels are a middle-of-the-
pack team in almost every statistical 
category, but have a higher average in 
rebounds per game (37.9), blocks per game (5.4) and assists per game (15.8) than Florida thanks to guard Terence Davis and forward Marcanvis Hymon.
Both Davis and Hymon lead the 
team with 5.9 and 5.8 rebounds per 
game, respectively. Hymon also leads 
Ole Miss with 20 blocks, while Davis and forward Justas Furmanavicius have 16 each.
On offense, the Rebels are led by 
guard Deandre Burnett, who’s averag-ing 14.4 points and 4.7 assists per game.
Like Florida, Ole Miss relies heav-
ily on its backcourt, with ﬁ  ve guards 
averaging at least 8.8 points per game, 
something White knows the Gators will need to look out for on Saturday.
“We’ve got to be very aware of who 
does what from what spot on the ﬂ  oor,” White said. “I think they’re a lot more dangerous than their record indicates.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org MEN'S BBALL,  from pg. 14Gators face Rebels on Saturday
how we ﬁ  ght in the second half. And not just 
when we’re down, but when we’re up, when 
we’re even, we’ve gotta ﬁ  ght all the time.”
A 15-6 run to start the second half — led 
by the Gators knocking down 5-of-6 shots from beyond the arc in a four-minute span — helped Florida jump out to a seven-point lead.
But two three-pointers from Kentucky’s 
Amanda Paschal in the fourth quarter helped mount a Wildcats comeback, and another pe-rimeter jumper from Taylor Murray with 54 seconds left in the game helped UK increase its lead to ﬁ  ve.
For Florida, Lorenzen ﬁ  nished with nine points and 10 rebounds, nearly grabbing her ninth double-double of the season, and gradu-
ate transfer Paulina Hersler tied a career high 
with 19 points while also grabbing eight re-bounds.
Over the next two days, Florida will be 
back on the practice court in preparation for a visit from LSU on Sunday.
“Going into practice (Friday), it has to be 
a positive mindset of 'we are getting better,'” Lorenzen said. “Even though we keep losing, we’re just that much closer.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BBALL,  from pg 14Hersler tied career high with 19 points