We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Watch your credit card
A former Zaxby’s employee was accused of going on a shopping 
spree with a customer’s card, pg. 5 
Shark bait hoo ha ha
Local shark expert shows off his collection, pg. 4Florida prepares for LSU
A matchup between former teammates. An offensive line ready-
ing for another “dogﬁ  ght. ” Defensive backs beef over “DBU. ” Yup, 
it’s LSU week, pg. 14 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 18
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Rapper Armando Christian Pérez, known by the stage name Pitbull, talks to a crowd of more than 1,000 students during a 
speaking event hosted by Accent Speakers Bureau and Hispanic Heritage Month at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts 
Tuesday night. The talk was moderated by T ed Spiker, the chair of UF’s journalism department.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
After years of discord from UF Other 
Personnel Services workers, the university 
is working to address the issue but not in a 
way that guarantees their jobs. 
In April, UF Human Resources Ser-
vices began asking all departments to re-
view their use of non-student hourly OPS 
staff because they found that some were 
in temporary positions for decades, Steve 
Orlando, a UF spokesperson, said. Non-
student hourly OPS employees are at-will 
temporary workers who aren’t graduate 
assistants, faculty members, students or 
health center residents. UF employs 3,916 non-student OPS workers, Orlando said.
“It’s not a good place to have employ-
ees,” he said. “We needed to clean things 
up.”
Human Resources told all departments 
to take one of three actions: transition their 
OPS employees to full-time stafﬁ  ng, end 
the position or transition the employee to 
TempForce, a stafﬁ  ng ﬁ  rm in Gainesville 
that connects employees with corpora-
tions, Orlando said. 
UF hires temporary employees for one-
time jobs, Orlando said. Temporary em-
ployees work on special projects, help 
reduce workload, cover staff on leave or 
work on an as-needed basis. They are Fate of OPS workers hangs 
in limbo amid UF review
The departments were told to evaluate 
their use of OPS workers.EQUIPMENT WILL BE 
SENT BACK FOR 
INSURANCE PURPOSES. 
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
The charred Gators Football equipment 
would have upset punter Jon Gould, but 
new designer cleats pushed it out of his 
mind.
The back of an equipment truck caught 
on ﬁ  re on its way back from Starkville, Mis-
sissippi, as a result of a ﬂ  at tire. Some of 
the team’s equipment was caught in the 
ﬂ  ames, including helmets, pads and wrist-
bands, Will Pantages, a UF football assis-
tant director, said. 
“A lot of our minds were shifted off it 
immediately when we got the new Jordan 
Retro cleats,” Gould said.
His reaction was based on pictures he saw of the inside of the truck on social 
media. When he got to the team meeting 
Monday, his teammates shared photos of 
the damage. 
“The stuff that was in the ﬁ  re was abso-
lutely trashed,” Gould said. 
The football team is sending any dam-
aged equipment back to Riddell, a football 
equipment manufacturer, for insurance 
purposes, Gould said. 
A new order has already been made to 
replace the equipment for this Saturday’s 
home game against the Louisiana State Uni-
versity Tigers, Gould said.
The extent of the damage to the truck 
is still being assessed, and it is unknown 
whether the trailer will be repairable, Pan-
tages said. He said the University Athletic 
Association is still dealing with the insur-
ance company, so no total cost of damage 
is immediately available.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org‘It was a little bit scary’: Gator 
football equipment scorched  By Emma Witmer
Alligator Staff Writer 
Between answering questions in Eng-
lish, Pitbull would lean in toward the audi-
ence and spit out a quick Spanish phrase.
Each time, those whose understood 
laughed like they were in on an inside joke.  
During his introduction alone, the 
crowd of hundreds erupted into applause 
nearly 10 times. Audience members lined 
up around the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts nearly an hour before he took 
the stage in anticipation. 
Armando Christian Pérez, whose stage 
name is Pitbull, was paid $130,000 to speak 
at UF. The Cuban-American rapper ad-
dressed the crowd Tuesday night as part of 
Accent Speakers Bureau’s and the Hispanic 
Student Association’s homage to Hispanic 
Heritage Month. The discussion was mod-
erated by Ted Spiker, the UF journalism de-
partment chair. 
During his time on stage, Pitbull talked 
about growing up with refugee parents, liv-
ing around drug violence in Miami, how 
education impacted his life, his introduc-
tion into the music industry and how his 
past has inﬂ  uenced the way he handles the 
pressures of fame.
As a kid, Pitbull said he attended be-
tween 20 and 25 schools. Mr. 305 speaks to the 352
SEE PITBULL,  PAGE 4
SEE OPS,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 18
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Madison Forbis 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Marlowe Starling, Paige Arneson,Copy EditorsDesk EditorsHIGH  92° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Authors@UF: Lillian Guerra
Professor Lillian Guerra of 
UF’s history department and 
the Center for Latin American 
Studies will discuss her book, 
“Heroes, Martyrs and Political 
Messiahs in Revolutionary 
Cuba, 1926-1958,” at 3 p.m. 
today in Smathers Library 
Room 100. Guerra draws on 
her years of research in newly-
opened archives and personal 
interviews to shed light on the 
men and women of Cuba who 
participated in mass mobiliza-
tion and civic activism to es-
tablish social movements in 
their quest for social and racial 
justice and for more account-able leadership. The event is 
free and open to the public. 
Light refreshments will be 
served.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.Corrections
In an article in the Sept. 
21 issue titled “‘Bug doctor’ 
Philip Stansly dies at age 74,” 
Philip Stansly was not in the 
Peace Corps, and he earned 
his nickname “Psyllid Slayer” 
while working in Florida. The 
Alligator reported differently. 
In an article in Monday’s is-
sue titled “Library West to begin 
24/7 again,” the Office of the 
Provost will fund Library West 
for two years. The Alligator re-
ported differently. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, 
October 19. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at 
that time to read information regarding the application process. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held 
at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on 
Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must be present at 
that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking 
college or university students. Preference will be given to those 
who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, October 3, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSThere’s an app for that. Applying for  
financial aid is now easier than ever  
with a new app called myStudentAid.   
The app, which can be used to complete  
the Free Application for Federal Student  
Aid, or FAFSA, is available on Google Play  
and the Apple App Store. The FAFSA also  
can be completed at fafsa.ed.gov, which is  
newly redesigned to make applying for aid  
easier. You can file a 2019-20 FAFSA as  
early as October 1, 2018. UF’s “On-Time” 
deadline to receive the results of your 2019-  
20 FAFSA from the federal processor is  
December 15, 2018. Apply well before  
December 15 to ensure that the federal  
processor has time to analyze and send the 
results of your FAFSA to UF . Financial aid  
is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis,  
so apply as early as possible to be considered  
for the most, and best aid.Need help  
paying for  
college? As the semester gets into full swing, 
keep in mind the many opportuni -
ties available right here at UF to 
help you take care of yourself and 
be your best.
Wellness Wednesdays: The first 
Wednesday of every month, you’re in -
vited to join us in person or online for 
our lunchtime wellness series. Register 
to attend in-person via myT raining 
or sign up for the wellness listserv by 
emailing hrs-wellness@ufl.edu to learn 
more about how to tune in online.
Oct. 3 – Mindless vs. Mindful Eating – Jes-
sie Furman, MS, RDN, LD/N, Registered Di-
etician & Coordinator of Nutrition, UF Rec-
reational Sports. Where do you fall on the 
mindless versus mindful eating margin? We 
make more than 200 food choices in a day, 
and mindlessness can easily become a trait as -
sociated with overeating and reduced content -
ment with food. Mindful eating is not a diet; it involves a heightened sense of consciousness 
and awareness to promote greater satisfaction. 
Nov. 7 – Florida Vegetable Gardening 101 – 
Melissa DeSa, Community Programs Director, 
Working Food. Learn the basics for getting started 
on growing some of your own produce in Flori-
da. Here, our climate and soils are vastly different 
from the rest of the country, so we’ll review some tips, tricks and resources to get you 
off to a good start! We’ll cover gar -
den planning, variety selection, soil 
building and more.
Free fitness classes: Did you know 
UF-UF Health Wellness offers free 
fitness classes to faculty and staff? 
Be sure to check out any of the fol -
lowing that fit your schedule and 
your fitness goals. To learn more 
about these and other opportuni -
ties, be sure to visit: worklife.hr.ufl.
edu/wellness.
Pilates – Saturdays from 9:45–11:15 a.m. at 
Tanglewood Village Commons Room, 2919 
SW 13th St.
Yoga – T uesdays from 12:15–1:00 p.m. at Ustler 
Hall Atrium, 162 Fletcher Dr.
Outdoor Fitness Adventure – Wednesdays at 
5:30 p.m. at the north gates of Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium, near the glass doors and gator statue.
 Nutrition-focused Wellness Wednesdays,  
free fitness classes return this fall
The Bob Graham Center for Public Service is a 
nonpartisan civic engagement center at the Uni -
versity of Florida that encourages the informed 
and engaged participation of citizens and works 
to increase understanding of public policy issues 
and democratic institutions through public pro -
gramming, experiential learning and research.   
Former Florida Gov. and U. S. Sen. Bob Gra -
ham founded the center in 2006 with the goal of 
creating a community of students, scholars and 
citizens who share a commitment to revitalizing 
the civic culture of Florida and the nation.
The following events are all free and open to the 
public and parking is available. They will also be 
streamed live on the Bob Graham Center web -
site, www.bobgrahamcenter.ufl.edu.
Oct. 9 – The 12 Amendments – In April, the 
Constitution Revision Commission (CRC), a 
37-member panel that meets every 20 years 
to review the state’s constitution, added eight 
proposed amendments to the November ballot. 
These revisions were added to the five referenda 
already slated for the ballot by the Florida Legis -
lature or through citizen initiatives. One amend -
ment has since been removed from the ballot by 
the courts. At 6 p.m. on Oct. 9 in conjunction 
with the League of Women Voters Alachua 
County/Gainesville and the Gainesville Sun, the 
Bob Graham Center will host a program exam-
ining the remaining 12 amendments. 
Jon Mills, dean emeritus and director of the Stephen Stills, 
singer/songwrit -
er and two-time 
Rock and Roll 
Hall of Famer 
whose legendary 
six-decade career 
traces its origins  
to Gainesville, 
will be the speak-
er for the Univer -
sity of Florida’s 
fall commence-
ment in Decem-
ber, the first uni -
versity-wide ceremony to be held in Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium in decades. He will be joined by 
UF College of the Arts Dean Onye Ozuzu, who 
will be the faculty speaker.
Stills also will be receiving an honorary doctor -
ate of music, for which he was nominated by 
UF’s School of Music.
The ceremony, scheduled for 9 to 11 a.m. Dec. 
15, marks a return to a UF tradition that dates 
back to UF’s very beginning in 1906. Univer -
sity-wide commencements were held in the Center for Governmental Responsibility at UF’s 
Levin College of Law, and Mary Adkins, director 
of Legal Writing and Appellate Advocacy at UF’s 
Levin College of Law, will discuss each of the 
constitutional amendments and what a vote for 
or against will mean. 
Oct. 16 – Defusing Hate: Counteracting  
Dangerous Speech – If hate speech is a warning 
sign of violence, than counteracting its dissem -
ination provides us with an avenue for preven -
tion. At 6 p.m. on T uesday, Oct. 16 in the Pugh 
Hall Ocora, the Bob Graham Center will host 
an open discussion with OverZero Executive 
Director Rachel Brown. Brown will explore the 
strategies and tools needed to prevent danger -
ous speech from influencing audiences.
Oct. 26 – Election of 2018: What’s at Stake? – 
The 2018 election may well be the most momen-
tous midterm contest in decades.  On Oct. 26 at 
6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora, Glenn Altschuler, 
dean of the School of Continuing Education and 
Summer Sessions, and The Thomas and Dorothy 
Litwin Professor of American Studies at Cornell 
University, will set the context of the election, 
review the strategies of both political parties, 
identify key issues and races and will even make 
some predictions. UF president Kent Fuchs will 
offer introductory words of welcome.  Co-spon -
sored by the UF Office of the President and the 
League of Women Voters of Alachua County/
Gainesville.stadium almost 
every year from 
1937 until 1981, 
when they 
moved to the 
then-new Ste-
phen C. O’Con -
nell Center.
“I’m thrilled to 
return to the 
tradition of 
celebrating our 
graduates with a 
joyous universi-
ty-wide ceremony,” Fuchs said. “And what better 
way to do it than with music and art. Not only 
Mr. Stills and Dean Ozuzu as featured speakers, 
but also performances by the UF School of Mu -
sic choir and band.”
Ozuzu, a dance administrator, performing artist,  
choreographer, educator and researcher, joined  
UF as Dean of the College of the Arts in August.
The UF commencement ceremony will be 
live streamed. For more information, visit:  
commencement.ufl.edu/.Events at Bob Graham Center Rock legend Stephen Stills, arts 
dean Onye Ozuzu slated as fall 
commencement speakers
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
What sharp teeth you have
World-renowned shark paleontology expert Gordon Hubbell presents some of the over 
1-million-year-old shark teeth in his collection during a Shark Week event hosted at his 
home Monday night. The teeth belong to the Carcharocles megalodon, an ancient shark 
which could grow to be 60 feet long. The jaw belongs to a modern-day goblin shark.
“hired with no expectation of 
continued employment,” and 
don’t receive the same beneﬁ  ts as 
full-time positions, such as paid 
vacation or sick leave, according 
to the OPS policy.
OPS workers at UF have been 
vocal about their displeasure with 
the way administration treats 
them. The Alachua County Labor 
Coalition pushed back after UF re-
fused to pay OPS workers for time 
missed due to Hurricane Irma and 
again during Richard Spencer’s 
appearance at UF. In July, about 
40 OPS workers protested outside 
UF President Kent Fuchs’ house 
after hearing about a supposed 
mass ﬁ  ring of OPS employees.
There are nine different cate-gories of non-student hourly OPS 
workers, four of which have a set 
hour limit that employees can’t 
exceed. Nearly 300 OPS employ-
ees at UF have exceeded their lim-
it of 4,176 hours, Orlando said. 
Some OPS employees have 
been in what was intended to be 
a temporary position for 10 to 20 
years, he said. 
Now, colleges are planning  to 
address those workers who have 
exceeded the hourly threshold, 
Orlando said. There is no set end 
date when the transition needs to 
be completed. 
Transitioning the employees 
to TempForce is one option that 
departments have for their OPS 
workers. TempForce helps corpo-
rations ﬁ  nd temporary employees 
and provides some limited bene-ﬁ  ts for workers that OPS employ-
ment doesn’t offer, Orlando said.
Through TempForce, employ-
ees can qualify for paid time off 
after completing 1,200 hours, 
according to the TempForce em-
ployee beneﬁ  ts program. Workers 
can also purchase health insur-
ance through TempForce. 
UF has to pay TempForce an 
administrative fee that varies de-
pending on the hourly pay rate 
set by UF and the position type, 
Orlando said. 
Jeremiah Tattersall, the Alach-
ua County Labor Coalition union 
liaison, said he would like to see 
UF use that money to transition 
more OPS workers to full-time 
staff. 
“With the amount of money 
UF has to pay TempForce, why can’t they just give that money to 
this person to hire them as a full-
time employee at UF,” he said.
UF isn’t using the money 
it pays Tempforce to hire OPS 
workers as full-time staff because 
it costs less to use TempForce, 
Orlando said. 
Tattersall believes UF’s new 
decisions about OPS employees 
brings both good and bad results. 
While some OPS workers have 
become full-time staff, others are 
losing their jobs entirely, he said. 
“The University of Florida is 
going about this wrong,” Tatter-
sall said. “We don’t agree with 
the policy of ﬁ  ring long-term OPS 
workers because we think that 
anyone who’s worked for UF for 
more than two years should be a 
permanent employee.” 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgOPS,  from pg. 1Workers may lose their positions. SNAPSHOT OF OPS AT UF:
• An OPS employee is an at-will, 
temporary worker who is paid 
hourly
• UF employs 3,916 non-student 
OPS workers
• Nearly 300 OPS employees at 
UF have exceeded their limit of 
4,176 hours
• Some OPS employees have 
been in temporary positions for 
10 to 20 years
• OPS workers are not eligible 
for paid vacation, sick or admin-
istrative leave or paid holidays“I felt like the system was built to fail 
me,” Pitbull said.
However, he said the school system 
opened his door to the music industry. 
Before the fame, when he was just 
Armando, Pitbull had a drama teacher 
named Hope Martinez. When she saw a 
large group of boys huddled together in 
the hall, Pitbull said she thought it was 
a ﬁ  ght.
“She busted through and heard us 
rapping,” Pitbull said. “She said, ‘You do 
this every day? Do you always draw this 
crowd? You’re talented.’”
After that, Martinez took Pitbull under 
her wing, encouraging him to stay in his 
classes. One day, Martinez approached 
him with an opportunity to audition to 
work with rapper DMX, Pitbull said. It 
was the foot in the door that he needed.
“It’s ironic that a teacher changed my 
life,” Pitbull said. “She said, ‘The only thing I ask from you is that when you get 
an award, you thank me.’”
Today, he still does.
Now that he has found worldwide 
success, Pitbull draws from his experi-
ences with the positive and negative 
sides of the education system, working 
to improve it from the inside.
Pitbull has worked with the education 
system in South Florida to incorporate 
arts, sports and business into the curric-
ulum. By associating maths and sciences 
with topics students are more comfort-
able with, Pitbull said they are able to 
feel more conﬁ  dent in their studies and 
grasp the material. And it has results, he 
said.
“Our last class, we graduated at 100 
percent,” Pitbull said. “And we’re talk-
ing about kids that are 93 percent on free 
lunch. These are the kids that need this.”
@emwitmer
ewitmer@alligator.orgPITBULL,  from pg. 1He was paid $130,000.
RAPID FIRE ANSWERS
After a lengthy interview, Spiker offered up a series of quick-response 
questions, forcing Pitbull to think quickly and come up with answers 
on the ﬂ  y. Here’s what he said:
Spiker - What is your favorite Cuban food?
Pitbull - Fricasé de pollo
Spiker - What is your favorite artform besides music?
Pitbull - Sex. Dale!
Spiker - What is your second favorite dog breed?
Pitbull - Havanese
Spiker - What’s your second favorite area code?
Pitbull - 786
Spiker - One last word to leave these ﬁ  ne students?
Crowd and Pitbull - Dale!WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
A former Zaxby’s employee 
went on a sports store shopping 
spree with a stolen credit card, 
Gainesville Police said.
Eric Alexander Jackson, 35, of 
Gainesville, was arrested Monday 
morning after being accused of spending $585.75 on a customer’s 
credit card that was left Aug. 9 at 
Zaxby’s, at 3710 SW Archer Road, 
according to an arrest report.  
The customer forgot the card 
in the store, the report said. An 
employee gave Jackson the card 
to put in the business’ safe.
Jackson later went on a shop-
ping spree at Hibbett Sports, at 2619 NW 13th St., totaling 
$585.75, the report said. He at-
tempted to spend more than $800 
at Gamestop, at 2631 NW 13th 
St., but the card was declined.
Jackson was caught on camera 
at Hibbett Sports and Gamestop. 
The customer called a Zaxby’s 
manager about the card later that 
day, but the manager couldn’t ﬁ  nd it in the safe, the report said.
Jackson returned to Zaxby’s 
around 11 p.m. to talk to the man-
ager about an unrelated issue. 
Jackson pretended to reach 
into the safe and ﬁ  nd the card, 
police said. 
When called by The Alligator, 
Jackson denied the allegations 
against him. Jackson was charged with 
credit card fraud and fraud to ob-
tain property.
He was released from the Ala-
chua County Jail Tuesday after-
noon on a $20,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Former Zaxby’s employee uses customer’s forgotten credit cardBy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police is looking 
for two men suspected of raping a 
woman Tuesday morning.
A woman was riding her bike on 
her way to work when she stopped 
on the 7100 block of Southwest 
41st Place, near the Kanapaha Vet-
erans Memorial Park, around 10 
a.m., GPD spokesperson Ofc. Ben 
Tobias wrote in an email. 
The woman told police two men walked up to her from be-
hind, pulled her into the woods 
and attacked her, Tobias said.
One of the suspected men is 
6-foot-2, about 300-pounds and in 
his early 40s with a shaved head. 
He was wearing a green shirt and 
khaki shorts, Tobias said. The sec-
ond man is  5-foot-10, 240-pounds, 
in his late 30s with short, curly 
black hair and a grey shirt.
A passerby saw the woman 
on the side of the road and called 
police. The woman who was at-tacked told police she doesn’t be-
lieve she can identify the suspects, 
but the investigation is ongoing, 
Tobias said. 
“We still have more questions 
than answers at this point,” he 
said.
Police are asking anyone with 
information to call Alachua Coun-
ty Crime Stoppers at 352-372-
STOP.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgPolice look for two rape suspects
Conﬁ  dential Reporting 
- Alachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center
352-264-6760
- Peaceful Paths
352-377-8255
Reporting
- Gainesville Police Department
911 or 352-393-7500
- Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce
911 or 352-367-4000Counseling and Support
- Alachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center
352-264-6760
Legal Assistance
- Three Rivers Legal Services
352-372-0519
Medical Care
- UF Health Shands Adult Emer-
gency Room / Trauma Center
1515 SW Archer Road | 352-733-
0800RESOURCES FOR VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULTThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORColumnEverywhere you look, there are students buzzing to and 
from class on scooters of assorted colors, makes, mod-
els and sizes. Together, they hum like an approaching 
cloud of locusts. They stack up at red lights next to each 
other, begging for a 30 mph race. Rarely are the drivers 
wearing helmets. Neither are the passengers. In fact, many 
student scooter drivers display flagrantly unsafe habits, fol-
lowing too closely and riding next to each other in the same 
lane. The bottom line is, if you’re on a two-wheeled vehicle, 
you should at the minimum be wearing a helmet. It could save 
your skin, and more importantly, your life.
One afternoon four years ago, Marion Rose Harvey stopped 
her scooter at a red light on 34th Street. She was minding her 
own business, at a standstill, as a car approached behind her. 
The car did not stop. The light did not change. Harvey was 
caught in a collision, sandwiched between a Toyota Camry and 
a GMC pickup truck. The crash wasn’t Harvey’s fault, but that 
didn’t matter. She sustained traumatic injury and died in the 
emergency room. The anniversary of her death is next week, 
on Monday.
Harvey’s death was not common. There have been no scoot-
er fatalities in Gainesville since her death.
Scooter crashes, on the other hand, are extremely common. 
There have been 79 scooter crashes in Gainesville this year 
alone, according to data gathered by Sgt. Summer Kerkau from 
Gainesville Police’s traffic unit. More than 50 of those crashes 
ended with an injured rider or passenger. Still think it can’t 
happen to you?
You might think so. If you feel comfortable on a scooter, 
you may think you’re skilled enough to drive in flip-flops and 
athletic shorts. Ray-Ban sunglasses will suffice for eyewear 
even though they aren’t shatterproof. They fit your nonchalant 
look. After all, if you can turn on a dime and execute low-speed 
maneuvers flawlessly, why wear a helmet? It’s hot. Helmets 
are uncomfortable in the heat. Why get to class with sweat-
drenched hair when you can get a free, mid-speed blow-dry?
Skill aside, if you are involved in a crash, it probably won’t 
be your fault. When four-wheeled and two-wheeled vehicles 
collide, motorists driving cars and trucks are usually at fault, ac-
cording to a Florida Department of Transportation study. They 
fail to yield the right of way to smaller vehicles. Sometimes they 
just won’t see you on your tiny scooter with one dim headlight. 
Many times they are texting and driving, so they won’t slow 
down if you happen to pull into traffic in front of them. You 
can be the best scooterist on the planet and could still be at risk.
You should consider going through a safety course to learn 
how to avoid a crash. That includes knowing how to swerve 
safely to avoid a car that pulls out in front of you when you’re 
at full throttle barreling down University Avenue. It includes 
knowing how to make an emergency stop. While wearing a 
helmet is the first step to arriving safely, the next best thing you 
can learn is how to position yourself on the road so that other 
drivers can see you better. The knowledge that you would pick 
up in a safety course could save you. If another driver runs a red 
light and puts your life at risk, you’ll regret not having taken it. 
The single best thing you can do to protect yourself is buy 
a helmet and wear it. Ideally a full-face one. Do not end up 
like Abner Miguel Rubio Estrada, 23, who died after crashing 
his motorcycle without a helmet on Clark Butler Boulevard last 
month.
Scooter drivers can’t reliably stay safe on confidence alone. 
Buy a helmet. Take a course. Your life is worth more than the 
embarrassment of helmet hair.
A nation needs a common language
Thanks to a recent ruling by federal Judge 
Mark Walker, the state of Florida will 
now be required to provide Spanish-lan-
guage ballots ahead of the 2018 midterm 
elections. Plaintiffs in the case argued 
that the Spanish-language ballots were neces-
sary, as the recent influx of Puerto Ricans fol-
lowing Hurricane Maria created a large number 
of non-English speaking voters who intend to 
vote in the upcoming elections. 
On that count, the plaintiffs were certainly correct. There 
are a large number of voters in Florida and likely several 
other states, who have no command of English. They’re 
functionally illiterate in the language. 
This story should be about the responsibilities and du-
ties of a citizen to learn the common language. Yet, this is 
oddly being twisted into a voting rights issue. Why should 
the government be responsible for accommodating citizens 
who don’t speak English? 
In his decision, Walker wrote that Puerto Ricans are 
“unique among Americans” in that they are “not educated 
primarily in English — and do not need to be.” A spokes-
person for Gov. Rick Scott added that we don’t want any 
registered voters to not be able to exercise their right because 
of a language barrier.
These comments are alarming. They resemble the Or-
wellian national motto of our nation’s leaders: Diversity is 
strength. They are telling us that Americans don’t have to be 
educated in English, and that language barriers don’t mat-
ter. And yet, many of our nation’s political leaders believe 
these language barriers will bring people together and make 
us stronger. If the idea that more language barriers will make 
us stronger seems counterintuitive, it’s because it is.
It is an obvious fact that members of a society and a coun-
try must be able to communicate with each other. As Gil Lar-
oya wrote in the left-leaning Huffington Post, “communica-
tion is a basic, fundamental part of any functioning society. If 
a group can’t communicate within itself, confusion and frus-
tration can soon set in.” Can you imagine not being able to 
communicate with your fellow neighbor? Even worse, what 
if millions of Americans could literally not understand their fellow countrymen because they don’t speak Eng-
lish? This is happening all across America, as sta-
tistics show there are millions of naturalized U.S. 
citizens who are functionally illiterate in English. 
For example, according to the U.S. census 
data for New Jersey, 40 percent of residents who 
don’t speak English at home “don’t speak English 
very well” at all. Similarly, as immigration has 
increased in the small town of Hazleton, Penn-
sylvania, the town has had to hire new teachers 
to educate the now hundreds of students who 
have to take English as a second language. Take my beloved 
hometown of Miami, even, where it’s commonplace to find 
individuals and businesses that cannot communicate in Eng-
lish. Just a few weeks ago, a Taco Bell employee in nearby 
Hialeah was fired for refusing to take the order of a customer 
who spoke English. The story naturally went viral on social 
media and sparked an outrage. If a story about Taco Bell em-
ployees refusing to conduct business in English is an outrage, 
shouldn’t stories about voters who can’t vote in English be 
equally as outrageous?
This isn’t a complicated issue. Call me crazy, but I be-
lieve society would function best for all parties involved if we 
could all speak a common language. A nation can’t properly 
function without one. That’s not to say that there’s anything 
wrong with speaking another language to someone who 
understands it. In fact, I speak three languages myself, but 
newcomers and those who lack proficiency in English would 
better assimilate into society upon learning the language, 
which would in turn open doors for better job and education 
opportunities.
Learning the English language is something immigrants 
should voluntarily pursue in order to assimilate into the 
country they want to gain citizenship in. However, some 
immigrants don’t because our country continues to make 
accomodations that clearly suggest learning English is not 
necessary. As these accommodations can be costly and cause 
a burden on society, then perhaps it’s time for lawmakers to 
require this assimilation through legislation.
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His column normally 
appears on Mondays.The danger of scooter 
overconfidence
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letter to the Editor
What’s up, Gator Nation! I hope your se-
mester so far has been safe, productive and 
enjoyable. We are about halfway through the 
Fall semester, and your Student Government 
has been busy working to get things done for 
all Gators. I’m so excited to tell you about 
some of the projects we have completed.
I’d like to start this letter off with a con-
gratulations to all the newly elected sena-
tors! I’m looking forward to seeing all the 
great work Student Senate will accomplish 
this year.
RecSports recently implemented capacity 
counters for the gyms on campus. Before, 
students relied on live webcams that gave 
a general idea of how crowded the different 
facilities were. Now, students will have a 
much more detailed understanding of how 
full the weight rooms, basketball courts and 
other rooms are so you can plan your gym 
trip accordingly.
I’m happy to announce that kosher and 
halal-friendly food options are available in 
the P.O.D. markets in the Hub, Reitz Union, 
Rawlings Hall, Graham Area and Beaty Tow-
ers, as well as the Little Hall Express. This 
will give students more food choices to enjoy 
whether they live on campus, are there for 
class or if they’re just studying for an exam.
On Tuesday, Armando Christian Perez, 
aka Pitbull, came to campus as a partner-
ship with Accent Speakers Bureau and UF’s 
Hispanic Heritage Month. The sold-out show 
was hosted at the Phillips Center for Per-
forming Arts to an enthusiastic crowd. He 
spoke about his music career, business ven-
tures and philanthropic accomplishments.
Effective Tuesday, Library West will stay 
open 24/7. SG approved a reserves transfer 
to make this a reality. Additionally, I worked 
with the Provost to secure funding for Li-
brary West to be open 24/7 for an additional 
two years without using Activity and Service 
Fees. SG is committed to the goal of bringing 
UF to top ﬁ  ve status and advocating for ev-
ery resource possible for students to be suc-
cessful in their rigorous coursework. Over 
the next few years, the occupancy of Library 
West will be monitored to see if there is an increase in overnight usage as we strive for 
top ﬁ  ve. This way, the Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost 
will be able to assess the necessity of a 24/7 
library on our campus.
SG has partnered with the University Ath-
letic Association to provide water stations 
at every home football game. These can be 
found at gate eight and between gates 15 
and 16 for Gator fans to stay hydrated on hot 
game days. Speaking of football, this coming 
Saturday, the Gators will be taking on the 
Louisiana State University Tigers right here 
in The Swamp. Senior Class President Trevor 
Pope is organizing a "blue out for the game" 
to let LSU know that only Gators get out of 
The Swamp alive. Be sure to wear blue on 
Saturday and cheer on the Gators to victory!
SG launched a program Sept. 19 to 26 
to support students as they made their way 
through Career Showcase. Students received 
25 free copies of their resumes on parchment 
paper from the SG Graphics and Copy Cen-
ter.
Finally, I want to share with you all a 
great opportunity to make a difference dur-
ing the coming year. The Bridges Minority 
Outreach Program is currently accepting ap-
plications for high school mentors. Bridges 
aims to narrow the gap between higher edu-
cation and secondary education for minority 
students across different regions in Florida. 
The mentors will be well-versed in aca-
demic coaching, campus awareness, safety 
protocols and college readiness skills. Ap-
plications are open until Sunday and can be 
found at:
https://tinyurl.com/y8lu4zll
Thank you so much for taking the time 
to stay informed about your SG. This year is 
off to a great start, and I am really looking 
forward to seeing what we can accomplish 
on behalf of every Gator. Stay updated in 
the meantime by following the SG Facebook 
page. Have a great rest of your semester and 
as always... Go Gators!
Ian Green is the UF Student Body President.
In my almost-four years in col-
lege, I’ve learned a lot about 
friendship — the friends who 
have withstood the test of 
time and distance, the best 
friends, the acquaintances (and 
maybe even the frenemies) — 
and what it means to be a reli-
able friend. 
One of the most valuable 
things I’ve realized, though, is the impor-
tance of looking out for each other — even 
people who we might not consider our past, 
present or future BFFs. 
There seems to be this mindset that 
being the person or friend to look out for 
everyone, even if this simply means being 
the one who always has hand sanitizer, an 
extra ponytail or eyedrops in their purse, is 
jokingly, but affectionately, referred to as 
the “mom” of the group. 
The more I think about it, though, may-
be we need more “moms” of the friend 
group (and I don’t just mean that more of 
us need to stock our backpacks with mints 
or hair ties). As friends and fellow students, 
we should have each other’s best interests 
in mind and should not be afraid to be the 
ones to speak up if we see someone — even 
if we don’t know them — who needs help, 
especially in an unsafe scenario. 
I feel lucky to have people in my social 
circle who I know would have my back in 
anything from a sticky social situation to a 
much more serious predicament, but sadly, 
I know that’s not the case for everyone. In 
fact, I still sometimes hear other students talk 
about scenarios like seeing a person alone at 
a bar or party who did not look completely 
conscious, and they thought about helping 
but didn’t because they thought, for some 
reason, that person would be OK. 
I bring this up because last week I joined 
countless others around the nation in fol-
lowing the testimonies of U.S. Supreme 
Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh and Chris-
tine Blasey Ford. I found it impossible to ignore the personal stories and 
emotions people of all ages, espe-
cially fellow students, expressed, 
not only about the politics of the 
investigation and hearings but 
mostly the issue of sexual assault. 
Politics aside, the truth is that 
a scary amount of people of dif-
ferent generations, in campus 
communities and beyond the col-
lege bubble, are impacted by attacks and 
assaults. I can’t personally speak from the 
perspective of a survivor, and I can’t say I 
have all the answers to how we, as college 
students, can change our culture for the 
better — but I do believe we should all be 
serious about looking out for each other on 
campus and beyond. 
I realize that being a friend to everyone 
— whether it’s lending a listening ear to 
someone sharing a serious story, asking for 
advice or helping someone get home safely 
after a night out so they don’t have to walk 
home alone — is not a cure-all solution to 
every societal issue we’re facing and dis-
cussing. 
What I am saying, however, is that in 
our current culture — ﬁ  lled with polarized 
opinions and issues that can be scary but 
are very real parts of our society — it’s more 
important than ever to be a good friend, to 
speak up when we see something question-
able and to reach out to the people in our 
circles, our acquaintances and peers who 
we think might need anything, whether it’s 
a hug, a laugh, a listening ear or a vent ses-
sion (and, in some cases, maybe even a hair 
tie). 
By looking out for each other, even for 
those we don’t know personally, we may 
not be changing what’s happening in our 
nation at large, but it’s deﬁ  nitely not a bad 
place to start.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appears on Wednesdays.Look out for other women, even strangersColumn
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgBy Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Watching as three actors play literal fools 
while presenting all 36 of William Shake-
speare’s plays isn’t an average Saturday 
night, but The Midnight isn’t your average 
bar.
The Midnight, a bar in downtown 
Gainesville, presented Faux Tales’ produc-
tion of “Shakespeare Abridged” at 9 p.m. on 
Saturday, condensing all of Shakespeare’s 
plays into about 97 minutes. 
With the help of actors Marina Bolser, 
Emma Grimm, Jennifer Hutton and some 
silly props, everything from “Hamlet” to 
“Titus Andronicus” to “The Tempest” was 
portrayed in a modern, comedic fashion rife 
with sexual references and good, old-fash-
ioned political satire. 
The Midnight’s patio area presented a 
lovely outdoor setting for this production 
with a grunge backdrop. What was the stage? 
A wooden deck and a projection screen. 
Minimalist? Yes. Did it serve the play? Ab-
solutely.
The beauty of Shakespeare is his plays are 
universal, as one could perform them any-
where and draw in a crowd with a truthful 
delivery of the text of Shakespeare, who is 
often referred to as “the Bard.” The show 
drew in people of all ages — students, locals, 
millennials and parents. Audience members 
casually sipped large glasses and pints of 
beer, but the real intoxication came from the 
charisma of the players. 
It should be noted, all three characters in 
“Shakespeare Abridged” are typically men, 
in order to bring viewers back to the Renais-
sance. However, this all-female production 
broke down gender barriers by showcasing 
that women are funny too. The actresses 
were focused, physically engaged and cre-
ated a great suspension of disbelief in spite 
of the small, outdoor location of the bar. 
The three women were constantly feed-
ing off of each other’s energy, following their actor impulses and interacting with the audi-
ence, all of which enhanced the performance 
and radiated a beautiful energy. 
Marina Bolser, a UF sophomore, started 
off as a narrator and progressed to play sev-
eral different characters that showcased her 
range of ability. She spoke the lines clearly 
with a full voice and a nice, rounded dic-
tion that allowed the audience to understand 
every word and syllable. After all, this is 
Shakespeare; the Bard did not mess with his 
syllables. Bolser’s physicality was malleable, 
ﬂ  exible and brilliant. She was fully engaged 
and present in her work, despite the chal-
lenge of playing several different characters. Emma Grimm’s performance was equally 
engaging and funny. She portrayed Romeo 
in the “Romeo and Juliet” parody as a mod-
ern-day frat boy, Bieber haircut and all. Her 
specialty of voice and movement was im-
pressive. 
Jennifer Hutton’s portrayal of Juliet as a 
modern-day California Valley girl was equal-
ly excellent. Both actresses played opposite 
roles of each other, which added a great con-
trast and chemistry on stage. All three fac-
tors brought the hilarity of the parody to life. 
Director Phil Young’s parodial vision of 
the script was carried out nicely. This pro-
duction practically made fun of Shakespeare while educating novices and appealing to 
the millennial, technologically-savvy, Urban 
Dictionary generation. 
For example, the women portrayed the 
iconic role of Julius Caesar as President Don-
ald Trump in a press conference, used water 
guns to slay one another, rapped the plot of 
“Othello” and performed the abridged tale of 
“King Lear” as if they were the players and 
announcers at a football game. 
From each note of sexual innuendo, to 
every selﬁ  e with an audience member, these 
women demonstrated a cool, nuanced take 
on “Shakespeare Abridged.”Noah Ponte
Emma Grimm gets into character at rehearsal for 
the all-female production. The ofﬁ  cial performance 
was held on Sept. 28.Noah Ponte
Jennifer Hutton, left, and Emma Grimm, right, perfom at 
a rehearsal performance for Midnight Bar’s “Shakespeare 
Abridged. ”WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Midnight Bar Hosts All-Female Production of “Shakespeare Abridged” 
THEATR E
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s the first week of October and if you’re a 
major fall fan, you know it’s spooky season. Any 
die-hard Halloween, horror or thriller fan knows 
that in order to truly get into the spirit, you need 
to set the mood. 
While the Avenue makes movie playlists for 
the whole month of October, we often feel like 
we’re missing the spooky vibes as we listen to  
the soundtrack. To solve this problem, the usual solution was using Pandora to come up with a 
mediocre list of songs that involve key words or 
phrases from Halloween like “blood,” “zombie” 
and more. Let’s be better this year. So here is a 
list of the best songs from our favorite Halloween 
movies. The Avenue’s spooky tunes playlist A SPOOKY PLAYLIST
“This is Halloween” from The Nightmare Before Christmas
“Come Little Children” from Hocus Pocus
“I Put a Spell on You” from Hocus Pocus
“Ghostbusters” from Ghostbusters
“Remains of the Dead” from Corpse Bride
“Oogie Boogie” from The Nightmare Before Christmas  
“Time Warp” from Rocky Horror Picture Show  
Hocus Pocus
Corpse Bride
Headline: 
T extyHeadline
textyWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Jackie DeFreitas
Avenue Contributor
With the beginning of the new month came Jay 
Rouge & the Stoges’ new album. Released on Monday, 
the album “Friends & Lovers” comes just in time for 
woodsers and long drives to visit family. Quirky lyrics 
ﬁ  ll the album, and catching all the witty lines makes 
the album worth a listen.
The Gainesville band starts off its album with a 
tongue-in-cheek double entendre titled “Undercover 
Lover.” This word play is the ﬁ  rst, but certainly not 
the last, for the album. The band has a knack for quick 
puns, which ﬁ  t right in with the music’s relaxed nature. 
The album’s sound is reminiscent of easy rock mu-
sic heard at a local bar on a weekend night. Most of 
the songs are about love, lovemaking or the problems 
that come with being young. Although nothing ground-
breaking, the band crafts songs college students relate 
to. 
The funny lyrics show the band’s approach to music 
making. On “Ends Meet,” we hear about trying to make 
rent and the hardships in doing so. This song connects 
to a problem that a lot of listeners deal with. The hu-
morous lyrics make light of an unavoidable, grown-up 
chore that most people stress over. You can catch this 
song playing in the background as I wipe my “I’m-a-
broke-college-student” tears with one hand and drop off my overpriced rent check with the other. 
The guitar peeking through on songs like “In the 
Bushes” and “Take You Down” captivates a mellow 
vibe. The guitar on these tracks is the best part, and I 
wish for more of this smooth instrumental throughout 
the album. Also, the beat boxing and soft chorus on 
“Take You Down” make it one of the better tracks. 
While listening to “Smash,” my face looked a little 
too much like the monocle-wearing, thinking emoji. I 
know it’s supposed to be comical, but some of the lyr-
ics made me cringe.  The “want to smash” reiteration 
in the background didn’t help either. 
The use of vocals on top of one another takes some 
getting used to. Fast paced ﬂ  ows are seen almost every-
where on the album. It isn’t until near the end of the 
project that we hear a change of course, but then it goes 
right back into the same beat. 
The album doesn’t take music too seriously. The 
saving grace on this album: the clever lyrics and funny 
one-liners. In contrast, the downfall is the over-used 
formula that repeats from one song to the next. The 
writing is light-hearted and straight to the point. I ap-
plaud the band for creating songs unapologetically. 
Sometimes, we see bands try hard to be something they 
are not, but Jay Rogue & the Stoges sticks to its carefree 
vibe, making the music true to the band.  Jay Rouge & the Stoges’ ‘Friends & Lovers’
LOCAL ALBUM REVIEW
Courtesy to The Alligator
The cover art for ‘Friends & Lovers’ reﬂ  ects 
the laid-back sound of the new album.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Max Anderson jams on the High Dive stage 
with the rest of Jay Rogue & The Stoges.
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Contributor
Even a rainstorm couldn’t 
stop Dion Dia, a local music and 
creative collective, from bring-
ing a refreshing twist to the 
nightlife scene: Silent Disco
At 10:30 p.m., Friday, attend-
ees had all the control. Hosted 
by the Civic Media Center, Silent 
Disco night allowed attendees to 
choose the music they wanted to 
listen to through a set of head-
phones provided upon entry.  
Jahi Khalfani, one of the 
founders of Dion Dia, said si-
lent disco was something that 
they’ve been passionate about 
doing for a long time but had 
never had the number of head-
phones needed to do so until 
now. Now that they’ve success-
fully pulled it off, though, Khalf-
ani said there will be more Silent 
Discos to come.
“We had a lot of people tell 
us that it was the best thing 
they’ve been to in Gainesville,” 
Khalfani said. 
Laila Fakhoury, a 20-year-old 
UF family youth and commu-
nity sciences junior and another 
founder of Dion Dia, said the re-
cent craze of silent discos at mu-
sic festivals inspired her to put 
one together.
“I wanted to see them out-
side of music festivals as just 
night activities that you can 
enjoy locally,” said Fakhoury. 
“So, I pitched the idea of bring-
ing ‘silent disco culture’ to 
Gainesville.” 
Attendees had the option of 
choosing between two genres to 
tune into. One station was alter-
native indie, and the other was 
old school hip-hop. Avi Matarasso, a 22-year-old 
UF chemical engineering senior, 
said the rain didn’t stand in the 
way of this unique experience.
“I liked that you could have 
a personalized experience as far 
as the music playing, while still 
being with friends and socializ-
ing,” said Matarasso.
Matarasso said the high at-
tendance was comparable to 
those at The Fest shows.
“There weren’t enough head-
phones, and (it was) the most 
people I’ve ever seen at the 
CMC,” said Matarasso.
With the CMC transitioned 
into a dance ﬂ  oor, people in the 
crowd moved to the rhythm of 
their choosing, their headphones 
glowing neon green and purple. 
If during the night someone 
wanted to lose the headphones, 
there was an option for that too. 
Two silent disco DJs, as well 
as a live DJ performed their own 
sets simultaneously. 
“The beauty of the head-
phones is that I could have done 
either the headphones or the 
music playing,” Matarasso said. 
“At times, I wanted one over the 
other and I had that option.”
When not breaking a sweat 
from dancing, partiers enjoyed 
a variety of fried sweets, from 
vegan funnel cakes to fried 
strawberries, catered by Dank 
Cakes.
Cody Evans, who works at 
Dank Cakes, said he almost 
didn’t attend due to the rain but 
was thankful he did, as the des-
sert shop had a solid ﬂ  urry of 
responsive party-goers.
“I’d say there was around 100 
to 200 folks that came and went 
throughout the night,” said Ev-
ans. “People danced as if there 
was not a care in the world.”Dion Dia throws its 
ﬁ  rst Silent Disco party
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 
SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3   
dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange pie. 
Now that is a meal any FL Gator can 
enjoy. So come on out to the creek 
+ take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman 
Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing 
nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out 
one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you 
wait for the chef to put out nothing 
but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday 
Wine Dinners and private parties 
for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-Sat 
5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South 
Main St.  (352) 375-7372
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and 
modern Korean dishes with the best 
sushi in town Weekday specials 
including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get 
one beer, wine and sake from  
4pm-7pm! 352-384-3733COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own 
cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, 
lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor 
seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, 
Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours 
around: $3 wells, 1/2 off select wines by 
the glass, $5 select specialty cocktails, 
$1 off all beers; 3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located 
just south of Archer Road on 13th Street 
in the Shands Parking Garage. Private 
room available. Great for rehearsal 
dinners, student life organizations, 
and other group events. Always 
taking reservations, call us at 872-
5181. Like us on Facebook and follow 
us on Instagram @chefcarlwatts for 
upcoming events and daily specials.
BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts & 
pastries made on premises daily since 
1990. Egg & cheese with bacon, ham, 
or sausage on a Thomas’s english 
muffin or bagel. Call ahead 352-
375-0376. Your order will be ready 
when you arrive 5205 NW 39th Ave. 
Drive-thru available Open everyday 
5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior discount, 
wholesale prices availableBy Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
“Disenchantment” left me feeling dis-
appointed. While Netﬂ  ix is trying to ap-
peal to the inner child in growing adoles-
cents, it just could not reach the level of 
greatness that its sister animated shows, 
“Bojack Horseman” and “F is for Family,” 
have reached. 
In this effort, Netﬂ  ix began creating 
more adult-themed cartoons. One of the 
newest additions to this genre is the series 
that puts the ‘fair’ in fairy tale: “Disen-
chantment.” 
The fairy-tale-inspired series premiered 
Aug. 17. Although the plot did not strike 
as revolutionary, the highly regarded 
producer credit garnered the attention of 
many animation fans. 
Series creator and producer, Matt Groe-ning, made a name for himself with his 
hit animated series “The Simpsons” and 
“Futurama.” Groening decided to tackle 
dismantling traditional story tropes in his 
animated fantasy series. 
The series is set in the falling kingdom 
of Dreamland, led by a dimwitted King 
Zog and his inept alcoholic daughter Prin-
cess Bean. 
Since her mother’s untimely death, 
Bean begins to spiral out of control. Once 
faced with an arranged marriage, she 
tries to disobey her father and escape the 
set-up. Through a slew of events, she be-
comes haunted by her own personal de-
mon, Luci, and an elf companion, Elfo. 
The unlikely trio go through multiple ad-
ventures together and, by the end of the 
season, ﬁ  nd themselves a close group.
The voice cast actors are comprised 
of Abbi Jacobson as Bean and veteran voiceover artists John DiMaggio, Billy 
West and Maurice LaMarche.
Without giving spoilers, season one 
ended on a major cliffhanger: The king-
dom is beginning to implode. But Netﬂ  ix 
is already in discussion for season two.
While fans may be excited about the 
buzz around the show, critics are con-
fused by the reception. So far, ratings 
aren’t in favor of a season two. Critics ﬁ  nd 
the show relies on crass humor and sim-
ply offers nothing fresh. While this season 
may not have been a favorite among crit-
ics, others believe the show is just going 
through growing pains, and with Groening 
at the helm, it can only get better. 
For those who like somewhat dark and 
inappropriate humor, “Disenchantment” 
may be on your radar. If the critics’ ratings 
are scaring you away, stay tuned for the 
next season’s reactions. Netflix’s ‘Disenchantment’ disappoints critics
SERIES REVIEW
Courtesy to The Alligator
Netlix’s ‘Disenchantment’ leaves much to be 
desired by critics.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $990/mo.   352-359-1508    
10-8-18-12-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-52-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
10-5-18-6-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no 
responsibility for injury or loss arising 
from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who 
responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. MOVIES: Who directed the movie 
“La Dolce Vita”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
famous Olduvai Gorge located?
3. MYTHOLOGY: Tyr was a Norse 
god of what?
4. MUSIC: What pop group sang 
“Love Shack”?
5. PRESIDENTS: How old was The-
odore Roosevelt when he was inaugu-
rated?
6. SCIENCE: In what century was 
Isaac Newton born?
7. HISTORY: When was the last year 
the Dodgers played in Brooklyn?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the symbol of the zodiac sign 
Scorpio?
9. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek prefix “speleo” mean?
10. MEASUREMENTS: How 
many bottles of champagne are in a 
jeroboam?
Answers
1. Fededrico Fellini
2. Tanzania
3. War
4. The B-52s
5. 42
6. 17th century
7. 1957
8. Scorpion
9. Cave
10. Four
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 1, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Holographic Kinetics: Advanced Healing Modality
Identify and clear mental, emotional and 
behavioral health issues. Many areas can 
be helped (Anxiety, fear, depression, PTSD, 
suicidal thoughts, addictions, and more)
www.healingwithspirit.net      MA90891
10-5-18-7-16
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 8/8- 8/11 
from 5-7 p.m. Quantitative sessions are M & 
W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” 
then "workshops” to register.     10-8-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Found.  Money in copy machine
@ HQ branch of Alachua Co. library on 9/28.  
Call 215-0484 to identify time of day and 
amount.     10-8-3-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/03/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 3, 2018
ACROSS
1 Party with a 
piñata
7 Tin alloys
14 Online icon
15 Expo entry
16 Begrudge
17 31-day month
18 Jabber
19 Surge protector?
20 __-Cat: winter 
vehicle
21 “That wasn’t nice 
of you”
22 Italian tenor 
Andrea
24 Cricket club
25 Went down
26 Dander reaction, 
perhaps
30 1979 Hockey 
Hall of Fame 
inductee
31 Shakespearean 
bad guy
32 __ the line
33 Word with dating 
or skating
35 Airport NW of 
LAX
37 Egged on
38 Strainers
40 2018 Stanley 
Cup champs, 
familiarly
42 Yard tool
43 Swear (to)
44 Tennis immortal 
Arthur
45 “Fareed Zakaria 
GPS” network
46 Took the helm
48 Revolutionary 
icon
49 Butter square
52 Marmalade 
morsels
53 Feathery 
accessory
54 Marine animals 
named for 
flowers
56 Nabokov novel
59 Athletic shoe
60 Island group that 
includes S ão 
Miguel
61 Italian Riviera 
resort
62 Triple Crown 
winners
DOWN
1 Many miles
2 “Now __ seen 
it all!”3 *Life of affluence
4 It might be rare
5 Fail big-time
6 “The creation of 
beauty is __”: 
Emerson
7 Complaint
8 Show a real 
talent for
9 *Specialty
10 “Humble and 
Kind” singer 
McGraw
11 Falls back
12 Nothing, in 
Quebec
13 Texas 
ballplayer, to 
fans
17 *Magician’s 
riffled prop
19 Yearns (for)
21 La Brea 
attraction
22 Barnyard bleat
23 Bakery 
employee
24 __ nova
25 *Swimming 
option
27 Perches for 
tots, and what 
the answers to 
starred clues 
literally contain28 Common soccer 
score
29 Nash who wrote 
“Parsley / Is 
gharsley”
34 Big nights
36 Desert refuges
39 “Revolution 
From Within” 
writer Gloria
41 Prof.’s degree
47 Month after 
17-Across, south 
of the border48 __ scheme
49 Bridge call
50 LPGA  
golfer  
Nordqvist
51 Video game 
rating
53 Nincompoop
55 Spoil
56 “Well, 
__-di-dah!”
57 Ball holder
58 Pack  
animal
By Roland Huget
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/02/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/02/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 2, 2018
ACROSS
1 Gulf States 
prince
5 Macy’s 
competitor
10 Eucharist 
celebration
14 See 62-Across
15 Boise’s state
16 Israeli airline
17 Tool for cutting 
stone and 
concrete
19 River of Cairo
20 Playing surface 
surrounded by 
boards
21 Access charge
23 Chinese menu 
promise
25 Garden digging, 
e.g.
26 Abandoned 
building, say
28 Jules who 
created the 
Nautilus
29 Form a union
30 Passé reception 
aid
34 Love personified
35 Richly 
upholstered seat
37 Nobel Peace 
Prize city
40 Toxic substance
41 Snapshot, 
briefly
44 “SNL” alum 
Cheri
46 Dancer Duncan
48 Prilosec target
52 Caught with a 
lasso
53 Old-fashioned 
printing machine
54 Champagne 
brand
55 Got on in years
56 Carry on the 
same way ... 
and what the 
ends of 17-, 
25-, 35- and 
48-Across do
60 __ majesty: high 
treason
61 Diarist Nin
62 With 50-Down 
and 14-Across, 
fairy tale opening
63 Newspaper 
section with 
many reviews
64 Horizontal graph 
lines
65 EnthusiasticDOWN
1 Takeoff approx.
2 1002, to Caesar
3 Gun carrier’s 
warning
4 Careless
5 Garden hose 
obstruction
6 Unmatched
7 Welcomes to the 
treehouse
8 __ apso: little 
dog
9 Scattered, as 
seed
10 Department 
store section
11 Wing-shaped
12 Port near Naples
13 More 
streamlined
18 Like an accurate 
soccer shot
22 Gun, as an 
engine
23 Just out
24 Santana’s “__ 
Como Va”
25 __-Croatian: 
Slavic language
27 Do another stint
31 Here, in Haiti
32 Twain/Harte 
play
33 Vientiane’s 
country35 Becomes rusted
36 Lined up
37 “C’est 
magnifique!”
38 “The 
Pawnbroker” 
actor Rod
39 Least fatty, as 
corned beef
41 Many a Top 40 
song
42 Cork’s country: 
Abbr.
43 Heel45 Hairy Addams 
cousin
47 Is moderately 
successful
49 How some 
documents are 
sent
50 See 62-Across
51 Kick back
54 Forest floor plant
57 Golf ball position
58 Cocktail cooler
59 Down-for-the-
count count
1.  Vanilla ____
1.  Northerner 5.  Identified 
2.  Acrobatic athlete 6.  Diminish 
3.  Give off7.  Emphasize 
4.  Path outGROUYT
NAEKEYDEANM
TEAAB
MYSNGAT
DRATEIASESRST
GSESERANSWERS: 1A-Yogurt  5A-Named  6A-Abate  7A-Stress
1D-Yankee  2D-Gymnast  3D-Radiate  4D-Egress  B-Ming Dynasty10-3-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____ existed for 276 years. BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 22 TicketsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF receiver Louis 
Murphy will be the honorary 
Mr. Two Bits this Saturday 
against LSU. He and the rest 
of the 2008 team will also be 
honored at halftime. Baseball schedule released
The Gators will play 36 home games for the 2018-19 season. They'll start 
off the year with a three-game series against Long Beach State at McKethan 
Stadium on Feb. 15-17. By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
There’s not a lot that followed Florida re-
ceiver Trevon Grimes from his time at Ohio 
State.
The sophomore wideout left the Buckeyes 
following a 2017 season where he caught three 
passes in two games. He left OSU due to a 
health issue his mother dealt with back home 
in Ft. Lauderdale, and he was granted immedi-
ate eligibility by the NCAA to play at Florida.
He wasn’t the only player to leave the 
Buckeyes.
Quarterback Joe Burrow, a graduate trans-
fer from Ohio State, landed at LSU and has 
propelled the Tigers to No. 5 in the latest AP 
poll. 
“Joe’s one of my good friends from back up 
when I was at Ohio State,” Grimes said. “Be-
fore I left Ohio State, me and him were kind of 
close. We talked often.”
It doesn’t matter how close they were be-
fore. Grimes believes his former teammate 
won’t stand a chance when the Gators face 
LSU on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. at Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium.
He said the Florida defense is more than 
prepared after playing against UF quarterback 
Feleipe Franks in practice. 
“Honestly, I don’t think they’re too wor-
ried,” Grimes said. “I see every day in prac-
tice, they go up against, in my opinion, a bet-
ter quarterback. So, they’re not too worried about him.”
He wasn’t afraid to throw another shot 
against Burrow, as well.
“I haven’t really seen any improvement of 
him, but I’m not really focused on him right 
now,” Grimes said. “I’ll let the defense handle 
him.”
Defense confident ahead of LSU
Florida’s defense is one of the best in the 
SEC statistically. It’s easy to see why after 
watching it play against Mississippi State last 
Saturday.
The Gators held the Bulldogs to just six 
points, all of which came in the first half. MSU 
struggled to move the ball in the second half, 
bolstered by four three-and-outs.
It was a performance that helped boost 
Florida toward the top of the SEC rankings. It 
is second in tackles (389), tied for second in 
sacks (15) and first in fumble recoveries (10).
But one moniker Florida’s defensive backs 
love to boast is “DBU.”
Defensive Back University. 
When LSU comes to town this weekend, it 
will be a battle of the two DBUs.
Safety Donovan Stiner said that the title 
DBU belongs to Florida.
“We the real DBU so not really worried 
about it,” he said.
Others, like T.J. Slaton, were more modest 
and acknowledged that both programs have a Grimes faces old teammate, O-line ready for another dogfight
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Wide receiver Trevon Grimes (8) is a former teammate of LSU quarterback 
Joe Burrow. "Before I left Ohio State, me and him were kind of close, " he said.
SOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
The only constant in the Gators’ offense 
has been inconsistency. 
After a program-record six consecutive 
games without scoring, Florida soccer put 11 
goals past Vanderbilt, Kentucky and LSU in a 
three-game stretch. In their most recent game, 
however, the Gators were shut out once again 
in a tie against Mississippi State.
Things won’t get easier this week as Flori-
da (4-6-2, 2-1-1) faces the SEC’s two best de-
fenses, starting with Tennessee on Thursday 
night in Gainesville.
The No. 9 Vols (9-1-1, 3-1-0) have allowed 
just four goals this season, the lowest total in 
the SEC, and have only given up .356 goals 
per game, the eighth-lowest total in college 
soccer.
The Gators, meanwhile, have scored just 
1.42 goals per game this season, 10th in the 
SEC. They have also taken the least amount of shots of any SEC team. In what should be a 
low-scoring affair, Florida’s defense will have 
to step up to keep the Gators in the game.
Offensively, Tennessee is led by senior for-
ward Bunny Shaw. Shaw was just named SEC 
Offensive Player of the Week after record-
ing her second career hat trick in the Vols’ 
3-1 win over Kentucky. The Jamaican, who 
earned First-Team All-SEC honors last year, 
is scoring a goal per game this season, which 
leads the conference by 0.15 over Missouri’s 
CeCe Kizer.
On Sunday, UF will travel to Columbia, 
South Carolina, to take on the No. 12 Game-
cocks (9-2, 3-1) in a rematch of last year’s 
NCAA Quarterfinal matchup, which Florida 
lost. 
The Gamecocks are hardly an offensive 
juggernaut. But their defense more than 
makes up for the lack of scoring. Anchored 
by junior Grace Fisk, last year’s SEC Defen-
sive Player of the Year, South Carolina has Florida set to open tough week 
with matchup against TennesseeMorgan Meets the Eye / Column
Remember that fourth-
down blitz on Saturday from 
safety Donovan Stiner? 
Of course you do. You’ve 
seen it on Twitter. You’ve 
seen it with audio from 
WWE’s Jim Ross screaming 
“GAWD AS MY WITNESS, 
HE IS BROKEN IN HALF!” 
You’ve seen it with audio 
of Adam Sandler from "The Waterboy" 
(which, not surprisingly, became Stiner’s 
nickname this week). You’ve seen it in 
your games of Madden when your op-
ponent (or you) spams “Engage Eight.”
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson made a 
bold statement about that play Monday 
back in Gainesville: That blitz works in 
practice. Every. Single. Time. 
“You can’t block that play,” he boast-
ed. “We’re going to call it plenty of more 
times.”
That play was merely the focal point 
of a long day of defensive aggressive-
ness. I went through the Mississippi 
State game and noted every UF blitz be-cause I love you. I counted 
25 blitzes on 58 plays. Think 
about that. Grantham dialed 
up a blitz nearly every other 
play. Compare that to for-
mer defensive coordinator 
Randy Shannon, who rarely 
sent extra pressure last sea-
son.
That number pops even 
more when you consider his first didn’t 
come until the Bulldogs’ second drive.
The nature of Grantham’s schemes is 
intriguing as well. He only sent two extra 
men on two occasions and three on one 
play. Florida came with only one extra 
defender the other 22 times. 
The personnel he brought varied sig-
nificantly. Eight different Gators blitzed 
throughout the game. Stiner went on 
five before his game-sealing sack. Line-
backers Vosean Joseph and David Reese 
came on five and four, respectively. 
Then there’s the guts, the courage, Todd Grantham’s gambles paid off
Morgan McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMuffinSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
GATORS IN THE NFL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Cleveland Browns wide receiver 
Antonio Callaway continued his 
rookie season in a solid fashion. He’s 
only totaled seven receptions in his 
last two games, but Browns QB Bak-
er Mayﬁ  eld keeps looking his way 
— Callaway has 19 targets in those 
same two games. The wide receiver 
grabbed three receptions for 54 yards 
Sunday against the Oakland Raiders.
Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker 
Jon Bostic and defensive back Joe 
Haden each played well against the 
Baltimore Ravens, notching nine and 
seven tackles, respectively.
Chicago Bears tight end Trey 
Burton only caught two passes but 
ﬁ  nished with 86 yards and a touch-
down.
Detroit Lions linebacker Jarrad 
Davis had his best game to date, 
closing with 11 tackles against the 
Dallas Cowboys.
Cincinnati Bengals defensive end 
Carlos Dunlap recorded three tack-
les and a sack.
New York Jets defensive back 
Marcus Maye ﬁ  nished with seven tackles.
Oakland Raiders defensive back 
Reggie Nelson is still in the league, 
and is still seeing success. He ﬁ  n-
ished with three tackles and an in-
terception, giving him the most in-
terceptions of any active player in 
the NFL.
Raiders punter Johnny 
Townsend excelled with Florida 
and is doing just as well in the 
NFL. He punted six times last week 
against the Browns for an average of 
44.5 yards per punt.
Washington Redskins tight end 
Jordan Reed had a bye but contin-
ues to be a mainstay in the league. 
He closed Week 3 with four recep-
tions on seven targets and 64 yards.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgPlayers excel in Week 4 
Callaway
 Burton
TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Oliver Crawford and Andy An-
drade made it into the main draw 
of the ITA All-American Champion-
ships on Tuesday night.
The duo swept the ﬁ  rst two 
rounds over Sander Gjoels-Andersen 
and Ignacio Martinez of San Diego 
State and Noach Schachter and Barn-
aby Smith of Texas A&M. They took their next match over Jacob Brumm 
and Yuta Kikuchi of Cal in three sets 
(6-7, 6-2, 1-0).
McClain Kessler and Sam Rifﬁ  ce 
swept their ﬁ  rst round match over 
Bjoern Petersen and Matias Soto 
from Baylor (6-4, 7-6) but fell in the 
second round to Alastair Gray and 
Reese Stalder of TCU (3-6, 7-6, 10-7).  
All three Gators who competed 
in the ﬁ  rst qualifying singles round 
were victorious. Duarte Vale and Kessler both swept their opponents 
with Vale beating Penn State’s Con-
stant De La Bassetierre (6-1, 6-4) and 
Kessler winning over Ryan Goetz of 
Virginia (6-2, 6-1). Andrade won in 
three sets over Oscar Mesquida of Ar-
kansas (7-6, 5-7, 6-3).
None of them moved past the 
second round, however. Vale fell to 
Florian Broska of Mississippi State 
(6-3, 1-6, 4-6), Kessler lost to Anto-
nio Cembellin (4-6, 5-7) and Andrade was eliminated by Menelaos Efsta-
thiou of Wake Forest (3-6, 5-7).
As for the women in Paciﬁ  c 
Palisades, California, Ida Jarlskog 
picked up an upset victory over the 
No. 4 overall seed Sara Daavetilla 
from North Carolina (1-6, 6-3, 6-4). 
Jarlskog then took down Higuchi of 
Stanford in three sets to advance to 
the third round (6-4, 4-6, 6-3). Mc-
Cartney Kessler won over Sandra 
Honigova of Wichita State (7-6, 5-1). She then lost at the hands of Meible 
Chi of Duke (3-6, 3-6) to end her day.
Victoria Emma was eliminated by 
Sophia White of Gonzaga (4-6, 4-6). 
However, Emma was victorious in 
the qualifying doubles round with 
her partner Tsveta Dimitrova pick-
ing up a win over Corey Asghar of 
Oklahoma (8-4) and moving on to 
the next round.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.org   Florida’s ITA All-American slate continues into the weekGOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Both UF golf teams enjoyed solid ﬁ  nal rounds in 
their respective tournaments on Tuesday as the end of 
fall season draws nearer. 
The women’s team had its best round of the tourna-
ment at the Windy City Classic. It needed that perfor-
mance to prevent a surging Northwestern from passing 
them. The men’s team, on the other hand, matched its 
score from the day before to take sixth place at the Nike 
Collegiate Invitational.
The women’s team sat in fourth place heading into 
Tuesday. The Gators’ 1-under in the ﬁ  nal round was 
the second-best of the day behind Northwestern.
UF was led by a trio of golfers in the top 15: juniors 
Marta Perez and Sierra Brooks and freshman Clara 
Manzalini. 
Perez (-2) had a consistent three rounds, carding a 
71 and a 72 on Monday before scoring another 71 on 
Tuesday. Her overall score was enough to move her 
into sixth place.
Brooks’ tournament was the exact opposite. The ju-
nior (+2) was four strokes over par ahead of her ﬁ  nal 
round. She collected ﬁ  ve birdies over her ﬁ  rst 12 holes 
and scored a 70 on the round, good for 14th place Manzalini (+3) ﬁ  nished in a tie for 15th after an 
even round to close out her tournament. 
“We have a lot more left in there and are leaving 
with some great things to work on, and different things 
for each player,” coach Emily Glaser said in a release. 
“But we still have a lot to be excited and optimistic 
about.”
The men’s team entered Tuesday’s action at the 
Nike Collegiate Invitational in eighth place. The team 
matched Monday’s score of 285, which was enough to 
move them up two places into sixth after poor rounds 
from Southern California and Georgia. 
Freshman Eugene Hong (+1) had a breakout per-
formance for the Gators. He paced the team while im-
proving by 12 spots from his previous two days.
Sophomore John Axelsen was the only other Gator 
to ﬁ  nish in the top 30. He struggled through the ﬁ  rst 
two days, entering the ﬁ  nal round in 32nd. Axelsen 
scored a one-under to move up nine spots into 23rd.
“We haven’t had our best stuff yet, but we are get-
ting so much better,” men’s coach J.C. Deacon said in 
a release. “If they keep working like they have been the 
last month, this success we are seeing will continue at 
an even higher level.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org Men’s, women’s teams wrap  
up respective tournaments  16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
Buzzed  
Spelling Bee @ 7:30pm$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSstrong defensive back unit.
“They both have some 
very good DBs,” Slaton said. 
“So, you know, I consider 
both teams as DBU.”
After playing against Mis-
sissippi State, Slaton said 
Florida still takes the edge. 
When the Gators take on LSU 
on Saturday, both teams will 
put the title on the line.
“You know,” he said. “We 
the best.”
An improved offensive 
line
Tyler Jordan had one 
word to describe the Gators 
offensive line’s battle with 
Mississippi State: a dogﬁ  ght.
“They had a hell of a de-
fensive line,” Jordan said 
of the Bulldogs. “Like that 
whole game for us was a dog-
ﬁ  ght.”
He’s not wrong. MSU boasts the fourth-best de-
fense in terms of sacks. Going 
into the game with Florida, it 
had 13 sacks on the year.
Mississippi State only 
sacked Franks once.
“We knew we were gonna 
have to grind it out,” Jordan 
said. “And we’re gonna have 
to do the same thing this 
week.”
They will, because LSU’s 
defense is not that far be-
hind the Bulldogs. In terms 
of sacks, LSU has 13 and are 
efﬁ  cient in ﬂ  ushing the quar-
terback out of the pocket.
Jordan isn’t worried.
“We can kind of feed 
from that and go into this 
game going ‘You know what? 
We handled these guys last 
week,’” he said. “‘We can 
handle anybody else the next 
week.’”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgOfensive lineman Tyler Jordan: MSU game "was a dogight."
allowed just ﬁ  ve goals this season, the second-
lowest total in the conference behind Tennes-
see.
As if playing two games against top-15 
teams in four days wasn’t tough enough, 
Florida will be without two of its best players. 
Sophomore forward Deanne Rose is currently 
with the Canadian National Team. Rose has only appeared in four games this season after 
leading the Gators in goals last year. Freshman 
defender Georgia Eaton-Collins is also on in-
ternational duty with the England U-19 team.
On the bright side, history is on UF’s side 
in both games. Florida owns an 18-8-3 all-time 
record against Tennessee and is 22-8-1 all-time 
against South Carolina.
 
scampisano@alligator.org
@samcampisanothe chutzpah from Grantham, who was 
at a disadvantage from the ﬁ  rst MSU 
drive. Cornerback Trey Dean got boot-
ed from the game on the ﬁ  rst punt. This 
left C.J. Henderson as the only Florida 
cover man with signiﬁ  cant in-game ex-
perience. 
It didn’t matter to Grantham. He sent 
Henderson on a blitz on 7 percent of 
Mississippi State’s plays. The gambles 
paid off as Henderson recorded a sack 
and a tackle for loss on two of them.
“(Grantham’s) just like one of us,” Henderson said after the game. “Apply 
pressure and let the guys on the outside 
make plays.”
Grantham has developed a reputa-
tion as being one of the more aggres-
sive defensive coordinators in the SEC. 
Given the exact same circumstances in 
any other game, he’ll make that play 
call 10 times out of 10.
“I want to win the game,” he said. 
“There’s really no other call.”
Morgan McMullen is the sports editor 
at The Alligator. Follow him on Twitter 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n and contact him at 
mmcmullen@alligator.org.SOCCER,  from pg. 14COLUMN,  from pg. 14 UF has two matchups against top-15 
teams in the next four daysJessie White / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman T adarrell Slaton (56) has 15 tackles and a fumble recovery so far this season. He said the 
"DBU" debate between LSU and Florida has been settled. "We the best, " he said.
FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14