We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Football players run afoul of UPD
A new report cites six UF football players who 
are accused of being involved in an on-campus 
conﬂ  ict in May, pg. 14Voter registration numbers surge
An inside look at the trends of new voter registration in Alachua 
County, pg. 5
Arrests made in connection to car burglaries
Four teens were charged in the string of car break-ins, pg. 5THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 105
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF ALUMNUS ONE OF SEVERAL 
PLAINTIFFS.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Back in 2014, Gainesville City Attorney 
Nicolle Shalley wanted to know if the Re-
itz Union was considered a government-
owned community center or a convention 
center for the purposes of early voting.
Gov. Rick Scott’s administration prohib-
ited early voting at public buildings on col-
lege and university campuses. According 
to a 2014 opinion, the terms “convention 
center” and “government-owned commu-
nity center” could not be used to include 
the Reitz Union or any other college or 
university-related facilities.
U.S. District Judge Mark Walker ruled 
Tuesday that the Florida Department of 
State’s 2014 opinion barring early voting 
on college and university campuses vio-
lates the First, 14th and 26th Amendments 
of the U.S. Constitution.
Five UF students, a Florida State Uni-
versity student and the League of Women 
Voters of Florida ﬁ  led a lawsuit in May 
against Secretary of State Ken Detzner for 
wanting to prohibit early voting. Until the 
lawsuit is ruled on, Judge Walker’s deci-
sion is a preliminary attempt to allow early 
voting on college campuses that the 2014 
opinion did not allow.
Patricia Brigham, president of the 
League of Women Voters of Florida, was 
quoted in a statement saying “The court 
ruling demonstrates that making it easier 
for our students to vote truly matters. This 
is the right decision, at the right time, for 
our democratic process. With this deci-
sion, we have an afﬁ  rmation that making 
early voting accessible to all is part of a 
true democracy.”
Megan Newsome, a recent UF gradu-
ate and one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit 
against Detzner, said Walker’s ruling al-Plaintiﬀ  s win early victory in voting lawsuit 
Courtesy of Megan Newsome
A federal judge ruled restricting access to early voting from college campuses violated the First, 
14th and 26th Amendments.  
By Charlie Daffron
Alligator Staff Writer
For Madison Skipper, getting hit with a tu-
ition late fee is the difference between cook-
ing at home and going to the food pantry.
“I’m working as a waitress and selling blood plasma to make sure I have enough 
money to pay rent. I can’t afford the $100 
late fee on top of that,” said the 19-year-old 
biology major.
Skipper is one of the UF Summer B stu-
dents who have been affected by the delay 
of payments from the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship.
Bright Futures is supposed to cover full 
tuition for students who are eligible but 
payments have been set back to tonight, 
right before the Friday tuition deadline, UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando said.
To be eligible for Bright Futures to cover 
full tuition, students must take at least six Bright Futures payments to be released today
SEE FUTURES,  PAGE 4SEE VOTING,  PAGE 4WATKINS CHARGED WITH 
THREE COUNTS OF BATTERY. 
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Justin Watkins, an incoming 
freshman and 2018 four-star re-
cruit of the UF 
football team, 
has been sus-
pended from all 
activities after 
being arrested 
by University 
Police on Tues-
day for domestic 
battery and false 
imprisonment.
Watkins and his girlfriend 
were in his dorm in the Keys Res-
idential Complex when the inci-
dent happened Friday.
According to the arrest report, 
Watkins, 19, was holding the vic-
tim down on a bed as he was hit-
ting her shoulders and both sides 
of her head with an opened and 
closed ﬁ  st.
Watkins then got on top of 
her, pinning her to the bed again. 
He allegedly wrapped both of his 
hands around the victim’s throat, 
blocking her airway and making 
it difﬁ  cult for her to breathe.
He reportedly choked her for 
about 15 seconds at ﬁ  rst and then 
choked her twice more for about 
eight seconds each time.
Watkins knew she had asth-
ma, the victim said. They had 
been in a relationship since De-
cember 2017.
Watkins then stood in front of 
the doorway to his room, block-
ing the exit. According to the ar-
rest report, the victim said she 
wanted to leave and told Watkins 
to get out of the way.
When she tried to leave, Wat-
kins reportedly grabbed her hair 
and belt, yanking her back into 
the room. In self-defense, the vic-
tim sprayed him with mace.
Watkins then chased her out 
the door and down the stairs, ac-UF fooball 
recruit     
arrested
SEE WATKINS,  PAGE 4Watkins
Scholarship deadline is Friday
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 105
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  74°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
GATORFeed
Meme of the Week Tweets of the Week
Florida's voting rights battle 
goes to federal appeals court
In a legal showdown over 
voting rights in the political 
battleground state of Florida, a 
group of federal judges asked 
probing questions Wednesday 
about how voting rights are re-
stored for some former prison-
ers but not others.
At issue is whether Florida's 
process of restoring voting 
rights to felons is unconstitu-tional. State officials defend 
their system, but critics call it 
arbitrary and unfair.
"Is voting an expres-
sion protected by the 
First Amendment?" Judge 
Darren Gayles asked during 
Wednesday's oral arguments 
in the case.
Gayles was among a three-
judge panel hearing the argu-
ments at the 11th U.S. Circuit 
Court of Appeals in Atlanta.WHAT'S HAPPENINGVOLUME 112 ISSUE 105
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Karla Paredes, Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Emily Perpich, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Ruben Riera
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. CORRECTION:  The Alligator ran 
a story Tuesday with the headline 
“Southwest Rec, Student Rec & Fitness 
Center cut hours.” While Southwest 
Recreation Center did reduce its hours 
from 1 a.m. to midnight, the Student 
Recreation and Fitness Center made 
no such reductions. The correction has 
been reflected in our online story.THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Students catch air in UF RecSports wallyball tournament
Photo Story By Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Staff
CENTER: The winners of the UF RecSports 
Wallyball Flash T ournament (left to right): 
Mehrdad Hashemi, Katie Lindstrom, Luke Lee and 
Kelsey Bridges.LEFT: Mehrdad Hashemi (left) launches 
the ball over the net during the Wallyball 
Flash T ournament in the UF RecSports 
Center on Tuesday.
RIGHT:  Jacob Norton (right) from T eam 
“Here For The Party” spikes the ball into 
the opponent’s side during the Wallyball 
Flash T ournament in the UF RecSports 
Center.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
cording to the report. He allegedly threw a 
hard wooden brush and a container of hair 
grease at her hands, which caused bleeding 
and swelling.
Three days after the incident, UPD took 
photographs of the injuries. The victim’s in-
juries were consistent with her statement.
According to an article from 247Sports, 
UF coach Dan Mullen said through a UF 
spokesperson Tuesday, “Justin Watkins has 
been suspended immediately from all activi-
ties.”This is the second time in three months 
where Watkins has faced criminal charges. 
In May, he was arrested for trespassing in 
the parking lot of Vanguard High School in 
his hometown of Ocala, Florida. Watkins al-
legedly kicked the victim’s car, attempted to 
deﬂ  ate one of the tires and broke her phone 
during the incident.
Watkins was charged with false impris-
onment and three counts of battery for this 
incident. He posted a $40,000 bond and was 
released at 2:51 p.m. Wednesday.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgWATKINS,  from pg. 1Watkins released on $40,000 bail
credit hours and have the highest level of the 
scholarship, the Florida Academic Scholar 
level.
If students haven’t paid tuition by Friday, 
the university will charge them a $100 late 
fee.
Skipper never received a notiﬁ  cation that 
the payments were going to be delayed. If 
Bright Futures does not pay her tuition, she 
will have to pay for it and the late fee out of 
pocket. To save money for that possibility 
and rent, she had to pick up extra work on top of her full class schedule.
She has been proactive about contacting 
Student Financial Affairs and the University 
Bursar since she found out about the delay, 
but no one has been able to tell her when 
she can expect to get her scholarship money.
“I’ve tried calling the ﬁ  nancial affairs of-
ﬁ  ce multiple times,” she said. “Most of the 
time, they don’t pick up. Even when they 
do, no one seems to have a clear answer for 
me.”
The Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial Affairs 
couldn’t be reached for comment after mul-
tiple attempts.FUTURES,  from pg. 1‘Most of the time, they don’t pick up.’lows the university to put early voting 
locations on college campuses but does 
not ensure the poll sites will be there or 
require them to be there.
Newsome said the general election is 
only 100 days away, so the next steps 
after Walker’s temporary ruling are to 
make these early voting sites a reality.
“Our part in this is making sure that 
if we can get that location on campus, 
making sure students know it’s there, 
making sure they use it, making sure 
they know how important this general 
election is and what’s going to be on 
their ballot, so that’s another big thing 
we have to take into account,” she said.
During the 2016 presidential elec-
tion, 108 UF students used shuttles 
from campus as transportation to vot-
ing polls, Newsome said. She said many 
students told her they would not have 
voted if it weren’t for the shuttles.
Statistics showed the UF’s voter 
turnout rate was 64 percent when the 
national average for college students 
was 50 percent, and 38 percent of UF 
students voted early, she said.
“We really want to make sure that 
accessibility is not an issue this year,” 
she said. “That’s what it all comes 
down to right now.”
Newsome said she began working with the Andrew Goodman Founda-
tion’s Vote Everywhere program at UF 
in 2015. She registered voters, encour-
aged students to vote and provided 
students with shuttle services to voting 
poll sites.
If early voting locations aren’t avail-
able on campus, Newsome said the 
Andrew Goodman Foundation Ambas-
sadors will still make sure students 
realize the importance of the election. 
They will tell students where early vot-
ing locations are, how to get to them 
and will also shuttle or bus students to 
those locations.
Kevin Baron, adviser for UF Andrew 
Goodman Foundation Ambassadors, 
said several other locations at UF, like 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, Library West 
or the O’Connell Center could easily be 
used as early voting locations.
“When you’re talking about any 
government building or stadium, con-
vention center, things like this, I mean 
universities and college campuses 
have access for the public,” Baron 
said. “They have the space, they have 
the capabilities to be sites not just for 
students, but also for the larger public 
around it.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgVOTING,  from pg. 1No assurance sites will be ready THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Michael Knauff
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hemp became legal to grow in the state of 
Florida last year, and UF researchers are now 
set to launch a pilot program to help the state 
develop the industry. 
The university will be holding the UF Indus-
trial Hemp Pilot Project Partners Workshop in 
Quincy, Citra and Homestead in early August, 
said Robert Gilbert, professor and chairman of 
the agronomy department at the UF Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences.
The one in Quincy will be held Aug. 9, Citra 
on Aug. 10 and Homestead will host the ﬁ  nal 
one Aug. 13. 
Gilbert said IFAS was able to secure a $1.3 
million sponsorship for the project because the 
project is not being funded by the state legisla-
ture. He would not specify where the sponsor-
ship came from. 
The program will last for two years to de-
termine if Florida can sustain a market for in-
dustrial hemp. 
Hemp became legal to grow in Florida in 
July 2017, Gilbert said. The plant, which looks exactly like cannabis, has not been allowed to 
be grown in the state since before World War 
II. 
Gilbert said that even after hemp was legal-
ized, the program faced multiple challenges 
to start the project. Regulations had to be set 
by the Florida Department of Agriculture and 
Consumer Services, and it needed to have ap-
proval from the U.S. Board of Trustees. They 
also had to get a schedule one permit from the 
Drug Enforcement Administration.
Jerry Fankhauser Jr., assistant director of 
the Florida Agricultural Experiment Station at 
UF/IFAS, is in charge of getting the necessary 
permits. He said despite the federal govern-
ment legalizing industrial hemp production 
with the 2014 Farm Bill, each state had to ap-
prove growing hemp individually. 
For it to be grown legally, hemp must con-
tain less than 0.3 percent of the chemical tetra-
hydrocannabinol, or THC, the active ingredient 
in cannabis. 
If, during the growing process, THC levels 
rise above the legal limit, the crop must be 
burned, Gilbert said. 
Fankhauser said it would not be possible to get a “high” from industrial hemp. He used 
dog species as a metaphor when comparing in-
dustrial hemp and medical marijuana. 
“One’s a chihuahua, and one’s a saint Ber-
nard,” Fankhauser said. “They’re the same 
species but different dogs.”
There is also a human security risk involved 
with growing a crop that looks just like canna-
bis. People may mistake the crop for cannabis, 
and it could be stolen or damaged. 
Gilbert said there will need to be public edu-
cation regarding hemp for people to not get the 
wrong impression about what is being grown. 
Fankhauser, who also worked at Purdue 
University in 2015, also oversees hemp seed 
delivery. He said IFAS will be testing more than 
30 varieties, including strains from Canada, 
China, Italy, Australia and some U.S. states. 
Different seeds will grow hemp suited for 
different applications, such as ﬁ  ber or oil. 
One of Gilbert’s goals is to have two hemp 
harvests in Homestead due to its warm year-
round climate. It could also be grown in 
Gainesville. 
In the U.S., more than 30 states have al-
ready started growing industrial hemp, making Florida late to start. States such as Kentucky 
and Colorado have had large success in grow-
ing industrial hemp, Gilbert said. 
UF and Florida A&M University are the only 
schools in the state to have received permis-
sion to run pilot programs. 
Registration is required to attend the work-
shop, and a decent amount of people have reg-
istered so far, Gilbert said.
There is still plenty of room at each loca-
tion for potential growers or industry partners 
because the cap at each is about 200 people, 
Gilbert said. The workshops will cost $10 to 
attend. 
Along with educating potential growers 
about hemp, Gilbert said it will also serve as 
an opportunity for farmers to express feedback 
and concerns they have about the infant indus-
try. 
There will be discussion about the different 
varieties of hemp and ways to make sure the 
new crop does not become an invasive species 
because the plant is not native to the state.
“We’re very excited to be able to get on 
the ground ﬂ  oor to establish a new industry in 
Florida,” Gilbert said.UF researchers to start two-year program to study hemp
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
A man was arrested Tuesday by 
Gainesville Police after telling his pas-
senger to hide 230 
grams of cocaine in 
her underwear.
Alvin Hopkins, 
40, was charged with 
trafﬁ  cking in cocaine.
On Tuesday at 
around 2:19 p.m., 
a GPD ofﬁ  cer con-
ducted a trafﬁ  c stop 
on Hopkins for following too closely on 
State Road 93, according to the arrest 
report. Hopkins denied a search of his 
car.
While a second ofﬁ  cer was complet-
ing the trafﬁ  c warning and seeing if 
Hopkins had any warrants, the ﬁ  rst of-
ﬁ  cer conducted an open air sniff of the 
car with a K-9, according to the report. 
The K-9 alerted the ofﬁ  cer to the smell 
of narcotics coming from inside the car.
After searching the car, it was found through the suspect’s in-car camera that 
the passenger had some type of illegal 
substance in her underwear, according 
to the report.
The passenger and Hopkins were 
heard on the in-car video surveillance 
talking about the substance and Hop-
kins saying, “Cuff that s---.”
When confronted about having 
something illegal in her underwear, 
the passenger voluntarily removed 230 
grams of hard, powdered cocaine, ac-
cording to the report.
After being read his Miranda rights, 
Hopkins admitted to owning the co-
caine and said he had purchased it in 
Reddick, Florida, for $6,500, according 
to the report. Hopkins also said it should 
be about eight ounces of cocaine.
Hopkins is currently on felony pro-
bation until Dec. 14, 2022.
Hopkins was released from Alachua 
County Jail on Wednesday on bail. His 
original bail was $30,000.Man accused of hiding 8 ounces of cocaine
Four 14-year-olds were ar-
rested after their alleged car 
burglary spree in northeast 
Gainesville, Gainesville Po-
lice said in a Facebook post.
Around 3:40 a.m., a wit-
ness called police to report a 
group of people breaking into 
cars in the area of Chelsea 
Apartments at 2510 NE Ninth 
St., according to a media re-
lease. Ofﬁ  cers conﬁ  rmed 
multiple unlocked cars had 
been broken into after they 
responded to the scene.
An ofﬁ  cer saw a subject in 
the parking lot of Pointe 23 
Apartments, located at 740 
NE 23rd Ave., according to 
the release. After the subject 
ﬂ  ed, a K-9 ofﬁ  cer and K-9 Ace 
began tracking them down. 
Another ofﬁ  cer then saw the 
subject attempting to cross Main Street.
Kevin Robinson, 14, had a 
loaded Glock handgun when 
he was caught by K-9 Ace, 
according to the release. The 
handgun was stolen earlier in 
the week from an unlocked 
car in northeast Gainesville, 
according to GPD spokesper-
son Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Samya West, 14, and Da-
vid Bell, 14, were also caught 
by ofﬁ  cers.
A short time later, an of-
ﬁ  cer and K-9 Ace found Lo-
renzo Johnson, 14, hiding un-
der a car at Select Motor Car, 
located at 2715 N. Main St.
Robinson was charged 
with armed burglary to a ve-
hicle and carrying a concealed 
gun. West, Bell and Johnson 
were all charged with bur-
glary to a conveyance.At least 10 cars were bur-
glarized in multiple com-
plexes across northeast 
Gainesville. The teens are 
suspected of breaking into 
eight of the 10 cars based on 
evidence investigators have 
found, according to the GPD 
Facebook post.
All suspects were trans-
ported to the Juvenile As-
sessment Center. Additional 
charges are expected, accord-
ing to the GPD Facebook post.
Tobias was quoted in 
the GPD Facebook post 
saying,“This situation could 
have easily resulted in an 
ofﬁ  cer-involved-shooting. If 
this isn’t a shocking enough 
reminder to lock your car and 
secure your ﬁ  rearms...I’m not 
sure what will be.”Four teens arrested in connection with burglaries
Voter registration increases ahead of primary election
By Jacob Kovach
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Supervisor of Elections 
is receiving an increase in voter registrations as 
the Monday deadline to register to vote in the 
2018 primary election approaches.
Director of Outreach for the Supervisor of 
Elections T.J. Pyche said the increase is a nor-
mal occurrence as deadlines like Monday’s ap-
proach. 
Pyche said the ofﬁ  ce has an outreach pro-
gram to educate high school seniors and UF 
and Santa Fe College students about registra-
tion. The ofﬁ  ce has attended or coordinated 
nearly 100 outreach events in 2018.
He said on-campus UF activities included 
registrations and posting ﬂ  yers throughout the 
summer in coordination with the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, Chomp the Vote, the 
Inter-Residence Hall Association and UF Hous-
ing & Residence Education.
“I think students will have a more full ex-
perience while they’re here at UF… if they 
engage in the things going on around them,” 
Pyche said. “Voting is kind of the core piece, 
or the ﬁ  rst step, to being able to have a say in 
a community.”
Communications Director for the Bob Gra-
ham Center Shelby Taylor said the center’s ap-
proximately 50 student fellows worked with 
the elections ofﬁ  ce to register about 100 stu-
dents at six locations across campus July 19. 
“Each time a new voter comes to our table 
and we can take their application,” Taylor said, 
“that’s a momentous occasion for us.”
Taylor said UF has outperformed most 
public research institutions regarding voter registration and participation, citing a study 
conducted by the Institute for Democracy and 
Higher Education at Tufts University. In the 
study, 64.2 percent of eligible UF students ex-
ercised the ability compared to a national aver-
age of 51.9 percent.
“There is a new wave of young people 
ready to take charge and to make an impact 
in our state, nation and the Gainesville com-
munity,” Taylor said.
She said increasing youth engagement may 
stem from “several instances of young people 
being impacted directly by policy.” She cited 
Parkland and the youth activism and engage-
ment following it. She also suggested the ﬁ  rst 
group of middle school students mandated to 
take a civics course by the Justice Sandra Day 
O’Connor Civics Education Act now entering 
college has an effect.According to data provided by the elec-
tions ofﬁ  ce, the total number of registered vot-
ers aged 18 to 25 in Alachua County jumped 
by about 600 individuals from 2014 to 2016. 
Preliminary data showed the same age demo-
graphic jumped by about 3,000 individuals 
from 2016 to 2018.
The same data report by the elections of-
ﬁ  ce showed that between 2014 and 2016, the 
number of Democrat and Republican voters in-
creased by about 6,000 and 3,000 respectively. 
Between 2016 and the preliminary 2018 data, 
Democrat and Republican registrations in-
creased respectively by about 3,000 and 1,500 
individuals. 
Voters with no party afﬁ  liation increased 
by about 1,300 individuals between 2014 and 
2016 but increased by about 7,000 between 
2016 and 2018. Hopkins
Stories by Devoun Cetoute | Alligator Staff Writer | @devoun_cetoute | dcetoute@alligator.orgEditorial
Column: How we lost our 24/7 Library WestIt’s a recurring nightmare.
You’re excited to ﬁ  nally get to the front of a meandering line. 
The minutes tick away as you patiently shufﬂ  e forward, reciting 
names in your head of who best suits your political interests. 
You ﬁ  nally get to the front, but the clock strikes eight. You 
hear Century Tower clanging away in the distance as the friend-
ly old volunteers snatch the ballot and Sharpie out of your hand.
“No vote for you!” they shriek in a nearly unintelligible tone. 
Your chance to participate in the greatest tradition of this coun-
try is stripped from you. You try to recite the names in your 
head once again, but you can’t remember them. All that’s rat-
tling around in your dome at the moment is a slough of…
Part III: Clear eyes, empty chairs, students lose
It started out innocently enough. “24/7 Study 
Space Survey” says the subject line for the 
email that ﬂ  ies into my inbox from former 
Monroe County Detention Center inmate/Stu-
dent Body President Smith Meyers. “Your re-
sponses to the attached 5-minute survey will be in-
valuable as we prioritize support for the overnight 
study spaces needed for your academic success.”
That was October of last year. Flash forward to 
earlier this month during a recent Student Senate 
meeting. Senator Zarella Berrocal asked Student 
Body President Ian Green why he didn’t communicate with 
the Student Body during the entire process to which Green 
responds, “I mean, I used what the data showed” and talked 
about how he used the data to formulate improvements to 
Newell Hall.
It’s not a direct answer to the question, but direct answers 
are few and far between in the Senate chambers. I guess it 
seems like Green just felt comfortable not updating the Stu-
dent Body because he had the data the Student Body gener-
ated. Either way, let’s look at the data.
To announce that we were losing overnight hours at Li-
brary West, Student Government put out a graphic with a 
section titled “the data” with no citation more than a mention 
of a “six-week study.” Now it’s already bad to not provide 
your sources, but what came after wasn’t much good either.
First up was the mention of a 6 percent average over-
night occupancy of Library West during the study. It appears 
to be derived from the “Library West mean occupancy per 
hour.” If one averages the occupancy by hour and divides 
that by the capacity of Library West, one gets 5.3 percent 
(and I really wouldn’t put unjustly rounding up beneath SG). 
The graphic never mentioned the methodology for how they 
got the number, but if we did the same thing with Newell’s 
“mean occupancy per hour,” one would get 5.2 percent.
All of the above is totally ignoring the disclaimer that 
the metric is supposed to measure “general usage of each 
building per hour” as opposed to just total occupancy. So if 
whoever made the graphic did what was mentioned above, 
that’s shady.However, the study does mention lows and 
highs for total per night occupancy: 162 to 1,465 
occupants for Library West and 65 to 483 occu-
pants for Newell Hall. However, when the graphic 
points out the “low point of overnight occupancy 
of Library West during the study” as 29/1600, it 
uses per hour usage stats as opposed to the per 
night stats, which I think might be misleading. To 
pick the hour with the lowest average as opposed 
to the lowest night average really makes it seem 
like someone is just trying to trash Library West’s 
reputation.
Indeed it’s true that Library West’s mean occupancy at 7 
a.m. during the study was indeed 29/1600 seats or 1.8 per-
cent, but it’s also true that Newell Hall’s mean occupancy at 
7 a.m. was 7/365 seats or 1.9 percent. So neither are particu-
larly ﬂ  attering after all; it’s just that the SG graphic just shows 
one side of the story.
Penultimately, there is the stat that says that combined 
usage of the spaces exceeded the current capacity of Newell 
only a total of 13 hours in six weeks, but the study says it 
was actually nine hours. I don’t know what’s going on there, 
especially since the lower that hour number ﬁ  gure is, the 
better.
Finally, the kicker is that Newell Hall met student’s space 
needs 96 percent of the time during the study (per the graph-
ic), which is the kind of stat that ignores that people have 
particular types of space needs, such as study rooms and so 
on. You probably also don’t want to study in a place that’s 
almost full or full either, but that falls within that 96 percent 
ﬁ  gure.
Well, looks like this will just have to be a four-part series 
because I never got to the ﬁ  nances of it all. See y’all next 
week!
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government.THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
DARTS AND 
LAURELS
Voting season is right around the corner. Some may not 
like the language linking a sacred democratic act with 
sports, but here we are in the age of horse-race-style 
polling and 15-second sound bites. 
If you’re a student living on UF’s campus and have 
been worrying about ﬁ  nding a ride to your polling station for 
the November general elections, then you got some much-need-
ed good news Tuesday. A federal judge found the decision of 
Gov. Rick Scott to bar on-campus early voting sites unconstitu-
tional (You can read all about this on Page 1) based on a lawsuit 
brought against state ofﬁ  cials by a UF alumnus. 
This means roughly 52,000 UF students could have much 
easier access to a polling location to cast their ballots. For this, 
we have to give out one of the most well-earned laurels to both 
U.S. District Judge Mark Walker as well as plaintiff Megan 
Newsome.
Some political maneuvering is straining against the tenets 
democracy. Case in point: A group of 11 lawmakers — led by 
Congressmen Jim Jordan and Mark Meadows — ﬁ  led articles of 
impeachment against Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein 
for issues they say pertain to “accountability and transparency.”
The House and Senate can’t be forced to vote on this. The 
11 members of Congress likely know the resolution probably 
wouldn’t get the votes necessary even if that were so. It’s 
straight up political posturing over an investigation they dis-
agree with.
In the grand scheme of things, these darts for Congressmen 
Jordan and Meadows will realistically accomplish what their 
Hail Mary does: pander to a very narrow audience with no real 
hope of actionable consequences.
Finally, we move away from elections in general to the re-
sults of them, speciﬁ  cally, how journalists deal with the fallout 
of political ﬁ  rings. Even more speciﬁ  cally, we have to give huge 
props to our cousins across the pond at the BBC for how “News-
night” host Emily Maitlis handled her Monday interview with 
former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer.
Maitlis asked pointed questions of Spicer. Regarding the 
“Access Hollywood” tapes on which President Donald Trump 
bragged about sexual assault, Maitlis asked, “Did that tell you 
anything about your man that you didn’t previously know?”
Spicer responded by saying, “I think we’ve all said things 
in private, which that was, that were inappropriate.” Maitlis 
was having none of that. She followed up with, “Have you said 
things like that?”
It gives us a huge warm-fuzzy to give our last laurel to Mai-
tlis for proving to American mainstream journalists that tough 
questions like these can be asked without inviting the man onto 
the set of the Oscars.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORZachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
The drone of rain on the 
car roof is almost deaf-
ening. It comes through 
to the inside like loud 
TV static. If you peer 
out the window at the mute 
downtown scene, between the 
droplets, you can see that white 
water pours off storefront aw-
nings like an avalanche. On the 
ﬂ  ooded sidewalk, huddled in 
a shallow doorway, a faceless 
man’s ﬁ  ngers hold a cardboard shield in 
defense against the damp. The problem 
of homelessness is never so striking as it 
is in a rainstorm. An increased supply of 
short-term shelter is a more immediate so-
lution to this problem which statistics fail 
to capture.
In Miami, the opulent glass buildings 
standing in the city center betray the sad-
dening scene playing out, once again, at 
their feet. Beneath the skirt of the sky-
scrapers there are multitudes whose only 
shelter from the rain is a thin canvas aw-
ning and a cardboard bed. The common 
rainstorm which might cause you to jog 
from your car to your front door is an-
other thing entirely to those who are, as I 
write this, hunkered under a highway. To 
commuters, the rain is only Morse code 
as they drive under the overpass — the 
irregular gaps in I-95 tapping out a drea-
ry message on the metal roof — but to a 
homeless person without shelter, the rain 
is a direct threat. It soaks their belong-
ings. It ﬂ  oods where they sleep at night. It 
turns manholes into geysers that boil with 
overﬂ  ow.  
The last time a count was taken, 3,526 
people were homeless in Miami-Dade 
County. Seventy-ﬁ  ve percent of those were 
men. Thirty-eight percent of the unshel-tered indicated they had a dis-
ability, whether mental, physi-
cal or from substance abuse. 
Forty-four percent did not have 
a source of income. All of them 
say their greatest need is shelter 
and housing. The last homeless 
census count tells me that more 
than 1,000 people will not have 
shelter from rain tonight in my 
city. 
The number is so large that 
I struggle to wrap my head around it — 
so large that I can’t get an emotional grip 
on it. How can one expect to feel grief 
for that many all at once? It is spread too 
thin among them, and the whole affair be-
comes more of an exercise in math than 
in empathy.
This is why, as you look out your car 
window in a rainstorm, I will ask you not 
to think about the thousands of unshel-
tered people trying to stay dry with little 
between them and the elements except 
the clothes on their back. Think only of 
the one in front of you. Imagine being 
that individual, disabled or cognitively 
disoriented and having nothing but a park 
bench between you and the earth at night.
Hopefully that one-person focus can 
help you understand why emergency, 
short-term shelter is so necessary for 
homeless people. I pray it gives you per-
spective on being unsheltered on sunny 
and rainy days alike. I hope, most of all, 
that you donate to a local homeless shel-
ter that provides emergency housing to-
day. The life of at least one neighbor de-
pends on it.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political sci-
ence junior. His column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday.Rain is far more than a hardship for 
the homeless - it's a life-wreckerColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgLast week, a 5-year-old 
watched his father die 
in a gas station parking 
lot. The shooter, Michael 
Drejka, will likely face no 
charges because of Florida’s in-
credibly lax stand your ground 
law. The victim, Markeis Mc-
Glockton pushed Drejka to the 
ﬂ  oor after he came back from 
the inside of the gas station to ﬁ  nd Drejka 
arguing with his girlfriend. Little did Mc-
Glockton know that making the mistake of 
pushing too hard as defense of his family 
would lead to his death. Drejka shot from 
the ﬂ  oor at McGlockton who as evidenced 
in a security video 
was not lunging at 
him after the ﬁ  rst 
push.
My ﬁ  rst thought 
is how different this 
situation would have 
transpired in the ab-
sence of a gun. Per-
haps further physical altercation would 
have occurred, ending with someone 
breaking it up or the police being called. 
McGlockton’s death is a complete tragedy. 
But what is most alarming is that Drejka 
probably won’t suffer consequences.
Florida’s "stand your ground" law 
has created the perfect environment for 
trigger-happy racists to attack if they are 
provoked in any minor way. A fellow cus-
tomer reported he had been threatened 
by Drejka, telling him he would shoot 
him and using racial slurs. This shooting 
mirrors that of Trayvon Martin, who was 
killed in a nonsense self-defense scenario.
Florida recently made it even easier to 
get away with shooting someone in vague 
self-defense, now requiring the state to disprove the defendant’s en-
titlement to immunity rather 
than requiring the defendant to 
prove that they were in danger.
The difference between 
regular self-defense and stand-
ing your ground is self-defense 
requires you to retreat or look 
to retreat from the situation. 
Standing your ground means 
you don’t have to retreat and you can go 
right to killing your attacker. The ﬂ  aw 
with this logic is that if someone feels em-
powered enough to kill someone else, they 
aren’t truly in a victim position. I don’t 
feel that Drejka, or anyone who gets off 
on the stand your 
ground defense was 
deliberately using 
their right. I think 
they just act impul-
sively and are lucky 
to live in a state that 
has structured the 
system in their fa-
vor. 
Why are we encouraging people to 
shoot ﬁ  rst and consider the threat level 
later? This law has blurred the line for 
what is a justiﬁ  ed self-defense attack. Now 
anything that someone does that you don’t 
like can be argued in court as a justiﬁ  able 
reason for killing someone.
Until Drejka is arrested, charged and 
convicted of murder, there is no justice. As 
long as we have a stand your ground law, 
senseless killings will continue to happen. 
For McGlockton’s young son, nothing will 
bring his father back. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday and Thurs-
day.'Stand your ground' is a bad 
pretense to murder somebody elseColumn
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
“Why are we encouraging people 
to shoot irst and consider the 
threat level later?”
Layla Soboh
Alligator ColumnistTHURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
88rising’s album review!
Check out our take on “Head in the Clouds” on page 
9!Interactive art exhibit opening: 
The “Umvelt” exhibit delves into the impact of sound on 
relationships at downtown’s Black C Art Gallery. Check out 
more on page 9!By Lindsey Brenemen
Avenue Writer
Let’s “taco-bout” the new weekly event 
at High Dive. Costumes are encouraged. 
Speciality cocktails will be served. Cult 
movies and craft tacos: the best new way to 
spend a Wednesday night.
Pat Lavery loves cult movies. The High 
Dive owner said they are the movies he 
and his staff grew up on. When actor Kevin 
Smith came to his venue back in May, it 
was surreal.
“He walked into my ofﬁ  ce and said, ‘Hel-
lo, how you doing? I’m very happy to be 
here.’ You know, like we were best friends,” 
Lavery said. “It’s not very often you get to 
see people that are on TV or movies and not 
just like in a ‘Oh, let me get your autograph’ 
type of situation, but in a real work setting.”
Around the same time, he said he real-
ized he had quite a few open Wednesday 
nights at the end of the summer. Typically, 
he would have shown “Clerks,” his favor-
ite cult ﬁ  lm, before Smith performed to get 
Gainesville excited about the actor, but the 
schedule at High Dive was jam-packed at 
the beginning of summer.
Instead Lavery said he decided to pay 
homage to Smith by carving out those open 
Wednesday nights for the movies of his 
childhood.
This Wednesday was the ﬁ  rst show. 
White Russians ﬂ  owed at High Dive while 
“The Big Lebowski” played. 
The audience was encouraged to come 
dressed as characters like The Dude, Wal-
ter and Donny. The best-dressed person 
was awarded a pair of tickets that can be 
redeemed at any High Dive show.
Lavery said a lot of work went into 
these Wednesday specials. He wanted to do 
something unique rather than showing the 
same blockbuster ﬁ  lms constantly played.He and his staff were really particular 
when picking all the right ingredients to 
make it a quality night because he knows 
people can watch a movie 10 different ways 
at home. He wants to get people to come 
out and have a good time and experience 
something different other than sitting on 
their couch.
So, he called up Luis Agosto. Agosto is 
the sole proprietor of Soul Spice, a new, 
small catering company in Gainesville dedi-
cated to what he describes as a little move-
ment.
“Good food shouldn’t be expensive, and 
it shouldn’t be difﬁ  cult’ so keep it stupid, 
simple and fresh,” Agosto said.
The 28-year-old business owner dropped 
out of school a couple of years ago. Agosto 
said he kept changing his major because 
he couldn’t decide what he wanted to do. 
When he realized he was taking classes just 
to take classes, he decided college wasn’t 
for him.
Around the same time, his friend asked 
him to make the food for an event he came 
up with: House of Tacos. Agosto accepted 
because he’s always loved cooking. After 
that ﬁ  rst event, he was hooked.
He’s been growing little by little since 
then. Agosto said last November he decided 
to take a leap of faith, get his license and do 
it for real.
Agosto has a backyard garden. He al-
ways grows rosemary, sage and thyme. 
Habanero plants bloom alongside the herbs 
for hot sauces he makes himself, as does 
culantro, the heartier Caribbean version of 
cilantro, which he uses to season his rice.
Tacos were the best way to introduce 
people to his cooking because they’re easy 
to sell to people. According to Agosto, tacos 
are inconspicuous — most people think of 
a classic Mexican dish, but the chef con-
tends that you can put anything on a taco as long as you make it with care. 
Agosto’s personal favorite recipe is his 
pernil pork taco. He seasons a pork shoul-
der with herbs picked fresh from his back-
yard, garlic and onions. He roasts that for 
six to seven hours. Then, he completes his 
masterpiece with fresh chimichurri and sri-
racha sauces.
Agosto is always cognizant of customers 
who cannot partake in his prized pork. He 
said he always carries vegan options, which 
usually involve curries he creates. Right 
now, he has a Japanese jell curry.
He also serves rice bowls and burritos. 
Agosto said he’s planning to branch out 
into the sandwich industry soon. He’s also 
saving up for a food truck.
This is not the ﬁ  rst time Lavery has em-
ployed Soul Spice. Agosto said the High 
Dive owner has been good to him.
Lavery has been putting on shows in 
Gainesville for more than 15 years under his company Glory Days Presents. He was 
working at High Dive before it was his ven-
ue. He made the place so great that it was 
crowned one of the “100 Greatest American 
Music Venues” by Consequence of Sound, 
a popular music blog. 
Lavery is the kind of guy who looks out 
for his own. He talks about High Dive with 
a hint of a paternal tone. He never says “I” 
when he talks about all his hard work.  In-
stead, he constantly credits the small core 
group of people he relies on.
When asked why he always uses “we,” 
he chuckled as he explained that the staff 
was a lot like a family, so much so that they 
spend more time with each other than their 
actual families.
“We work nonstop on this place, and 
our goal is to provide a really professional 
and quality experience for people that they 
might only otherwise see in like a bigger 
town,” Lavery said.Cult classics and craft tacos
NIGHTLIFE
Lindsey Brenemen
The classic White Russian sits ready for “The Big Lebowski” showing at High 
Dive on Wednesday.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Gainesville will become a ﬁ  eld 
of opportunity for garden growers 
and lovers alike at the second an-
nual Organic Food and Farming 
Summit from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m. Friday and from 9:00 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m. Saturday.
The summit, located at the 
UF Hilton Conference Center, is held to provide a space for farm-
ers, gardeners, educators, stu-
dents, advocates and exhibitors 
to engage in a discussion on or-
ganic agriculture. Throughout the 
weekend, attendees will have the 
opportunity to experience work-
shops, farm tours and a presenta-
tion from the keynote speaker.
The organization’s website de-
scribes the event as, “an opportu-
nity for beginning and seasoned organic farmers and producers to 
learn and share with others grow-
ing in tropical and sub-tropical 
conditions and seasons.”
Florida Organic Growers is a 
nonproﬁ  t organization that began 
with the mission to be involved 
in the governmental regulation of 
organic food and farming. For the 
last 30 years, FOG stays active in 
the community and government 
to ensure a secure organic envi-ronment. 
FOG continues to be very ac-
tive in policy, including continu-
ing development of food safety 
standards as well as developing 
and implementing farm bill pro-
grams.
Summit attendees can go to 
workshops including PSA food 
safety training, ﬁ  nancial literacy 
for growers, recordkeeping and 
connecting food, justice and or-ganic as well as local food tours.
Workshop events and speakers 
will continue throughout Satur-
day including a keynote address 
by Benny and Ben McLean of Un-
cle Matt’s Organics “Finished But 
Just Beginning.”
Interested individuals can still 
register to attend the summit and 
ﬁ  nd further scheduling details on 
the ofﬁ  cial website at organic-
foodandfarmingsummit.org.Organic Food and Farming Summit 
LIFESTYLETHURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
In Chinese, 88 means “double 
happiness.” This album makes you 
feel anything but.
“Head in the Clouds,” the media 
company’s debut collaborative al-
bum, is a tragic patchwork of am-
bitious summer melodies and unin-
ventive pop-rap tracks. The album 
showcases 88rising’s lesser-known 
talents while also highlighting es-
tablished acts such as the Higher 
Brothers, Rich Brian and Joji. The 
project creates a melancholic sum-
mer aesthetic without making a 
grand statement. It’s a trivial, pass-
ably enjoyable record.
Overall, 88rising delivers an in-
nocuous sound with few memora-
ble moments. “Head in the Clouds” 
does not seem to yet understand 
what it wants to be.  The record 
compresses a range of different 
songs and sounds into its 56-minute 
runtime. That variety often leads to 
some unfortunate tonal clashes.
NIKI is the latest artist to have 
signed on with 88rising. The Indo-nesian R&B singer is the only female 
artist on the label. Her status could 
not be made any more clear than by 
examining the difference between 
Rich Brian and AUGUST 08’s “Dis-
respectin” and NIKI’s “Warpaint.”
NIKI’s track follows the form-
ers’ on the record. It relays strength, 
femininity and conﬁ  dence. “Warpa-
int” is a euphoric pop-anthem that 
is demanding of your attention. 
Contrast this to “Disrespectin,” an 
uninventive trap song, proliferated 
with lyrics such as “Never hit a b---
-,” “I just took your b----“ and “Bet-
ter hide your b----.”
Tonal clashes such as these are 
persistent throughout the album.  
Such is an unfortunate consequence 
of the media company’s ambitious 
goals for “Head in the Clouds.” In 
attempting to condense their vari-
ous sounds and styles into one ho-
listic record, 88rising relinquishes 
thematic consistency.
Without this, the featured tracks 
on “Head in the Clouds” leave no 
lasting impression. Similarly, stand-
outs on the record suffer through 
mere association. Consider the pro-duction on “Lover Boy 88,” which 
features Phum Viphurit and Higher 
Brothers. Like NIKI, Phum Viphurit 
is a surprising standout in an oth-
erwise unremarkable album. “Lover 
Boy 88” transports you to an alter-
nate universe where everyone lives 
in permanent summer and there’s 
no judgement for having a mimosa 
before noon.
Other tracks, like “Peach Jam” 
and “Midsummer Madness,” belong 
on a far more interesting record. 
These songs harmoniously work 
against each other to fully illustrate 
the tragic emotions of a millen-
nial summer. Both tracks were re-
leased as singles before the album. 
Although lyrically unimpressive, 
these tracks could have been the 
highlights of “Head in the Clouds.”
If not for the drastic difference 
in quality between these great 
songs and the others, “Head in the 
Clouds” might have been a fantastic 
celebration of Asian talent. Unfortu-
nately, the album is a passable but 
unimaginative disappointment as 
88rising’s ﬁ  rst effort to carve out its 
niche. 88rising’s ‘Head in the Clouds’ is ambitious yet uninventive fun
MUSIC
Instagram/88rising
88rising fails to impress with it’s ﬁ  rst collaborative album.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
“Umwelt” is a German word that 
translates roughly to environment, 
and it is the namesake of downtown 
Gainesville’s newest interactive art 
exhibit.
Artist Nichole Hamilton seeks to 
create an environment where visi-
tors can actively experience sound 
in an intentional way.
“I did some research and entered 
this world of sound and wondered 
how to make it the performance … 
instead of being the supporting ac-
tor, it would be the star of the show.”
Hamilton is consumed with 
sound from the minute to the grand. She was involved with a perfor-
mance art piece several years ago 
where each actor did “monkey 
chants” as a homage to a Bolognese 
ritualistic theater. This experience 
left her more highly attuned to the 
impact of sound.
“This experience with sound,” 
Hamilton said, “which is a sense I 
think we ignore more often on a con-
scious level, is the one that stuck.”
Hamilton and accompanying 
artists are working to create an in-
teractive exhibit that highlights the 
impact of sound at the Black C Art 
Gallery. 
The exhibit will run Friday night 
from 7 to 10 as part of July’s Artwalk 
Gainesville. However, the exhibit will extend to Saturday and Sunday 
nights from 7 to 8.
When visiting the Umwelt ex-
hibit, Hamilton and her acousteti-
cians (a mashup of the words acous-
tics and estheticians meaning, “the 
beauty of sound”) will provide light 
guidance for viewers through spo-
ken word, performance and encour-
agement.
Umwelt combines homemade 
instruments, visual art, performance 
art and sculpture with prerecorded 
sound bites and natural audio. This 
organic contrast allows visitors to 
glide from room to room to see how 
different sounds impact their percep-
tion and state of mind surrounding 
the relationship with self and others.‘Tune in’ to Umwelt 
ART
Ani Collier
Nichole Hamilton explores the senses at Black C Art Gallery.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Netﬂ  ix is taking a step away from its well-known 
drop series format and turning to the traditional 
weekly television format for its new docuseries.
Vox and Netﬂ  ix broke the news in March that 
they came together to create a topic-driven documen-
tary series exploring different values, social concepts 
and facts of daily life. The ﬁ  rst season currently has 
12 episodes that have discussed topics such as diets, 
K-pop, extraterrestrial life and marijuana acceptance. 
In an article Vox said, “‘Explained’ is a project 
we’ve been working toward for a long time. When 
we launched Vox a bit over four years ago, we did 
so with a few beliefs. One was that important, slow-
changing topics were often neglected in favor of fast-
breaking stories. As the old journalism adage goes, 
the ﬁ  rst three letters of ‘news’ spell ‘new.’ But we 
believed there was a need for more deep reporting on 
the questions, forces and ideas that rarely ﬁ  nd them-
selves in the bright light of the daily news cycle.”
What makes the show so appealing compared to 
other docuseries is the short delivery. Similar shows 
run close to an hour in runtime, but each episode of 
“Explained” is no longer than 20 minutes.
The shorter format of the show allows viewers to 
stay engaged and follow along with facts and stories 
without getting lost in extraneous details. Executives 
at Vox said the timing and pacing of the show are very deliberate and planned.
Executives said online that they only wanted to 
take as much time as the viewer would need and not 
any more. They posted on the Vox website that the 
focus was to help make sense of the big topics that 
keep appearing faster and in larger quantities.
On May 23, the ﬁ  rst three episodes of the series 
premiered online and investigated the racial wealth 
gap, genetics and designer DNA and monogamy.
“Explained” discusses the topic of racial dispari-
ties and brings to light how racial inequality is still a 
huge issue in America. While there have been move-
ments to try to correct stereotypes and create equal-
ity, recent news events such as unfair arrests and 
wrongful shootings have shown that the treatment 
and reception of people of color is still not equal.
When it comes to economic levels and wealth, 
the gap is even more abundant. In the episode titled 
“The Racial Wealth Gap,” the creators attempt to an-
swer the question: Why?
In the episode “Monogamy,” the show displays 
images and video clips from pop culture that repre-
sent the accepted social construct of romance and the 
perfect relationship. The rest of the episode delves 
into the history of relationships and human connec-
tions as well as the historical context of monogamy. 
Throughout the episode couples and relationship ex-
perts give advice on relationships and love.
Each episode delivers information in a poignant 
way that keeps you engaged no matter the topic.Series review of the week: 
Netﬂ  ix’s ‘Explained’
SERIES REVIEW
 FASHION
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
Rising UF senior Hannah Marjon 
established and designed for a bikini 
company called Seven Swim by age 
21. As a public relations major, she has 
always had an eye for making a brand 
for herself.
Marjon loves to sport some great 
swimwear as she’s lived 10 minutes 
away from the beach her entire life. 
She realized in her early high school 
years that she wanted a speciﬁ  c kind 
of look in her bikinis but did not want 
to pay exuberant amounts of money 
for them. 
“I started ordering bikinis from little 
handmade shops in Hawaii so that 
I could get the ﬁ  t I wanted,” Marjon 
said.
Marjon’s journey began her sopho-
more year of college. She decided to 
start her own company and instantly 
began making connections all over the 
world. 
“I had emailed 20 manufacturers all 
over the world and had designed my 
ﬁ  rst seven bikinis,” Marjon said. 
The senior claims she wanted to 
create bikinis that mimicked the amaz-
ing styles and quality of big brand 
stores but not at big brand prices. She 
chose to design bikinis speciﬁ  cally be-
cause she wanted to create them for 
herself as a customer. 
“I chose bikinis because I love the 
feeling of a really good bikini. Bikinis 
can either make you feel super good 
and proud about yourself, or they can 
ruin your day because you’re self-con-
scious of how they ﬁ  t,” Marjon said.
As her main consumers are girls 
anywhere from 18 to 25 years old, 
Marjon always keeps in mind a more 
youthful style and look when she is 
designing the pieces. She said that at 
this age she wants bikinis to be com-
fortable and stay in place for those who 
are always running around, while still 
maintaining a look that is trendy and 
cute.What sets Seven Swim apart from 
other companies is the community that 
has developed around it and its use of 
eco-friendly fabrics in manufacturing 
the bikinis. Marjon started an ambas-
sador program before she launched the 
company in order to bring in that com-
munity to the company. An ambassa-
dor program allows for employees to 
utilize various forms of media to pro-
mote the brand and increase the com-
pany’s inﬂ  uence and following.
“I had been in an ambassador pro-
gram and loved the intimacy it gives 
you with a company and wanted to 
have others feel that way with mine,” 
Marjon said.
She exclusively uses eco-friendly 
fabrics for the suits nd claims she’d like 
to see more companies do the same.
Marjon has big ideas and great long-
term goals for Seven Swim. She wants 
to create a sustainably growing busi-
ness that can always take care of itself.
“I eventually want to be able to cre-
ate ways to interact with the commu-
nity more,” Marjon said.
The 21-year-old recently had a pop-
up shop during Miami Swim Week, 
and she was able to meet many of the 
models, bloggers and customers that 
she’s been in contact with for over a 
year now. She said she looks forward 
to more opportunities like that one.
As a young designer, Marjon’s ad-
vice to other young aspiring designers 
is to follow your gut. 
“That sounds weird, but so much 
of what I’ve done with this company I 
wouldn’t have done if other people had 
given me their opinion,” she said. 
She did not know how to start a 
bikini company nor produce bikinis 
when she realized her passion. While 
maintaining freedom of design, Marjon 
does say to ask for ﬁ  nancial help, as 
handling money as a young artist is 
difﬁ  cult.
“I just blundered my way through 
it and made some awesome mistakes 
that led me in cool directions,” says 
Marjon.Splish splash and she’s 
making some cash
Netﬂ  ix
Netﬂ  ix series, “Explained, ” delves into topics of interest that escape the mainstream.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS.  Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
Don't Miss This One!
Only $182,900. New cabin in Western NC 
Mtns w/views, fpl, vault ceilings. 2 bed/2 bath 
on 1.57 pvt acres. 828-286-2981     7-26-1-5
Lake Property Foreclosure Resale
Originally sold for: $91,900
Liquidation Price: $29,900
Upscale Community
Watch Video: www. LakeLotsCloseout.com
877-712-3650
Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC.    7-26-
1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Designated drivers are the greatestPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1600/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $950/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
7-31-5-2
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$1800/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        8-22-18-7-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    7-26-
1-16When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
DISH WASHERS NEEDED!
Join our team, new restaurant
opening in Celebration Pointe
$8.50/hr with opportunities for advancement 
for hard working individuals
Reasonable work load and hours, breaks 
provided. 
Please contact tevins72@gmail.com
or midicigville@gmail.com if interested
7-31-18-5-14
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR INSECT 
REPELLENT RESEARCH STUDY AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
UF IRB#201700763
We are seeking volunteers for participation in 
a study of insect repellents and how they will 
prevent bites from mosquitoes in a field set -
ting. Participants must be between the ages of 
18 and 55. The study will take up to 6 visits to 
complete (compensation is provided per visit). 
If you would like to participate or you would 
like more information please contact the study 
director Emma N.I. Weeks Ph.D., Phone 352-
273-3954, email: eniweeks@ufl.edu     8-2-18-
5-14
PART-TIME
● yard work ● cleaning ● chores ● errands, 
etc. 6 - 12 hours per week.
$10 / hr + tip.
Apply at:  www.Gator2018.com         8-7-5-14
SIMEDHealth is hiring a full time Maintenance 
Technician for our Gainesville office location. 
$14-$16 per hour. 
Visit our website at
simedhealth.com/jobs to apply.    8-9-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.    7-26-1-15
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 18 Personals 18 PersonalsTHURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Learn how you can make an extra
$300-$1000+ weekly as a college student. 
Go to: www.alexwaytofreedom.com    8-2-
18-4-20
LEARN HOW to make an extra
$450 per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.studentsurvey.club    8-2-18-4-20
Designated drivers are the greatestGet the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Org. that awards
the Spingarn
Medal
6 Bochco series
11 Peter, Paul and
Mary: Abbr.
14 Counterpart of “a”
15 Bacteria in
undercooked
meat
16 Not just “a”
17 Led
19 Bonanza
contents
20 Many a Bon
Appétit subscriber
21 Tablet download
23 Flips, in a way
26 Ball beauties
27 Hardened
28 Decline to
recline?
30 Bursts
31 Barbecue favorite
34 Suffix with glob
35 Held closely (to)
37 “O wad some
Pow’r the giftie
__ us”: Burns
38 Reduces, as
spending
40 Manage (for
oneself)
41 Melonlike tropical
fruit
42 Slapstick trio
member
44 Loosey-__
46 Fishing lure
47 Less experienced
48 Plump
50 Mike and __:
fruity candy
51 Cooked fruit
dessert ... and a
cryptic hint to the
start of 17-, 31-
and 38-Across
56 Part of mpg
57 Quilt filler
58 Latin stars
59 “Star Trek” rank:
Abbr.
60 Tea go-with
61 Bikini blast
DOWN
1 Hip-hop artist
who narrates
Netflix’s “The Get
Down”2 Hurdle for
Hannibal
3 Act like
4 Plant-eating
scarab beetles
5 Sentence
shortener
6 City on the Aire
7 Antioxidant berry
in smoothies
8 Valuable deposit
9 Tap output
10 Innocent-looking
11 Informer
12 Pang
13 Goes after
18 You might hear
music on it
22 Cloud
23 Make confetti of
24 Name on a 1945
bomber
25 Dominant states
26 Spartan
28 Expels
29 Mountain lake
31 Larry McMurtry’s
“The Last
Picture __”
32 __-watch
33 Feast where the
Haggadah is read
35 Bad-mouths36 “Saving Private
Ryan” event
39 Let up
40 Most affectionate
42 5’7” Webb,
shortest to win
the NBA Slam
Dunk Contest
43 __ Alley
44 Beef
45 Like Cognac
casks46 About 1.3 cubic
yards
48 Give a 
makeover
49 “A Prayer for __
Meany”: John
Irving novel
52 Personal quirk
53 Downed a sub?
54 Syst. of cars on
tracks
55 Convened
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/26/1807/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 26, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Like Joe
Cocker’s voice
6 Light-rail stop:
Abbr.
9 Assists in arson,
say
14 Waldorf salad
ingredient
15 Waldorf salad
ingredient
16 Inhumane
17 Terrain feature of
permafrost
regions
19 Harry who led
Wrigley crowds
in “Take Me Out
to the Ball
Game”
20 Mint containers
21 Patriots’ gp.
22 “Trading Spaces”
topic
23 Units measured
in BTUs
24 Staples
competitor
27 Skilled in
29 It usually has four
strings
30 Madrid mama
bear
31 Jogging pace
32 Really ticked off
34 Builder’s
guideline
35 Took the risk
38 Some turkeys
41 Saturated __
42 Apply crudely
45 DuVernay who
created TV’s
“Queen Sugar”
46 “Time for my
walk!”
47 Pinch, as a
pooch
49 “Star Wars”
ruling body
53 Lynx coat
54 Flat fees
55 Barrel wood
56 Asian desert
57 Colleague of
Gorsuch
58 Casino plays ...
and events that
occur as you
work your way
down through the
four sets of
circles
60 Less furnished
61 It’s tapped into a
tray
62 Long range63 Practices in a
ring
64 Spelling event
65 Out of order?
DOWN
1 Disheveled
2 Yellow-orange
fruit
3 One paying for a
plug
4 Positive sign
5 Ginza tender
6 Sound of
sadness
7 Stanley of “The
Lovely Bones”
8 Cleaned one’s
plate
9 Knuckle under
10 Support for an
injured knee
11 Ace of Base
genre
12 Prickly hybrid
13 Cunning
18 Inane
22 Faked in the rink
24 Inauguration Day
pledge
25 Makes well
26 Middle of a
winning trio
28 Dropbox files,
casually
32 Complete fiasco33 Leaf-peeping mo.
34 John Deere logo
animal
36 High hairstyles
37 Fan club focus
38 __ Mahal
39 Venn diagram
feature
40 European
archipelago
known for its wine
43 Gradually
becomes clear
44 Showy trinkets46 Stage crew
47 Bank
management aid?
48 Overly proper
50 Prefix with act
and cede
51 Invisible urban
pollution
52 Hidden trove
56 Out of sight
57 Core muscles
58 Blot gently
59 Big name in
trucks
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/25/1807/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Bring up, propose
1.  Soothe5.  Peak
2.  Coincide with6.  Get the hang of it
3.  ____ cheese7.  Oration 
4.  WinceCARBHO
MLECBASTECR
AENLR
VRPAOEL
OCATGETCPSEHE
CLIFHNANSWERS: 1A-Broach  5A-Crest  6A-Learn  7A-Speech
1D-Becalm  2D-Overlap  3D-Cottage  4D-Flinch  B-North America7-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This takes up about 16 percent 
of the Earth’s land area. BONUS1. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the shal-
lowest of the Great Lakes?
2. HISTORY: Which Old West gun-
slinger was born with the name Henry 
McCarty?
3. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the family car on “The Mun -
sters”?
4. LITERATURE: How long did it 
take Tolstoy to write his epic novel 
“War and Peace”?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Where were the first modern Olympic 
Winter Games held in 1924?
6. SCIENCE: What colors are mos-
quitos attracted to?
7. GAMES: How many pieces are in 
a double-six set of dominoes?
8. U.S. STATES: What is the nick -
name of the state of Maryland?
9. MOVIES: Which 1978 movie is 
associated with the cry “toga!”?
10. MEDICAL: What is the common 
name for the disease varicella?
Answers
1. Erie
2. Billy the Kid
3. The Munster Koach
4. Six years
5. Chamonix, France
6. Dark colors
7. 28
8. Old Line State
9. “Animal House”
10. Chickenpox
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 23, 2018King Features Weekly Service
19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 23 RidesCaeleb Dressel was upset in 
the 100-meter freestyle at 
the USA Swimming National 
Championships Wednesday 
night.UF BASKETBALL TO FACE OKLAHOMA IN 2018-19
The Florida Gators will take on the Oklahoma Sooners in the Battle 4 Atlan-
tis in the Bahamas at noon on Nov. 21.  The last time the two faced off, the 
Gators routed the Sooners 84-52 in Norman, Oklahoma, on Jan. 28, 2017.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
Alligator Staff Report
Today, we focus on individual effort. 
The 2017-18 athletics season saw some 
of the greatest solo performances in school 
history. Senior swimmer Caeleb Dressel 
and softball pitcher Kelly Barnhill etched 
their names into the Florida record books, 
while athletes from all over UF pitched in 
outstanding efforts of their own. 
Sports writers Brendan Farrell, Andrew 
Huang, Mark Stine, Chris O’Brien and Evan 
Lepak chose their picks for this week’s al-
ligatorSports Award: Best Individual Perfor-
mance.
Brendan: Picking Caeleb Dressel for 
this award is like picking the Raiders in 
Tecmo Bowl. You feel bad because Dressel, 
like Bo Jackson in that video game, is the 
easy pick and you pretty much win because 
of him, but that’s just how dominant Caeleb 
Dressel is.
It all began on March 22. It’s Day 2 of the 
NCAA National Championships. Dressel is 
competing in two events: the 200 freestyle 
relay and the 50 free. Before that day, no 
one had ever broken the 18-second mark in 
either event.
Dressel did it twice. In one day.
Dressel was the opening leg on the 
Gators’ 200-yard freestyle relay team and 
clocked in at 17.81 seconds, while the re-
lay as a whole set a new school record of 
1:14.39 and won the school’s first men’s championship in the 200 free relay.
In an encore performance in the 50 free, 
he actually improved. Dressel blew his com-
petition away with a time of 17.63 seconds. 
With the win, Dressel was the 14th male 
swimmer to ever sweep an event and the 
first to sweep the 50 free. And he wasn’t 
even done at the NCAA Championships. 
Not even close.
Moving on to Day 3, Dressel set another 
record in the 100 fly, becoming the first to 
break the 43-second barrier in the event, 
clocking in at 42.80. Dressel’s victory was 
his second national championship in that 
event.
For the last day of the NCAA National 
Championships, competing in the 100 free, 
Dressel broke down one more swimming 
barrier by becoming the first to swim the 
event in under 40 seconds, coming in at 
39.90 seconds. 
For those counting at home, between 
preliminaries and finals, that’s four records 
and four titles in four days of competition. 
That’s a level of dominance that most defi-
nitely wasn’t matched by any other UF ath-
lete, and I don’t think it is one that ever will 
be.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
Andrew: On Tuesday, I explained why 
Jalen Hudson was the UF athletic depart-
ment’s Newcomer of the Year. 
Today, I’m nominating Hudson’s mon-ster night against Gonzaga in the 2017 
PK80 tournament for Best Individual Perfor-
mance. Hudson poured in a career-high 35 
points and helped Florida advance, 111-105, 
to its bracket’s championship game against 
Duke.
He was quiet early, picking up a pair 
of fouls in the opening 10 minutes, and he 
ended the first half with just four points 
dealing with foul trouble.
Then came the second half. Hudson ex-
ploded for 19 of UF’s 49 points in the frame. 
The rising senior knocked down five of 
his eight three-point attempts, including a 
clutch make with less than two minutes re-
maining, cutting a four-point Bulldogs lead 
to one. He also made 5-of-6 shots from the 
foul line.
The game went to double overtime, and 
Hudson was instrumental in preventing a 
third extra period. 
He sank three more triples in extra time. 
The final two, both in the second overtime, 
were crucial. First, Hudson put the Gators 
up for good, 100-97, with 2:53 on the clock. 
Then at the 1:44 mark he made another, 
extending the Florida lead to 106-99. Talk 
about clutch.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Chris: With a quick shoutout to gym-
nast Alex McMurtry’s destruction of both alligatorSports Awards: Individual Performance  
Kevin Love has LeBron James to 
thank for the three most impactful 
moments in his career. First, James 
returned to Cleveland in 2014, offer-
ing the All-Star forward an escape 
route from a woefully uncompetitive Min-
nesota Timberwolves team. Second, James 
spearheaded a historic NBA Finals comeback 
against the vaunted Golden State Warriors, 
delivering a 2016 championship ring Love’s 
way.
Now, LeBron has pulled a different kind of 
favor for the talented big man: He left.
To be honest, I’m elated that Love, a five-
time All-Star, just signed a four-year, $120 
million extension with the Cavaliers. He gets 
to be “the man” again, after four years of 
playing second and third fiddle to James and 
the departed Kyrie Irving. 
People forget that Love was a monster be-
fore forming Cleveland’s “Big 3,” averaging 
a double-double the five seasons leading up 
to that move. But these weren’t your aver-
age, everyday double-doubles – these were 
advanced double-doubles.
Shameless SpongeBob reference aside, 
Love’s per-game averages of 26.1 points and 
12.5 rebounds ranked fourth and third, re-
spectively, in the league during his final year 
in Minnesota. But like All-Star forward Chris 
Bosh before him, Love was underutilized as 
a third option (Bosh took a backseat to James 
and Dwyane Wade during the trio’s four-year 
run in Miami.)
Of course, Bosh was later forced to retire 
after he was diagnosed with blood clots, end-
ing his post-LeBron chance to shine once 
again. Hopefully, Love’s fate is more positive.
You have to give him credit for being 
patient and sticking with it though. It’s not 
easy being described as “arguably the game’s 
best power forward” in a 2014 ESPN article 
regarding Love’s trade to Cleveland and then 
spending the next two seasons out of the All-
Star game.
Really, it’s just not easy to be that third 
guy in general. 
Just look at Carmelo Anthony this past 
season. He joined Russell Westbrook and 
Paul George in rushed and unexpected fash-
ion last offseason and never adjusted to his 
smaller role on the team. Yes, Melo is one 
of the most prolific scorers in NBA history, 
but his inability to accept that he was past 
his prime led to a staunch refusal to come 
off the bench. While this would have likely 
been better for the Thunder, it’s not surpris-Third-wheeling in 
the AssociationHuang Story Short / Opinion
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16The Associated Press
Caeleb Dressel won the 50-yard freestyle in world record-breaking fashion on March 22. Prior to that day, no one in America 
had ever gone below 18 seconds in the race. He swam his first race in 17.81 seconds and his second in 17.63 seconds.
THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
By Mark Stine and 
Chris O’Brien
Sports Editors
When fall camp starts on Aug. 3, many 
of the players on the UF football team will 
begin duking it out to see who will be in 
the starting lineup this fall.
Sports editors Chris O’Brien and Mark 
Stine argue their favorites to start at the 
offensive skill positions when fans ﬁ  ll the 
Swamp on Sept. 1 to watch the Gators take 
on Charleston Southern. 
Quarterback: 
Chris: This one’s a tough one for me. 
Over the spring, redshirt sophomore Kyle 
Trask, at least to me, looked like the supe-
rior QB of the bunch. I’ve been really, re-
ally high on him since he came out of high 
school. I always believed that if Jim McEl-
wain did ANYTHING right for the univer-
sity (because let’s be honest, there really 
wasn’t much), it was recruit an unknown 
two- or three-star QB (depending on where 
you look) out of Texas.
Since summer began though, word is 
redshirt sophomore Feleipe Franks has 
taken the reins a little bit more. The of-
ﬁ  cial odds have Franks as the favorite, 
freshman Emory Jones as a close second 
and Trask as a longshot.
But I went to all the spring practices 
and the general consensus was that Trask 
was the best. He’s got a great frame, listed 
at 6-foot-5, 239 pounds, and he has a great 
motor. Good legs, a good arm, all he re-
ally needs is a better command and feel 
for the offense. I’m going with Trask as a 
dark horse.
Mark: Of the three candidates for start-
ing quarterback, redshirt sophomore 
Feleipe Franks, redshirt sophomore Kyle 
Trask and freshman Emory Jones, Franks 
is the only player with experience at the 
college level and the easy favorite to win 
the quarterback position heading into fall 
camp.
His numbers were mediocre: 125 for 
229 passing (54.6 completion percentage), 
1,438 passing yards, nine touchdowns and 
eight interceptions in eight starts. But there 
were ﬂ  ashes of brilliance, like the “Heave 
to Cleve” against Tennessee and his 79-
yard run against Texas A&M. And behind a 
lackluster offensive line, you couldn’t ask 
for a redshirt freshman to do much better. Franks’ experience gives him something 
to build on, and his arm strength and mo-
bility gives Dan Mullen some ﬂ  exibility 
calling plays. 
Maybe we’ll see Jones in a few games 
because of the SEC’s new four-game red-
shirt rule. Maybe we’ll see Trask against 
Charleston Southern on Sept. 1. 
Running Backs:
Chris: Another really good position bat-
tle is who gets the spell-running back po-
sition behind incumbent starter, redshirt 
junior Jordan Scarlett. I actually don’t 
think there’s going to be a clear back that 
takes this spot, more of a running back 
by committee.
I do think the ﬁ  rst back we’ll see af-
ter Scarlett is junior Lamical Perine, but I 
don’t expect him to see any more carries 
than true freshman Dameon Pierce. Pierce 
is 5-foot-10, 207 pounds, and he’s got great 
burst and looks incredibly spry.
The other guy I expect to get a decent 
amount of carries is sophomore Malik Da-
vis. Davis was easily the best back on the 
team last year prior to his season-ending knee injury. If he can return to form, ex-
pect him to be in the mix as well.
Lastly, keep an eye on Adarius Lemons. 
Kid is built, and he’ll factor-in some way 
as well.
Mark: Florida’s running back commit-
tee is highlighted by two returns: redshirt 
junior Jordan Scarlett from suspension 
and sophomore Malik Davis from knee in-
jury. 
Scarlett provides a more bruising run-
ning style. He’s listed at 206 pounds, but 
at spring camp he looked more in the area 
of 215. He has to be the ﬁ  rst-choice back 
after leading the UF backﬁ  eld in 2016 with 
889 yards, averaging 5.0 yards per carry. 
Davis is listed at 194 pounds, but that’s 
probably soaking wet with an oversized T-
shirt on. 
Yet, he provides big play ability, which 
he showcased in a 72-yard scamper against 
Tennessee (before he fumbled), and led 
the Gators with 526 yards in just seven 
games last season. 
Davis and junior Lamical Perine should 
be great complements to Scarlett and 
should contribute well if they develop more chemistry catching passes and block-
ing for whoever is quarterback. 
Wide Receivers:
Chris: The top two receivers on the 
team, assuming they get cleared by the 
NCAA, are transfers Trevon Grimes and 
Van Jefferson. There’s no debate about it, 
if they’re cleared, those will be the guys 
that are trotted out in the fall.
But who’s that last guy going to be on 
those three-wide sets?
I would go with Tyrie Cleveland if the 
third receiver wasn’t a slot receiver, but 
I think he’s more of an X or Z (outside) 
receiver. The guy I expect to see in the slot 
in the ﬁ  rst weekend is Kadarius Toney.
He reminds me more of a true slot re-
ceiver, almost like a Percy Harvin type of 
player. You’re going to see him in the slot, 
on the outside, in the backﬁ  eld - just about 
everywhere on the ﬁ  eld. But you’re going 
to see him in the slot ﬁ  rst.
Mark: Florida lost its primary receiving 
option, Brandon Powell, to graduation and 
needs a new player to step up in fall camp. 
Redshirt junior Van Jefferson appears 
to be UF’s new No. 1. The 6-foot-2 trans-
fer from Ole Miss racked up 42 catches in 
10 games playing slot receiver in 2017, 
equaling Powell’s total in 11 games at the 
same position. Jefferson caught 49 passes 
in 2016 and earned First Team Freshman 
All-SEC honors. 
Tyrie Cleveland ranked second among 
UF pass catchers last season with 22 recep-
tions, but ﬁ  rst in receiving yards at 410. 
The junior from Houston should be the 
Gators’ primary deep threat, as he aver-
aged 18.6 yards per catch a year ago.
Junior Freddie Swain or sophomore 
Trevon Grimes, a transfer from Ohio 
State, will likely be Florida’s third op-
tions, but redshirt senior Dre Massey and 
sophomore Kadarius Toney should see the 
ball often because of their playmaking and 
ability to play in the slot and out of the 
backﬁ  eld.
The remainder of this article is avail-
able online at alligator.org/sports.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org   Dueling Opinions: Football oﬀ  ensive position battles
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt junior running back Jordan Scarlett is expected to receive a lion’s share of the carries by 
both of our sports editors.
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 26, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Oklahoma and Arkansas, Cae-
leb Dressel, pitcher Jackson 
Kowar’s 13-strikeout game and 
Grant Holloway's world record 
in the 60-meter at the Tiger Paw 
Invitational, this award clearly 
belongs to softball pitcher Kelly 
Barnhill.
But which of her performanc-
es was the best one? I could go 
with one of her TWO no-hitters 
against both North Florida and 
then-No. 23 Kentucky, or I could 
select her perfect game against 
Georgia Southern.
Picking between those gems 
is like trying to choose between 
a Yuengling, a Blue Moon and a 
Sam Adams Boston - either way, 
I’m getting a really solid prod-
uct.
So screw it, I’m just going to 
go with all three.
Barnhill just bamboozled 
North Florida. In ﬁ  ve innings, 
she struck out 12 Ospreys. In 
ﬁ  ve innings. Let it sink in that 
she mowed down 12 of the 16 
batters she faced (her only gaffe 
was a hit-by-pitch in the top of 
the ﬁ  fth) as Florida routed UNF 
9-0. I’d get bored out there if I 
was playing defense behind 
Barnhill.
But hey, in the spirit of one-
upping herself, she threw an-
other no-hitter against UK a few 
weeks later. How many did she 
strike out this time? Thirteen. 
Against a nationally-ranked SEC 
team? Wow.
But the perfect game was 
a spectacle. Georgia Southern 
stood no chance against the 
ﬂ  amethrower as she didn’t allow 
a hit, a HBP or a walk through-
out the contest. Eleven strike-
outs on 56 pitches in just ﬁ  ve 
innings? Masterful.Maybe I should just go with 
the perfect game.
But no, her other perfor-
mances are much too spectacu-
lar to leave out.
The Gators are going to be a 
force next year as Barnhill re-
turns for her senior season.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Mark: Come on, the best per-
formance on the 2017-18 came 
from the man voted SEC Male 
Athlete of the Year: Caeleb 
Dressel. 
The two-time Olympic gold 
medalist won four national titles 
over the course of a week at the 
NCAA Swimming and Diving 
Championships in March. He 
took gold in the 50-yard free-
style, 100 free, 200 free relay and 
100 butterﬂ  y, becoming the ﬁ  rst 
UF swimmer to win four nation-
al championships in one meet. 
The four titles also placed 
him ﬁ  rst in program history with 
10 NCAA Championships (nine 
individual), two more than the 
notorious Ryan Lochte. 
On March 22, Dressel set re-
cord splits in the 50-free three 
times. In the preliminary round, 
he broke his own American 
record by recording a time of 
18.11. Later, he smashed that re-
cord with a split of 17.81. Then 
hours later in the 50 free ﬁ  nal, 
he put up an astounding 17.63. 
“I know everybody in the 
world of swimming probably 
expected 17.9, but I don’t really 
care about other people’s expec-
tations. I want to set my own,’’ 
Dressel said in a release. “That’s 
where 17.6 came from. Just a 
number that popped in my head 
and I thought it was possible.”
Dressel backed up that per-
formance with another record-breaker in the 100 free ﬁ  nal. He 
set a new American record with 
a 39.90 time to conclude his UF 
career.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Evan: The best individual 
performance in my mind came 
from a guy who caught ﬁ  re in 
the month of May, helping lead 
the Florida men’s golf team to a 
record performance in the NCAA 
Kissimmee Regional.
Sophomore Andy Zhang  
started where he left off from his 
SEC Championship victory a few 
weeks earlier, shooting an out-
standing 13 under from Reunion 
Resort in Kissimmee, Florida, 
and giving him his second indi-
vidual title in as many tries.
Zhang would go on to score 
a 203 through 54 holes of play, 
edging out his teammate fresh-
man Chris Nido by a single 
stroke.
The sophomore from Bei-
jing’s three-day performance 
was good enough to tie Billy 
Horschel for fourth-best score in 
program history.
The fact that he only bo-
geyed on two of 54 holes at the 
course may be more impressive 
than the 15 birdies he amassed. 
And he would stay consistent 
through all three rounds of play, 
shooting a 68 (4 under) on Fri-
day, a 68 (4 under) on Saturday 
and a 67 (5 under) on Sunday.
Zhang’s performance might 
not be as ﬂ  ashy as some of the 
other ﬁ  nalists, but any perfor-
mance that helps attribute to a 
team record in the postseason 
deserves some deﬁ  nite recogni-
tion.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org AWARDS,  from pg. 14Hudson put up 35 against Gonzaga Six football players face 
student conduct violations
ing that Anthony struggled to adapt to 
a lesser role. He had, after all, been 
“the man” on his team throughout his 
15-year career.
Then there’s a different situation in 
Klay Thompson and Draymond Green 
of the Warriors. Thompson is far and 
away the best three-and-D guard in 
the league, and Green is a jack-of-all-
trades, elite defender and skilled pass-
er, as well as the reigning champs’ 
emotional leader. The two weren’t 
really the second or third options be-
hind Steph Curry – before Kevin Du-
rant’s arrival two years ago – rather, 
2A and 2B. But Durant, the second-
best player in the world, bumped both 
of them to 3A and 3B.
The Warriors already showed signs 
of coming unglued last year, at times looking like a shell of the well-oiled 
machine that won an NBA-record 
73 games a few years ago. Thomp-
son’s role and value on the team has 
dropped noticeably, as has Green’s 
overall defensive effort. And Thomp-
son will be a free agent in 2019; Green 
the year after. 
After being served with what are 
essentially demotions, is their team-
ﬁ  rst attitude starting to crack? Is this 
due to championship fatigue or a 
creeping discontent at losing their 
share of the spotlight? 
The remainder of this article is 
available online at alligator.org/
sports.
Andrew Huang is a sports writer.
You can follow him on Twitter 
@AndrewJHuang and contact him at 
ahuang@alligator.org.By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Six UF football players face student 
conduct violations for an on-campus 
conﬂ  ict near the Keys Residential Com-
plex that occurred May 28.
Wide receiver Kadarius Toney, de-
fensive end Kyree Campbell, quarter-
back Emory Jones, wide receiver Tyrie 
Cleveland, Rick Wells and tight end Ke-
more Gamble were all cited in a report 
by First Coast News. 
None of the players have been 
charged with a crime.
The report states that an Alachua 
County gambler named Devante’ Zach-
ery, also known as “Tay Bang,” and 
friends met the players, who were in 
a group of 10-to-15 people apparently 
holding weapons, outside of the dormi-
tory.
It also cited a cell-phone video, 
where one individual was reported holding a frying pan, and said that 
some of the weapons resembled assault 
riﬂ  es, which were later proven to be 
pellet guns. 
Toney and Campbell were recom-
mended to UF’s Student Conduct and 
Conﬂ  ict Resolution department for 
“holding and pointing what appears 
to be assault riﬂ  es (later determined to 
be airsoft riﬂ  es) at other individuals on 
campus,” according to a report granted 
to First Coast News. The rest of the 
players were recommended to the cor-
rections department for lying to campus 
police ofﬁ  cers.
The report also said tight end 
C’yontai Lewis had a “good relation-
ship” with Zachery when it referenced 
a police interview with the football 
player, but later stated the relationship 
appeared to have dissipated. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
COLUMN,  from pg. 14