We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Did Lauren Evans break the selﬁ  e record?
After UF soccer’s win, the cancer survivor attempted to take the 
most selﬁ  es in three minutes. Was she successful? Find out on 
pg. 15.The Alligator endorsement goes to...
After meeting with Impact and Inspire Party, read who our edi-
torial board chose to support this election, pg. 6
Not Dumbos
Need elephant photos for your Monday?, pg. 8MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 14
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Florida tight end R.J. Raymond was a 
man deep in his thoughts. He strolled si-
lently onto the ﬁ  eld at Neyland Stadium in 
Knoxville, Tennessee, about half an hour 
before any other Gators — even the special-
teamers — made their way out of the locker 
room to get some extra catches in before the 
game. 
It was a strange sight to behold. This is a man who, despite having a couple of targets 
this season, had not recorded a catch in his 
ﬁ  ve years at Florida. It was odd because this 
Gators offense does not look to its tight ends 
often. 
But there he was, a couple of hours be-
fore kickoff. Catch. Toss back. Catch. Toss 
back. Et cetera.
“That’s just who he is as a person,” line-
backer David Reese said.
It was as if Raymond had it all planned 
out.  You may remember seeing his diving catch in the end zone, even if you can’t 
clearly see it in your memory bank among 
all the scoring in this game against Tennes-
see.
The good fortune didn’t stop with Ray-
mond. It all broke Florida’s way in its most 
lopsided victory over the Volunteers since 
2007.
Raymond’s preparation mirrored the 
steps the Gators took to ensure their most 
impressive win this season. Coach Dan Mul-
len, who blasted “Rocky Top” at his offense all week leading up to the matchup, said he 
barely heard it all game. Unofﬁ  cial accounts 
stated “Rocky Top” played just about a doz-
en times on Saturday.
“That was the goal,” Mullen said. “We 
played it enough, we played it a lot at prac-
tice this week.” 
Reese, one of the outspoken leaders on 
the Gators’ defense, made his debut after 
missing the team’s ﬁ  rst three games with 
an ankle injury. He said the time he spent Preparation met opportunity for Gators in Knoxville
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Calie Michael, a 21-year-old UF marketing and telecommunication senior, plays games with 7-year-old 
Nevaea Saturday at the Downtown Latino Festival on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. “We just passed it 
on our way home and wanted to check it out, ” Michael said. See the story on page 9. 
Who are you voting for?  
During Fall semesters, students will cast ballots to elect 50 of the 
100 Student Government senators. These seats are based on living 
areas including on-campus, oﬀ  -campus and family housing. Those 
elected will serve a one-year term. 
When can you vote? 
The times to vote are between 8:30 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. Tuesday 
and Wednesday. Where can you vote?
You have to cast your vote in person at any of the following loca-
tions: Broward Recreation Room, Hough Hall Room 120, Health Science 
Center C2-41C, Jennings Hall Library, Levin College of Law BGH Student 
Commons, the computer lab on the second ﬂ  oor of the Marston Science 
Library, Murphree Conference Room, Norman Education Library, Reitz 
Union SG Print Lab, Springs Area Oﬃ   ce Room C202 and Southwest Recre-
ation Social Lounge. (See map on page 3)How can you vote?
Students must have a photo ID to vote and know their UF 
ID number or have their Gator 1 Card when going to one of 
the above polling locations during the voting times. STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS ARE THIS WEEK. HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW. THE OFFICE HAS OF-
FERED MORE THAN 300 
STUDENTS 
INTERIM GRANTS.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
Kailey Hart has had to be a 
little more frugal this semester. 
Although she works part-time 
at PetSmart and has some leftover 
funds from summer, without her 
Bright Futures scholarship, she 
doesn’t have  enough to cover ne-
cessities like rent, food and gas. 
Hart, a 20-year-old UF zoology 
junior, hasn’t lost her scholar-
ship, but she’s one of hundreds 
of students who have seen a de-lay in their ﬁ  nancial aid disburse-
ment as UF works to switch over 
to a new system. 
“Basically, I’ve done every-
thing right on my end and I still 
have to deal with complications, 
and that sucks,” she said. 
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce for Student Finan-
cial Affairs is converting hundreds 
of thousands of records and mov-
ing delivery of services into a new 
system called Compass, which 
stands for Campus-wide Modern-
ization Program to Advance Stu-
dent Services, UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando wrote in an email. 
In the meantime, the ofﬁ  ce has 
provided about 370 students with 
interim grants, totaling more than 
$550,000 to help with their ex-Here’s why some 
students’ ﬁ  nancial aid 
disbursement is delayed
SEE FINANCIAL AID,  PAGE 3
TENNESSEE 21 FLORIDA 47
SEE SG, PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Student Government Elections
Vote for your Student Government 
senator from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 
p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Polling locations include Broward 
Recreation Room, Hough Hall 
Room 120, Health Science Center 
C2-41C, Jennings Hall Library, 
Levin College of Law BGH Student 
Commons, the computer labs on 
the second floor of the Marston 
Science Library, Murphree 
Conference Room, Norman 
Education Library, Reitz SG Print 
Lab, Springs Area Office Room 
C202 and Southwest Recreation 
Social Lounge. Questions? Visit 
sg.ufl.edu/elections, or email 
Supervisor of Elections, Henry 
Fair, at elections@sg.ufl.edu.
Gay Movie Night 
September’s Gay Movie Night is 
being held at 7:30 p.m. Friday 
at the Pride Community Center 
at 3131 NW 13th Street. This 
month’s movie is “The Skinny,” 
which is a comedy about four 
young black gay men and their 
lesbian best friend. They arrange 
to meet up in New York City one 
year after their graduation from 
Brown University. Their plans 
for a weekend of fun start off well and relaxed in each other’s 
company as only old friends 
can be. But old tensions quickly 
resurface. Drinking, drugs, hid-
den desire and the demands of 
promiscuity put friendship, trust 
and even lives at risk. Gay Movie 
Night is on the last Friday of each 
month and is a free service of the 
Pride Community Center. A $2 
donation is requested.
Florida Museum to open new 
‘Permian Monsters’ exhibit 
Saturday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will open its newest fea-
tured exhibit, “Permian Monsters: 
Life before the Dinosaurs” with 
free activities from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Saturday As an early cel-
ebration of National Fossil Day, 
visitors may speak with members 
of Florida fossil clubs about what 
fossils can be found around the 
state and meet paleontologists 
and geologists who work to un-
cover the secrets of these ancient 
remains. While the exhibit has 
an entrance fee, museum mem-
bers and UF students with a valid 
Gator 1 Card receive free admis-
sion. For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
permian-monsters or call 352-
846-2000.La Casita Encuentro (Reunion)
A public dialogue will be held on 
the past, present and future of the 
community institution La Casita. 
The Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program will hold the dialogue 
between the founding members 
of UF’s Institute of Hispanic-
Latino Cultures at 6 p.m. Oct. 3 at 
Ustler Hall Atrium.  
 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 14
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  72°2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling, Paige Arneson
Madison Forbis 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
100’s of
New Choices
 FINAL WEEK
Where:
Reitz Union-Tabling Area
When:
Monday September 24 thru 
Friday September 28
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor: Programs
LAST CHANCE
On Tuesday, UF students can 
begin to vote for one of the two 
Student Government political par-
ties running for 50 Senate seats. 
Impact Party and Inspire Party are 
the only two on the ticket — and 
it’s not the ﬁ  rst time they’ve gone 
head-to-head. Read below for 
background on both of the parties 
inceptions and their history since 
they’ve been active. 
Impact Party
August 2015 - Impact Party, 
which currently holds the execu-
tive ofﬁ  ce, was formed in August 
2015 by former Access Sen. Chris 
Boyett, former Access Sen. Saneh 
Ste. Claire, former Swamp Party 
budget and appropriations chair-
woman Susan Webster and former 
Swamp Party Director of External 
Affairs Blake Murphy.
Boyett said the party was creat-
ed to overcome Senate gridlock. At 
the time, Access Party held the ex-
ecutive ticket while Senate was di-
vided between Access and Swamp 
Party senators. Conﬂ  icts led to six 
of 13 agency head positions being 
left vacant for 105 days. 
September 2015 - That Fall, 
Swamp Party didn’t slate. The 
Senate’s president pro tempore, 
who was a party member, said 
some of its members wanted to move to Impact Party.
October 2015 - In the Fall elec-
tions, Impact, a then-new party, 
won 34 out of 50 seats. It was the 
most contentious election in a few 
cycles, with the previous elections 
having Swamp Party win nearly 
all seats unchallenged. 
February 2016 - In the Spring, 
Impact Party won the executive 
ticket and 39 out of 50 senate 
seats. 
September 2016 - One year af-
ter a contentious election, in Fall 
2016, Impact Party won 49 out of 
50 seats and was unchallenged by 
another major party. The seat they 
lost went to an independent candi-
date. Similarly, in Spring 2017 Im-
pact won the executive ticket and 
all but two Senate seats. 
September 2017 - After an un-
challenged cycle, in Fall 2017 Im-
pact Party faced up against Inspire 
Party and won 30 out of 50 Senate 
seats. 
January 2018 - The party lost 
some members of its leadership 
in the Spring, when Senate Presi-
dent Pro Tempore Janae Moodie 
accused the party of tokenizing 
minorities and left to run for presi-
dent under her own party, Chal-
lenge Party.
January 2018 - The elected 
treasurer, Revel Lubin, also dis-afﬁ  liated with the party in Spring 
and ran with Inspire Party. He ac-
cused Impact of tokenizing minor-
ities as well.
February 2018 - Despite the 
departure of some party members, 
Impact Party won the executive 
ticket and 36 of 50 senate seats. 
The elected executive ticket are 
the ofﬁ  cials currently in place. 
Inspire Party
August 2017 - Compared to 
Impact Party, Inspire Party is a 
younger group. Benjamin Lima, 
who was the party president, founded the group in Fall 2017 be-
cause he said he was unsatisﬁ  ed 
with how the Student Body was 
being represented. 
The party was founded on the 
pillars of accountability, transpar-
ency and inclusivity, Lima said. 
The party had former members 
from both Access Party and Im-
pact Party. 
September 2017 - In that Fall’s 
elections, Inspire Party won 20 out 
of 50 senate seats. 
February 2018 - That Spring, 
Inspire Party also lost a party 
member when Sen. Branden Pear-son disafﬁ  liated. Pearson said the 
party prioritized its brand before 
students and tokenized minorities. 
In a Letter to the Editor respond-
ing to the accusation, Inspire Party 
leadership denied the accusations 
and said the Pearson issue was 
about the individual. 
February 2018 - Come elec-
tions, Inspire Party lost the execu-
tive ticket but won 14 of the 50 
seats up for election. At the time, 
Lima said it wasn’t possible to tell 
if Challenge Party, a party that had 
formed that Spring, split the vote.SG,  from pg. 1Learn the parties’ histories
penses while they wait for their full ﬁ  nancial 
aid to disburse. 
“The staff is working as fast as they can to 
get students their disbursements,” Orlando 
said.
This time last year, only about 32 students 
were given interim grants, totaling $50,000, he said. The grants act as an advance on a 
student’s ﬁ  nancial aid. When students re-
ceive their actual ﬁ  nancial aid disbursement, 
UF will subtract the interim grant from the 
total. 
Not all of the delays were caused by the 
switch to the new system. Some of them 
were the result of federal aid money arriving 
late, he said. The old system, ISIS, the Integrated Stu-
dent Information System, dates back to the 
1990s and ran on the UF Mainframe, which 
is more than 40 years old. UF Mainframe 
runs on old technology that limits UF’s abil-
ity to respond to innovative academic offer-
ings and enhance the student experience, 
Orlando said. The new system costs $23 mil-
lion.
The ofﬁ  ce is focused on responding to the 
needs of students and the campus commu-
nity with emphasis on delivering aid to stu-dents as quickly as possible, Orlando said.
The staff has been challenged because it 
is taking time to get used to the new setup, 
Orlando said. In addition, the staff has to 
work in two systems at the same time until 
the implementation is completed, which will 
be in December. 
“We have worked hard to reduce the im-
pact on students with the interim grants,” 
Orlando said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgFINANCIAL AID,  from pg. 1A new system is being usedAlligator Staff
Voting locations for the Fall SG elections, which are Tuesday and Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 
8:30 pm.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018IT’S THE AWARD’S 
34TH YEAR.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
Ann Blount 
runs a 350-acre 
farm with cows 
and goats, along 
with her 25-year-
old daughter 
and 91-year-old 
mother.
Beyond the 
farm, Blount was 
also named the 2018 Woman of the 
Year in Agriculture. This is the 34th 
year of the the award, and it will be 
presented to her at the 2019 Florida 
State Fair in Tampa in February.
Blount, a UF professor of agron-
omy and plant breeding, said she 
was shocked to hear she won the 
award. She said she’d always done 
her work because she’s passionate 
about it.
“A lot of people don’t know what 
agronomy is,” Blount, 64, said. 
“But, it’s probably the backbone of 
agriculture in the United States.”
She grew up on a farm in St. 
Croix in the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
There, she said, she developed a 
love for genetic diversity in crops 
such as tomatoes and papayas. 
Spending the majority of her life 
in agriculture influenced Blount to 
pursue an education in the field, 
where she pursued a master’s and 
doctorate degree at UF and would 
eventually live on a farm of her 
own, she said.
“The island needed an agrono-mist, so they suggested that’s what 
I studied,” Blount said.
Ken Quesenberry, Blount’s men-
tor and a UF agronomy profes-
sor, said he’s been impressed with 
Blount since he first met her 30 
years ago when she was pursuing 
her master’s degree.
After she graduated from UF, 
Quesenberry said she continued to 
work in the Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences with him on 
research programs and assignments 
for 20 years.
When Quesenberry found out 
Blount was nominated for the pro-
gram, he was delighted to see she 
was selected for the honor.
“She’s always been a great 
mentor for the grad students she’s 
involved in her program,” Quesen-
berry said.
Glen Aiken, the UF IFAS North 
Florida Research and Education cen-
ter director and Blount’s supervisor, 
said it wasn’t hard to write the let-
ter that formally nominated Blount 
for the award because he only had 
positive things to say about her. 
“She’s passionate about her job. 
Her friends really appreciate her. 
She’s got a really good heart,” Ai-
ken said. 
Even though Blount is the sole 
winner of the award, she said it’s 
important to realize agriculture is a 
team effort.
“The best part of this job is I’ve 
made lifelong friends with the pro-
ducers,” Blount said. “It’s great, the 
agricultural community.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org‘Cream of the Crop’: UF 
professor named woman 
of the year in agricultureA CANDIDATE FORUM WILL BE 
HELD TUESDAY. 
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students can earn free goodies for their 
civic activism Tuesday. 
In honor of National Voter Registration 
Day, several organizations are hosting events 
across town to encourage people to register 
to vote. 
Gators Vote Everywhere has partnered 
with the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service, Gators for Underrepresented Voters 
and the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections to host a campus-wide effort to 
register students to vote, said Jenna Tingum, 
a UF statistics junior and team leader for 
Gators Vote Everywhere.
From 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., 
organizations will table across campus in 
places including Pugh Hall, Marston Science 
Library and Lawrence W. Tyree Library at 
Santa Fe College. Students can register to 
vote, request absentee ballots and update 
registration forms, she said. 
There will be prizes to incentivize 
students to sign up for election reminders 
and pledge to vote. Prizes include an ENO 
hammock, tickets to the High Dive, tickets 
for two shows at the Hippodrome State 
Theatre, a Sweet Dreams gift certificate and a Satchel’s Pizza gift card, Tingum said.
“We want students to understand the 
importance of their vote and their voice in 
our democracy,” the 20-year-old said.
Michelle Stein, a 22-year-old UF political 
science senior, is already registered to vote in 
Alachua County, but she plans to attend the 
on campus event to encourage her friends to 
register too. 
“I’m very passionate about voting and 
believe it’s the easiest way for people to 
participate in the political process without 
being elected members of government,” she 
said.
Santa Fe College Student Government is 
also hosting a candidate forum in the Fine 
Arts Hall Lobby from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., said 20-year-old Santa Fe Student Body Pres-
ident, Alejandro Puga. Candidates running 
for Alachua County Commission District 2, 
Florida State House District 21 and Florida 
State Senate District 8 will answer questions 
from voters. 
There are two candidates from each 
district confirmed to come to the forum, 
Puga said.
“This forum will give the chance for 
students to hopefully take elections seriously 
and realize that whoever is elected into office 
will vote and push for policies that will affect 
us all,” he said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgGainesville to celebrate National Voter Registration Day 
THE TEXTS ARE FROM AN 
APP CALLED IRL. 
By Gabrielle Seminara 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Nicole Bender was wary when she got a text saying 
someone complimented her.
Bender, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, had 
seen rumors on Facebook that the texts were linked to 
human trafficking. 
“Someone complimented you! See more on IRL,” 
the text read, followed by links for iPhone and Android 
apps. 
While the texts might be annoying, they aren’t a 
front for human trafficking rings. The texts are sent 
out by IRL, an app that stands for “in real life,” an IRL 
spokesperson wrote in an email. The company con-
firmed the human trafficking rumors are false. 
The only way to receive a text is if someone with 
a person’s contact information sends them a compli-
ment, added them as a friend or sent them an invitation 
through the app. Users can request to reveal the name 
of their nominator if they download the app.
“IRL is designed to allow communications only be-
tween people who know each other,” the spokesperson 
said.The purpose of the app is to encourage people to 
get together in real life because the company believes 
people are spending more time with their screens than 
with their friends and family, the spokesperson said. 
“We designed the app so that it takes away the 
anxiety and social pressure of inviting acquaintances 
and friends to hang out, and it boosts our users’ self-
confidence,” the spokesperson said.
Sergeant Tim Peck, of the University Police’s Com-
munity Services Division, said the department hasn’t 
received any reports about the “compliment” texts. 
Peck discourages students from opening links from 
unknown senders, as they’ve been linked to phishing 
scams, which are used to collect personal data, he said.
“Never follow a link if you don’t know the sender,” 
he said. “Similar text messages have posed serious 
problems for students in the past.”
IRL has not received any reports of sex traffickers on 
the app targeting its users. The company believes peo-
ple are spreading the rumors for the purpose of gaining 
popularity, the spokesperson said. 
Bender isn’t sure how the company got her number, 
but she didn’t click on the link just to be safe, she said
“I’m a little concerned, but there’s nothing I can do 
about it,” she said. ‘Someone complimented you!’ texts 
not linked to human trafficking  
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Going back to their roots
The Chinese Student Association’s Traditional Music Club plays traditional Chinese instruments 
during the Mid-Autumn Festival Gala on Friday night in the Reitz Union. The gala also featured 
singing, dancing and games.
TUESDAY’S NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION DAY EVENTS  
Midterm Election Candidate Forum 
When:  6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
Where: Fine Arts Hall Lobby at Santa Fe College
National Voter Registration Day at UF & Santa Fe College 
When:  10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Where: Around UF’s campus at Pugh Hall, Marston Science Library, Library West, Broward Hall, 
Graham Area Commons, Murphree Area Commons. At Santa Fe College in the S Building Breezeway 
and Lawrence W. Tyree Library.
Santa Fe College Civics Fair 
When:  10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Where: R-01 at Santa Fe College Northwest Campus
Blount
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
THE COVERS COST 
$8.50 EACH BUT WERE 
DONATED TO UF.
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
Citrus trees at UF are getting new 
outﬁ  ts in the hopes of combatting cit-
rus greening disease, which has dealt 
a $4 billion blow to Florida’s economy. 
Scott Thompson and Tommy Thay-
er from the Tree Defender Company 
developed individual protective covers 
made of ﬁ  nely woven polyvinyl mesh 
to prevent trees from acquiring citrus 
greening disease, which kills them. 
The covers cost $8.50 each but were 
donated to UF for testing, said Brad 
Buck, an Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences spokesperson. 
More than 95 percent of Florida’s 
citrus acreage is infected, Fernando 
Alferez, a citrus horticulturist at UF’s 
Southwest Florida Research and Exten-sion Center, wrote in an email.
“Greening is something new, dev-
astating, with no cure in the horizon,” 
Alferez said. 
The disease is spread by psyllids, 
which are small bugs that feast on cit-
rus leaves and stems, according to the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture web-
site. 
The covers are placed over tree 
branches and secured around tree 
trunks, which prevents the pests from 
infecting young trees, Alferez said.
The mesh also protects trees from 
deer, birds, frost and wind, said Erin 
Mencer, the director of sales and mar-
keting for Southern Citrus Nurseries 
and Tree Defender. 
Alferez hopes the covers will be-
come an integral part of the industry. 
“We are conﬁ  dent that as we move 
forward with our research, citrus 
growers will ﬁ  nd this mechanism to be 
cost-effective and efﬁ  cient in growing 
healthy citrus trees,” Alferez said. UF testing individual tree covers to combat citrus greening 
THE SUSPECT CAUSED 
$1,500 IN DAMAGE.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville Police are looking 
for a person who broke into St. Au-
gustine Catholic Church and dam-
aged several religious items either late Thursday night or early Friday 
morning.
Although nothing appeared to 
be stolen from the church on West 
University Avenue, the damages 
cost at least $1,500, said GPD Sgt. 
David Schramek.
Someone used a brick to smash 
a window on the side door of the 
church to get inside, Schramek said. A student came into the church 
to pray around 8 a.m. Friday and 
found the sanctuary in shambles, 
said Father Wilson Colmenares. 
The student told the church’s pas-
tor, Father David Ruchinski, who 
called police. 
The damage included a dented 
tabernacle, which is a box that car-
ries communion hosts, a broken processional cruciﬁ  x, which is an 
elongated cruciﬁ  x carried in at the 
beginning of mass, and broken sa-
cred oil containers, Colmenares 
said. 
The oil was spilled on the ﬂ  oor 
in the front of the sanctuary. The 
tabernacle, which is too heavy 
to pick up, was knocked over 
onto the ground and dented, Colmenares said. 
The processional cruciﬁ  x looked 
like someone banged it against 
something, Colmenares said. The 
cross was so badly bent, the Christ 
ﬁ  gure broke off from it. 
Detectives are still investigating, 
Schramek said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgSt. Augustine Church broken into, sacred oil spilled on ﬂ  oorCourtesy to The Alligator
Individual protective covers shield citrus trees growing at UF from citrus greening disease. 
The disease has reduced Florida’s economy by $4.54 billion, according to the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture. 
Editorial
Column
P .O.D. prices resemble strong-arm robbery
At UF, grocery shopping is often done at one 
of the many P.O.D. Markets on campus. Many 
students don’t spare a thought about the cost of 
their shopping sprees, and those who do often 
write off the obvious overcharging as an accept-
able price for convenience. I suspected, however, 
that the difference could not be so miniscule, and 
after employing some expert espionage, infiltrat-
ing various P.O.D. Markets, I have uncovered the 
shocking extent of this convenience store con.
Imagine a generic Gator, using his or her par-
ents’ money to buy sustenance for the week. It is not the typ-
ical image of an extortion victim. However, the harsh reality 
is that this unassuming college student is being swindled out 
of vast amounts of his or her hereditary creditors’ cash. Say 
our student wants to start the day off right with a morning 
classic, Cap’n Crunch. How could they go wrong with such 
a wholesome and nutritious breakfast? Well, they could start 
by purchasing the cereal at a P.O.D. Market. There, our stu-
dent would be charged $6.19 for a measly 14 ounces of Cap’n 
Crunch, yet Walmart offers a 28-ounce box for $3.98. While 
Capt. Horatio Magellan Crunch’s cereal provides many nu-
trients, protein is needed in order to complete a balanced 
breakfast. So, our student naively navigates to the bacon in 
the back of the P.O.D. Market. Another mistake. The pitiful 
5-ounce portion of bacon distributed at P.O.D. Markets will 
deal our student’s wallet a heavy blow of $5.79. However, in 
the Elysian Fields of the local Walmart, a 16-ounce package 
can be purchased for $4.89. A sizable amount of damage 
has already been dealt to our student, and yet more still is 
to come as he or she decides to stock up on a preeminent 
college snack: Pop-Tarts. As a Gator with taste, our student 
disregards the brittle brown sugar cinnamon and the sicken-
ing strawberry flavors, sifting through the dross to strike gold 
with the hot fudge sundae flavor. Sadly, our student goes to 
the P.O.D. Market yet again and is charged a whopping $3.79 
for a total of two toasted pastries, a price which gets curb-stomped by Walmart’s $1.98 for a box of eight. 
The P.O.D. Market employs advanced chicanery, 
wherein they charge you more for less. This could 
be considered cruel, or just capitalism; either way, 
our student is losing out on copious amounts of 
money and Pop-Tarts. 
To finish the analysis, let’s suppose our stu-
dent gets thirsty (most college students do) and 
wants to indulge in a delectable drink. Maybe our 
student is vegan, I wouldn’t judge them, and they 
decided to go for a glass of almond milk. Lucky 
for them, the P.O.D. Market carries almond milk by the half-
gallon for the low price of $5.79! Too bad there isn’t a huge 
corporate chain of supermarkets that sells the same half-gal-
lon Silk almond milk for just $2.98.  Except that there is. It’s 
called Walmart. Perhaps our student is no ordinary vegan, 
they are a proud vegan member of the great Gator Nation. 
So, on their parade through the P.O.D. Market, it is not the 
almond milk but the Gatorade that catches their eye. The 
64-ounce bottle will run our student $3.99, but the universi-
ty-sanctioned P.O.D. Market could not possibly price-gouge 
on our hallmark commodity, right? Absolutely, unquestion-
ably wrong. In the land of low prices, at the Butler Plaza 
Walmart, the same 64-ounce bottle costs only $2.19.
I have outlined just a few egregious examples, yet by 
no means have I covered all of the corruption of the P.O.D. 
Markets that dot UF’s campus. Preying on students without 
the willpower or horsepower to go off campus for groceries, 
these little stores serve as a massive financial drain on UF’s 
student body. Students should never shop in the P.O.D. Mar-
kets unless they are trying to throw away money, in which 
case you still shouldn’t because I will gladly take your mon-
ey. Maybe then I’d finally be able to afford a box of Cap’n 
Crunch at the P.O.D. Market. 
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English and history fresh-
man. His column appears on Mondays.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
There are telltale signs of the upcoming Student Government 
elections. Political parties prowl Turlington Plaza for undecided 
voters. Fliers are distributed. You may have even read about a 
certain SG sugar daddy or an increase in toilet paper quality.
As the election for 50 Senate seats is upon us, The Alligator’s 
editorial board sat down with the leaders of both Inspire and 
Impact parties to discuss and ask questions on the parties’ merits 
and plans for SG’s nearly $21 million budget. Before we continue, 
it’s important to note that the litany of UF’s SG scandals present 
itself as a wannabe “House of Cards,” excluding the predatory 
nature of its lead cast member. 
Since its inception, we’ve seen several parties come up and 
fizzle out when matched up against Impact Party. 
Say a prayer for the parties we’ve lost: Access, Progress and 
Challenge. Independent parties have tried their best to go against 
the majority party, but they were poorly organized in comparison 
to Impact’s hold on the legislative and executive branches. 
It’s impressive that the party has survived even after its for-
mer student body president was arrested for drunkenly knocking 
down motorcycles in Key West and after party leaders have said 
they supported online voting but refuse to implement it.
This year, we talked over what each party hopes to accom-
plish. We came away with a good impression of both parties, but 
one presented fresher ideas and a more fervent commitment to 
transparency and accountability: Inspire Party. 
It was Inspire that called for the inclusion of a Multicultural 
& Diversity Affairs liaison into the SG Senate chambers, whereas 
Impact brushed the idea aside. 
Impact has pursued diversity via other avenues, such as 
reaching out to different multicultural organizations and starting 
the “Bridges” minority outreach program. Impact has also lob-
bied Congress for a clean Development, Relief and Education for 
Alien Minors (DREAM) Act.
But Inspire has called for greater transparency to see what the 
student lobbyists are truly up to when they travel to Tallahassee 
or Washington, D.C. Impact provides plenty of platform tracker 
videos, but none regarding what it’s up to and the money it’s 
spending in the country’s and state’s capitals. Students are also 
left without a report on how successful those lobbying efforts 
were. Inspire strives to change those practices.
Now, neither party was able to give us a clear plan about how 
they’d secure funding for some of their big-budget items. But, like 
they seem to be doing, we’ll hope for the best.
On voting rights, Impact and Inspire both say they support 
online voting. An SG Supreme Court decision has prevented the 
implementation of online voting for students. Inspire would like 
to see the Supreme Court decision overturned, but its position 
as the minority party prevented it from passing a constitutional 
amendment to do so. Impact, on the other hand, has had control 
over the Senate but has failed to make online voting possible, 
despite it being common practice in many other universities.
Further on the topic of voting, Impact, as the majority party, 
has failed to take a leadership role in actively promoting elections 
on social media, especially Facebook. The SG Facebook page is 
nearly devoid of any mention of the upcoming elections. When 
The Alligator asked the Impact Party leaders about this, they 
didn’t have a reason why, despite controlling a majority of SG.
Some have criticized Inspire for being smaller with a seem-
ingly more unstable voter base. We are cognizant of Inspire’s role 
as the underdog in the upcoming elections, but we have faith in 
its future. Inspire is building a voter base, canvassing efficiently 
and working hard to obtain a Senate majority. 
Many of the Senate’s problems stem from a lack of voter turn-
out, so we hope you, dear readers, head to the polls Tuesday 
and Wednesday and cast a ballot. It’s the only sure way you can 
make your voice count.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOREndorsement: 
Inspire Party 
Kyle
Cunningham
opinions@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
There’s a moment in each of our 
childhoods when we become clearly 
aware, if only brieﬂ  y, of what we 
lack in life and what we want most. 
I, for example, knew from an early 
age that I was insecure; but I also 
knew that if other people liked me 
and said I was cool, it would be like 
Roundup to my insecurities. The 
good opinions of others would cause 
my low self-esteem to whither.
These are the two truths I have lived most 
of my life with, and they reached a fever pitch 
in high school. I was a new student in a small 
private school my freshman year. It was a fresh 
chance at becoming popular. I did somehow 
manage to befriend most of my class and make 
a favorable name for myself. But two years into 
this private project, awareness of my insecuri-
ties deepened. I still didn’t like myself.
A friend of mine at the time, upon me con-
fessing all of this to her, told me her secret rem-
edy: Look yourself in the mirror every day and 
say whatever it is you wish you were. Say “I 
am smart,” or “I am good-looking,” until you 
believe it.
She was being a good friend, trying to pull 
me out of myself. Even still, her advice didn’t 
help. Rather, I felt worse, for the reﬂ  ection I 
saw in the mirror, after I had told it how popu-
lar and good-looking it was, seemed even more 
pitiful for not believing what it heard.
I think our culture would applaud my 
friend’s advice. Indeed, we seem to treat all 
personal problems as things we can speak or 
think out of existence. We live in the age of self-
help, after all, where the industry is worth bil-
lions and its most cherished denizens — Tony 
Robbins, Deepak Chopra and the like — are 
legitimate celebrities.  
Looking back, I see that my friend made an 
assumption about my low self-esteem, which is 
to say she made an assumption about the na-
ture of the self as well. She thought my self-
esteem was separate from me, and thus could 
be overcome by me through willpower. This is 
the main assumption of all forms of self-help 
or self-improvement. Our problems are like zits 
we can pop.There are two problems with 
this logic. The ﬁ  rst is this: The self 
cannot help itself because it is the 
problem. Laziness, depression and 
anger are, in my view, not like the 
weather, which happens to us with-
out our say so. Rather, they are the 
fruits of the self, which is to say that 
they are the clearest indicators of our 
inherently imperfect natures.
If this is truly the case, then self-
help is doomed from the start. Though we, as 
people, can overcome many problems by our 
own volition, we cannot overcome ourselves, 
and thus our self-improvement is an eternal 
game of Whack-A-Mole. You have to pull the 
roots out of the soil if you want to kill a weed. 
Self-help, however, only trims, it does not up-
root.  
The second problem with the self-help logic 
is that it assumes it knows what the self is and 
how to ﬁ  x it. A couple years ago, I read a spec-
tacular book entitled “Lost in the Cosmos: The 
Last Self-Help Book” by Walker Percy, which 
highlights this problem. Percy’s main premise 
is this: Though we know plenty of the world we 
live in, we know nothing about ourselves. Why 
is it, he asks, that we can look up into the night 
sky with our telescopes, ﬁ  nd the planet Jupiter, 
skim through our encyclopedia to the letter J 
and, in a matter of minutes, learn all there is 
to know about Jupiter and its 79 moons, but 
cannot mimic this process with ourselves? Why 
can we not be known in the same way?
The fact is that we are the most mysterious 
beings in the cosmos. Think of how many self-
help books there are, how many gurus, each of 
which constructs a different ladder out of your 
problems. Nobody really understands what the 
self is. How then can we say what it needs?
To Percy, this is the saving realization. I fully 
agree with him. St. Paul once said that if any-
one should become wise, he must ﬁ  rst become 
a fool. If we, then, are to truly help ourselves, 
I think we must ﬁ  rst concede that we cannot 
be helped.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.The welcome end of self-helpColumnPicture this: The date is Nov. 6, 2028. You 
step into a voting booth in the Reitz Union or 
some other polling place and look at the long 
ballot of names in front of you. You may rec-
ognize some names at the top, like for your 
senator or U.S. representative, but the rest 
of positions like county judge and sheriff are 
completely new to you. You already know 
who you’ll vote for at the top of the ballot. For 
the lower positions you ﬁ  ll in based on sur-
face-level factors like name or political party 
afﬁ  liation and assume they’re not important. 
However, I’m here to tell you that voting for 
state- and local-level positions is as important, 
if not more important, as voting for federal po-
sition.
First, a quick run-down of the various lev-
els. For the purposes of this column, there are 
three levels of position: federal, state and local. 
Federal ofﬁ  cials are elected to serve in Wash-
ington, D.C., such as your senator, your repre-
sentative, and the president. State ofﬁ  cials, in-
cluding the governor and state legislators, are 
elected to serve in the state capital (for Florida, 
that’s Tallahassee). Finally, local ofﬁ  cials are 
people like sheriffs, mayors, city commission-
ers and judges who serve in your county, city 
or other local district. 
At ﬁ  rst, you may think federal positions are most important, because their deci-
sions impact the most people. How-
ever, different areas have different 
speciﬁ  c issues; red tide may be an 
issue here in Florida, but a person in 
Nebraska may not even know what 
red tide is. This is where state and 
local ofﬁ  cials come in. As a 2016 ar-
ticle from The Hill explained, “Our 
local elected ofﬁ  cials are the ones 
who dictate the local laws, policies 
and budgets that affect us the most…” The 
Hill went on to explain that local governments 
have more of an impact on our everyday lives, 
such as maintaining the roads we drive on and 
collecting property taxes to fund education. 
In addition, according to a 2017 Medium post 
from RockTheVote, many policies enacted at 
the federal level start out as local or state poli-
cies, so supporting certain policies and politi-
cians at the local and state level now can get 
the ball rolling on nationwide change. 
If these arguments don’t convince you, con-
sider the practical reality: Your vote has more 
power at the local and state level than at the 
federal level. According to RockTheVote, only 
one in ﬁ  ve voters participate in midterm and off-year (non-presidential) elections, 
so your individual vote for governor 
or school board member (especially 
in 2018 where the president isn’t 
on the ballot) makes a bigger dif-
ference. This means that when you 
vote in local and state elections, you 
have more power to hold your local 
and state representatives account-
able and to get them to listen to you, 
or to vote them out if they fail to do 
so. Contrary to popular belief, your vote does 
matter, and it matters even more at the state 
and local level.
I’ve showed you how important local and 
state elections are. But what is up for elec-
tion at the local and state level this year? And 
who are your local representatives? In the 
Florida House of Representatives, the city of 
Gainesville is split between District 20 (repre-
sented by Democrat Clovis Watson, Jr.) and 
District 21 (represented by Republican Charles 
“Chuck” Clemons, Sr.); UF is in District 20. 
In the State Senate, Gainesville, UF and the 
rest of Alachua County are part of District 8, 
represented by Republican Keith Perry. In 
Gainesville, the Mayor is Lauren Poe and the Alachua County Sheriff is Sadie Darnell. 
As for who is up for election this year, there 
is of course the governor’s race between Re-
publican Ron DeSantis and Democrat Andrew 
Gillum. But there are other races as well, in-
cluding Keith Perry running for re-election 
against Democrat Kayser Enneking and inde-
pendent Charles Goston, Republican Ashley 
Moody and Democrat Sean Shaw running 
to be Florida Attorney General, and Alachua 
County Commission Seats 2 and 4 are both up 
for election. For a complete list of elections on 
the ballot, see the Alachua County Supervi-
sor of Elections’ website at votealachua.com/
Elections/Upcoming-Elections/2018-General-
Election. You can also enter your address at 
vote411.org/ballot to ﬁ  nd out information 
about each race and candidate, so you can be 
informed about the issues. Organizations like 
the League of Women Voters will also release 
full nonpartisan voter guides as the November 
election draws closer. No matter how you vote, 
remember to maximize your impact: Vote lo-
cally!
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Want your voice to make a diﬀ  erence close to home? Vote in local electionsColumn
It’s refreshing to see Student 
Body President Ian Green mov-
ing forward with making one of 
the two major libraries – either 
Marston Science Library or Li-
brary West – 24/7. Ask anyone 
on campus and they’ll agree 
that keeping one of those two 
libraries, ones that, you know, 
actually have books and plenti-
ful seating, open at all hours is 
the logical thing to do. 
I mean, whose idea was it to make New-
ell Hall the primary 24/7 library, anyway? 
Newell is… cute. I can’t discredit Newell. It 
was the building my great grandfather took 
classes in when he studied here in the ‘20s. 
Of course, it’s not like he had much of an op-
tion. There were what, three buildings here?
While Marston and Library West are fan-
tastic libraries — I spent hours upon hours 
in Marston last semester, checking out ento-
mology books or getting distracted and not 
doing homework — there are many smaller, 
more secretive libraries around campus that 
don’t get the love and appreciation that they 
deserve. Take the Fine Arts library as an ex-
ample: double. decker. desks. Are you KID-
DING me? It’s like studying in my childhood 
fantasy. Mom, if you’re reading this, I still 
want a bunk bed. Then there’s Smathers 
Library, Library West’s sophisticated, pre-
tentious older brother. The Great Reading 
Room, I’m convinced, was inspired by Hog-
warts. Or maybe Hogwarts was inspired by 
the Great Reading Room? All I know is that 
your IQ rises by at least ten points just by 
walking into Smathers. Had I written this 
in Smathers, it probably would have been 
much more eloquent, potentially even Pulit-
zer Prize-worthy. My personal favorite, and 
maybe the smallest, most secluded library to 
ever exist, would be the philosophy library. 
You’re probably thinking, what do you do 
in the world’s smallest library, sit around 
and philosophize? Yes. Yes, I do. Plenty of 
abstract, esoteric philosophical ideas have been conjured up in that little 
room. Like Smathers, you’re 
inﬁ  nitely smarter just by walk-
ing in. While the actual librar-
ies are wonderful, some of the 
best places to get work done 
around campus are not even 
libraries at all.
There are also plenty of lit-
tle nooks and crannies around 
campus, albeit, like Newell, 
there aren’t any books at those locations. 
People who enjoy utter chaos and deafen-
ing loudness tend to study at the Reitz. The 
Hub is a popular spot to do work, as it has 
a Chick-Fil-A and a Starbucks. The Hub is 
great if you want to eat comfort food and 
cry into your macroeconomics homework, 
which I have deﬁ  nitely never done. The 
benches around campus, surrounded by 
Florida’s natural beauty, are a nice spot for 
a study date, where you probably won’t be 
productive. Plaza of the Americas, the lawn 
in front of Library West, is an ideal place for 
eating Krishna Lunch and reading, weather 
permitting. Lake Alice is also a lovely out-
door niche to set up a hammock and read 
— just don’t get eaten by our mascot. And I 
don’t mean Albert. 
I digress. My point here, ultimately, 
is that we only have four years —  unless 
you’re a nerd and are planning on graduat-
ing early, or if you’re like me and switched 
your major seven million times and won’t 
graduate until about 2040 — so take ad-
vantage of all of these unique study spaces. 
Someday you’ll want to come back to sit on 
the upper level of the bunk-desks in Fine 
Arts, but you’ll be escorted off the premises 
because you’re a grown adult who isn’t sup-
posed to like bunk beds anymore. So while 
you can, go ﬁ  nd your niche!
The irony of this all? I'm currently sitting 
in Library West. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sopho-
more. Her column appears on Mondays.Alternatives to West and Marston 
you didn’t know you neededColumn
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgTHOUSANDS VISITED THE 
RANCH THIS WEEKEND. 
By Kat Antunes
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Six Asian elephants waved their trunks 
at an audience of hundreds for the Seventh 
Annual Elephant Appreciation Day. 
The event, which was hosted Saturday 
and Sunday at Two Tails Ranch in Willis-
ton, is a fundraiser for the care of the facili-
ty’s animals. More than 2,700 people came 
out from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday, said 
Patricia Zerbini, the owner of the ranch. It 
cost $10 per person to get into the event.
Growing up in the circus business, 
Zerbini, 54, said her passion for elephants 
began when she was 14 years old, when 
her dad purchased several animals, includ-
ing elephants.
“My family’s been working with exotics 
for nine generations,” she said. “My dad 
specialized in big cats, my grandfather in 
primates, and I picked elephants.”
For additional costs, visitors rode and 
fed elephants, which eat between 250 and 
400 pounds of food per day. 
There were also other animal enclosures 
for zebras and tigers. 
More than a dozen vendors sold items 
ranging from food, such as fried Oreos and 
tacos, to elephant-themed art to products 
featuring President Donald Trump.  
Two Tails Ranch is an educational el-
ephant care facility. It was founded in 
1984 but has provided up-close elephant 
encounters by appointment since 2009, ac-
cording to its website.
For the first time in the event’s history, 
Zerbini said she had to hire security from 
the Levy County Sheriff’s Office because 
animal rights activists threatened her via 
email, phone and Facebook.
The ranch has cared for more than 300 
elephants since opening in 1984, but she 
said it is not a sanctuary or rescue. 
There’s a difference between animal welfare and animal rights, and Zerbini 
places herself in the welfare camp, she 
said. 
Her belief is that the goal of animal 
rights groups is to end all human-animal 
interaction.
She doesn’t force the animals to do 
things they don’t want to do, she said.
“Not every elephant is going to do rides, not every elephant is going to be good with 
people,” she said. “Each one is going to 
have certain characteristics that you’re 
going to pull from and have them do and 
perform.”
Gemma DeKeyser, 4, won a plush pony, 
despite missing several shots in a balloon-
popping carnival game.
Her father, Paul DeKeyser, 39, brought her and her grandparents from Orlando for 
the opportunity to interact with elephants.
“Her favorite part was riding the el-
ephant,” DeKeyser said. “We go to the 
Animal Kingdom in Orlando, but you just 
can’t interact with the animals like you do 
at this place.”8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Patricia Zerbini, 54, the owner of Two T ails Ranch, guides several of her elephants to a paddock where she then answered 
questions about the animals. Elephant Appreciation Day was held at the ranch Saturday and Sunday in order to raise awareness 
of elephant welfare efforts, as well as fundraising for their care.
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Ashton Biodiversity Research and Preservation Institute had a skink, tortoise and 
snake for guests to touch and learn about at Two T ails Ranch’s Seventh Annual 
Elephant Appreciation Day Sunday.
Elephants show off with tricks at Seventh Annual Appreciation Day
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Biker and cancer survivor Tim Dyson, 43, performs a freestyle motocross exhibition 
at Two T ails Ranch Saturday in Williston. An 18-year veteran of motocross, Dyson 
has performed his aerial stunts for audiences in 32 countries.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:IT COST $15,000 TO PUT THE 
EVENT TOGETHER.
By Alex Camargo
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The sound of salsa music, the smell of carne 
asada and the sights of Hispanic culture ﬂ  ooded 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza Saturday after-
noon.
More than 4,000 attendees participated in 
the 16th-annual Downtown Latino Festival, 
with 15 vendors serving food from Hispanic 
countries including Colombia, Venezuela and 
Mexico. The event is Gainesville’s only annual 
Latin festival, said Fausto Pazmin, the president 
of the Chamber of Hispanic Affairs. 
“We organized Downtown Latino for 16 
years,” Pazmin said. “The main goal is to 
preserve the Hispanic culture, all Hispanic 
cultures.”
Guests listened to music from Hispanic art-
ists, including José Novoa and Winston Pau-
lino. The festival cost about $15,000 and was 
sponsored by Mi Apá Latin Café and the city of 
Gainesville, Pazmin said. 
Local performer Henry Just, 33, sang gospel 
music at the event for the ﬁ  rst time. This is his 
ﬁ  rst Latin festival since moving from Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria tore across the is-
land.
“I feel very comfortable with everybody,” 
Just said. “We are having a great time in 
Gainesville and so grateful to be here.”
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe greeted the 
crowd and shared his appreciation of the His-
panic community by giving a speech in Spanish 
for the ﬁ  rst time.
“Our community is our strength,” Poe said 
in Spanish during his speech.
The UF Society of Hispanic Professional 
Engineers presented children with an 
opportunity to learn about circuits with building 
kits, said Valentina Martinez, the vice president 
of marketing for the student group of engineers. 
Martinez said her family is all over the world 
after they left political oppression in Venezuela. 
“It’s really sad because it’s nearly impossible 
to get together for Christmas,” Martinez said. 
“Being surrounded by these people, the music, 
the food, it just brings you back.”
Although Adrian Garcia has lived in 
Gainesville for 11 years, as a former West Palm 
Beach, Florida native, the 26-year-old Domini-
can and Cuban attendee said his favorite part 
of the festival is the good music and the good 
vibes.
“It’s like I never left West Palm,” Garcia said.Over 4,000 people come out to 16th-annual downtown Latino festival  
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Arepas were served at a food stand Saturday during the Downtown Latino 
Festival on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Foods from most Latin American 
countries were represented. 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
SHE WAS FOUND WITH 5.2 GRAMS 
OF COCAINE AND 1.2 GRAMS OF 
SUSPECTED ECSTASY.
A woman brought into jail on a warrant 
is accused of trying to smuggle drugs in 
her vagina into the facility Friday morning, 
deputies said. 
Kimwana Jernell Brown, 26, of New-
berry, was pulled over for speeding on Fort 
Clarke Boulevard by an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputy, according to an 
arrest report. The deputy realized Brown 
didn’t have a valid license and then found 
a warrant for her arrest.
After the deputy arrested Brown, he 
searched her with the back of his hands 
because no female deputies were present, 
the report said. The deputy didn’t ﬁ  nd any-
thing illegal but told Brown she would go 
through a body scanner in jail.Brown told him she didn’t have any-
thing on her, the report said.
But when Brown passed through the 
body scanner, jail staff found dark objects 
inside her body and noticed she clenched 
her butt, deputies said.
Deputies conducted a strip search and 
saw 5.2 grams of cocaine and 1.2 grams 
of pills, which deputies suspect is ecstasy, 
wrapped in plastic inside her vagina, depu-
ties said.
Brown is charged with one count of 
possessing cocaine, one count of tamper-
ing with evidence, one count of smuggling 
contraband into a jail, two counts of driv-
ing with an invalid license and one count of 
failure to appear in court.
She is held in Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $65,276 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgACSO: Woman tries to 
smuggle drugs in vaginaAll Stories By Amanda Rosa   |   Alligator Staff Writer
A man wearing a bloody shirt 
told police he didn’t shoot a 
man found bleeding outside his 
home, Gainesville Police said. 
Steven Christopher James, 
51, of Gainesville, is accused 
of shooting a man for lurking 
around his home and kicking 
him as he bled, according to an 
arrest report. He was charged 
with attempted ﬁ  rst-degree mur-der and possession of a gun as 
a felon.
After coming home from 
work early Friday morning, 
James’ stepson noticed two men 
hiding behind the tractor in his 
driveway and called police. He 
also called his mother, who was 
inside the house with James.
The stepson saw James chase 
and ﬁ  ght one of the two men, the report said. 
Once the stepson got out of 
his car, he heard a loud pop, the 
report said. 
The man shot was taken to 
UF Health Shands Hospital, po-
lice said. Hospital staff told po-
lice he had gunshot wounds in 
the head, cheek and shoulder.
James denied leaving the 
house, the report said. Police found a bullet near the 
front door, a blood-stained pair 
of pants, a blood-stained pair of 
jean shorts, a bloody tissue and 
several boxes of ammunition, 
the report said. 
A bloody gun was hidden in 
a child’s pink Timberland boot, 
police said.
The man shot told police he 
was on James’ property with a friend, but denied doing any-
thing wrong. 
He said James shot, beat and 
kicked him, the report said. 
James is held in Alachua 
County Jail without bond. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgPolice arrest felon accused of attempted murder
A man pointed a gun at ﬁ  ve peo-
ple while another punched two of 
the  men early Saturday morning, 
Gainesville Police said. 
Tybyis Montravius Scott, 20, of Oc-
ala, is accused of cocking a gun with 
a laser and aiming it at a group on 
Northwest 16th Street, near Pascal’s 
Coffeehouse. Bryan Shane Combs, 21, 
of Citra, is accused of punching two 
people in the face, according to arrest 
reports. 
Combs punched the men during an 
argument, causing one man to get a 
cut under his eye that required stitch-
es, the report said. 
Scott pulled a gun with a laser from 
a car and pointed it at the group, the 
report said.
Scott and Combs got into a car and 
drove away, the report said. Roughly 
two hours later, police stopped the car on Southwest 13th Street and saw the 
gun inside. 
Combs told police he punched the 
two people, the report said. He said  
Scott pointed his gun at the group.
Scott initially denied having a 
gun during the ﬁ  ght but later said he 
pointed it away from the group, the 
report said.
Scott was charged with ﬁ  ve counts 
of aggravated assault and is held in 
jail in lieu of $100,000.
Combs was charged with two 
counts of battery, according to the 
report. He was released from Alach-
ua County Jail Sunday morning on a 
$5,000 bond. Combs could not imme-
diately be reached for comment. 
 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Two men arrested 
after one aims gun at ﬁ  ve  By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Contributing Writer 
At ﬁ  rst the only sound in the 
room came from the seven fans 
above the crowd working over-
time in the evening summer heat. 
Then one voice broke the si-
lence.
“Horror.”
Then another.
 “Sadness.”
From there, community mem-
bers let emotions spill into the air 
as they stared at photos of various 
lynchings from around the coun-
try and heard detailed testimonies 
from historians and descendants 
of the victims. 
“Guilt.” “Disappointment.” “Shame.” “Ungodly.” “Respon-
sible.”
For the ﬁ  rst time, residents of 
Newberry came face-to-face with 
the ugly past of the city, a reckon-
ing that has been 102 years in the 
making. 
About 60 people gathered at 
the Newberry Municipal Building 
Thursday to discuss “The New-
berry Six,” a group of African-
Americans who were lynched in 
Newberry in 1916. 
The discussion, which was the 
brainchild of Newberry Mayor 
Jordan Marlowe, challenged com-
munity members to acknowledge 
their past and work together to 
build a better future for the city. 
Zach Jones, a Newberry resi-dent, eased tensions in the room 
by encouraging humility, grace, 
and most importantly, questions. 
“We’re not here to make any-
one pay for the sins of their an-
cestors,” Jones said.
Cathy Atria, a UF professor of 
educational practice, spoke about 
the truth and reconciliation mod-
el created by Nelson Mandela for 
apartheid South Africa and how 
it could be used as a template of 
healing for the Newberry commu-
nity. The model works to reveal 
past wrongdoings in the commu-
nity.
“If you look at these emotions 
you’ve all shared,” Atria said, 
“That’s heartwork.”
Janis Owens, a novelist, gave a brief history of the lynchings of 
Jim Dennis, Stella Young, Mary 
Dennis, Bert Dennis, Rev. J.J. 
Baskins and Andrew McHenry. 
She described how the bodies 
were strung up on an oak tree be-
fore a crowd of 3,000 people. 
Children passed the bod-
ies swaying back and forth like 
swings on a playground, Owens 
said.
Following Owens’ presenta-
tion, nine people made com-
ments.
 They expressed amazement at 
the number of people gathered for 
the event, and others apologized 
for the sins of their forefathers. 
Marlowe said this event was 
only the ﬁ  rst in a series meant to promote healing. The commu-
nity will meet again on Nov. 18 
at Lois Forte Park to break bread 
together following Sunday church 
services. 
Angel Hunt, the student body 
vice president at Newberry High 
School, said though the lynch-
ings occurred only a quarter mile 
from her home, the topic has felt 
taboo. 
“It is almost treated like a for-
bidden story we cannot tell,” she 
said.
Hunt believes that with knowl-
edge, Newberry can work to en-
sure a better future. 
“We are not afraid of the 
truth,” she said.‘We are not afraid of the truth’:
Newberry heals from history of lynchings  
The community held a special meeting about “The Newberry Six”BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
KYMCO LIKE 200 i SCOOTER
Recemly serviced. 1800 miles, transferable 
warranty, windshield, cover, top box. $1300. 
Don 352-328-0764    9-26-18-3-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-131For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $1260/mo.   352-359-1508    
9-24-18-6-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-52-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
10-5-18-6-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Learn how to make extra money at home per 
week completing online and phone surveys. 
Go to collegeopportunity.click.     9-24-18-5-
14
Make extra money at home per week
completing online/phone surveys at
collegeopportunity.click.      9-18-18-3-14
Learn how to make an extra $425/wkly doing 
surveys w/major US companies as a student 
at:  www.CollegeCashInc.club     9-26-18-3-
14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatest
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
Need Student for yard work, cleaning,
errands, etc.
Part time. $10+ per hour. 
See www.Gator2018.com for more info.    
9-24-5-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Holographic Kinetics: Advanced Healing Modality
Identify and clear mental, emotional and 
behavioral health issues. Many areas can 
be helped (Anxiety, fear, depression, PTSD, 
suicidal thoughts, addictions, and more)
www.healingwithspirit.net      MA90891
10-5-18-7-16
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. Between 2015-18, the All-Star 
Game Most Valuable Player also hit a 
home run in the game. Name two of 
the four MVPs.
2. Name the last Dodgers pitcher 
before Alex Wood in 2017 to win his 
first 10 decisions in a season.
3. Pittsburgh’s Chris Boswell set 
an NFL record in 2017 for most field 
goals in a playoff game. How many 
was it?
4. Who was the first men’s basket-
ball player in University of Michi-
gan history to have more than 1,000 
points, 500 rebounds and 400 assists 
during his career?
5. Tampa Bay’s Nikita Kucherov 
set a franchise record for points (10) 
in a playoff series in 2018. How many 
of those points were goals, and how 
many were assists?
6. Who was the last NASCAR Cup 
driver to win three consecutive road 
races?
7. In 1998, Jana Novotna became the 
oldest first-time winner of the Wim-
bledon women’s singles title in the 
Open Era. How old was she?
Answers
1. Mike Trout, Eric Hosmer, Robin-
son Cano and Alex Bregman.
2. Don Newcombe, in 1955.
3. Six.
4. Derrick Walton Jr. (2013-17).
5. Five goals, five assists.
6. Tony Stewart (2004-05).
7. She was 29.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
September 24, 2018King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Answer with 
attitude
5 Female WWII gp.
9 Ink cartridge 
color
13 “ ... calm, __ 
bright”: “Silent 
Night”
15 Stone of  
“La La Land”
16 Revolutionary 
spy Nathan
17 How canvassers 
usually work
19 Correct a script, 
say
20 Satisfied sounds
21 Golf’s “Big Easy” 
Ernie
22 Raised-baton 
strokes, in music
24 Sauce with falafel
26 Desk tray words
27 How page-turners 
are often read
32 Prop for Chaplin
35 Lodge logo 
animal
36 Total failures
37 Novelist Tolstoy
38 Tallahassee sch.
40 Thanksgiving mo.
41 Blows volcano-
style
45 “Double Fantasy” 
collaborator Yoko
47 At the peak of
48 How apartment 
leases 
sometimes run
51 Prepare 
(oneself), as for 
a jolt
52 Hebrew greeting
56 “Definitely!”
59 “__ the  
ramparts ... ”
60 Org. that 
publishes the 
newsletter 
GoGreen!
61 Fictional estate 
near Atlanta
62 How pistol 
duelers typically 
stand
65 Close tightly
66 At any time
67 Count who 
composed “One 
O’Clock Jump”
68 Depresses, with 
“out”
69 Boxer Oscar __ 
Hoya
70 Catches on toDOWN
1 1978 Egyptian 
co-Nobelist 
Anwar
2 “Welcome to 
Maui!”
3 Wade noisily
4 Round Table title
5 Ties the knot
6 Latin “I love”
7 Invoice figure
8 Use the HOV lane
9 Frito-Lay snacks 
with a speedy cat 
mascot
10 When said thrice, 
“and so on”
11 Touched down
12 Hockey targets
14 Courtroom 
transcript pro
18 Antipasto morsel
23 Osso __: veal 
dish
25 Cooler cubes
26 Annoying
28 Keebler sprite
29 Blow off steam
30 Suffix with switch
31 Answer the 
invite, briefly
32 Skelton’s 
Kadiddlehopper
33 Prefix with 
dynamic34 Grammar, 
grammatically, 
e.g.
39 Crazy Eights 
cousin
42 WWII vessels
43 No __ traffic
44 Pierced with a 
fork
46 Initial stage
47 “Eureka!”
49 E to E, in music
50 Pulsate53 Car dealer’s 
offering
54 Ref. to a prior ref.
55 Manufactures
56 Govt. accident 
investigator
57 Island near Maui
58 Percussion 
instrument
59 Pod in gumbo
63 “Snow White” 
collectible
64 Grocery sack
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/24/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, September 24, 2018
ACROSS
1 Pickup artist?
10 Holy, in Le 
Havre
15 Like one with 
greasy palms?
16 Added on
17 Thrill seeker
18 2011 Atlantic 
hurricane
19 Tied 
accessories
20 Speak further 
about
22 Spoken with 
ease
25 Become 
unusable, as 
airplane wings
26 Like La Niña, 
e.g.: Abbr.
27 Motor-assisted 
two-wheelers
30 Poker pot items, 
maybe
33 Luxury fashion 
giant
34 Backside
35 Like a home-
cooked meal
41 Mouse target
42 Early number?
43 TV heroine  
with a weapon 
called a 
chakram
44 Checked at the 
airport
46 Tavern need: 
Abbr.
49 Sign up, in 
Sussex
51 Pax __
53 Getting burned, 
in a way
57 Basics
58 Had a home-
cooked meal
59 Metaphorical 
self-help aid
62 Position to take
63 Jumpy
64 Unwieldy ships
65 Plow, e.g.
DOWN
1 Catch a few z’s
2 Facilitate
3 Heart part
4 “__ Eyes”:  
1969 Guess 
Who hit
5 Sustained
6 It may start  
with “I”7 Roof edge
8 Cut from the 
same cloth
9 Country singer 
Pickler
10 __-reeve: early 
name for a 
sheriff
11 Stringless 
strings?
12 Make very 
afraid
13 Vegas rival
14 Churchill 
successor
21 Some window 
units
23 Foam-based 
brand
24 Way up
28 Enthusiastic 
response
29 Segway PT 
inventor Dean
31 George Lucas’ 
alma mater: 
Abbr.
32 Library order
33 Artist’s drawing 
choice
35 Stir
36 It makes  
a rally  
irrelevant37 There’s no  
going back  
on it
38 Normal: Abbr.
39 “Moonstruck” 
star
40 Second effort
44 Became the 
champ
45 Excuses
46 Maze runner
47 As a backup
48 Deceased toon?50 Tears
52 Some game 
winners
53 Foolhardy
54 Classic 
accusation
55 Brief court plea
56 Neil Young’s 
“Heart of __”
60 Longtime Coke 
product
61 Beatles’ bassist 
before Paul
By Brian E. Paquin
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/22/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, September 22, 2018
1.  Plenty
1.  Hire5.  Brake part
2.  Demanded 6.  Percentage 
3.  Jelly7.  Greek ____
4.  From side to sideOEGHUN
LMPEYOADLPE
AIORT
ROEEDRD
EINTGALDANSOI
SORSCAANSWERS: 1A-Enough  5A-Pedal  6A-Ratio  7A-Adonis
1D-Employ  2D-Ordered  3D-Gelatin  4D-Across  B-Copenhagen9-24-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This city was founded in the 
10th century as a fishing village.
BONUS20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesTiger Woods (-11) won his 
first tournament in five years 
Sunday afternoon. He shot 
1-over on the final day of the 
2018 T our Championship.Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
UF men’s golf team finishes Day 1 of tourney
Sophomore John Axelsen (-7) led the Gators during the first day of the Trin-
ity Forest Invitational. Florida currently sits in eighth place heading into to-
day’s round. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
The lost city of Alanis / Opinion
The crowd of 100,027 
fans that had packed into 
Neyland Stadium on Satur-
day night dwindled down to 
a sparse few.
Once eager Tennessee 
hopefuls hastened toward 
the stadium exits as it be-
came painfully clear that 
Florida was not going to 
surrender its comfortable 
lead over their Volunteers.
Six takeaways, 87 tackles, 24 points 
off turnovers. They all appeared on 
the stat sheet on Saturday night as the 
Gators marched to a 47-21 victory over 
the Vols.
And yet, I can’t quite bring myself 
to view Florida’s beating of a paltry 
Tennessee team as a formidable victory.
The Gators needed to leave Knoxville 
with a check mark in the SEC win 
column with their laborious upcoming 
schedule. We all knew that going into 
Saturday’s game.
But after watching how the Vols 
unraveled at seemingly every turn of 
the contest, this wasn’t the test that the Gators needed heading into a 
tough stretch. 
It didn’t do anything to 
show us that Florida can 
compete with a good SEC 
team. 
The game did show us that 
the Tennessee Volunteers are 
a trainwreck of a football 
program. They basically 
handed Florida its first 
conference win on a silver platter with 
all those turnovers (four fumbles, two 
interceptions).
Perhaps the most baffling play came 
in the second quarter. 
Vols quarterback Jarrett Guarantano 
found tight end Austin Pope on a deep 
route. Pope couldn’t have possibly been 
more open as he turned and dashed 
toward the Vols’ checkered endzone. 
From there, it seemed easy enough. 
Just hold onto the ball, and sprint into 
the endzone. 
Nope.
Florida cornerback C.J. Henderson 
had covered about 50 yards hustling to Any takeaways from this game?
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
recovering from the injury put 
the game into a new perspec-
tive for him.
“I was sad,” Reese said. 
“But then I really got to re-
flect on the position I was in 
and the leadership opportunity 
that I had to reach out to the 
other guys like James Houston, 
Ventrell Miller, guys that we’re 
gonna depend on later on.”
Reese didn’t have to wait 
long to factor into the defen-
sive playmaking. He made the 
opening tackle on UF’s first de-
fensive series. A few plays lat-
er, he came away with a fumble 
recovery off a strip-sack of UT 
quarterback Jarrett Guarantano 
to set up Raymond’s score.
“When Jachai Polite makes 
hustle plays like that, and 
you’re just hustling to the quar-
terback also, some things just 
kind of pop into your hands,” 
Reese said.
However, the play that Mul-
len said changed the game the 
most in Florida’s favor was 
C.J. Henderson’s forced fumble into the endzone on Tennes-
see tight end Austin Pope in 
the second quarter. Hender-
son jarred the ball loose just as 
Pope was about to score UT’s 
opening touchdown after run-
ning nearly the width of the 
field to catch up to the streak-
ing Volunteer.
“We had done that on a 
couple of scrimmages, run-
ning down to make a play,” 
Henderson said. “I think I did 
it a couple of times, and it just 
translated to the game.”
Simply put, the Gators pre-
pared for the success they 
achieved. Whether that suc-
cess was warranted is another 
debate, but the result is what 
matters to Florida.
“I thought we had a good 
week of practice, thought they 
had good preparation, but 
never been around them to see 
how they’re gonna handle the 
environment,” Mullen said. 
“They rose to the occasion.”
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcullen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1Linebacker David Reese made his first start of the 2018 season
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Redshirt senior R.J. Raymond (45) scored the first touchdown of his career on his first ever catch as a Gator 
on Saturday during Florida’s 47-21 win over T ennessee in Neyland Stadium.
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Middle blocker Taelor Kellum panicked after 
a bad set of plays Sunday afternoon during the 
Gators’ matchup against Mississippi State.
She ran over to the bench searching for 
defensive specialist Macy Phillips when it was 
time for Kellum to come off the court.
“Macy, we need to do our handshake,” 
Kellum told her.
A secret handshake, in addition to a 
personal prayer before every match, is one of 
the superstitions the senior attacker has on 
game days.
It wouldn’t seem so crazy if it wasn’t for the 
fact that Kellum’s play did pick up as the match 
progressed. She walked out of the O’Connell 
Center after contributing eight kills and a 
block assist in the Gators’ matchup against the 
Bulldogs.
No. 11 Florida defeated Mississippi State 
in its second consecutive SEC sweep Sunday 
afternoon with scores of 25-12, 25-21 and 25-14.
The Gators (11-3, 2-0 SEC) have swept back-
to-back matches for the first time all season, 
which is even more impressive as the team gets 
deeper into SEC play.“Young teams are still trying to find their 
way,” coach Mary Wise said after the match. 
“There’s always a learning curve when you’re 
playing players for the first time.”
Florida got off to a strong start in the first 
set, racking up 12 kills on 21 swings and only 
one error in.
The tides changed, however, in the second 
set after Mississippi State started off on an 8-5 
run, keeping Florida on the ropes the entire set.
It wasn’t until Florida played its first 
challenge card of the match, reversing a touch 
call on a Mississippi State attack, that the team 
started gaining some momentum.
UF channeled its energy into the rest of the 
match, making fewer errors on serve receive 
and attacking. It battled through to take the 
second set by four points.
Florida finished off the third, and final, 
set in quick fashion, much like it did in the 
first. A series of attack errors, in addition to 
sloppy play overall, sent the Bulldogs in a 
downward spiral.
Sophomore outside hitter Paige Hammons 
stole the match, tallying 11 kills on 20 swings 
and zero errors.
“She’s making such good hitting decisions,” Gators sweep Mississippi State
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
What do the four goals Florida midfielder Lais 
Araujo scored in the Gators’ past two games have 
in common?
Lauren Evans knows.
“Before the season started, I told (Evans) that 
every goal I scored would be for her,” Araujo said 
after UF’s match against LSU, in which Araujo found 
the back of the net in the 50th minute. Araujo held 
up an “L” for Evans as she ran across the field in 
celebration, but it wasn’t the only honor given to 
the sophomore midfielder who beat leukemia a few 
months prior.
The starting lineup trotted out onto the field to 
have its names called out to the crowd, mere hours 
before she was to attempt the world record for most 
selfies taken in three minutes.
While LSU came out to the middle of the pitch 
with its starting 11 players, the Florida Gators trotted 
out with 12, bringing Evans out with them to the 
center of the pitch.
After the announcer called the names of the 
Gators who’d kick the game off, he called out Evans’ 
name to the eruption of the crowd.
“I’d kinda been waiting for that moment for peo-
ple to realize what I went through,” Evans said after 
the game. “It means a lot to me that people were 
here not only to watch my team play, but be there 
for me.”
Evans was there to break the selfie record and 
to raise awareness for pediatric cancer. After all 
was said and done at Donald R. Dizney Stadium in 
Gainesville, the Gators had accomplished far more 
than victory.
 
The Preparation
It was the team’s marketing director, Steven 
Donlan, that first pitched the idea to Evans.
“When we were doing photoshoot pictures, I 
took selfie,” Evans said. “He was like, ‘Oh, there’s 
a world record out there for 168 selfies in three min-
utes.’”
Donlan reasoned that after the match against the 
Tigers, where the team would be raising awareness 
for pediatric cancer, the attempt would greatly help 
the cause.Initially, her practice was limited to taking self-
ies with UF forward Deanne Rose in her room, but 
as the big day got closer she made sure to change 
up her routine. Evans practiced her selfie skills four 
days during the week of the game, but she didn’t do 
it alone.
“I practiced with gymnastics, swimming, with 
my team, some people in the Hawkins Center like 
baseball and football,” she said. “So I think people 
knew what to do.”
Members from those teams came out to aid in 
Evans’ record attempt, but she was also helped out 
by some unexpected participants.
 
The Attempt
When the fans who had watched the game, and 
the many UF athletes who’d come to support Evans, 
lined up to be a part of the record, they were joined 
by the LSU Tigers soccer team and staff, who the 
Gators had just defeated in a 4-1 win.
“That meant a lot to me, knowing that it’s way 
more than competition,” Evans said. “People are 
willing to help out when it comes to pediatric cancer, 
and I think that game raised a lot of awareness.”
Once the horn sounded off for Evans to begin her 
challenge, the scene quickly became frantic. Fans 
and players alike quickly stood to Evans’ side as she 
snapped photo after photo. Injured defender Rach-
elle Smith made sure to guide people in the right 
direction after they’d taken the photo to achieve 
maximum efficiency with her shots.
Once the time had come and gone and the results 
had been counted, however, the announcer had to 
deliver the bad news.
Evans had been 22 shots short. She ended her 
run with 147 selfies. She needed 169 to break the 
world record.
The crowd was somber, but Evans was undeterred, 
as she’d accomplished the most important mission 
of the day. After the SEC competition in Gainesville, 
Evans showed that there’s so much more than 
sports, and the impact she had on the fans and her 
team on Sunday was unmistakable.
“I’m so proud of her,” defender Courtney Douglas 
said after the game. “Her progress was amazing.”
 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgLauren Evans brings extra meaning to 
LSU match with selfie record attempt SOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Florida’s offense is making up for 
lost time.
The Gators unloaded against an-
other SEC opponent on Sunday, de-
feating LSU 4-1 at Dizney Stadium in 
Gainesville. This came a week after the 
team ended its program-record six game 
scoreless streak.
Florida (4-6-1, 2-1 SEC) was by far 
the better side on the afternoon, easily 
handling LSU with goals from Alyssa 
Howell, Lais Araujo, Madison Alexan-
der and Courtney Douglas. Following a 
6-0 thrashing of Kentucky, the Gators 
have now scored ten goals in their last 
two games.
“I really think a big part of it is our 
continued persistence at practice,” 
coach Becky Burleigh said. “The sched-
ule that we played in the non-confer-
ence season was really really difficult, 
and I think that really has helped pre-
pare us for SEC play.”
The Gators’ attack was stunted for most of the first half, struggling to break 
through an LSU defense that dropped 
back. There was a lack of chances for 
the first 20 minutes on both sides. 
That all changed in the 23rd minute, 
when LSU‘s Lindsey Eaton scored the 
opening goal after jostling for possession 
with UF defender Georgia Eaton-Collins 
in the box. The goal went against the 
run of the play, with Florida leading the 
shot count 5-1 up to that point.
It took until the 43rd minute for UF 
to finally break through despite practi-
cally living in LSU’s half for most of the 
first half of the match. The equalizing 
goal came from Howell, who scored in 
her second-straight game for her sec-
ond-career goal. Howell was assisted 
by Cassidy Lindley and Carina Baltrip-
Reyes, getting behind the defense and 
putting it past the LSU keeper from 6 
yards out.
The flood gates opened in the sec-
ond half after LSU (6-4-1, 0-2-1 SEC) be-
gan to struggle with Florida’s constant 
pressure. Araujo, fresh off a hat trick 
against Kentucky, found the back of the net again to put the Gators ahead in the 
50th minute. The goal came off a low 
cross from Briana Solis, with Araujo 
tapping it in from six yards out. It was 
her third-straight match with a goal.
“I’ve been working a lot,” Araujo 
said. “I had a 1-2 with Bri, and then we 
just did something fun.”
Araujo’s class showed again in the 
61st minute. After receiving a pass from 
Solis, she placed a perfect through-ball 
to Alexander, who beat the keeper to 
the ball and scored her fourth goal of 
the season.
Araujo played a critical role in Flori-
da’s fourth goal as well. She took a cor-
ner kick that Douglas headed in at the 
84th minute, capping off a one goal and 
three assist performance for Araujo. 
It also gave Douglas a moment she’ll 
never forget: her first career goal.
“Lais played a really good ball,” 
Douglas said. “And I got it. I was so ex-
cited.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgScoring drought a distant memory as Florida soccer wins again
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Defender Courtney Douglas (88) scored the first goal of 
her career Sunday afternoon in Florida’s 4-1 win over LSU.
MEN’S TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Multiple players on Florida’s men’s 
tennis team made it clear that they 
believe this team has the makings of 
a national title contender. An open-
ing weekend that saw the Gators take 
four titles certainly backed up those 
assertions.
UF claimed three doubles titles and 
a singles title over the course of the 
weekend with players competing in 
multiple tournaments. Florida claimed 
championships in all three doubles 
draws at the UVA Masters in Charlot-
tesville, Virginia, and Oliver Crawford 
won the singles title over teammate 
Johannes Ingildsen. 
Freshmen twins Greysen and Har-
rison Cacciatore also represented the 
Gators in South Carolina at the Game-
cock Invitational.
All three doubles championship 
matches featured Gators duos, and 
they swept the field. In the blue dou-
bles draw, freshman Sam Riffice and 
sophomore Andy Andrade defeated 
Jackie Tang and Adam Ambrozy of 
Columbia 6-4. 
Freshman Lukas Greif and sopho-
more Brian Berdusco narrowly came 
out on top against Ivan Saveljic and 
Igor Saveljic of N.C. State 7-6 in the 
orange draw. 
The white draw saw All-Americans 
sophomore Duarte Vale and senior 
McClain Kessler defeat Florian Broska 
and Strahinja Rakic from Mississippi 
State 6-4.
Success in doubles carried over to 
singles play for Florida. All eight play-
ers advanced to the round of 16, and 
Greif picked up an upset win over Giovanni Oradini, the top overall seed 
from Mississippi State. 
Andrade, Ingildsen and Crawford 
all advanced to the quarterfinals. 
Crawford defeated Andrade with a trip 
to the semifinals on the line alongside 
Ingildsen. Their wins in the semifinals 
set up a Gator vs. Gator championship 
match, which Crawford won in two 
sets, 6-4 and 6-1, to claim his first in-
dividual championship at UF. 
“Our guys had a lot of success 
throughout the weekend, and it was 
great to win all four titles,” head 
coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. 
“Having Joe (Johannes Ingildsen) and 
Oliver (Crawford) face off in the finals 
of the singles draw was incredible. 
Oliver was just a little bit better in 
the bigger moments today in both the 
semis and the finals.”
The Cacciatore twins were victori-
ous in their first two doubles matches 
for the Gators in South Carolina. They 
fell in the semifinals of the Gamecock 
Invitational to Connor Williamson and 
Lluis Miralles from Winthrop but fin-
ished their first tournament with two 
doubles wins together.
“The goal in these fall tournaments 
is to improve and get better,” assis-
tant coach Scott Perelman said of the 
Cacciatores. “They both accomplished 
that this weekend. Time to go home 
and get back to work.”
There will not be much time to 
rest for the Gators before their next 
tournament. They will travel to Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, for the 2018 Saint Francis 
Health System ITA Men’s All-Ameri-
can Championships.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgNewcomers shine as 
Gators claim four titles16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018
Edition 2018
DEADLINE
OCT. 26RUN DATE
NOV. 2More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long 
festival. Tell them where to eat and 
how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming souvenir Edition which is 
passed out along the parade route.
Call 352-376-4482  
advertising@alligator.orgHOMECOMING
Contact the Alligator 
Advertising Department today.Kick Off a Season of Great BusinessMONDAY NIGHT 
Burger Night
$3.99 BURGER
5PM- CLOSE
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • (352) 505-3595
where Pope was swiftly approaching 
the goal line. Henderson dove at the 
feet of Pope, who tumbled forward with 
the ball sailing ahead of him out of the 
endzone. 
No touchdown. No points. No 
nothing for the Vols. You can’t make 
this stuff up.
But that seems to be the story of the 
Gators’ 2018 season.
The Gators’ blowout victories over 
Charleston Southern, Colorado State — 
and now Tennessee — have not been 
because UF played well.
They were because their opponents 
were just that bad.   
Perhaps much of what went right in 
this game was a product of the increased 
focus on physicality and toughness in 
Florida practices. The preparation sure 
showed on Saturday night. 
But when you face a team that can’t 
get out of its own way, what else do 
you expect to happen? 
Alanis Thames is a sports writer for 
The Alligator. Follow her on Twitter 
@alanisthames and contact her at 
athames@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 14
Wise said of Hammons.
Throughout the match, Hammons 
switched up her shots from the left-
side hits on all attacks – from hitting 
a deep line shot to sending a light tip 
over Mississippi State’s block. 
On the defensive spectrum, Allie 
Gregory made some incredible plays 
on the back line. The junior libero 
tallied the most service aces (3) 
on both rosters and tied freshman 
outside hitter Thayer Hall for the most 
digs (11).
Gregory said she has been working 
with associate coach Dave Boos on 
a different serving technique this 
season, a style that seems to be 
working for her.
“I started behind the Florida letters 
at the beginning of the year,” she 
said, “and I’m just moving further and 
further back trying to ﬁ  nd the most 
violent hand contact I can.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg 14Freshman Thayer Hall led the team in digs (11)
William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker T aelor Kellum (10) recorded eight kills with four errors in Sunday’s sweep. 
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
McCartney Kessler had a lot 
riding on her shoulders. She was 
the only Florida player left in the 
Miami Fall Invite out of six singles 
players and three doubles teams for 
the Gators. 
A win against Miami’s Ulyana 
Shirokova, though, gave her a share 
of the Singles A Main Draw title at the tournament and UF a signature 
win at the tournament.  
Kessler defeated Shirokova 
in straight sets 6-2, 6-3, never 
giving her opponent much of an 
edge throughout the match. The 
sophomore had dropped just one 
set in three matches during her run 
through the singles bracket, and that 
came in her ﬁ  rst match. 
The Calhoun, Georgia, native 
split the Singles A Main Draw title with Michigan’s Brienne Minor, who 
had defeated Kessler’s teammate Ida 
Jarlskog earlier in the tournament. 
Jarlskog and Kessler also teamed 
up on the doubles court on Sunday 
and won 6-2 to take third place in the 
Flight A doubles play. Sophomore 
Katie Kubicz and freshman Marlee 
Zein also won their doubles match 
to claim another third place ﬁ  nish 
with a 6-4 win. 
Kessler’s win gave the team something to build from as they 
prepare for the Hilton Head 10K 
from Sept. 24-30 and the ITA All-
American Championships, for which 
the pre-qualifying rounds begin on 
Sept. 29. 
This all came after a strong ﬁ  rst 
day of competition with ﬁ  ve of the 
six UF singles players winning their 
ﬁ  rst-round matches and two of the 
three doubles teams doing the same 
thing. Day 2, however, was a completely 
different story as both remaining 
doubles teams lost, and everyone 
but Kessler was defeated in the 
second round of singles competition. 
Still, Kessler’s run at the Miami 
Fall Invite should give the Gators 
some conﬁ  dence heading into their 
heavy upcoming tournament slate. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgKessler wins share of singles title to wrap up Miami Fall Invite