We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Pizza, Pizza
Gainesville Police are looking for a robber who stole pies from a 
Hungry Howie’s delivery driver, pg. 5
Looking back on the day after Sept. 11, 2001
Read what The Alligator wrote following the attack, pg. 6Coach Dan Mullen talks toughness
The Gators’ head coach preached physical-
ity from the moment he stepped into his post-
game press conference on Saturday. Find out 
what that means for other coaches and players,WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 9
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
IT WILL COST $160,000 TO 
FUND. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government is looking to re-
instate Library West as a 24/7 facility by 
the end of September.
The Student Senate unanimously 
passed a bill Tuesday giving $160,000 to 
fund Library West’s hour extension.
The bill has to be passed in the Sen-
ate again next Tuesday for the funds to 
be transferred, said Emily Dunson, the 
Budget and Appropriations Chairwoman.
“I really do think this bill reveals the 
fruition of what hard work and commu-
nication look like between administration 
and the Student Body,” Dunson said. 
UF Student Body President Ian Green, who wrote the bill, is working with li-
brary administrators to have it open 
overnight by the end of September, he 
said.  
Library West will need to hire new 
staff members for the overnight hours 
before it can be open 24/7, Green said.  
The money for the ﬁ  rst year of fund-
ing will come from the SG reserve ac-
count, Green said. Money in this account 
comes from students’ activity and ser-
vice fee, but SG ofﬁ  cials couldn’t conﬁ  rm 
how much was in the account.
The reserve funds are supposed to be 
used for one-time expenses, Green said. 
The Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost will then fund 
overnight hours for the library from July 
1, 2019, through June 30, 2021.
“It’s a huge win for students,” Green 
said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgLibrary West might be open 
24/7 by the end of month
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Climbing for those who can’t
A climber wearing “bunker gear” descends the steps during the second annual 9/11 Memorial Stair 
Climb at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium Tuesday evening. More than 150 people participated in the stair 
climb hosted by the UF Collegiate Veterans Society. The event consisted of climbing 1,980 steps, or 11 
trips up and down the stadium, to represent the amount of stairs in one of the Twin T owers.
By Angela DiMichele 
Alligator Staff Writer
A tree stood for 250 years, covered in gnarly 
vines and dripping in moss.
It stood by as the land next to it was devel-
oped and then abandoned. It stood by as a new 
owner, Lee Malis, 59, carefully tended to a gar-
den out front and cleaned up the yard. 
And when the tree was threatened, Malis 
stood by it. 
The live oak that looks over Malis’ backyard 
on Northwest Seventh Terrace has garnered 
more attention than he ever expected. 
The 5-foot-in-diameter, 250-year-old heritage 
live oak was supposed to be chopped down to 
make room for The Reef, a new apartment com-
plex, in the northeast Gainesville neighborhood, 
Malis said. But then, a court case and fundraiser 
rallied around saving the tree. 
Though Malis knew the developers were 
building the complex, he said he had no idea 
the tree wasn’t considered his own property.But as of Thursday, the developer in charge 
of building The Reef wrote in a letter to the city 
that they decided to save the neighborhood 
landmark and build around it.  
“I spent the last three weeks defending my 
yard, doing anything I could, telling anybody I 
can, and then all of a sudden it turned into this 
giant event,” Malis said. “I was out there by my-
self with my tree, and all of a sudden the whole 
city came out and helped me.” 
The new design plans, which no longer re-
move the tree, will be submitted to the city for 
approval in about a week, city spokesperson 
Chip Skinner said. The $17,000 the developer 
paid to begin tree removal will be refunded.
The plan to remove the tree was approved 
by the city because it was on the developer’s 
land, Skinner said. But in a letter sent to the 
City Commission on Aug. 22, Gainesville arbor-
ist Meg Niederhofer said this survey was inac-
curate. 
“This is cause for real concern when the con-Landmark tree saved by neighbor
SEE TREE,  PAGE 5THE PETITION HAS 
MORE THAN 7,500 SIG-
NATURES.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
When Anthony Rojas walked 
across the O’Connell Center stage 
in May, draped in graduation 
robes, he looked out into the sea of 
thousands and felt in awe.
Now, Rojas worries other stu-
dents and their families won’t get 
that same breathtaking moment he 
experienced after UF rearranged 
the graduation structure. Upcom-
ing Fall and Spring ceremonies 
won’t have individual name-calling 
at a singular university-wide com-
mencement, which will be held in 
the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
Rojas, a 22-year-old UF political 
science ﬁ  rst-year graduate student, 
started an online petition to give 
students a platform to take action, 
he said. Despite the petition amass-
ing more than 8,200 signatures in 
one day, UF won’t reconsider its decision for the Fall and Spring, 
said Stephanie McBride, director 
of commencement, who learned 
about the petition Monday. Still, UF 
President Kent Fuchs has agreed to 
meet with Rojas and other students 
to discuss their concerns.
“I think it is important that stu-
dents have the opportunity to ex-
press their opinions and concerns,” 
McBride said. 
A newly created task force will 
evaluate the graduation ceremo-
nies at the end of the year. The 
August 2019 commencement will 
maintain the past model because 
there are fewer graduates in the 
Summer.
“We will take any and all feed-
back that students have because 
it is important that students feel 
heard, and we understand what 
their concerns are,” she said.
These commencement changes 
come after the previous Spring 
commencement ceremony when 
a graduation marshal forcefully 
rushed students offstage. Videos 
from that commencement show After petition, Fuchs 
to meet with students 
about graduation 
SEE GRADUATION,  PAGE 3
T oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Geocaching Gators
Interested in outdoor ad-
ventures and treasure hunt-
ing? Looking to explore 
Gainesville’s parks and natural 
spaces? Then geocaching might 
be the perfect activity for you. 
Learn more about geocaching 
at the Geocaching Gators club 
meeting at 6:30 p.m. today 
at Matherly Hall Room 6. For 
more information and events, 
search for the Geocaching 
Gators Facebook page.
Study Abroad Info Session
There will be an information 
session at 3 p.m. today in 
Bryan Hall 130 that will high-
light the UF in Beijing, Dublin, 
London, Madrid, Paris and 
Rome study abroad programs. 
Programs are offered every 
semester. All UF students and 
majors are welcome. Contact 
Lucy DiLeo at 352-273-0151 if 
you are unable to attend the 
session. More information can 
be found at warrington.ufl.
edu/heavener/studyabroad.
Absentee Ballot Requests 
The due date to request an ab-
sentee ballot for the Fall UF 
Student Government elections 
is 5 p.m. today. Information 
can be found at sg.ufl.edu/
elections. 
The Path to Fulbright: 
Challenges, Opportunities 
and Rewards with Marcía 
Porter
The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to in-
vite the UF community to the 
first Fulbright event of the 
semester, which will be held 
at 2 p.m. Friday at the Music 
Building in Room 101. Marcía 
Porter, an award-winning so-
prano and professor of voice 
at the Florida State University 
College of Music, is an active 
recitalist who has performed in 
numerous venues and presti-
gious festivals throughout the 
U.S., Italy, Brazil and the Czech 
Republic. Professor Porter was 
a Fulbright Scholar to Brazil. 
There will be a meet and greet 
after the talk. Refreshments 
will be served. Come meet new 
colleagues and friends as you 
learn about Fulbright Programs 
available at UF. For additional 
information please contact 
Claire Anumba at canumba@
ufic.ufl.edu. GatorNights — That’s 
Incredible!
Race against your friends at 
Violet’s Zorb Balls, then break 
out from Andy’s Escape Room 
this Friday. Create a master-
piece at our Painting Class 
(first 100 students). Sign-ups 
start at 7:30 p.m. in Room 
3315 in the Reitz Union. Don’t 
forget to head over to Nemo’s 
Jellyfish Plants, A Bug’s Life 
Terrariums, Coco’s Crafts and 
Pixar Coasters. Visit our Body 
Art and Balloon Animals sta-
tion and enjoy a hilarious 
performance at the Monster’s 
Inc. Laugh Lab. Enjoy pop-
corn and soda while watching 
“Incredibles 2” at  8 p.m. or 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. There will be free 
bowling and billiards in the 
Game Room and Remy’s Pasta 
Bar at Midnight Munchies. 
GatorNights is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card at 
the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 
1 a.m. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate and 
are allowed to bring one guest.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Viva 
Museum’ on Saturday
Celebrate South American cul-
ture from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Saturday at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. Enjoy the 
musical group Danzas PeruJax, 
as they perform traditional 
music and dance, and view 
seldom-seen Andean artifacts 
from the museum’s South 
American ethnographic collec-
tion. This is a bilingual, family 
event. Este es un evento bil-
igüe y familiar. For more infor-
mation, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/event/viva-museum or 
call 352-273-2061.
Local Art
On Saturday, Hardback Cafe 
will host “For Overthinkers & 
Artists.” Join them as art and 
hip-hop combine in celebra-
tion of local music producer 
and artist Nxt Lvl’s new proj-
ect, “For Overthinkers.” Local 
art will be on display by some 
of Gainesville’s most talented 
artists, including a live paint-
ing exhibit. Nxt Lvl will be per-
forming songs from his latest 
project, as well as from his vast 
library of music. Special guest 
Elixir Flow from Orlando will 
open the show. Doors open at 
7 p.m. The event is free and 
open to those 18 and older.DreamQuilt
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting artists 
and performers for SoulMakes, 
an Immersive Art Show from 
noon to 4 p.m. Sept. 22 at 
Cypress and Grove Brewing 
Company. All types of artists 
are welcome, and present-
ing artists are encouraged to 
do demos, talk with guests 
and work on projects right 
there in the available space. 
Participants and guests interact 
in an open, creative environ-
ment blending different forms 
of art with a unique experience 
for visitors, including a col-
laborative canvas and collage 
workshops. Current students 
may apply to show their work 
for free. To sell art or craft 
items, a booth fee of $15 ap-
plies. Learn more by emailing 
booking@dreamquilt.org or 
texting 352-872-2620.
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of 
journalists advancing diversity 
in the workplace. With mem-
bership, students get access to 
networking opportunities and 
connections with top editors 
in national media organiza-
tions, as well as scholarships 
and mentorships. It is not just 
limited to journalism majors. 
For more information, email 
Alexandria Ng at alexandri-
ang@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 9
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief David Hoffman
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
STUDENTS COULD ALSO GET THE 
MENINGITIS B VACCINE
By Adam Turner
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hundreds of students lined up Friday 
morning along Fletcher Drive not for free 
goodies, but free ﬂ  u shots. 
More than 880 students received the ﬂ  u vaccine and a free T-shirt at the Chomp the 
Flu kickstart event outside the Inﬁ  rmary, 
said Cecilia Luna, the UF Student Health 
Care Center marketing and communications 
coordinator. Thanks to a partnership with 
the Avnee Foundation, the center also of-
fered the meningitis B vaccine for the ﬁ  rst 
time, administering it to 433 students dur-
ing the event. Efforts to control the ﬂ  u will 
continue throughout the ﬂ  u season with 
mobile vaccination stations. In the 2017-2018 school year, more than 
250 patients with the ﬂ  u or ﬂ  u-like symp-
toms came into the Inﬁ  rmary in January 
and February alone, something the depart-
ment wants to avoid, Luna said.
“We want to encourage students to get 
the shot early because anyone who receives 
the vaccine and still gets the ﬂ  u will have 
less severe symptoms,” Luna said.
Currently, UF doesn’t require students to 
get the meningitis B vaccine, but the Inﬁ  r-mary is working to change that.
Last year there was one case of meningi-
tis at UF, Luna said.
Michelle Do, a UF microbiology and cell 
sciences senior, said she stood in line for 
about an hour and a half to receive both the 
ﬂ  u and meningitis B vaccines.
“I like being able to be vaccinated quick-
ly and conveniently on campus,” Do said. 
“I think it (is) great that they continue to 
do them.”Chomp the Flu event attracts about 900 people
a marshal putting his hands on minority students per-
forming dances from their multicultural sororities and 
fraternities. Rojas, who attended that Spring commence-
ment, said he doesn’t believe that the current changes 
effectively address the issue: respecting graduates’ right 
to celebrate. 
“We feel that they aren’t even listening and prefer to 
be blind to, or simply not care about, the disappointment 
they have caused for many with this change,” Rojas said. 
While he understands the need to have an efﬁ  cient 
ceremony, he thinks most people in attendance wouldn’t 
mind waiting an extra 30 minutes for the graduates to be 
recognized on the Jumbotron. 
Previously, students walked across the stage with 
signs and ﬂ  ags, showing off or thanking their parents, 
which made the ceremony unique, Rojas said. 
Student Body President Ian Green, a member of the 
graduation task force, talked about the commencement 
changes during Tuesday’s Student Senate meeting. He 
said that the task force had little to do with the decision 
to change the ceremony. 
“The task force did not make the decision that we 
have before us today,” Green said. “That was made by 
President Fuchs.” 
Jireh Davis, a UF political science and African Ameri-
can studies senior and member of the Black Student 
Union, said the changes don’t fully address the root of 
the problem. 
“UF is just trying to put a Band-Aid on the bigger is-
sue,” the 21-year-old said.
Davis believes the marshal was unnecessarily forceful 
as he ushered students across the stage. 
“It is not fair, it’s not right, and it’s absolutely disgust-
ing,” Davis said.  
Gillian Sweeney contributed to this report.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.org GRADUATION,  from pg. 1 8,200 signed
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
The ﬁ  rst thing Merrillee Malwitz-Jipson 
did after applying to run as a Florida state 
representative was meet with gun shop 
owners. 
Though she is not an avid gun user, 
she is hoping to become a representative 
of the predominantly conservative mem-
bers of District 10, who told her guns are 
necessary for hunting and self-protection.
Malwitz-Jipson spoke about gun con-
trol and other issues at the Gainesville 
chapter of the National Organization for 
Women and Indivisible Gainesville’s fo-
rum Tuesday night. The candidates fo-
cused on feminism-based questions rang-
ing from taxes on feminine products to 
affordable healthcare and equal wages at 
the Alachua County Library District Head-
quarters.
Candidates included Marihelen Wheel-
er, a candidate for Alachua County Com-
mission; Merrillee Malwitz-Jipson, a can-
didate for Florida House representative for 
District 10; Kayser Enneking, a candidate 
for Florida Senate District 8; Jason Hae-
seler, a candidate for Florida House Dis-
trict 21; and Yvonne Hayes Hinson, a U.S. 
House candidate for Florida’s 3rd Congres-
sional District.  
The organizers ﬁ  rst asked what candi-
dates thought the most important issues 
affecting women today are and what solu-
tions they will implement if they win. 
Enneking proposed that guns be regu-
lated like cars. Polarization around gun 
control makes conversation difﬁ  cult, but 
Enneking said it is important that the dia-
logue continues. “If you want to buy a car, you have it 
registered. Every car in America is regis-
tered,” she said. “So, why don’t we pick 
a day, and on that day, every gun transac-
tion needs to be registered.”
Wheeler, a candidate for the Alachua 
County Commission, said she will be the 
only woman on the County Commission if 
she wins in November. Among the panel, 
Malwitz-Jipson said she was the only can-
didate at the forum not associated with a 
political party. 
She said she hopes to be a link between 
predominantly conservative constituents 
in District 10 to the voters in Alachua 
County who may have opposing view-
points.“You can live without guns, but you 
cannot live without water,” she said. “And 
to me, water is so much more important 
than gun ownership, but (gun ownership) 
is so important to my district.” 
Melina Farley-Barratt, the Gainesville’s 
National Organization for Women presi-
dent, said she invited each candidate’s op-
ponent, some of whom did not show up, 
and created questions that were female-
centered. 
“They’re choosing not to come,” she 
said. “It really shows where their priorities 
are, and it’s not feminism.” 
 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgNovember candidates discuss feminism  
Angela DiMichele / Alligator Staff
Candidates for local and state races pose after a debate at the Alachua 
County Library District Headquarters on Tuesday night.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING    
OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 
SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3   
dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange pie. 
Now that is a meal any FL Gator can 
enjoy. So come on out to the creek 
+ take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman 
Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing 
nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day of the week. 
Come in and check out one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open 
Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and modern Korean dishes with the 
best sushi in town Weekday specials including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one beer, wine and sake from 4pm-
7pm! 352-384-3733
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off select 
wines by the glass, $5 select specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 3-6 pm 
Mon-Fri. Located just south of Archer Road on 13th Street in the Shands 
Parking Garage. Private room available. Great for rehearsal dinners, 
student life organizations, and other group events. Always taking 
reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like us on Facebook and follow us on 
Instagram @chefcarlwatts for upcoming events and daily specials.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
   
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own 
cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, 
lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor 
seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, 
Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman reported that she was sexu-
ally battered Saturday night near Frater-
nity Row, University Police said.
The 24-year-old woman, who is not a 
UF student or faculty member, reported 
the battery to police Sunday afternoon, 
according to a UPD alert email to stu-
dents. 
The woman told police she went to 
Midtown with friends Saturday eve-
ning, the release said. She left Midtown 
at about 9:30 p.m. and walked on UF’s 
campus. The last thing she remembers 
is walking near Fraternity Row, police 
said.
The suspect is a 5-foot-7 man in his early 20s of average build with dark hair 
and minimal facial hair, police said. 
The investigation is ongoing. UPD 
emailed a warning to students Tuesday 
afternoon about the incident. 
Anyone with information about the 
suspect can call UPD at 352-392-1111. 
Those who want to remain anonymous 
can call Alachua County Crime Stoppers 
at 352-372-STOP.
The last time UPD released a warn-
ing about a sexual battery near campus 
was in March 2018. A UF student got 
into a car she believed was an Uber she 
ordered and was battered after she was 
left on the side of U.S. Highway 441, po-
lice said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgSexual battery near 
Fraternity Row, police report
THE RENOVATIONS WILL HAPPEN 
OVER TIME. 
McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville City Hall may ﬁ  nally be able to ﬁ  x 
its leaky windows in 2019. 
Renovations to City Hall passed as part of the 
2019 budget Thursday night. The budget allo-
cates $2.9 million for the improvements, but it 
will happen over time, said Chip Skinner, a city 
spokesperson. There are no ﬁ  nalized plans for 
the renovations yet, he said. 
“It’s all a preliminary wish list,” he said.
The next step is to make a plan of action and 
address the most pressing items ﬁ  rst, such as 
windows that leak during rainstorms and the 
roof, he said. 
“It all depends on availability of contractors and getting bids and plans in place,” Skinner 
said. “There’s a whole number of items that 
have to happen before renovations start.”
Before renovations can begin, the budget 
needs a second reading which will occur some-
time later this month, likely at the next commis-
sion meeting, Skinner said. 
City commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos 
hopes the renovations will include expanding 
the basement meeting room. He’s noticed that 
the room is too small to ﬁ  t all the attendees dur-
ing meetings. This often leaves people spilling 
out into the hallway or sitting on the ﬂ  oor. 
This renovation should be seen as a way to 
better serve the community, Hayes-Santos said. 
“I think it’s important that everyone can have 
their voice heard and be able to participate,” he 
said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgCity budget for 2019 sets aside 
$2.9 million for City Hall upgradeWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Two men didn’t get the cash they wanted 
when they robbed a pizza delivery driver 
Sunday night, but they did get away with the 
pizza, Gainesville Police said.
Police are looking for men accused of rob-
bing a Hungry Howie’s Pizza delivery driver 
at about 11 p.m. at Cabana Beach Apartments, 
at 1601 SW 51st Terrace, GPD spokesperson 
Ofc. Ben Tobias wrote in an email. The driver 
didn’t have any cash, but the robbers made 
do with the two large pizzas the driver had, 
worth $35.92.
A customer named Josh ordered the pizzas 
from the Hungry Howie’s website, according 
to an incident report. 
The delivery driver told police she knocked 
on an apartment door to deliver the pizza, but 
the residents said they didn’t order it. On her 
way back to the car, a man in his 20s walked 
up to her. He introduced himself as Josh and said he ordered the pizza. 
The man fumbled in his pockets looking 
for money when the driver felt something 
cold and metal on her arm, she later told po-
lice. A second man wearing a grey and blue 
camouflage mask over his face stood behind 
the driver, demanding the pizza and money. 
She gave the masked man the pizza, and 
both men ran away before police arrived. 
The driver wasn’t injured, the report said. 
Another Hungry Howie’s employee told 
the driver someone named Josh called and 
said a man stole his pizza from the driver 
while he was trying to pay for it, the report 
said. He said he was never going to order 
from Hungry Howie’s again. 
The Josh that called the store had a dif-
ferent number than the one provided for the 
online order.
Police said the investigation is ongoing.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgPizza delivery driver robbers 
don’t take cash, only take pizza
By Chris Day 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For students who can’t tell their salad 
knife from their fish fork, a new UF class 
may help. 
The three-credit class, Farm, Fork and 
Table: Hospitality Business Etiquette for Suc-
cess, was created and is taught by Lori Pen-
nington-Gray, a professor in the Department 
of Tourism, Recreation and Sport Manage-
ment at UF’s College of Health and Human 
Performance. 
The course is designed to teach students 
proper table manners, such as how to write 
and give toasts and perform proper dining 
etiquette for different cultures, she said. 
The idea for the course came about a 
year ago when Pennington-Gray realized 
there were not many courses about food and 
beverage that could also offer valuable life 
lessons, she said. 
“It’s a necessary course and one that could be offered on a university campus and 
meet the needs of students,” she said. 
One of the class’s big assignments at the 
end of the semester is to research one coun-
try and learn what proper etiquette looks 
like there. This kind of research can help 
students ace important business dinners and 
avoid awkward cultural missteps, Penning-
ton-Gray said.
Content for the course was partly drawn 
from Pennington-Gray’s own life experienc-
es and extensive travels as a tourism profes-
sor, she said. 
The course is being offered online for stu-
dents and will be available again in Summer 
2019 and following semesters, Pennington-
Gray said. 
Tyler Lynn, an 18-year-old UF finance 
freshman, said he’s interested in signing up 
for the class because it teaches skills that a 
lot of people his age might lack. 
“I definitely feel that a lot of people don’t 
know how to properly act in a dinner, just 
millennials in general,” he said. Parents rejoice: This new UF 
class teaches students manners
sequences of the inaccuracy could 
be the taking down of a monumen-
tal tree,” Niederhofer wrote it in 
the letter. 
Malis and lawyers applied for 
an emergency injunction because 
Jones’ company was threatening 
to tear down his garage and fences, 
he said.
His lawyer told the court that 
the tree is “unique and irreplace-
able.”
“What has taken decades to 
grow can be destroyed in a matter 
of minutes,” she wrote.
Malis created a GoFundMe 
fundraiser with the goal of rais-
ing $5,000 to pay legal fees. As of 
Tuesday, 47 people have donated 
$3,462.
“If we don’t stand up for our 
own home and our own trees, how 
do we complain about smashing forests in other places?” Malis said.
Originally, the developer chose 
to pay the $40,000 to $50,000 city 
mitigation fee, which would allow 
for the tree to be removed, Skinner 
said. 
“That’s no small chunk of 
change, even for a multi-million 
dollar developer who is removing 
the tree,” Skinner said.
Malis called the small piece of 
land in between his yard and the 
building site “absolutely worth-
less.” Neighbors have their fences 
on this piece of land, and no one 
has ever contested who the land 
belongs to, he said.
He is concerned that develop-
ers may still kill the tree by cutting 
or building on top of the roots, he 
said. The sand live oak only a block 
away from his house has a parking 
lot built on top of its roots despite 
its heritage status as a national 
champion tree, he said. “I’m living my nice quiet life, 
and then I’ve got this gigantic bat-
tle,” Mathis said. “I haven’t actu-
ally worked and left my yard for 
three weeks because I didn’t want 
them to come in and tear things out because if I’m not here, I can’t stop 
them.” 
Staff writer Gillian Sweeney con-
tributed to the report.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org TREE,  from pg. 1A court case was filed
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
A 250-year-old tree nearly came down before public outcry.
Editorial
ColumnRemembering 
Sept. 11, 2001
Finding sweetness in our campus communities
On Sunday evening, I was one of hun-
dreds of students in the Jewish com-
munity at UF who celebrated the be-
ginning of Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish 
New Year. Rosh Hashanah, which is 
Hebrew for “head of the year,” marks the start 
of the High Holy Days, a sacred period of time 
in the Jewish religion focused on self-reﬂ  ection 
and forgiveness.
In my case, celebrating this special holiday 
meant attending a service for the new year and squeez-
ing myself at a cramped but cozy table in a synagogue 
overﬂ  owing with students — some familiar, some friends 
and some strangers — with beads of sweat forming on my 
upper lip from the bowl of perfectly hot matzo ball soup 
in front of me. 
This 10-day period in the Jewish religion and culture 
holds different meanings for those celebrating. For some, 
the prayers are especially meaningful, and for others, per-
haps it’s all about the apples and honey — a traditional 
combination that symbolizes wishes for a sweet new year. 
For many, though, the High Holy Days are a time for fami-
ly traditions and community. It’s likely students can relate 
in having memories of eating warm challah bread drizzled 
in honey at the kitchen table at home or of celebrating the 
new year with friends and family.
While some students may return home, for me, cel-
ebrating the Jewish New Year in Gainesville for my ﬁ  nal 
year is especially sweet. Growing up in a small suburb 
in Ohio, I was always one of the only Jewish students 
in my school district. My hometown Jewish community 
was tight-knit and very small (and there were times when 
I practically brought down the average age of the some-
times-snoring synagogue attendees by about 50 years).
However, at UF, which has one of the largest Jewish 
populations among the nation’s public universities, I’ve 
been fortunate to form new Rosh Hashanah traditions and experience my religion in a new light. It’s made 
me appreciate not only the Jewish communities 
on campus, but the diversity and warmth I’ve 
found at UF as a whole.
Little moments of kindness have made my 
Jewish experience at UF unique. I’ll never for-
get walking into my freshman-year dorm com-
mon room to ﬁ  nd my RA arranging a bowl of 
apples and honey for all the residents to enjoy, 
or hearing random students wishing each other 
“shanah tova” (which means “have a good and sweet 
new year”) as they passed each other on the sidewalks of 
campus. These aren’t deep religious experiences, and they 
may not seem groundbreaking for students who grew up 
in diverse cities, but they’re moments that made me feel 
incredibly welcomed and at home, especially in my ﬁ  rst 
year as an out-of-state student.
Of course, not every day or situation is sweet like 
apples and honey. I was on campus the day a man ap-
peared in Turlington Plaza wearing a swastika armband, 
and almost a year ago, I was one of many students fear-
ful of what would happen when a hate group spoke at 
UF. While these events can happen at any university, I 
feel lucky to say that having the support of my cultural 
and religious community on campus — and knowing that 
students of all identities and backgrounds have resources 
and communities they can lean on as well — has been 
meaningful during my time as an undergraduate. 
Even if you’re not observing the High Holy Days or 
eating matzo balls with people you love, I hope my story 
reminds you of how meaningful it really is to be a part of 
this vibrant, diverse campus. We each contribute some-
thing different to the fabric of our school. And when we 
not only ﬁ  nd our niche, but also learn from communities 
and traditions beyond our own, it’s pretty sweet.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
TRAGEDY JOLTS NATION. Hijackers Devastate N.Y., D.C. 
Terrorism Horriﬁ  es Students. 
These three headlines ran on the front page of the 
Sept. 12, 2001, issue of The Alligator. Today, on the 17th 
anniversary of that issue, we’re taking a look back to re-
member 9/11, the lives that were lost and the fallout from that 
infamous day.
The terrorist attacks that brought down the World Trade Cen-
ter in New York City are probably foggy memories for most un-
dergraduates at UF who have followed the conventional college 
timeline. Seniors this year, even as the oldest of undergraduates, 
were only about 5 years old when the attacks occurred. What 
we know about that day likely comes from events and emotions 
recounted, but barely from our own memories of seeing it unfold 
live on television. Our parents and loved ones have told us stories 
about that day  — where they were when they heard the news, 
what they saw when they turned on the television or how scared 
the nation was as it feared subsequent attacks. Crowds of people 
standing silently, their attention ﬁ  xed on live coverage as the 
second plane collided with the South Tower, exploding just 17 
minutes after the ﬁ  rst. Those who jumped from the upper stories. 
The towers collapsing. The heroism of the ﬁ  rst responders who 
rushed into the burning buildings. Some ran in but never walked 
back out. Those who braved toxic smoke and ash to clear debris 
and recover remains. Words fail to capture that experience, so we 
must settle for the accounts of others who lived it.
Still, for other students and faculty, 9/11 is all too vivid of a 
personal, permanent memory.
We remember 9/11, not only to honor and respect those who 
were lost, but to learn from a tragedy that did irreparable harm 
to our country’s psyche. Sept. 11 changed our country’s course 
forever. Although the attacks are 17 years old as of Tuesday, the 
dust has not settled. The wars are not over.
The editorial that ran in the Sept. 12, 2001, issue of The Al-
ligator addressed the attack. It urged the government “to ﬁ  nd out 
where it came from and react with swift justice.” It was prophet-
ic. The U.S. began airstrikes in Afghanistan in October of 2001. 
The war escalated. A second war started. The U.S. invaded Iraq 
as the dark and unknown threat of terrorism still lurked in the 
minds of many Americans. The war in Iraq formally ended, but 
the war in Afghanistan still lingers, turning 17 this year, too. We 
still do not have the ﬁ  nal tally of how much the wars have cost 
in blood and sacriﬁ  ce. On Sept. 11, 2,996 died in the attacks. In 
the invasion and occupation of Afghanistan, 2,372 U.S. military 
personnel have died so far. In the Iraq War, nearly 5,000 U.S. 
military personnel died. Still more are dying in the continuation 
of that war, now waged against the Islamic State.
We remember these wars much more clearly than the terror 
of 9/11.
The precise death toll of civilians as a result of the wars is 
almost impossible to calculate, but estimates range as high as 
210,000. Our Sept. 12, 2001 editorial called for justice, but what 
the U.S. found was vengeance, and we paid a high price for it.
Today we are in remembrance of those we lost on Sept. 11, 
even though we may not have a clear memory of the day. We 
thank our Americans in uniform who enlisted in the military and 
those who signed up to make the world a safer place. In the de-
cades to come, we hope that those memories teach us to practice 
restraint especially when outrage and war seem most appropriate.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
I will have lived in Gainesville and 
attended UF for 4 ½ years come 
this December. I look back on 
my years here fondly. It’s where 
I made friends for life, it’s where 
I discovered a career path I’m pas-
sionate about, it’s where I came 
to learn more about myself and 
to grow. The same can be said for 
many of my classmates, as although 
each of our experiences varied, a 
part of our lives was shaped here.
Yet, as my and many others’ 
graduation date grows near, I am 
left heartbroken by the decisions of 
the university that I have loved since 
I ﬁ  rst set up my freshman Summer 
B dorm room: the decision to sepa-
rate commencement and walking 
into separate “university wide com-
mencement” and “college-speciﬁ  c 
recognition ceremonies.”
I understand we are all human, 
so I understand that convenience, 
as well as the events of Spring com-
mencement likely had a play in 
these decisions. I understand that the change is not ill-intentioned, 
and I understand that to those who 
choose not to walk, this is likely 
not worth getting upset about at all. 
Still, I ﬁ  nd it necessary to make it 
clear how this looks from the per-
spective of many students.
An ofﬁ  cial statement by the uni-
versity has not been made as of Sep-
tember 11, 2018. We had very little 
prior notice, and we don’t know for 
sure why this change was made. 
You can see the time and date 
changes made recently on the of-
ﬁ  cial UF commencement webpage, 
and a brief article by a local news 
channel discussed the upcoming 
change as a response to the events of 
Spring 2018 commencement. How-
ever, the university itself has not 
commented on it, or made much of 
an effort to make this change pub-
lic knowledge, despite many visit-
ing friends and families of students 
already booking ﬂ  ights, reserving 
hotels, and requesting time off well 
in advance of these changes. Now families must scramble to rearrange 
plans, which now encompass two 
separate ceremonies, with very little 
warning, potentially causing family 
members to miss one or both cer-
emonies. 
Not everyone will be able to walk 
across the O’Connell Center stage. 
I am devastated for my classmates 
whose dream was to walk across 
the O’Connell Center stage, to Gator 
Chomp into the camera and have a 
few precious seconds on the Jumbo-
tron. I think of the students who are 
the ﬁ  rst in their families to receive 
a college education. The students 
who are the ﬁ  rst to graduate college 
fully paid for by scholarships. The 
students who have fought and are 
still ﬁ  ghting to be seen and appre-
ciated in this country. The students 
who have fought and are still ﬁ  ght-
ing terrible battles with mental ill-
ness, not knowing if they’d make it 
up to that stage. The students whose 
families need nothing more than to 
see the glowing face of their gradu-
ate out in front of them, to ease 
the painful memories of the family 
members who could not be there 
beside them. For those students, it is so much more than a stage.
Many of the colleges’ ceremonies 
will overlap. The Colleges of Pub-
lic Health and Health Professions, 
Nursing, and Pharmacy will overlap 
with the College of Agriculture and 
Life Sciences on the evening of Dec. 
14. The Colleges of Health and Hu-
man Performance, Fine Arts, Educa-
tion, and Liberal Arts and Sciences 
will all overlap on the afternoon 
of Dec. 15. Finally, the Colleges of 
Design, Construction, and Plan-
ning, Journalism, and Engineering 
will all overlap on the evening of 
Dec. 15. Many students will not be 
able to see their best friends gradu-
ate. Two of my own dear friends at 
UF are twins: one in Fine Arts, and 
one in Liberal Arts and Sciences. 
If they graduate on the same day, 
they would not be able to attend 
their own sibling’s graduation, and 
the physical separation would force 
their poor mother to face an impos-
sible choice, or miss out on both 
ceremonies. This is a reality dozens 
of students and families will likely 
face.
The president of our university 
will not be there to see us walk. Given the single commencement 
address, and the enormous overlap 
of ceremonies, it can be assumed 
that UF President Kent Fuchs will 
not be at the college recognition cer-
emonies. Certainly, he won’t attend 
the smaller ceremonies not held in 
the O’Connell Center. Our colleges 
will recognize our struggles, our tri-
umphs, our pride — and for this I 
am thankful — but the university as 
a whole will not. To give an address 
without recognizing the graduates 
is to give an address to empty wal-
lets atop pieces of paper. Fuchs may 
never hear my name, nor the names 
of most of my classmates. Perhaps 
a day will come when he’ll hear 
about a few of us and our successes 
in various ways, and on that day, I 
wonder: Will we then be recognized 
only as graduates of our colleges? I 
would wager not. 
We will be lauded as UF gradu-
ates, lifelong members of the Gator 
Nation. 
We will be praised in the way we 
presently deserve.
Kristen Sandsted is a UF senior and 
is graduating in December.
GoFundMe has be-
come a household 
name in charity. 
It makes charity 
accessible and 
easily shared. Its success 
stories have made numer-
ous headlines. But when 
more than 300,000 cam-
paigns in the last three 
years were made to avoid 
homelessness and/or get 
out of it, I just want to know where 
the promise of a chicken in every pot 
and a car in every garage went.
The majority of crowdfunding 
campaigns seem to inevitably fail. 
But even speciﬁ  c cases of success 
undercut the societal failings at the 
heart of the campaigns. For instance, 
take the story of the 83-year-old man 
who mowed lawns. After his truck of 
20 years broke down, his customers 
crowdfunded a new one, but only 
because he was walking miles every 
day pushing his mower. This was 
shown as uplifting, but what speciﬁ  c 
part? The part where, despite a life 
of working hard, he couldn’t afford a 
new truck and had to walk for miles? 
And why is it, even following the 
20/4/10 rule, most Americans can’t 
actually afford to buy a car?
What about the Korean War vet-
eran who lost everything in a ﬁ  re? 
Why was there any need for a Go-
FundMe to help? Not only did she 
serve, but I’d say there’s no reason, 
in the most prosperous of nations, 
for there to be no clear backup net 
for those who can’t afford insurance. 
And furthermore, how are roughly 
1.56 million Americans homeless?
There have been many students 
who turned to GoFundMe to con-
tinue going to college. How is there 
$1.48 trillion in student loan debt?
One third of all GoFundMe cam-
paigns go to medical expenses. And 
every year the site raises about $650 
million toward healthcare costs. How 
is this even possible when a ﬁ  fth of all household spending al-
ready goes to healthcare? 
When a 2009 study by the 
American Journal of Pub-
lic Health found 45,000 
die every year from lack of 
coverage, I think it might 
be time to talk about one 
of many failures.
 Shane Patrick Boyle 
died last year over $50.
That is the cost of life in 
our country, all because his GoFund-
Me didn’t make the goal to pay for a 
month’s supply of insulin. My sister 
also suffers from Type 1 diabetes, 
and the reality is I don’t know what 
she’ll do when she’s off my parents’ 
insurance.
So what are the answers here? For 
healthcare it would be “Medicare-
for-all.” There is the argument that 
healthcare is a privilege. But I reject 
the notion that it’s OK to turn a blind 
eye to our neighbors’ suffering.
To student debt, free college and 
trade schools, as well as widespread 
debt relief for student loans and 
debts in general. 
To poverty, it would be basic in-
come. This is shown through several 
studies to actually decrease poverty 
more effectively than means-tested 
social welfare. To detractors: wealth 
is not based off work in our system. 
Also, multiple studies have shown 
poverty decreases ability and apti-
tude.
To homelessness: free housing. 
It’s proven to cost three times less 
than leaving the homeless on the 
street, as this is actually worse on 
the economy and healthcare. 
GoFundMe and charity can be in-
spiring. But this is when a camp is 
started or it’s used for a prom. Even 
if they’re successful, when people 
are having to beg for their lives and 
livelihood, crowdfunding is a failure.
Levi Cooper is a UF English senior. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.Crowdfunding is not healthcare
The father of Mollie Tibbetts, a 20-year-old Iowa 
college student murdered while running last 
month, wrote in an opinion piece Saturday 
that his daughter’s death should not be ex-
ploited to promote a racist agenda.
Cristhian Bahena Rivera, a farmworker suspected 
of illegally immigrating from Mexico, faces a charge 
of ﬁ  rst-degree murder in Tibbetts’ death. Politicians 
have since used the arrest to push for immigration 
reform, claiming the presence of illegal immigrants 
poses a threat to American families.
Tibbetts’ father wrote in a column for The Des 
Moines Register that his daughter would not want to 
be used as a pawn to promote hate against Mexican 
immigrants. “To knowingly foment discord among 
races is a disgrace to our ﬂ  ag,” he wrote.
Donald Trump Jr. published an opinion piece in 
the same paper a day earlier blaming Democrats for 
Tibbetts’ death, claiming liberals downplayed Ri-
vera’s “illegal alien” status. Tibbetts’ death, given its 
circumstances, couldn’t have come at a better time 
for the Trump administration. In the upcoming mid-
terms, state elections could lead to new liberal legisla-
tion. Using Tibbetts’ death to spread anti-immigrant 
propaganda will minimize Trump’s losses in the mid-
term elections.
Iowa residents are already falling into the trap. 
Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds, released a statement say-
ing a “broken immigration” was at fault for allowing 
Rivera, a “predator,” to live among us. Residents from 
Tibbetts’ hometown, Brooklyn, Iowa, told The New 
York Times they were frustrated to hear Rivera en-
tered the country illegally, one saying she would still 
be alive were it for stricter immigration laws.
No individual person can reﬂ  ect an entire popula-
tion. If you don’t believe the actions of one white su-
premacist reﬂ  ect the thoughts and beliefs of all white people, you shouldn’t feel the same for any other 
race. And if you do, you’re racist. It’s as simple as 
that. Those who try to complicate it are pursuing a 
racist agenda, whether they know it or not.
Tibbetts’ murder doesn’t signify a danger of illegal 
immigrants threatening American safety. Rather, it re-
minds us of the danger of running as a woman. Any 
female runner can tell you a story about a time she 
was harassed while running, and it’s not unheard of 
for a woman to go out for a run and never come back.
When the culprit is white, though, the crime isn’t 
politicized. The killer is called a lone wolf. Respond-
ers are encouraged to stick to thoughts and prayers 
rather than use the crime to prevent future incidents 
from occurring.
People, especially women who run, should know 
that this issue is about toxic masculinity. Consider-
ing girls are murdered for rejecting boys at prom, it’s 
apparent that Tibbetts’ murder could have happened 
regardless of Rivera’s immigration status. The identity 
of the killer only seems to matter if they are an immi-
grant or person of color.
A crime can be used as a warning to prevent fu-
ture incidents from occurring. However, no statistical 
evidence shows that illegal immigrants pose a greater 
threat to women’s safety than a man from any other 
demographic.
Politicizing the death of a woman — who didn’t 
have a political presence — in order to spread this 
propaganda is disrespectful. Tibbetts’ parents should 
not have to live with the knowledge that their daugh-
ter’s death may have been used to promote a racist 
agenda which they knew she wanted no part of.
A version of this editorial originally ran in The Daily 
Free Press, the independent student newspaper at 
Boston University.Column Uwire
Levi Cooper
opinions@alligator.org
We deserve our graduation
Immigrants are not to blame for Mollie Tibbet's deathDelicious Vegan Pizza: 
Flip over to page 9 for an inside look at the man behind Mora 
Pizza and his decadent creations.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. Series Review of the Week:
Check out our review of Hulu’s dramatic series, 
“Safe Harbour. ”
Your favorite UF professors according to their zodiac signs By Lindsey Breneman
 Avenue Writer
 
Daniel Armbruster demanded 
400,000 retweets in exchange for a per-
formance in Florida. He didn’t get them.
 Regardless, Armbruster’s 
band, Joywave, performed in front of 
thousands at Student Government’s 
“Rock-the-Vote” concert Friday.All of the members in Joywave grew 
up in Rochester, New York. Now in 
their early 30s, Armbruster, frontman; 
Paul Brenner, drummer; and Joseph 
Morinelli, guitarist, have been playing 
music together since they were in mid-
dle school. 
Armbruster said that in around 2007 
the pop-rock genre they were in before 
“blew up,” and he was determined to do something different. So starting in 
2009 he wrote what came naturally to 
him. In 2010, Joywave ofﬁ  cially formed 
and they released their ﬁ  rst mixtape the 
next year.
If pressed to describe its music, the 
band responds with one word: incred-
ible. They ask: “Why be credible when 
you could be incredible?” 
Armbruster and Brenner said late 
2019 is a safe bet for their fans 
to expect a new album. They ex-
plained that the music industry 
currently values singles more, be-
cause people no longer have time 
to listen to entire albums.
Joywave has released two 
singles in the past year. The ﬁ  rst, 
“Compromise,” sounds like a 
plea from Armbruster to be able 
to live a more bearable life true 
to his own desires. When asked 
what was wrong with his current 
life, Armbruster laughed while 
he confessed that it was actually 
the only Joywave song that was 
not personal to him in any way, 
shape or form. The song was orig-
inally supposed to be on the “Al-
ice Through the Looking Glass” 
sequel ﬁ  lm, but was cut during 
production at the last minute 
when the band decided 2018 was 
the right time to ﬁ  nally release it. 
“Blastoff,” on the other hand, is 
an extremely personal reﬂ  ection 
of the band’s hardships in main-
taining lasting connections while 
constantly living on the road.
For more from Joywave check 
out the full video interview online 
at alligator.orgJoywave overcomes its swamp hatred
Lindsey Breneman
Paul Brenner, 31, rocks out on his drums while performing at Rock-the-Vote.
Lindsey Breneman
Daniel Armbruster, 33, performed with his 
band Joywave on Flavet Field Friday.
Willard Keeran: Aquarius 
This Calculus 2 professor, 
known by students for his famous 
advice to “look inward,” follows 
the Aquarius archetype by letting 
the mind rule rather than the heart. 
Lack of emotion may lead Aquar-
ians to be seen as cold, but this 
air sign makes up for it through 
originality. Aquarians march to 
the beat of their own drum and 
never let anyone’s opinion deter 
them from self-expression. Those 
with this sign feed off intellectual 
stimuli and love to be surrounded 
by friends, as long as they can 
keep up with Aquarius’s indepen-
dent tendencies.Mike Foley: Cancer
Everyone fears this Reporting 
professor at ﬁ  rst, but once they 
get to know him they usually say 
he’s not that bad. This is a classic 
reaction to Cancers. Like a crab, 
those with this sign are hard on 
the outside but incredibly soft on 
the inside. Ruled by the moon, 
Cancers are known for their nur-
turing tendencies - a necessary 
quality for any teacher. So, next 
time you wonder why profes-
sor Foley grades so harshly, just 
know it probably comes from a 
place of love... and because Can-
cers are the most moody of all the 
signs. Jason Portmess: Libra 
Libras like UF Department of 
Chemistry’s Jason Portmess value 
balance and harmony. Those born 
under this sign probably feng 
shui their house and track their 
macronutrients. Because Libras 
are natural balances, they can 
be described as charming. They 
counteract other people’s person-
ality traits, which allows for both 
parties to feel comfortable. Those 
born under this sign value fair-
ness, which makes them so good 
at peacekeeping. The United Na-
tions is basically knocking down 
their door trying to recruit them. 
On the other hand, Libras weigh 
all the options before making a 
decision, which also makes them 
indecisive. UF President Kent Fuchs: 
Scorpio
As a water sign, Scorpios cue 
into emotions and know exactly 
how to handle them, which is key 
when dealing with all the feelings 
on campus like President Fuchs 
does. Our university’s so-called 
father ﬁ  gure can thank his ruling 
Pluto and Mars for his leadership 
skills and passion, which allow 
for his tranquil front. Scorpios 
are intense and sometimes mys-
terious because they would rather 
hold on than process emotions. Maria Korolev: Sagittarius
Symbolized by a centaur 
shooting an arrow, Sagittarius is 
the ninth house in the zodiac and 
is ruled by Jupiter. Those born as 
Sagittarius seek a greater purpose 
and aim high with all endeavors. 
Those with this ﬁ  re sign may ﬁ  nd 
themselves in trouble when their 
honesty and frank nature gets the 
best of them. Always looking for 
their next adventure, those with 
the Sagittarius sign seem to have 
the energy of a thousand suns and 
the optimism levels to counteract 
all the negativity in the world.By Jackie De Freitas
Avenue Contributor WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenueBy Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Writer
When I think of pizza, I usually picture a tradi-
tional Neapolitan, an authentic Italian entrée made 
with tomato and fresh mozzarella. However, third-
generation pizza maker Jonathan “Jon” Mora chal-
lenged everything I thought I knew about what can 
and can’t go on pies. This causal hole-in-the-wall 
pizzeria is where Mora is constantly creating new 
pizza dishes with unique ingredients. 
If you’re in the mood to try something new, 
check out Mora NY Pizza, 
at 1220 W. University 
Ave. 
Mora, who has been 
crafting vegan and non-
vegan pizzas for 14 years, 
describes his restaurant as 
an “edgy New York-style 
pizzeria that thinks out-
side the pizza box, provid-
ing an imaginative dining 
experience that connects 
local creatives.”
Mora learned his spe-
cial dough-making recipe 
from his grandfather, who 
at one point owned 40 piz-
zerias in the northeastern 
region of New York. This 
crisp, chewy yet thin crust can make pizza lovers, 
like myself, question why pizza crust is so under-
rated. Currently, Mora Pizza serves homemade 
vegan and non-vegan pizzas, calzones, strombolis, 
salads and pasta dishes (a recent addition).
The menu is constantly changing, since all 
products are made from scratch, and top-quality 
ingredients are brought in from local vendors or 
distributors.
“I take the same approach as a painter, the 
dough is my canvas,” Mora said. “I incorporate 
textures, colors, different cultures, and I don’t have 
like a weekly menu of each item. It’s just whatever 
inspires me that morning when I wake up.”
The vegan pizza options are a huge hit. Among 
them, the “Buffalo,” “Baked Ziti” and “Ben’s Burg-
er” are the most popular options with customers. 
Personally, I’m a veggie fanatic and
always go for the “Veg’d Out,” a light vegan piz-
za containing spinach, mushroom, onion, tomato 
and my guilty pleasure: olives.
Mora Pizza opened May 5, and ever since, business is skyrocketing. The Gainesville commu-
nity has exhibited unwavering support, according 
to Mora.
Busy nights can be hectic, especially since Mora 
and his operations manager are the only ones that 
actually produce the pizzas, so the wait time var-
ies depending on the crowd. However, most cus-
tomers are happy to wait for Mora’s one-of-a-kind 
pizza.
“I was a little backed up one night, only work-
ing with one pizza oven 
I had, and I was worried 
about this customer be-
cause I thought maybe she 
would be mad,” Mora said. 
“After I ﬁ  nished mak-
ing her food, I brought it to 
her and apologized. I said 
sorry for the wait and she 
just got so emotional, there 
was such an emotional re-
sponse she actually started 
to cry and she said she has 
been waiting her whole life 
for a vegan pizza like this. 
And to me that was very sat-
isfying.”
Mora is vegan himself 
and intentionally hires only 
a vegan staff for his restaurant because he wants 
to emphasize the importance of care that goes into 
his products.
Mora added that there are plans to expand with 
another location where he will be serving pizza by 
the slice off University Avenue and Main Street. 
Also, he wants to open another food truck in
Gainesville to work with local breweries, up-
coming events and farmers’ markets.
Before moving to Gainesville, Mora operated 
a food truck business in Fort Myers, Florida, for 
two years.He said he is used to connecting and net-
working events with his food truck and wants to 
incorporate that with Mora Pizza.
Mora is currently looking for local artists that 
want to showcase their artwork at his restaurant.
“I’m very open to anyone who wants to submit 
their art. It doesn’t necessarily have to be pizza-
related but I do appreciate the creativity of the art-
ists’ work they are providing,” Mora said.
Daily specials can be found on Mora Pizza’s In-
stagram page @mora_pizza.
A slice of life with Mora Pizza
Jon Mora
Vegan pizza with garlic knot crust.
By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Writer
Who cut the rope?!
Hulu’s new original series sets up 
a thrilling mystery revolving around 
this question, leaving viewers wanting 
more. 
On Aug. 24, Hulu brought the hit 
Australian series “Safe Harbour” to the 
U.S. streaming list. The four-episode 
series follows the lives of ﬁ  ve Austra-
lians after they are suddenly recon-
nected with refugees they met a few 
years prior. 
Secrets are revealed as to what 
truly happened during that time and 
what led to the wedge between the 
two groups. The history between them 
started years earlier in the middle of 
the ocean. 
Ryan Gallagher (Ewen Leslie) and 
his friends were enjoying a boating ex-
cursion when they saw a boat in the 
distance. Once they arrived next to the 
boat, the Australian friends were met 
with a large group of refugees trying to 
make it to new land.
One of the refugees, Ismail Al-Baya-
ti, explained that their boat was dam-
aged, but they needed to make it to 
Australia to get medical attention and 
to start new lives. In the ﬁ  rst episode, 
we see Ryan ready to help despite op-
position from his friends, and they start 
to tow the boat along with them. 
As a storm begins to head near 
them, Ryan makes a detour toward 
Indonesia, but is met with resistance 
from the refugees who have their 
minds set on an Australian destination. 
Mysteriously, the next day the rope is 
cut and the boat of refugees is gone. 
Someone cut the rope tow between 
the two boats in the middle of the 
night, and due to the separation of the 
boats, the refugees found themselves 
in the middle of a huge rainstorm with-
out any power or ability to escape. 
Their boat broke and they were strewn into the ocean. During that time, Is-
mail’s daughter drowned, but his wife 
and son survived. Six other people also 
died as a result of the rope cutting.
The repercussions of the rope cut-
ting and investigations into who car-
ried out this senseless crime are ex-
plored throughout the remainder of the 
series. 
From that moment forward, Ismail 
is driven by anger and frustration and 
wants answers as to why the rope was 
cut and who cut it. 
One of the classic mystery elements 
in the show is a whodunit. Viewers are 
left to wonder if the person who cut the 
rope could be an Australian or a refu-
gee who wanted nothing to do with the 
group. 
As we move into the present day, 
we see that the meeting between Is-
mail and Ryan is no accident. He’s 
been looking them up for the past few 
months. Ismail explains that someone 
needs to pay for what was done, and 
throughout the series several of his ac-
tions lead to reactions from Ryan and 
his friends and family that unravel the 
truth. 
This compelling miniseries may 
only be four episodes long, but each 
hour of content tells a compelling and 
riveting story. Every episode it seems 
like there is a new culprit that made 
the decision to cut the rope, but the 
truth isn’t revealed until the very last 
minute. 
The series is a quick watch, and 
fans are wondering if there is any 
chance that it could come back for 
a second season. Because the show 
wraps up very well, however, it is un-
likely it will return. Additionally, “Safe 
Harbour’s” original broadcaster, Aus-
tralian network SBS, hasn’t indicated 
any intentions of extending the series. 
Although it may be a miniseries, 
I think every episode of this show is 
highly compelling for anyone who en-
joys a high-stakes dramatic series. ‘Safe Harbour’
Series ReviewWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   910   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
A sunset, green grass, tall trees, 
live music and food trucks: What 
more could you want on a Sunday 
evening?
Local Gainesville restaurants 
One Love Cafe and Taste Pho and 
Noodle House host the monthly 
Food Festival at Magnolia Parke, 
full of food trucks, live music, craft 
beer, dancing and socializing in 
the diverse melting pot of students, 
locals and families. One Love and 
Taste have been partners in host-
ing this event every month for over 
a year. They draw in hundreds of 
people with hungry bellies who are 
ready to sink their teeth into every-
thing from Cilantro Tacos to fried 
oreos and funnel cakes.
The environment? Fun, friendly 
and fantastic. The food? So tempt-
ing and delicious that everyone 
leaves not just full, but stuffed. 
The band, “Fast Lane?” Insanely 
talented and engaging. 
What’s so refreshing about this 
food festival is it brings together 
people of all ages. Parents played 
competitive games of tetherball 
with their children, elderly cou-
ples got down on the dance ﬂ  oor, 
groups of college kids had picnics 
with wide arrays of food and beer. 
It’s a nice break from the conven-
tional, everyday college campus 
life: no lectures or textbooks, no 
greek letters, juuls or iced coffees, 
just a good time with good people.
“It’s a very chill vibe; every-
one’s been very nice, very ac-
cepting,” attendee Paul Upa said. 
“People are able to come out here, 
meet each other, share common in-terests. Food always brings people 
together.”
While some attendees loved the 
food and the crowd, others were 
partial to the live band that played 
a wide variety of classics such as 
“Low Rider” by War, “Kiss” by 
Prince and “Play That Funky Mu-
sic” by Wild Cherry. The eccentric 
leading guitarist reminded one of 
a taller Jimi Hendrix as he shred-
ded these classics on his red guitar while getting down on the dance 
ﬂ  oor with the ladies. The dance 
ﬂ  oor under the wooden pavilion, 
lit with twinkling lights, was teem-
ing with couples, singles, a few 
teens and even little kids who boo-
gied with a vivacious energy.
“The band is phenomenal. 
That guitar player is incredible. I 
love the live music, the families 
and I love playing with the kids,” 
21-year-old telecommunications major Amanda Zorzi said.
According to attendees like Upa 
and Zorzi, the contenders for best 
food vendors were the pig shots at 
Backyard Grill and Smoke, Arepa 
Milko, the Italian sandwich from 
Mayﬂ  ower Cellars and local Indian 
food staple Ahar.
“I really liked the Indian food 
honestly, because it was really 
diverse and ﬂ  avorful, and it’s 
not something you see in a food truck,” Zorzi said.
“The Arepas are amazing for 
sure. The Backyard barbecue place 
has what they call pig shots, which 
are sausage wrapped in bacon, 
topped with cream cheese and ja-
lapenos,” Upa said. “It’s like every-
thing you want in one shot.”
The fesival hosted a warm, 
welcoming night with great mu-
sic, food, laughter, dancing and an 
overall fun time.Gainesville chomps on September food fest
FOOD
Emma McAvoy
Groups of college kids picnic with wide arrays of food and beer.
Emma McAvoy
Couples, singles, a few teens and even little kids anced 
with joy at the Food Festival at Magnolia Parke.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 7 Computers 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
1BR for rent in 2-story house.
Available now for college student. $500/mo 
incl elec. Near UF: 1022 NW 3rd Ave. Call 
352-672-8657    9-14-18-5-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $1260/mo.   352-359-1508    
9-24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration.
 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     9-14-18-
6-14Help Wanted: Customer Service, Data Entry 
and Accounts Receivable for a local pest 
control company. Flexible part time hours. 
Great working environment. Candidate must 
have good customer service skills and a 
positive attitude. $10 per hour.15 - 20 hours 
per week. Please send resume to Jennie@
orkinsolutions.com     9-14-18-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
LEARN HOW TO MAKE
AN EXTRA $300+ / WEEK
TESTING APPS.
Go to: www.collegecash.club    9-12-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestPUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Learn how to
make an extra $300 - $400 per week
doing surveys.
Go to: http://collegecashoffers.club     9-12-
18-5-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
Swim Lesson Instructors
Need transportation
Weekdays 3-6pm with option of 2x/week
Weekends Sat 9-12 Sun 2-5
Call Jill at (352) 335-0518     9-17-18-5-14
How to make an
Extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student
Go to: www.studentopportunity.services     
9-19-18-5-14
1. SCIENCE: What is the study of 
heat and its transformation to mechan-
ical energy called?
2. LANGUAGE: What is the symbol 
associated with the Greek letter “Del-
ta” (uppercase)?
3. MUSIC: Which city is hometown 
to the Red Hot Chili Peppers band?
4. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the fear 
represented in tachophobia?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
male rabbit called?
6. GEOGRAPHY: Which two Afri-
can nations joined to become Tanzania 
in 1964?
7. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
children’s classic book “Charlie and 
the Chocolate Factory”?
8. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
centimeters are in a foot?
9. MOVIES: Who was the 
Oscar-winning director of “The Deer 
Hunter”?
10. CHEMISTRY: What is the sym-
bol for the element arsenic? 
Answers
1. Thermodynamics
2. Triangle
3. Los Angeles
4. Fear of speed
5. A buck
6. Zanzibar and Tanganyika
7. Roald Dahl
8. 30.48
9. Michael Cimino
10. As
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 10, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get Paid To Test Apps!
College students can make up to $400 per 
week testing Apps. Get started here: www.
testappsforcash.com     9-12-4-20PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Learn how to
make an extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.paidcollegesurveys.com     9-12-
4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
55 GALLON TOP FIN FISH AQUARIUM
BRAND NEW. in box never opened.
$130. YOU CAN'T BEAT IT!
Call 352-327-5978 or edmuck7@gmail.com    
9-21-5-24
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: NICE WATCH
In front of Old Florida Gym on Wednesday, 
9/5. Call to identify. Ronald 352-466-3646    
9-12-3-25
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Los Angeles 
player
4 Dancer Charisse
7 1938 “The War of 
the Worlds” radio 
broadcaster
10 Chewed-over 
material
13 The Obama 
years, e.g.
14 Cube that rolls
15 “The Murders in 
the __ Morgue”
16 Harlem 
Globetrotters 
promoter 
Saperstein
17 Feel out of sorts
18 Official reproach
20 Diamond, for one
21 Not of the clergy
23 Peaceful ’60s 
protest
24 Sandwich with 
tzatziki sauce
25 Vermeer, notably
28 Cold response?
31 Actor Pesci
32 __ Free: caffeine-
free soda
36 They’re bound 
to sell
37 CIO partner
38 Hides from 
animals
39 Remove, as a 
knot
40 10% of MDX
41 Poky one
42 London gallery
43 Unisex fragrance
45 Strings for 
Orpheus
46 “Just like that!” 
sound
47 High 
temperature
48 Abbr. in job titles
49 2001 Pixar hit, 
and a hint to the 
start of 19-, 22- 
and 24-Down
52 Spanish 
surrealist
53 Poker variety
55 Formally ask for
58 Ignore the alarm 
clock
61 Come before
62 Ceramic 
casserole dish
63 Ancient land 
in the Fertile 
Crescent
64 Still going onDOWN
1 Authentic
2 Diva’s moment
3 West African 
country
4 Atlanta-based 
health agcy.
5 Traffic directive
6 Guess apparel
7 Luxury voyage 
vessel
8 Seriously 
overcooked
9 “Capisce?”
10 Shrewd
11 Car service app
12 Floor sample
19 1989 Al Pacino 
thriller
22 Website’s list of 
browser data 
rules
24 Magic ring-
wielding 
superhero
26 Get beaten
27 “House” actor 
Omar
28 Borders on
29 Sir Arthur __ 
Doyle
30 Spicy Mexican 
wraps
33 Serves as 
matchmaker34 Uses a swizzle 
stick
35 Daysail 
destination
43 Mike Trout and 
Mickey Mantle, 
by pos.
44 Hectic hosp. 
areas
50 More pleasant
51 Grenoble’s river
52 British bombshell 
Diana54 Use the good 
china, say
55 Healthful 
getaway
56 Despot portrayed 
by Forest
57 Drink from a 
kettle
58 “The Simpsons” 
disco guy
59 Cariou of “Blue 
Bloods”
60 Actor Beatty
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/12/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 12, 2018
ACROSS
1 Setting for 
smooth sailing
8 Aptly, it rhymes 
with “ahh”
11 Cease and desist 
order?
14 Stuffed oneself
15 Pursue 
romantically
16 Valuable metal
17 “NCIS: Los 
Angeles” actress
18 Court order?
20 Remove varnish 
from
21 NBC weekend 
fixture, briefly
22 Distinctive flair
23 Modern 
renewable fuel
27 Reverse order?
30 Assures the sad 
fate of
34 Easy throw
35 “Angie Tribeca” 
TV network
36 “Help me out, will 
ya?”
37 Facilitates
40 Bergen of 
“Murphy Brown”
41 Stay behind
42 Drunkard
43 Dubai’s fed.
44 Former Russian 
rulers
45 Money order?
48 Words said with 
an extended fork
50 Continent 
explored by 
Marco Polo
53 Talk on and on
54 Scalawag
58 Work order?
60 Shoe cushions
62 Abbr. used to 
save space
63 Not worth a __
64 Muzzle-loading 
gadgets
65 Gag order?
66 Kindle download
67 Chart-reading 
exam
DOWN
1 Some 
recyclables
2 Going __: fighting
3 Shakespearean 
king with three 
daughters4 Beach city near 
Hollywood
5 Restraining 
order?
6 Quite some time
7 Taiwan-born 
director Lee
8 River in a 
Stephen Foster 
song
9 Voting sites
10 Pioneering ISP
11 Wind up like a 
snake
12 Celestial bear
13 High-schooler, 
typically
19 Put another roll 
of film in
21 Incites to attack, 
with “on”
24 More than 
occasionally
25 Blots gently
26 Biblical garden
27 Warning
28 Scraps for Fido
29 President 
between Bush 
and Trump
31 Poppy product
32 Gambling mecca 
near Hong Kong
33 Catch some z’s36 Cookie recipe 
yield
38 Bill for drinks
39 Bart Simpson’s 
sister
40 San Francisco’s 
__ Tower
42 Dance move
45 Postpone one’s 
bedtime
46 Pecking order?
47 Go along with
49 Online admin50 Quite some time
51 “Family 
Guy” creator 
MacFarlane
52 Nagging desire
55 Sunburn reliever
56 Rx items
57 Sibilant 
summons
59 NATO founding 
member
60 Fury
61 “Aye? Not!”
By Bruce Haight and Natalie Murphy
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/11/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/11/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 11, 2018
1.  Sugar ____
1.  Atomic symbol “Co”5.  Yacht spot
2.  See6.  ____ dressing 
3.  Baseball increments 7.  Official count
4.  German composer OEIKCO
ALCBTOABINS
CNRHA
SREBEOV
GINSNINSUCNES
SHRBAMANSWERS: 1A-Cookie  5A-Basin  6A-Ranch  7A-Census
1D-Cobalt  2D-Observe  3D-Innings  4D-Brahms  B-Black Sea9-12-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The maximum depth of the 
____ ____ is 7,257 feet.
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFlorida landed a commitment 
from guard Alex Klatsky, a New 
Jersey native. Klatsky accepted 
a preferred walk-on offer from 
coach Mike White.  
Time for UF-UT game set for one of two times
The SEC announced Monday that the Gators and Volunteers will play at 
either 7 or 7:30 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 22.  The game will be televised on 
ESPN, ESPN2 or SEC Network. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida head coach Dan Mullen 
stood at the lectern of the team media 
room in front of reporters following 
Florida’s loss to Kentucky on Saturday 
with his same, normal demeanor.
He started with his normal coach 
speak he does at nearly every media 
opportunity — “I give them credit,” 
“Mark’s (Stoops) done a great job 
with the program,” etc. — until he 
got to a specific sentence. One that’s a 
little different than the phrases he has 
dropped in the past.
“(We’ve) got to be more physical 
at the point of attack,” Mullen said. “I 
think also we have to be more physi-
cal up front on the offensive line.”
The Gators were missing tackles 
all game against the Wildcats. Mul-
len said he counted 20 which allowed 
around 168 extra yards. UF allowed 
over 300 rushing yards, most of which 
were due to Kentucky quarterback 
Terry Wilson and running back Benny 
Snell avoiding Florida’s defenders af-
ter first contact. It was the first 300-
yard game given up by a Florida rush 
defense since a 2013 loss to Georgia 
Southern. 
Mullen and his coaching staff have been preaching physicality all week, 
making it an impromptu term for the 
week.
“Toughness starts with mental 
toughness before you can get physi-
cally tough,” co-offensive coordinator 
Billy Gonzales said. “So you got to 
continue to train the body, continue 
to train the mind.”
Even the players got in on the 
phrasing, echoing the sentiments that 
the team needs to toughen up starting 
this week, or repeats of Saturday will 
happen in the future.
“There’s a lot more sense of urgen-
cy in practice,” right tackle Jawaan 
Taylor said. “I feel like we’re practic-
ing a lot harder and stepping up to the 
challenge, and it’s showing.”
Freshmen corners stepping up 
with Marco Wilson now out
Sophomores Marco Wilson and C.J. 
Henderson have led the Gators on de-
fense as starting corners dating back to 
when both were true freshmen. 
Now that Wilson is out for the sea-
son due to an ACL tear, Florida will turn 
to two current freshmen to fill the void.
“You’ve got Brian Edwards, you’ve 
got Trey Dean are the guys who are go-
ing to have to step up and do that right Notebook: Gators preach need for increased physicality
Justin Ahlum / Alligator Staff
Right tackle Jawaan T aylor (65) said the team is taking head coach Dan Mullen's talk about 
toughness to heart. "There's a lot more sense of urgency in practice, " T aylor said. SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
VOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The No. 11 Florida volleyball 
team continues its road trip to 
Tallahassee to play its fourth-con-
secutive away match against rival 
Florida State tonight at 6.
The Gators (5-3) won two of 
their three matches over the week-
end in Flagstaff, Arizona, beating 
California State and Southern Illi-
nois but losing to Northern Arizona 
in five sets.
“It’s not fun to learn through 
your losses” right-side hitter and 
setter Holly Carlton said on Tues-
day. “A young team like this, we’re 
going to have some growing pains 
this season.”
NAU had 160 swings in the up-
set with only six balls that were hit 
out of play. Coach Mary Wise com-pared it to watching a basketball 
team that just could not miss.
“Never seen the likes of that,” 
Wise said. “That’s where women’s 
volleyball is at this day and age.”
The team will not have much 
time to recuperate from the cross-
country trip before it plays the 
Seminoles (5-4) and their potent 
offense.
Wise indicated that the speed 
and efficiency of the FSU offense 
will be something to key in on for 
the midweek match.
Florida State ranks No. 10 in the 
nation in hitting percentage (.300) 
thanks to the consistent play of ju-
nior outside hitter Payton Caffrey, 
who leads her team in kills with 
127 on an impressive .313 hitting 
percentage.
Dependable play in front of the Florida takes on FSU in 
midweek matchupThe Lost City of Alanis / Opinion
Take a moment to picture yourself as a 
starting quarterback.
Imagine it’s something you’ve dreamed 
of and worked for since you stood 4 feet 
off the ground throwing a foam ball around 
your fenced in backyard.
Years later, your time comes. Your num-
ber is called.
You hit the gym and go through months 
of strenuous training to whip your body into 
shape. You read over every play in the book 50, 100 
times until every single one is ingrained in your head.
Then game day rolls around.
You lace up your cleats. You run onto the field 
with your heart pumping so fast you can feel it flutter-
ing with every breath. 
Then, when you get onto the field, you struggle. 
Your team struggles. 
You come out the next week and get the same re-
sult. Once again, your team doesn’t perform the way 
you’d hoped, and now everyone turns to you as the 
problem.
Now imagine how Feleipe Franks feels. Imagine how every quarterback feels when he and 
his team don’t perform to our expectations. 
It’s a hard pill to swallow. And the quar-
terback is usually the one who takes the bulk 
of the blame from the fans.
I’m guilty of it. 
I was absolutely livid in 2016 when Eli 
Manning threw a fourth-quarter interception 
to Redskins defensive back Quinton Dunbar. 
The Giants trailed 26-24 with 14 minutes left 
in the game, and all they needed was a field goal.
But Eli tried to force the ball to a COVERED Will 
Tye in the endzone and misjudged Dunbar’s position. 
Game over.  
I blamed Eli for everything that went wrong. Even 
though the defense surrendered a double-digit lead in 
the first half and the offensive line couldn’t stop a Nerf 
dart with a riot shield.
No. Eli was to blame. I called him every name in 
the book because I thought he cost us —the Giants 
— the game, not realizing that he’d done the best he 
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16Feleipe Franks should not be the scapegoat 
for all of UF's problems. There's more to it.
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The UF women’s golf team con-
tinued its impressive play on Mon-
day, capping off a two-day perfor-
mance at the Cougar Classic that 
saw the team score a 30-under, 546 
overall.
The decision was made to short-
en the tournament from 54 to 36 
holes due to the approaching Hur-
ricane Florence. The change gave 
Florida its first tournament title of 
the season.
The Gators defeated SEC rival 
Vanderbilt (27-under) by three 
strokes. Both teams separated them-
selves from the rest of the field with 
Arkansas (16-under) finishing in 
third place Monday afternoon.
Junior Sierra Brooks had one of 
the best tournaments of her career, 
finishing at 17-under, on her way to 
securing the individual title.
Brooks finished at 10-under in 
the second round, making four 
birdies on the front nine and four 
birdies and an eagle on the back 
nine. The Orlando, Florida, native 
finished her second round with a 
score of 62, breaking a Cougar Clas-
sic record.
“Sierra made a statement this 
week,” coach Emily Glaser said in 
a press release. “She has been vocal 
about how excited she is to compete 
this year and how she wants to lead 
our team. This week she walked the 
walk. She’s a great teammate, she works incredibly hard, I’m so happy 
to see her not only get the win but 
to play some fantastic golf.”
Brooks herself was ecstatic about 
her performance after the tourna-
ment.“This has been such a special 
week with my teammates and 
coaches. It’s exciting to start the 
year off on a positive note and 
means even more to start the season 
with a team and individual win.”Although Brooks stole the show, 
UF had three other golfers finish the 
tournament in the top 25.
Freshman Clara Manzalini com-
pleted her Gators debut with a 5-un-
der second round on Monday, put-ting home five birdies on her way 
to a third-place finish on the indi-
vidual leaderboard with an 8-under.
Glaser was impressed with how 
the freshman handled herself in her 
first college tournament.
“A huge contribution from Clara 
this week,” Glaser said. “She is 
so athletic and talented and has 
brought an awesome energy to the 
team.”
Sophomore Addison Baggarly 
(4-under) and junior Marta Perez 
(1-under) rounded out the top-25 
finishers for the Gators.
Baggarly ended tied for 15th after 
a 4-under, five-birdie outing in the 
second round, while Perez came in 
tied for 24th after Monday’s round. 
She managed to finish at 1-under 
for the round thanks to four birdies 
on the day.
“We know the talent is there 
with this group but you still have to 
put it together,” Glaser said. “You 
still have to compete. And they did 
that this week. They prepared well, 
they had a good plan and obviously 
executed. Today was a special day, 
20-under is incredible.”
The Gators will compete next at 
the Mary Fossum Invitational on 
Sept. 15-16. 
The tournament, which will take 
place in East Lansing, Michigan, 
will be hosted by Michigan State.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgGators win  Cougar Classic behind Brooks’ record performance
Chris O’Brien / Alligator Sports
Junior Sierra Brooks (17-under) took home the individual title during a shortened opening weekend at 
the Cougar Classic in Hanahan, South Carolina. Florida won the tournament by three strokes. 
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
After having its season derailed 
last year due to injuries and a short-
handed roster, Florida’s women’s 
tennis team is looking to rebuild 
with transfers and youth.
Gone are three top-100 singles 
players in Anna Danilina, Josie 
Kuhlman and Brooke Austin, the 
last of the old guard that brought 
the Gators a national championship 
in 2017.
In are five-star recruit Marlee 
Zein, Georgia Tech transfer Ida Jarl-
skog and Houston transfer Tsveta 
Dimitrova. Both transfers are eli-
gible to play immediately.
Coming out of high school, Zein 
was ranked as the top recruit in her 
home state and the No. 11 recruit in 
the nation in her class.
Jarlskog joins the Gators after 
spending one season with Georgia 
Tech, which made it to the Final 
Four in last year’s tournament. She 
went 28-8 overall in singles play 
last season, including a 20-4 record 
in dual matches, while also going 
24-12 in doubles play. Her high-
est rankings last season were 58th 
in singles and 48th in doubles. She 
ended the season at 95th in singles 
and 68th in doubles.
The Sweden native also played 
a role in Georgia Tech’s run to 
the Final Four. Jarlskog’s upset of 67th-ranked Abi Altick gave Geor-
gia Tech the pivotal fourth point 
and the win over UCLA in the Elite 
Eight to advance to the Final Four. 
At the Final Four, she would win 
her singles match in straight sets, 
but Georgia Tech still went on to 
lose to Vanderbilt.
Dimitrova, on the other hand, 
spent the last two seasons at the 
University of Houston, going 15-3 
in an injury-shortened freshman 
season and 28-8 overall last year. 
She was ranked 94th in the ITA 
rankings at the end of the spring 
season and was 6-1 against ranked 
opponents on the singles court. The 
Bulgaria native also played doubles 
last season at Houston, compiling a 
17-4 overall record.
Additionally, Dimitrova was 
named to the All-American Confer-
ence team in each of her two sea-
sons at Houston. Playing mostly 
at the No. 1 position for Houston, 
Dimitrova still finished second on 
the team in wins and left the uni-
versity holding onto the eighth-best 
winning percentage in school his-
tory (0.818).
Jarlskog and Dimitrova’s experi-
ence will be incredibly valuable to 
the Gators this season because this 
year’s squad features a lot of youth. 
The rest of Florida’s lineup will fea-
ture rising sophomores McCartney 
Kessler, who joined the team mid-
season to fill out the shorthanded roster, Katie Kubicz and Victoria 
Emma.
Kessler is the only returning 
singles player from last year’s team 
to be in the top 100. Playing both 
the three and four positions in dual 
matches, Kessler finished the year 
with a 20-8 record as well as both 
SEC All-Freshman and First Team 
All-SEC honors. With some college 
experience and a full offseason un-
der her belt, she could be an intrigu-
ing name to watch moving forward.
Emma struggled last season in 
singles play with an 8-14 record 
but was featured on the team’s 
best doubles pairing with the de-
parted Danilina. She finished the 
year with a 13-12 record in doubles, 
was ranked 23rd in the nation in 
doubles with Danilina and won SEC 
Freshman of the Week once. 
Kubicz split time between sin-
gles play and doubles play last sea-
son, going 19-6 overall in singles 
and 12-16 overall in doubles.  
Coach Roland Thornqvist, enter-
ing his 18th season with the Gators, 
should have his hands full this 
upcoming season considering the 
amount of youth and inexperience 
on the squad, but it could be a year 
that is the foundation for future 
runs at national championships.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org  Florida to begin season next week
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
UF soccer suffered its fifth 
consecutive shutout on Friday 
night in Tallahassee. Coach 
Becky Burleigh remarked after-
ward that the universe would 
eventually reward her team.
The universe turned its back 
on Burleigh and the Florida 
Gators on Monday afternoon in 
Orlando.
It was more of the same for 
Florida (2-5-1), which fell 3-0 
to UCF (2-2-1) to add on to 
UF’s own record-setting score-
less drought. The previous 
goalless record of three games 
is now a distant memory.
The scoreline didn’t tell the 
whole story. Monday’s matinee 
was actually a makeup for Sun-
day’s game, which was can-
celed at halftime due to light-
ning in the Orlando area.
Despite UCF’s 3-0 lead Sun-
day, the game was restarted 
from scratch Monday, mean-
ing Florida was unofficially 
outscored 6-0 in three periods 
against UCF. 
The Knights picked up right 
where they left off, jumping out to an early 1-0 lead thanks 
to a converted penalty in the 
11th minute from midfielder 
Zandy Soree.
The score stayed 1-0 for the 
next 59 minutes until Soree 
doubled the lead, tallying her 
second of the game and fourth 
of the season. The goal came 
off a cross from forward Ste-
fanie Sanders.
Sanders notched a goal of 
her own fewer than two min-
utes later. She moved the ball 
unassisted down the far side-
line then cut in and stroked 
it past UF keeper Kaylan 
Marckese. It was her first goal 
of 2018.
In a season of bad results, 
this one was particularly egre-
gious. The unranked Knights 
outshot the Gators 13-3. Flori-
da’s three shots tied its lowest 
output of the season.
The Gators will get a much-
needed break this week, with 
their first SEC opponent — 
Vanderbilt — not coming to 
Gainesville until Sunday.
@samcampisano 
scampisano@alligator.orgShutout streak continues 
as UF falls to UCF 3-0WOMEN’S TENNIS SOCCERWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSnow moving forward for us,” Mullen said.
The latest depth chart has Dean oppo-
site Henderson, with Edwards backing them 
both up. The Gators used to have all four 
play through the course of the game, with 
Dean and Edwards coming in when Wilson 
and Henderson needed a break.
But now that Wilson is out, Florida will 
need its freshman to step up. Henderson 
thinks his counterparts are more than ready.
“He’s growing fast,” Henderson said of 
Dean. “He’s not acting like a freshman any-
more. He’s learning the plays and he knows 
what he’s got to do.”
Adarius Lemons transferring from 
Florida
Running back Adarius Lemons an-
nounced his intention to transfer from UF 
following the Gators’ loss to Kentucky.“I’m going to miss some of the boys I’ve 
been playing with for the past two years 
I’ve been here, I feel I’ve learned a lot from 
the previous coaches that were here,” Lem-
ons tweeted. “I want to ﬁ  nd a school I can 
help to my best ability and actually use my 
talent that God has blessed me with. Thank 
you farewell.”
Mullen announced Monday that Lemons 
would no longer be with the program and 
that he would sign Lemons' release for what-
ever school he wishes to attend.
Lemons didn’t see much playing time at the 
beginning of last season. It wasn’t until injuries 
started plaguing Florida’s offense that Lemons 
saw the ﬁ  eld. He played in nine games, record-
ing stats in six of them. 
He ﬁ  nished his career at UF with 19 car-
ries for 136 yards and one catch for seven 
yards.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Dean will start at cornerback
could.
And the point I’m making isn’t some for-
eign concept. It’s a point that’s been made 
time and time again. It’s common sense. 
These football players are merely human. 
Feleipe Franks is human. Yes, he’s in-
consistent and unproven. He’s still learning, 
and he’s got miles to go before he can even 
compete as an elite college quarterback.
But we can’t act like he alone has been 
the cause of every one of the Gators’ strug-
gles. Granted, he contributed substantially 
to them last season, but we can’t pretend 
Franks hasn’t made waves of improvement 
on the ﬁ  eld. 
Example: The Gators found themselves 
in two third-and-long situations early in the 
game against Kentucky on Saturday.
Franks stepped up in the pocket, found 
Josh Hammond for an 11-yard gain and a 
couple plays later found Tyrie Cleveland on 
a slant for another conversion.
If this were a year ago, Franks wouldn’t have had the poise to make that play.
Now, one loss into the 2018 season, he 
“has no business playing quarterback” and 
has no “ability to be a leader”?
Please.
Franks was bad in the second half of that 
game, but the Gators got whipped top to bot-
tom in that loss. Not just their quarterback.
“One game doesn’t deﬁ  ne our season.”
Franks said it after the game. Chauncey 
Gardner-Johnson repeated it and Dan Mul-
len reiterated it one more time.
So calm down…...for now, Gators fans.
If we get halfway through the season and 
Franks still isn’t doing what he should as 
the starting quarterback of this football pro-
gram, then by all means, crucify him.
But until then, give him a break. 
Because like it or not — like him or not 
— Feleipe Franks is who you’ve got.
Alanis Thames is a sports writer for 
The Alligator. Follow her on Twitter @al-
anisthames and contact her at athames@
alligator.org. net by the middle-blocking duo of 
junior Rachael Kramer and senior 
Taelor Kellum will be vital to stop 
FSU’s offense.
UF saw a resurgence of Kramer’s 
offensive play at the Lumberjack In-
vitational. The Phoenix, Arizona, na-
tive tallied 38 kills on a .533 hitting 
percentage over the three matches in 
front of her friends and family.
“It was just ﬁ  nding a rhythm with 
the setters,” Kramer said. “It’s a new 
year, and I just had to ﬁ  nd what set 
works best for me.”
Defensively, Kramer has met ex-
pectations, leading her team with 
40 blocks on the season. Kramer 
was a key player in last season’s ri-valry match when she recorded 10 
kills and ﬁ  ve blocks in the sweep 
at home. UF will lean on both her 
and Kellum’s defense to slow down 
Florida State. 
Wise spoke Tuesday about how 
much of a pleasant surprise Kellum 
has been this season.
The 6-foot-2 middle blocker has 
registered 25 blocks with only three 
blocking errors this season along 
with 56 kills.
“Everything is so brand new with 
this team,” Wise said. “There are so 
many positives to celebrate, but we 
realize we are a work in progress. 
The theme of this year is growth.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14
COLUMN,  from pg. 14Kramer tallied 38 kills
William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker T aelor Kellum has registered 25 blocks with only three blocking errors this season.
