We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
‘Turlington Dancer’ tresspassed UF, police say
He was banned from campus in August 2017, pg. 4
Parking oﬀ  ered near stadium on gamedays
The parking costs $50, pg. 5Gators defense prepares for SEC opener
Florida coaches and players both emphasized the 
need to improve on the defensive end of the ball 
ahead of its matchup with Kentucky Saturday. 
Find out who needs to prepare and how, pg. 14WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 6
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
NEW CLASSROOMS AND 
SCHOOL SAFETY IMPROVE-
MENTS MAKE THE LIST. 
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Public Schools could get 
a major makeover if voters pass a half-cent 
sales tax initiative on November’s ballot.
The school district released a list of im-
provements for every school Thursday, 
which would be put into place with the 
money from a half-cent sales tax initiative, 
if it passes in November. Although the up-
dates will be different for each school, some 
of the most notable changes include build-
ing new classrooms and science labs and in-
stalling new furniture, lighting and ﬂ  ooring, 
according to the list from the school district. 
Depending on sales, the tax could bring 
in about $264 million over the span of 12 
years, said Jackie Johnson, the school sys-
tem spokesperson.
“It is the only way that the school dis-
trict can raise enough money to do the huge 
amount of work that needs to be done at all 
of our schools,” Johnson said.
Although many of the updates will be unique to each school depending on its 
age, layout and what work has been done 
already, universal improvements to school 
safety and security would include limiting 
entrance points and installing electronic sys-
tems that can automatically lock all exterior 
doors from the front ofﬁ  ce, Johnson said. 
“That kind of technology is something 
we’d like to implement in all of our schools, 
but we just have not had the resources,” 
Johnson said. 
Parents were given a handout of im-
provements for each school Thursday night 
at elementary school open houses, Johnson 
said. Other lists will be handed out in the 
next few weeks during other open houses.
The possibility of higher-quality facilities 
already has some parents delighted. 
Karen Gillette, the president of Eastside 
High School’s parent-teacher association, 
said she’s most excited about the prospect 
of new and renovated classrooms.
“I think there is always more that can 
be done, but it’s a great start,” Gillette said. 
“Improvements are long overdue.”
Gainesville High School would receive 
one of the most extensive facelifts, accord-
ing to the list. The oldest buildings would be 
demolished and replaced with 29 new class-Sales tax could provide funds 
for school improvementsTHE COMMUNITY NEEDS TO 
RAISE $2,500 TO KEEP THE 
SIGN.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The rusted red and blue sign advertises 
luxuries: electric, cable TV and air condi-
tioning.
For the 1950s, it was a deal.
The triangle marquee for the Florida 
Motel has sat alongside Southwest 13th 
Street for about 60 years. But now, the sign 
is at risk, said Chip Patel, the commercial 
broker and realtor of the Florida Motel. As 
the motel’s planned demolition approach-
es, Patel wants to save the sign.
“The building is something that you 
might not see passing the road, but that 
sign — that sign is something that will hit 
you,” Patel said.
Patel created a GoFundMe campaign 
last week to raise $2,500, the amount he 
said it takes to move the sign elsewhere, 
and have it donated to the city. The city 
could move the sign to another public 
space such as Depot Park, he said. As of 
press time, eight people have donated a 
total of $760, according to the page.The motel and sign have been icons 
due to their retro aesthetic and historic val-
ue, the city’s Department of Doing director 
Wendy Thomas said. There was a request 
to preserve the building, but a demolition 
permit has been given to the new owner, 
the Comfort Suites Hotel, she said.
“Things like the sign and old buildings 
in the community tell the story of who we 
are and where we come from,” Thomas 
said. “The sign has so much character.”
Multiple people were interested in pur-
chasing the sign, Patel said. If the commu-
nity isn’t able to raise the money in two 
and a half weeks, the sign will be sold to 
one of the private buyers, Patel said.
“I know that it means something to 
many, many people in this community,” 
Thomas said. “I feel like it’s a little bit of a 
race against time, but I just really hope that 
all the pieces fall into place.”
Olivia Wilson, a 42-year-old Ocala resi-
dent, said not having the sign is like go-
ing to Hollywood and not seeing the Hol-
lywood sign. 
“You can’t wipe away where we come 
from, we have to keep some of that history 
alive.” Wilson said.
@danacassidy _
dcassidy@alligator.org‘Race against time’: Fundraiser aims to save historic Florida Motel sign
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
The Florida Motel sign sits along Southwest 13th Street. The motel’s realtor, Chip Patel, is 
trying to save the sign by fundraising for its relocation.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
UF suspended its chapter of Delta Chi for 
two years after a pledge nearly died follow-
ing a Spring hazing incident.  
The chapter is suspended until May 9, 
2020, according to letters sent by Dean of 
Students Heather White last Monday. The 
Greek Conduct Committee found the chap-
ter responsible for violating four Student 
Conduct Codes, including serving alcohol 
to underage students and hazing, which led 
to “the hospitalization of a student in criti-
cal condition with risk of fatality,” the letter 
said. 
The chapter has not been allowed to host 
social activities or recruit new members 
since February when the incident occurred, 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said. The 
fraternity must move out of its house on 
Fraternity Row by Oct. 1 and complete a full 
review of its members, White wrote. The 
committee found that the chapter’s brothers 
“participated in a coordinated effort to cover 
up their actions and put a new member’s life 
in jeopardy,” Orlando wrote in an email.
The chapter has until Monday to appeal the suspension. 
A student not afﬁ  liated with the fraternity 
told University Police he thought the then-
18-year-old pledge was being hazed, accord-
ing to a police sworn complaint.
The pledge later told police he went to a 
“Big Brother” ceremony, where Pablo Cas-
tillo, 22, was announced as his big brother, a 
mentor in the Greek organization.
There, the pledge drank a bottle of “sweet 
tea vodka” and participated in a foot race, 
the complaint said. He said he didn’t real-
ize how much he drank, and brothers found 
him unconscious and slumped in a chair in 
the backyard at about midnight, police said. 
Ty Simon, the then-Delta Chi president, told 
police he decided to take him to the hospital.
Simon, Castillo and Kyle Basignani, the 
fraternity’s risk manager, drove the pledge to 
North Florida Regional Medical Center, the 
complaint said. They did not call 911. 
When they arrived to the hospital, his 
blood alcohol level was .324, which is four 
times the legal driving limit of .08. Doctors 
told the group if they waited ﬁ  ve more min-
utes, the student would have died, the com-
plaint said.Delta Chi fraternity suspended 
from UF until 2020
SEE DELTA CHI,  PAGE 4 SEE SCHOOLS,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Alain Harb, aharb@alligator.org
Michael Smith
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556VOLUME 113 ISSUE 6
Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Assistant Sports EditorHIGH  90° LOW  74°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
Show off your Gator spirit 
Friday with GatorNights' icon-
ic Stuff-A-Gator (for the first 
300 students) starting at 8 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union food court. 
Meet Albert at the photo booth 
and eat at the Gator Snack Bar. 
Challenge your friends at trivia 
or on the Mechanical Gator. 
Decorate your own baseball 
cap and tote-bag or play video 
games at the Gaming Zone. 
Enjoy refreshments while 
watching “Jurassic World: 
Fallen Kingdom” in the au-
ditorium with showings at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. There 
will be free bowling and bil-
liards in the Game Room and 
nachos at Midnight Munchies. 
GatorNights is always on 
Fridays and is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card 
at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. 
to 1 a.m. Attendees must be 
current students and are al-
lowed to bring one guest.
Florida Museum invites artists, 
designers to ‘SciArt Meetup: 
Mammals’
Artists and designers are invit-
ed to visit the Florida Museum 
of Natural History after hours 
for SciArt Meetups to explore 
exhibits and create art inspired 
by Florida nature and culture. 
Along with its partner, Santa 
Fe College Art Gallery, join the 
museum from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Tuesday for an initial brief 
art/science presentation on 
mammals, after which artists 
can explore and create. Pre-registration is recommended, 
as space is limited. Access in-
cludes a working studio space 
and after-hours entry to all 
permanent exhibits, excluding 
the Butterfly Rainforest. Artists 
must bring their own supplies. 
For more information, or to 
register, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/calendar/tag/sciart or 
call 352-273-2062. 
Local Art
On Sept. 15, Hardback Cafe 
will host “For Overthinkers & 
Artists.” Join them as art and 
hip-hop combine in celebra-
tion of local music producer 
and artist Nxt Lvl’s new proj-
ect, “For Overthinkers.” Local 
art will be on display by some 
of Gainesville’s most talented 
artists, including a live paint-
ing exhibit. Nxt Lvl will be 
performing songs from his lat-
est project as well as his vast 
library of music. Special guest 
Elixir Flow from Orlando will 
open the show. Doors open at 
7 p.m. The event is free and 
open to those 18 and older.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous is 
a fellowship of men and wom-
en who have a desire to recov-
er from their eating disorders. 
If you can relate to feelings of 
guilt about eating, are at times 
unable to start or stop eating 
even when you want to or feel 
powerless over your eating 
habits, this group may be for 
you. There is no one “too sick” 
or “not sick enough” to attend. 
Men and women of all ages are 
welcome. For times, locations and more information, please 
email GainesvilleEDA@gmail.
com or text/call 954-319-6365. 
You can also visit 4EDA.org 
for more information. 
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of 
journalists advancing diversity 
in the workplace. With mem-
bership, students get access 
to networking opportunities 
and connections to top editors 
in national media organiza-
tions, as well as scholarships 
and mentorships. It is not just 
limited to journalism majors. 
For more information, email 
Alexandria Ng at alexandri-
ang@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, September 5, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSThe University of Florida is a complex  
environment regulated by a wide variety 
of entities. Ensuring every employee stays  
up-to-date on current laws, regulations, rules, 
policies and procedures is of utmost impor-
tance and is critical to the university’s success.   
For this reason—and in keeping with the 
Board of Governors’ recent mandate—UF has 
introduced a new compliance training pro -
gram. The training, called “Compliance: A 
Collaboration for Success,” will introduce the UF Compliance Program and review import -
ant provisions of the Florida Code of Ethics. It  
will also discuss the Compliance Hotline,  
UF’s non-retaliation policy and the responsibil -
ities and reporting expectations of all UF em -
ployees. 
The training needs to be completed by all  
faculty and staff no later than Oct. 15, 2018. 
Employees received an email notification from 
myTraining about completing the course.New required training aims  
for highest ethical standards
University of Florida Online Students can 
now choose from 20 majors, fully online. 
The University  of Florida is thrilled to announce 
a new, fully online bachelor’s degree in Educa -
tion Sciences for students interested in pursu -
ing careers in educational instructional design, 
curriculum development, instructional coordi -
nation, education policy and/or education ad -
vocacy.  Education Sciences graduates would be 
well-positioned for entering a career track in ei-
ther a traditional or non-traditional educational 
setting, advancing within an existing career, or 
pursuing an advanced degree related to research, 
or their area of specialization. This is a brand 
new major at UF – new on campus and new on-
line - as UF continues to expand opportunities 
for students seeking a career in education but 
not necessarily in a teaching capacity. The Education Sciences major in the College of 
Education at the University of Florida is also the 
only major of its kind in the state of Florida. Stu -
dents will be exposed to diverse facets of the field 
of education in this program. Core courses delve 
into educational technology, education psycholo -
gy, social foundations of education, and advocacy 
for access and inclusion of people with disabilities.
After completing core classes, students can choose 
a specialization or customize their own and partic -
ipate in an internship, practicum, or experiential 
learning experience tailored toward their relevant 
interests in education. Each student’s upper divi -
sion coursework is aligned with individual career 
and educational goals. Along the way each UF 
Online student has their own, dedicated academic 
advisor to support them as they plan their courses 
and work hard to achieve their academic goals. Education Sciences  is now the twentieth ma -
jor available to students in the online under-
graduate learning environment, UF Online. 
Growing rapidly, UF Online now serves over 
3,000 students. A highly selective and engag -
ing online pathway to a UF degree, UF On -
line academic programs are all designed and 
taught by the very same faculty that teach 
on the University’s main Gainesville campus. 
Best of all, as of summer 2018, UF Online 
has celebrated the graduation of over 1,500 
Gators through the UF Online pathway.  For 
more information, visit ufonline.ufl.edu.  
Interested? UF Online’s Spring application 
deadline is Oct. 1. To read more about the 
degree, check out ufonline.ufl.edu/degrees/
undergraduate/education-sciences.UF Online launches fully online Bachelor  
of Arts in Education Sciences degreeFaculty and staff are invited to join in-per -
son or online September’s Wellness Wednesday 
presentation, “An Introduction 
to the 7 Habits of Highly Ef -
fective People,” on Sept. 5 at 
noon in the UFHR Build -
ing (903 W. University Ave.).  
Courtney Moon, learning and 
organizational development 
specialist for UF T raining & Or-
ganizational Development, will 
give an overview of the practices and principles 
associated with the seven habits.Moon will share the common paradigms that 
reduce our ability to create lasting effectiveness 
and the strategies to help sustain our 
personal effectiveness, as well as our  
effectiveness with others. To reg-
ister to attend in person, log 
into mytraining.hr.ufl.edu and 
search for “Wellness Wednesdays.”  
Can’t make it in person? You can  
receive the link to join in online 
by emailing hrs-wellness@ufl.edu. 
For more information on work life  
programs available to faculty and staff, visit work-
life.hr.ufl.edu.Explore the 7  habits
By connecting many bil-
lions of smart devices, the 
internet of things (IoT) 
will transform how we 
live, learn, work and play. 
Welcome to the next in-
dustrial revolution, soon 
to become a multi-tril -
lion-dollar industry. IoT 
will soon impact every 
aspect of human life. At 
6 p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 
6 in the Pugh Hall Ocora, John Harris, chair 
of the Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering, will discuss UF’s role as an emerg -
ing leader in the Internet of Things.   Current research includes wearable medical 
devices, the smart grid, autonomous vehicles, 
and personalized education. The resulting data 
tsunami from billions of connected devices will fuel future artificial 
intelligence-driven ap-
plications that are yet 
to be invented or even 
imagined. In addition 
to the myriad of techni-
cal challenges, the IoT 
revolution needs poli -
cy makers to confront 
multiple issues involv -
ing ethics, physical safe-
ty, cybersecurity, and 
data privacy. This event 
is sponsored by the Bob Graham Center and 
the UF Office of Research. To learn more, read 
the full article on Explore Magazine’s website:  
explore.research.ufl.edu/connected-world.htmlExplore more: The Internet of Things
The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
HE’S BEING HELD IN LIEU OF A 
$20,000 BOND. 
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police said the banned 
“Turlington Dancer” stepped foot on UF’s 
campus again at midnight Friday.
Dennis Kane, 43, of Gainesville, was 
seen on UF property around 15th Street and West University Av-
enue, near Matherly Hall, 
according to a UPD arrest 
report.
Kane admitted to po-
lice he was trespassing on 
campus and acknowledged 
he was banned, the report 
said.
Kane, a former UF student, made a 
name for himself by dancing in colorful shorts and throwing peace signs on Tur-
lington Plaza. However, his time at UF 
hasn’t always been peaceful.
University Police banned Kane from 
campus — for the second time — for three 
years after students complained about his 
aggressive and loud behavior in August 
2017. Kane was banned after he harassed 
a female student and told another, “You’d 
better watch out,” police said. 
Kane was first banned from campus for three years in 2012 after multiple students 
complained to UPD about his aggressive 
and loud behavior, according to Alligator 
archives. One of the students called Kane 
“the bald, unusual man in Turlington.”
He is charged with trespassing and is 
being held in Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $20,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgBanned ‘Turlington Dancer’ trespassed campus, police say
rooms and 13 new science labs along with reno-
vating 38 existing classrooms. This could mean 
new furniture, technology and flooring.
Metcalfe Elementary School would also de-
molish outdated buildings and construct 22 new 
classrooms. Littlewood Elementary School would 
build 24 new classrooms and renovate 13 others, 
according to the list. 
“There is going to be a significant amount of money spent on improving the learning environ-
ment at every single school,” Johnson said. 
Johnson said these improvements are not just 
important for parents but also for the city. 
“We’ve got great people and great programs, 
but what we do not have are great places of 
learning,” she said. “So, improving our facilities 
is really going to be a benefit to the entire com-
munity.” 
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgSCHOOLS,  from pg. 1School security may be improvedHE FREQUENTL Y TACK -
LES TOPICS LIKE RACISM 
AND IMMIGRATION.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Dread Scott came to UF to 
start a revolution. Not with 
pitchforks and torches, but 
with cameras and performance. 
“We don’t have to live like 
this. People can make a far 
better world. A world without 
classes, and people can trans-
form themselves in the pro-
cess,” he said. “To do that, we 
need revolution.”
People filled the seats, 
crowded the floors and spilled 
into the walkways in Little 
Hall on Tuesday night to hear 
a talk by Scott, a controversial 
artist who tackles topics such 
as income inequality, racism 
and immigration through his 
photography, video and per-
formance art. He describes his work as revolutionary art 
intended to propel society for-
ward. 
The UF School of Art + Art 
History hosted Scott as part 
of the Fall 2018 Visiting Artist 
Lecture Series. His lecture was 
sponsored by the Center for Hu-
manities and the Public Sphere, 
and Scott was paid. Organizers 
didn’t disclose the amount.
During the lecture, Scott 
showed some of his most fa-
mous work, including a perfor-
mance called “Money to Burn,” 
which depicted him burning 
$171 on Wall Street and en-
couraging others to join in. 
The performance was meant to 
highlight the American wealth 
disparity.
Scott also warned attendees 
about the dangers of fascism, 
which he feels is a looming 
threat.
“I encourage you all to re-
sist and defy fascist authority 
and break on unjust laws,” he said. “This is a very dangerous 
time.”
Scott also showed a project 
called “Wanted,” which fo-
cused on the wrongful crimi-
nalization of black and Latino 
youth. The posters, which re-
semble a wanted sign, show-
case how youth of color are un-
necessarily harassed by police, 
Scott wrote on his website. 
Jasmine Conrad, 24, a UF 
creative photography senior, 
said she attends all of the Visit-
ing Artist Lectures because she 
feels it’s important to get the 
perspective of working artists 
across America. 
“I absolutely agree with his 
outlook,” Conrad said. “It’s 
important to not glorify our 
Constitution — something that 
doesn’t benefit anyone in our 
country except for a few peo-
ple.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.org‘Resist and Defy’: Dread Scott reminds students of the power of art  
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
On Tuesday night, UF’s visiting artist program hosted 53-year-old revo-
lutionary artist Scott Tyler, known as “Dread Scott. ”  Dread Scott’s work 
is critical of politics and often sparks controversy.
Castillo was charged with hazing, 
but the case dropped in July due to in-
sufficient evidence, records said.
The national organization’s execu-
tive director, Ben Ely, didn’t immedi-
ately respond to requests for comment.
UF chapter president Travis Knight 
wrote in an email that the fraternity 
does not condone hazing, as the inci-dent was done “by a small minority” 
and does not “represent the character of 
our men.”
“We’re grateful that the correct 
judgement was made to seek medical 
attention and that this didn’t turn out to 
be worse,” Knight said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgDELTA CHI,  from pg. 1A pledge was hospitalizedBy Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Alcohol was at the top of the 
agenda for Gainesville city com-
missioners and police at a joint 
meeting with UF Student Govern-
ment.  
The panel of members from 
the Gainesville Police Depart-
ment, University Police and city 
commissioners met Tuesday night in the student Senate cham-
ber at the Reitz Union. Roughly 
35 people, besides student sena-
tors, attended the meeting and 
panel discussion. This is the first 
time a joint meeting has been 
held since January 2017, said UF 
Senate President Danielle Grosse. 
In the 45-minute panel, com-
missioners and police discussed 
getting rid of open container laws 
in some areas on football game-days and the possibility of ex-
tending the closing times at Mid-
town bars. 
Although bars could stay open 
past 2 a.m., they would stop serv-
ing alcohol, said Gainesville May-
or Lauren Poe. This would give 
time for bar-goers to call for rides 
home.
Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos said the current closing 
time sends off thousands of peo-ple from a constrained space into 
the street at the same time. 
“It’s a public safety issue,” 
Hayes-Santos said. 
Extending the hours of the 
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Pa-
trol and the Gainesville Regional 
Transit System may be able to get 
students home safely, said UPD 
Maj. Bart Knowles. Police pres-
ence would also need to increase 
during the early hours of the morning if students were to stay 
out later, he said.  
“We’ve got a personal respon-
sibility to stand up and make sure 
we are doing the right thing,” 
Knowles said. “Whether it’s an 
individual decision to help our 
friend that we’re with or to help 
make sure that we’re all getting 
home safe at the end of the eve-
ning.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgCity commissioners and police discuss alcohol at SG meeting
This is the first time a joint meeting has been held since January 2017.  Kane
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man didn’t pay for the about $100 of iced 
coffee he jammed down his pants Sunday night, 
Gainesville Police said.
David Rahn Barwinski, 61, 
of Gainesville, is accused of 
walking in and out of Circle 
K, at 1515 N Main St., three 
times with various Starbucks 
Frappuccinos and Dunkin 
Donuts espresso drinks in his 
hands, pockets and the front 
of his pants without paying, 
according to the arrest report. 
Barwinski walked in Circle K around 9 p.m. 
He put the drinks in his car and walked back 
into the store again, the report said. An employ-
ee called police as Barwinski put the drinks in 
his car, police said. 
Barwinski walked into the store for a third 
time but was confronted by an employee when 
he tried to leave without paying, the report said. 
The employee told police that Barwinski said he 
forgot to pay for one drink, placed a bottle on 
the counter and walked out.
When an employee followed him to his car 
and told him to return the coffee, Barwinski 
yelled, “F--- you!” according to the report.
When police arrived, ofﬁ  cers found a car lit-
tered with Starbucks Frappuccinos and Dunkin 
Donuts coffee drinks but no receipts.
Barwinski told police he bought the coffee at 
a different store and later said he bought some 
of the coffee from the Circle K.
Barwinski was charged with theft and was 
banned from Circle K, the report said. He was 
released from Alachua County Jail early Mon-
day morning without bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Man shoves 
stolen iced coﬀ  ee 
in pants
Barwinski
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer 
In fall 1961, then-17-year-old Michael 
Gengler took a poll for his high school’s 
newspaper. 
The poll asked Gainesville High School 
students if they were in favor of desegrega-
tion. Sixty-two percent of the student body 
said no.  
“I was disappointed,” Gengler said. 
“Being from Gainesville and having a 
strong connection to the community, this 
was something I wanted to investigate.”
Now, more than 50 years later, Gen-
gler, 74, who was born and raised in Gainesville, wrote a book called “We Can 
Do It: A Community Takes on the Chal-
lenge of School Desegregation.”
His ﬁ  rst book analyzes the history of 
Gainesville’s battle with school integration 
and is avaliable to purchase since Tuesday.
Gengler began his research six years 
ago, focusing on how Gainesville faced the 
national conﬂ  ict of desegregation in the 
late ’60s and early ’70s and the integration 
of Gainesville High School and Lincoln 
High School. The two high schools did not 
integrate until January 1970, said Ryan 
Morini, the associate program director of 
UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.
“There was a lot of protest and conﬂ  ict 
over that,” Morini said.Many of the interviews Gengler used for 
research were from the history program.
The oral interviews, with more than 80 
retired teachers and alumni, focus on how 
the integrations affected people. Students 
had to begin at new schools in the middle 
of the year, and Gengler said he looked at 
how they adapted to these circumstances.
The retired lawyer also used informa-
tion like archived The Gainesville Sun 
newspaper articles.
Gengler said he hopes the book will 
help the community gain a better under-
standing of desegregation.
“I hope what people get from this book 
is a good understanding of the facts,” Gen-
gler said.Gainesville native’s book chronicles the 
integration process of local high schools 
THE NEW PARKING INITIATIVE 
BEGAN LAST WEEK. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is putting its new parking lot to use 
by selling spots about half a mile from 
home football games. 
People can purchase guaranteed park-
ing near the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium at 
the newly opened Flavet Lot across Mu-
seum Road from Hume Hall, for $50 per 
game, said Scott Fox, the director of UF 
Transportation and Parking Services. 
Parking can be pre-purchased using the 
Passport Parking Mobile Pay app or by 
credit card online.
The Flavet Lot opened in August to 
make room for 600 parking spaces that 
would be gone during construction.
Parking was ﬁ  rst available for pur-
chase last Wednesday and used for the 
ﬁ  rst time during Saturday’s football game against Charleston Southern, said Fox. 
More than 90 people reserved spots in the 
225-space lot.  
“From the buzz we are hearing, we ex-
pect to do even better this Saturday,” Fox 
said. “Maybe even a sell out.”
The Passport app is free to download. 
It was chosen as a platform of payment 
because it is already used in Gainesville, 
said AnaLee Rodriguez, the marketing 
specialist for UF Transportation and Park-
ing Services.
Livia Grillo, a 19-year-old UF micro-
biology sophomore, said she’s glad she 
can park near the stadium during home 
games rather than being inconvenienced 
by walking from a distance.
“It will be really convenient for when 
my parents come here for games,” Grillo 
said. “I’m glad it’s an option.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgGameday parking oﬀ  ered 
Mackenzie Behm, Alligator Staff
Manhunt on 13th
Tuesday night, twelve Gainesville 
Police units searched for a man 
suspected of an earlier car burglary at 
Boardwalk Apartments on Southwest 
13th Street, said Lt. Steven Bradford.Editorial
ColumnIn remembrance of 
International Overdose 
Awareness Day
Sleepless news cycle turns journalism into drama
My column last week posed the problem 
of 24/7 news. This week, I wish to ex-
amine a few of this problem’s conse-
quences.
Until recently, I was not aware that 
sleepless news was a problem. For millennials, 
information has never imposed limits; we have 
never had to wait until the library opens the next 
day, or for the morning newspaper to arrive so 
we can know the latest. We grew up with Fox, 
CNN, Rush Limbaugh and the internet. News 
shows and seven-day-a-week newspapers, radio programs 
and the internet have always been the norm.
As I argued last week, though, constant information 
inevitably forces journalists to manufacture content rather 
than report it. Daniel Boorstin, the late author of “The Im-
age,” classiﬁ  es this trend as the rise of the “pseudo-event.” 
A pseudo-event is, in a journalistic context, a piece of news 
that is not spontaneous, but staged and coordinated for the 
purpose of being reported upon. Interviews, debates and 
press conferences are pseudo-events to Boorstin. They are 
events designed speciﬁ  cally for news coverage, unlike a 
hurricane or a Ponzi Scheme, which are initially separate 
from the press and only come to its attention after the fact.
Pseudo-events are troublesome because they beget am-
biguity. How many times have we seen a person lie on tele-
vision or in an interview? We all know how much attention 
politicians pay to what they say and how they say it. Presi-
dential debates, for example, are dramatic and entertaining 
precisely because they have been pre-planned, like theater 
is, with the questions selectively chosen by the modera-
tors, and the answers rehearsed for days and weeks by the 
debaters.
In today’s age, our news increasingly resembles drama, 
and the subjects of our news have turned into dramatic per-
formers. Politicians have parts to play and lines to recite, 
and their speeches are often times distributed to the press 
beforehand. Consequently, a simple deviation from the 
script is itself newsworthy. Boorstin put this so well in “The 
Image” that I wrote “Trump” in the margins: “In the de-mocracy of pseudo-events, anyone can become 
a celebrity, if only he can get into the news and 
stay there.” How one stays relevant in the news 
is through drama — by saying the controversial 
things and being extreme in one’s opinions.
Pseudo-events are fog machines. They make 
it difﬁ  cult for consumers to discern what is and 
what is not reliable. One can never really know if 
a person means what they said in their press con-
ference apology, if a politician lied to the media 
about embezzling money or if a celebrity really is 
who they appear to be.
It is human nature to deceive people — to project an im-
age of oneself according to who others want you to be. And 
although lying is not a modern invention, mass media that 
prefers image over truth and performance over authentic-
ity, is.
Pseudo-events also beget memory loss. There is so much 
content coming in each day that important events are treat-
ed as moments to touch on brieﬂ  y and move past, rather 
than touchstones to meditate on. The Las Vegas shooting, 
for example, the deadliest mass shooting in American his-
tory, was less than a year ago. What would that have done 
to us if the news was not constant? Would we have moved 
on so quickly?
Yet, the news must go on. There are always deadlines 
to meet. There is a gulf between how much is reported and 
how much actually happens in the world. To make up for 
this, pseudo-events are increasingly called on for relief. But 
rather than relieve, they decompose transformative, culture 
shaping events from our minds like ants eating a dead ani-
mal.
Now, it is evident how much I love to deconstruct. But 
that’s the easy part. News today is problematic — where do 
we go from there? I’m not sure. But whatever the solution, 
we can all agree that this subject, among the other subjects 
we encounter in the news today, is at least worth reporting 
on.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His column usually 
appears on Mondays.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
On Monday, people around the world mourned, remem-
bered and honored those they lost to drug overdose 
for International Overdose Awareness Day. We are re-
minded daily, louder and more clearly, that the issues of 
drug abuse, whether prescription or illegal, more closely 
relate to health than crime.
In 2016, Alachua County heroin overdoses and arrests spiked. 
That same year, more than 40,000 people in the U.S. died from 
opioid overdoses, according to the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. 
The situation appears more dire the closer one looks.
One-third of U.S. adults use prescription painkillers, according 
to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administra-
tion. Each one of them stands in the crosshairs of potential ad-
diction.
In 2015, more than 1.4 percent of all patients with a prescrip-
tion for painkillers misused their medication to “get high” or “feel 
good.” All it takes is one misuse to become addicted. Opioids 
are particularly addictive because they create a powerful sense of 
well-being that can lead to compulsive and out-of-control use. Al-
though patients might think taking a few extra pills will get them 
through the pain or give them a moment of bliss, they unknow-
ingly expose themselves to drug abuse each time they exceed 
their prescribed dose. 
Additionally, friends and family members who might have ac-
cess to the medication are vulnerable, too. The fact is, simply 
having opioids in a pill bottle in your cupboard increases your 
risk of addiction. Although there is a broad range of circumstanc-
es that factor into drug addiction of any kind, having easy access 
to addictive substances is one of the major contributors.
At the center of the crisis is the popular idea that prescription 
medication use is somehow safer or less addictive than illegal 
drug use. Years later, many ﬁ  nd they have formed a habit they 
can’t get rid of. Then, that habit can grow so expensive that some 
turn to heroin for relief.
Yet, we think differently about those who abuse prescriptions 
and those who use heroin.
When we think of opiate addiction in the U.S., too often we 
conjure the mental image of syringes and back-alleys. When we 
think addiction, we think crime — a problem that can be solved 
with punishment. But what has become increasingly obvious to 
health professionals is that we cannot continue to battle addiction 
with handcuffs; the best way to help those suffering from opiate 
addiction is to provide medical solutions, not legal ones.
Most of the drug-related arrests in the U.S. continue to be 
based on possession of the drug, not its sale or manufacture, 
meaning those who are addicted could end up in jail rather than 
in a hospital. This goes to show that laws and policies that crimi-
nalize addiction (by criminalizing possession) are of no help to 
public health and do little to solve the crisis.
Instead, we should be making investments into drug abuse 
treatment and prevention programs and ﬁ  xing the problem where 
it starts: with prescriptions. Florida has moved in this direction 
with the establishment of alcohol and drug abuse trust funds — 
Alachua County has one as well. Florida’s legislature has enacted 
a new law that makes it harder to get a temporary prescription for 
opioids and even harder to get a long-term prescription.
But we must go further. We have to start thinking about how 
we have criminalized heroin but allowed a loophole for opium 
by allowing it to be prescribed by a doctor. The truth is that the 
addiction is the same, and we must offer the same sympathy to 
everyone, no matter what type of opiate they are addicted to. To 
those addicted to drugs illegal and prescription alike, we must 
offer a helping hand, and we must do it soon.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORScott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.‘Crazy Rich Asians’: 
Flip over to page 9 for our Avenue take on this new blockbuster 
hit!Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve.Game Day Fashion!
T ake a look at page 8 for some Grade A Gator style 
icons.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
Chris Redd spent 15 years as a rapper 
in Chicago, sometimes sleeping late to skip 
breakfast and save money. Today, he’s an 
Emmy-nominated comedian, but it was the 
detours before comedy that built him into a 
“Saturday Night Live” star.
Last Wednesday, Redd (“Disjointed,” 
“Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping,” etc.) 
performed stand-up in the Reitz Union Rion 
Ballroom. After his set, Redd reﬂ  ected on his 
work ethic, the pressures of being a student, 
life after “Saturday Night Live” and upcom-
ing projects with comedian Pete Davidson.
GF: How was the show? How did you 
think it went?
CR: Terribly (laughs). No, it was a lot of 
fun. It was really packed. I’m still in a place 
where I’m always just glad people came out. 
There’s so many other things they could 
be doing right now. And I’m always happy 
whenever someone comes to see the stand-
up, because a lot of people don’t know I do 
stand-up. So now, I can introduce them to 
that.
GF: OK. Because I was listening to what 
someone was saying after the show. They 
said something like, ‘Oh, I only know him 
from the YouTube sketches. I didn’t know 
he did stand-up. I thought he was going to 
do sketches.’
CR: Yo, that’s wild. Like, by myself? (Gets 
into character) ‘Where was you?’ ‘See where 
I was…’ (laughs) I mean, I’ve done that. In 
solo shows? Yeah, sometimes. But that’s 
not this. Sometimes my sets are (based on 
sketches) but most are never like that. … I 
mean, that’s a long time to be doing a sketch 
by yourself. But we’ll do that. When me and 
Pete (Davidson) ﬁ  nish our album, we’ll do 
something that’s more like that, but it will 
be music-based. 
GF:What’s it like doing college circuits 
after being on “SNL”? I know you’ve done 
some before.
CR:Well, the ones before, I was opening 
for somebody. The ones after, I’m headlin-
ing. That’s the big difference. I like colleges 
a lot. You get to know what college kids 
are laughing at and where their heads are 
at with everything. That’s interesting to me. 
People say that colleges are going through a 
thing where it makes it so comics don’t want 
to come. But I have a good time with (col-
lege students). It’s a good break to go from 
my reality into y’alls’ and come in and shake 
s--- up for a second.
GF: So, I know that back in your old Chi-
cago interviews, people kept calling you the 
gym rat of comedy. Do you still feel that?
CR: Oh yeah. That intentionally got me to 
where I’m at. And now it’s something I con-
tinue to hone and evolve. I have that same 
drive now, and there’s a little bit of survival 
that’s in there that you kind of have to turn off because you get to a point where you’re 
not working to survive anymore. But I am 
working to curate more work for a longer pe-
riod of time, which is a very different kind 
of energy – basically, working smarter, not 
harder. 
GF: And are you looking forward to go-
ing back? I’m not saying “SNL” is easier to 
handle. It’s obviously super hectic.
CR: Yeah, but a different hard though. 
It was a relief to be doing stand-up again. 
I mean, stand-up is hard as s---. But it’s dif-
ferent. It’s mine. Every failure, everything is 
(mine). When you’re in an environment like 
“SNL”, it’s a machine. And the machine is 
going to get content whether it’s you giving 
it or not. You could make the best thing and, 
for whatever reason, it still won’t ever see 
the light of day. There’s a different stress to 
(sketch comedy) than creating on a stage, 
just trying out anything you want to try. If 
it works, then okay; but if it doesn’t, it’s on 
you, but at least you got to try it. You can’t 
have that kind of freedom on “SNL”. You 
can’t just try anything on live TV. That’s in-
sane. ‘Oh yeah, yeah, let’s try it once.’ It’s 
like ‘Nah, dude.’ It has to be a certain way. 
It has to hit certain beats. But, they’re both 
fun, man. That’s why I wanted to do that 
show. I wanted that challenge.
GF: Well, I know you’re saying you can’t 
just try something, but two of my favorite 
things from both this past season and all of 
“SNL” in general were “Come Back, Barack” 
and “Friendos.” You’re Emmy-nominated 
now for “Come Back, Barack.”
CR: That was crazy. I didn’t write that 
thinking I was going to get an Emmy (nomi-
nation). We (Kenan Thompson, Will Ste-
phen, and Redd, with Chance the Rapper 
and music by Eli Brueggemann) were just 
really trying to get something on TV at that 
point. I still remember we stayed up 25 
hours to write that thing. It was crazy. But 
when it hit at the table read, we knew we 
might have a good shot at the show. … And 
then with “Friendos,” me and Will had a 
groove; we knew how to write songs togeth-
er. We already had a bunch of songs. I kind 
of learned what “SNL” was, so I wasn’t get-
ting so stressed out when I worked. And so 
“Friendos” was the most fun I’ve had writing 
in that building. It was so much fun. And 
Donald (Glover) (or, Childish Gambino) was 
super cool. He was hanging around all night, 
so you were able to write something, go in 
there and spit it, and he’d be like, ‘Oh yeah, 
I like that.’ And so, we would come back, 
write, go back and spit something. It was 
a good vibe. When you have a host that’s 
able to be running s---, or at least hearing it 
to give you the feedback, it’s always a good 
time.
GF: And then getting off “SNL” here. I 
remember you calling comedy your second 
dream, whereas rap was always your ﬁ  rst 
dream. Where does that idea stand now?CR: That’s always going to be that 
way. I spent 15 years trying to be a rap-
per, so that’s just the history of how I 
got into this. I love comedy in a way 
that I thought I wouldn’t. I don’t know. 
I mean, I get to rap now on a bigger 
platform than I ever had before in my 
life. I think it’s all the same dream; I just 
think I spent a long time getting good at 
one dream that kind of fused with the 
other. I feel like it’s a super dream now 
(laughs). That’s what it feels like! It’s 
why I can’t sleep. That’s why I’m al-
ways working because I’m always 
excited about everything all the 
time. So, I don’t really think 
about it that much. I just do. 
I just try to do as much as 
I can. 
GF: Finally, in your 
set you mentioned 
knowing how college 
wasn’t for you. I can 
actually empathize with 
that. Your parents had 
a proven track-record of 
college working for them, 
and that’s why they might have 
initially pushed you to do it. 
Whereas my parents view 
college as the only op-
tion to success because 
nothing else worked 
for them. But I know 
some students might 
not feel super at-
tached to being in 
college. Beyond giv-
ing me advice, when 
is it that you actually 
know you’re not sup-
posed to be here and 
that you’re meant to 
be doing something 
else? Basically, I 
need permission to 
drop out of college. 
CR: (laughs) Well 
ﬁ  rst, you always know. 
You know. I always 
knew I wasn’t sup-
posed to work a regular 
job. I always knew. I 
worked 50 jobs. And I also know when I’m 
supposed to eat, you know. It’s really just 
about the timing of when you’re supposed 
to leave. If you can pull something impor-
tant from whatever it is you’re doing now 
that you need on your journey to (get) where 
you actually want to be, that’s where you’re 
supposed to spend your time. If you feel like 
you’re not getting anything from that place, 
that’s when you know it’s time to switch it 
up. … Sometimes, (college) can be a part of 
your toolbelt. For me, (college) just wasn’t 
worth so much in that part of my life. But 
I was still a nerd; I was still getting books and reading s--. I was still studying all my 
favorite classes about all the things I wanted 
to learn. I did creative writing and some on-
line stuff. But I couldn’t see myself going to a 
college or living in a dorm. That wasn’t me. 
So, I always knew that. People just had to 
catch up to me. I took a lot of criticism un-
til stuff started working with comedy. I was 
26 whenever people really started giving a 
s---. And when I started getting shows, they 
could see it all the time. Then they were like 
‘Yo, I’d always knew you’d make it.’ No, you 
didn’t. When it comes to what you want to 
do, you’ll know. Trust your gut every time.‘SNL’s Chris Redd on comedy, education and Pete Davidson
Q&A
Courtesy to The Alligator
Chris Redd performed his stand-up special in for UF 
students in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom last week.
 That’s always going to be that 
way. I spent 15 years trying to be a rap-
per, so that’s just the history of how I 
got into this. I love comedy in a way 
that I thought I wouldn’t. I don’t know. 
I mean, I get to rap now on a bigger 
platform than I ever had before in my 
life. I think it’s all the same dream; I just 
think I spent a long time getting good at 
one dream that kind of fused with the 
other. I feel like it’s a super dream now 
(laughs). That’s what it feels like! It’s 
why I can’t sleep. That’s why I’m al-
ways working because I’m always 
excited about everything all the 
time. So, I don’t really think 
about it that much. I just do. 
actually empathize with 
that. Your parents had 
a proven track-record of 
college working for them, 
and that’s why they might have 
initially pushed you to do it. 
Whereas my parents view 
college as the only op-
tion to success because 
nothing else worked 
for them. But I know 
ing me advice, when 
is it that you actually 
‘SNL’s Chris Redd on comedy, education and Pete Davidson
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
COLLEGE 
NIGHT
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595Free Wells 
for Ladies
All-You-Can-Eat 
Chicken Tenders  
(w/Fries & Slaw) $13.99WEDNESDAY NIGHTS
In the Creekside Mall Plaza
Lindsey Breneman
TOP: ‘Best Buds’ Jeffery Fernandez, left, and Drew Latta, right. 
Warning: Acrylic paint may make the body itch.
BOTTOM: ‘The Subtle Gator’ looks like he’s in everyday attire, 
until you spot his socks. 
Lindsey Breneman
‘The Cheerleader, ’ Colette Bialick, rocks a 
uniform skirt and CHOMP tube top.
Lindsey Breneman
‘Overall? A fan. ’ Christopher Johnson, 
sports the gameday staple overalls.
Choose your ﬁ  ghter: Gameday Fashion EditionLindsey Breneman
Avenue Writer
The world is in dire need of more 
“Crazy Rich Asians.”
The importance of this ﬁ  lm can-
not be overstated. It does so much 
more than the main attraction: an 
all-Asian cast in a Hollywood non-
period movie for the ﬁ  rst time in 
25 years. It also manages to pres-
ent a romantic comedy full of strong 
women, as well as heartwarmingly 
beautiful relationships between com-
plicated characters. 
As the cherry on top, the cinema-
tography is absolutely stunning. 
Sara Han, a 21-year-old UF Eng-
lish and Asian-American studies se-
nior, is a Chinese American student. 
She’s seen the movie three times 
already. She said she believes it is 
groundbreaking because it shows 
that Asian Americans are not mono-
lithic and they can be relatable to 
non-Asian audiences.
If money talks, it’s currently tell-
ing Hollywood that Jon M. Chu creat-
ed a masterpiece. In the three weeks 
since “Crazy Rich Asians” was re-
leased, it has grossed over $117 mil-
lion domestically and $136.9 million 
worldwide, according to The Hol-
lywood Reporter. This makes it the 
most proﬁ  table rom-com in almost a 
decade. 
Despite the consistent barrage of 
white-washed movies, people of col-
or actually attend the theater more 
often, according to the Motion Pic-
ture Association of America. Asian 
Americans attended theaters an av-
erage of 4.3 times in 2017, compared 
to white people who only went 3.2 
times.
So, although a ﬁ  lm telling an 
Asian American story while actually 
featuring actors of Asian descent was 
long overdue, at least the wait pro-
duced a treasure. 
Quoc-Thong Pham, a Vietnamese 
American, is a 20-year-old UF the-
ater junior who formerly served on 
the executive board of the Asian Stu-
dent Union. He said seeing this ﬁ  lm 
was a dream come true.
Representation matters. When we constantly consume stereotypes, 
it’s difﬁ  cult not to internalize them.
It’s refreshing to see dynamic, 
intelligent female characters in any 
movie. However, for a race that has 
often been portrayed by Hollywood 
as meek and governable, it is par-
ticularly exhilarating to watch the 
women in Crazy Rich Asians.
“When I was growing up I would 
have loved to see someone as smart 
and inquisitive as Rachel Chu. I 
would have loved to see someone 
as ﬁ  erce as Eleanor,” Han said. “Just 
because that would show I could be 
all those things and have all those 
personalities. Rather than people al-
ways just assuming that I’m quiet or 
submissive because I’m Asian.”
Pham said he never understood 
the docile stereotype of Asian wom-
en because the women in his life 
have always been strong-willed and 
vocal about their beliefs. 
So when Astrid delivered “I 
can’t make you what you’re not… a 
man” in a quiet tempered voice and 
walked away from her cheating hus-
band, Pham thought it was the big-
gest mic drop he’d ever seen. 
Han also said the diversity of 
Asian bodies was also a welcome 
surprise for her. Every actor abso-
lutely owned it, too, which made 
them even more appealing. 
The most comedic relief from 
the main characters is provided by 
Awkwaﬁ  na, who portrayed Rachel 
Chu’s college roommate, Piek Lien, 
and Nico Santos, who portrayed the 
rainbow sheep of the family, an epi-
thet his character, Oliver, coined for 
himself within his ﬁ  rst few lines.
The amount of wealth in the ﬁ  lm 
perturbed Han. When she ﬁ  rst saw 
the trailer, she didn’t think she could 
possibly relate to the ﬁ  lm. That com-
pletely changed when she saw it. 
Crazy Rich Asians is seen through 
the eyes of a Chinese American girl, 
Rachel Chu, with an immigrant 
mother. It’s a perspective that’s es-
sential to Han’s own identity. She 
said it is still problematic that the 
ﬁ  lm does nothing to acknowledge 
the stark inequalities in Singapore and other Asian countries.
Han said seeing the relationship 
between Chu, played by Constance 
Wu, and her mother was like see-
ing herself and her mom on screen. 
When the two are lying together 
on the bed talking in the ﬁ  lm, Han 
looked over at her mom beside her 
and remembered the thousands of 
times they had done the same.
Eleanor Young, played by Mi-
chelle Yeoh, was perhaps the most 
complex and interesting character. 
It was apparent from the very ﬁ  rst 
scene that she was a force to be 
reckoned with. It was also extremely 
apparent how much she truly loved 
her son and her family. But when 
she looked into Chu’s eyes and told 
her she would never be good enough 
for her son, it broke my heart. Pham 
said it spoke to an innate inadequacy 
born in the Asian American experi-
ence. 
The tension at the intersection 
of Rachel Chu’s identity was one of 
the most important plot points. Both 
Han and Pham said it was too relat-
able.
“I think America has a very utili-
tarian mindset. You live your own 
life to the fullest and give back to 
the people close to you in the best 
way you know how to,” Pham said. 
“Whereas a lot of minority stories 
are stories of self-sacriﬁ  ce. It’s al-
most like you’re caught in this sort of 
identity crisis when you’re trapped 
between those two worlds: You 
don’t want to let down your family 
but you also don’t want to let down 
yourself.”
Han said the ﬁ  rst two times she 
saw the movie with her parents and 
went for the third time with her 
friends from the Asian American 
Student Association. She said seeing 
it with her friends was an incredibly 
different experience, because the 
tension at that intersection is some-
thing only people inside it can truly 
understand. 
Pham also saw the movie with 
his friend from the AASA on open-
ing weekend. He said there were so 
many moments throughout the ﬁ  lm when they would look at one an-
other, silently communicating their 
disbelief that their experiences were 
being portrayed so accurately on the 
big screen in front of them. During 
the food market scene, Pham saw 
some of his favorite dishes while his 
friend leaned over to him and whis-
pered she missed her home country. 
He said it wasn’t just about the food, 
but the experience of sharing it with 
your loved ones.
The scene in which the family 
sits around making dumplings was 
surreal to see onscreen for both 
Pham and Han. Pham said he had 
learned to make dumplings from his 
mother, who learned from hers. 
Han said her mother cannot cook 
to save her life, so she learned from 
her grandmother, like Nick Young, 
although she says her creations nev-
er come out as well. She laughed as 
she admitted her grandmother sent 
her back to school with over 100 
homemade dumplings, which are 
stored in her freezer. 
Jon M. Chu decided not to cast 
the actors strictly to their actual 
ethnicities and nationalities. For ex-
ample, Constance Wu is not actually 
Chinese but Taiwanese and Harry 
Golding, who plays Nick Young, 
is half Malaysian and half British. 
Asian actors playing different na-
tionalities is particularly problematic 
because it contributes to the already fraught conception many Americans 
seem to have, which is that Asian 
cultures are interchangeable.
Not to mention, “Crazy Rich 
Asians” almost only shows East 
Asian folks, with the exception of 
the two Sikh guards with “knife 
guns.” The fact that they don’t say 
a single word and are the only non-
East Asians is unfortunate.
Constance Wu posted on Face-
book the day of the premiere to 
address this, saying “I know CRA 
won’t represent every Asian Ameri-
can. So for those who don’t feel 
seen, I hope there is a story you ﬁ  nd 
soon that does represent you.”
Pham and Han both agreed that 
it is an issue. But, they hope that 
the success of “Crazy Rich Asians” 
leads to more opportunities for all 
minority groups being represented. 
Han said as long as Emma Stone 
isn’t present, its already a giant step 
forward. 
So maybe you’ll never go to a gi-
ant Singapore mansion that made the 
elderly lady beside me gasp “Good 
Lord!” Maybe you’ve never had to 
worry about thinking you need eye-
lid tape before or being called a ba-
nana. And maybe, like me, you have 
no idea which languages are being 
spoken interspersed between Eng-
lish. There is still plenty that you can 
connect to in “Crazy Rich Asians.” If 
not, you may not be human.Better than ‘The Notebook’WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Courtesy to The Avenue
“Crazy Rich Asians” triumphs in the box ofﬁ  ce.
MOVIES10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
“Oh, I hope we change. I really thought 
this world would change.”
This past weekend, Childish Gambino re-
leased the music video for “Feels Like Sum-
mer,” a song that debuted alongside “Sum-
mertime Magic” in the previously released 
two-song EP “Summer Pack.”
Similar to “This is America,” a song co-
written and co-produced by Gambino and 
frequent collaborator Ludwig Göransson 
(“Creed,” “Fruitvale Station,” “Black Pan-
ther,” etc.), “Feels Like Summer” is an enig-
matic reﬂ  ection of Gambino’s views on Amer-
ican politics, blackness and popular culture.
However, unlike “This is America,” this 
new music video celebrates and reminisces 
upon speciﬁ  c black personalities and signiﬁ  -
cant events within the culture, such as the 
nomination of Democratic Florida Gov. An-
drew Gillum or the murder of rapper XXX-
Tentacion.
Other references and cameos are also dis-
persed throughout the video: Michelle Obama is seen comforting Kanye West, who wears a 
MAGA hat. Soulja Boy tells stories to an as-
tonished Lil Pump and Trippie Redd. Zendaya 
and Lil Uzi Vert get their hair done by Tiffany 
Haddish and Oprah Winfrey.
These cameos close the disconnect be-
tween celebrity and citizen. Artists like Be-
yoncé, SZA or Frank Ocean are immensely 
talented but also tragically human – they 
share the same fears, hopes and anxieties as 
the rest of us. 
In these appearances, we are reminded 
that progress and joy comes in small glimpses. 
Nothing has really changed, as America con-
tinues to ﬁ  ght a civil war. Understanding this, 
“Feels Like Summer” relies on our passionate 
feelings and attitudes toward these icons to 
complement a wholly dissociated narrative.
Furthermore, Gambino displays no signs 
of fear, confusion or anger in the video, a 
contrast from his darker, heightened perfor-
mance in “This Is America.” Shown simply 
walking slowly, almost robotically, down 
an unnamed street, Gambino instead seems 
apathetic towards the people and events sur-
rounding him.This apathy is further am-
pliﬁ  ed by a detached anima-
tion style and melancholic col-
or palette. Mellow pinks, light 
browns and mournful oranges 
embrace each other to create a 
nostalgic hopelessness – a feel-
ing that burrows itself into the 
darkened, polysemantic ﬂ  esh 
of this track. 
Perhaps this apathy is war-
ranted. In a country where 
black people make up less 
than 14 percent of the total 
population, it can sometimes 
seem difﬁ  cult to prove that the 
larger American society under-
stands, or even cares about, 
the historical plight of minority groups.
Simply put, “Feels Like Summer” is vehe-
mently and unapologetically black. It is not a 
celebration of hip-hop or rap culture. 
That this culture is so signiﬁ  cantly tied to 
the experience of being black in America is 
portrayed as mere, albeit historically impor-
tant, coincidence — a movement grown or-ganically out of the desire to create a common 
identity.
“Feels Like Summer” is the antithesis of a 
diss track; it’s a chill track, a plea from Gam-
bino that asks for all of us to combat hope-
lessness with imagination and to love and 
understand one another before, like summer, 
we become just a pastel memory of a time. Childish Gambino reminisces in ‘Feels Like Summer’ video
MUSIC
Justin Richburg
Glover portrayed in “Feels Like Summer. ”
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDSAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
1BR for rent in 2-story house.
Available now for college student. $500/mo 
incl elec. Near UF: 1022 NW 3rd Ave. Call 
352-672-8657    9-14-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDSAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     9-14-18-
6-14
Learn how to
Make an extra $400/wk
testing apps as a student at:
www.collegeopporturnity.club     9-7-18-3-14
Part-time church secretary needed week -
day afternoons: back up to receptionist on 
phones and interacting with visitors. Looking 
for proficiency in Microsoft Suite, ACS and 
social media updates.    Email resume to 
sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.     9-7-18-3-14
Learn how to
make an extra $300 - $400 per week
doing surveys.
Go to: http://collegecashoffers.club     9-12-
18-5-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
MAKE EXTRA $450 a week
taking surveys as a college student. Go to 
www.collegemakemoneyopportunity.club    
9-10-18-3-14
Learn how to
make an extra $390+ / week
TESTING APPS.
Go to: wwwlcollegecash.club     9-5-1-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
NOW HIRING for FALL '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-5-18-6-14
MAKE MONEY FROM YOUR DORM 
ROOM!! Email grassed24@gmail.com for 
details     9-5-18-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Part-time office assistant for law office. 
Wed. & Thurs - Noon to 5:00 p.m. Answer 
phones; take information from potential 
clients; schedule appointments; run er -
rands. Reliable transportation necessary. 
Proficiency in Microsoft Word required. 
Email Resume with salary requirements to 
receptionist@millerelderlawfirm.com.     9-7-
18-5-14
Yardwork/some light housecleaning. Student, 
P/T a few hrs/wk. Wanted by retired UF grad. 
Close to UF, all equipment furn. $10-12/hr 
depending on exp/effectiveness. Reply w/ 
sched/ short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com     
9-7-5-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14ACROSS
1 Tot’s drink, to 
the tot
5 Side-by-side 
truck tires
10 Fifth Avenue 
landmark
14 Help with a heist
15 Play direction
16 Lint collector
17 Sci-fi princess 
with a twin 
brother
18 BLOCK
20 Abs exercise
22 Take out of the 
packaging
23 CATCH
26 Picnic crasher
28 Harrison of  
“My Fair Lady”
29 Help
30 Tiny Lab, e.g.
33 “But seriously 
folks ... ” is one
35 Forest ranger?
36 Selfish shout
37 KICK
41 “What __!”: “I’ve 
been had!”
42 Little chap
43 Big dipper
44 Many a dad joke
45 Transparent art 
surface
46 MADD message, 
e.g.
48 __ Lingus
49 PASS
52 Legend 
automaker
55 Alternative 
medicine staple
58 RUN
61 Its oxide makes 
Mars red
62 Retired tennis 
pro Kournikova
63 Bartlett entry
64 Gunk
65 Woodpecker’s 
tool
66 Go over the limit
67 Ball elevators
DOWN
1 Outlet site
2 Busy as __
3 Reason to 
purchase a new 
belt
4 Pong maker
5 Get off the fence6 Like the name 
Pat
7 When some local 
news airs
8 Emmy-winning 
ESPN reporter 
Bob
9 Soon-to-be 
alumni: Abbr.
10 Smarted
11 Riyadh resident
12 Pecan pie syrup
13 Glasses, 
informally
19 College courtyard
21 Campaign pro?
24 Counter offer?
25 Goddess of 
victory
26 Music rights gp.
27 ’60s jacket style
30 Apartment used 
for overnight trips 
to the city
31 “I give up!”
32 Saint at a gate
34 Official behind a 
catcher
35 Word with tight 
or split
36 Juilliard deg.
38 Away from the 
wind39 Beaufort scale 
word
40 Cereal bit
45 Study a lot in a 
short time
46 Pontius __
47 Checked (out)
49 Come unglued, 
with “out”
50 Lake near 
California’s 
Squaw Valley
51 Throw out52 Queequeg’s 
captain
53 Scoop perch
54 Military sch. 
whose mascot is 
Bill the Goat
56 Casanova
57 Common 
conjunctions
59 Brightness figs. 
not measured in 
watts
60 “What’s goin’ on?”
By Gary Schlapfer and C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/05/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/05/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 5, 2018
ACROSS
1 Reality show
whose Dutch
version was
called “Now or
Neverland”
11 Conceal
15 “Now, look ... ”
16 “Hairspray” mom
17 Ballpark figure
18 Film noir crime
fighters
19 Calendar abbr.
20 “__: Cyber”
21 Fluctuates
23 Marsh growth
25 Dinette piece
with cupboards
27 City on the Oka
28 Org. in “This Film
Is Not Yet Rated”
30 Starts to slip and
slide?
31 Collection area
34 Chrysler Building
style
35 Source of suds
40 Label on some
foreign goods
42 Colorful almanac
pg.
46 For calorie
counters
47 Enjoying the
Smithsonian,
briefly
48 Pirates rival
50 Fire starter
51 Drama set in
’60s Manhattan
52 Music genre
54 Spare a friend’s
feelings, maybe
55 “Your turn”
56 One level higher
than
60 British weapon
acronym
61 Source of shade
62 Like apron
strings
63 Temptation
DOWN
1 Result of a gas
shortage?
2 Must-choose
situation
3 Top performer
4 Cal.’s 101, e.g.5 Thrust and parry
6 Words between
partners?
7 Starbucks tea
8 Common base
9 Mordor menace
10 “The Canterbury
Tales” estate
manager
11 Liverpool lengths
12 Online forum
VIPs
13 Eyes-closed
event
14 “The Wizard of
Oz” setting
22 51-Across
bigwig
24 Rags or bags
lead-in
25 Fire
26 Multiplication
symbol?
28 Mineral in thin
sheets
29 Smart dog
32 Mayan structure
33 Landlocked
Normandy
department
36 Light and fluffy
dessert37 Garment in a
Gilbert and
Sullivan title
38 Like a car in
storage
39 Syncopated
rhythmic element
41 Frozen Wasser
42 Loftiest
43 Cosmic energy,
in Hinduism
44 Tiny Tootsie Roll45 __ butter
49 Amazed
50 One of four ...
and of thirteen
52 Service with
painted nails
53 Gp. with many
barrels
57 Youngster’s
address
58 Youngster
59 Loud sound
By Greg Johnson
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/01/1809/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, September 1, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which of the 
Great Lakes reaches the farthest north 
and west?
2. LITERATURE: Which English 
poet wrote and illustrated “Songs of 
Innocence and of Experience”?
3. MOVIES: Who played the female 
lead in the 1942 film “Casablanca”?
4. OLYMPICS: In which sport 
would you perform the “Fosbury 
Flop”?
5. BUSINESS: Where was entre-
preneur/inventor Elon Musk born and 
raised?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
does a phlebotomist do for a living?
7. SCIENCE: What law is represent-
ed by the equation F=ma?
8. TELEVISION: Who starred in the 
TV series “Quantum Leap”?
9. HISTORY: In which war did the 
Battle of Verdun take place?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the name of an otter’s home?
Answers
1. Lake Superior
2. William Blake
3. Ingrid Bergman
4. The high jump
5. South Africa
6. Draws blood from the human body
7. Newton’s second law of motion
8. Scott Bakula
9. World War I
10. A holt or couch
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 3, 2018King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDSAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get Paid To Test Apps!
College students can make up to $400 per 
week testing Apps. Get started here: www.
testappsforcash.com     9-12-4-20
Learn how to
make an extra $400 per week
doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.paidcollegesurveys.com     9-12-
4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYBUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Quiet and easy to care for: 
Female Diamond Dove
with cage $10. Can deliver.
Contact nancyivey3@gmail.com    8-2-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1.  Greek goddess
1.  ____ Jackson5.  ____ fruit
2.  ____ turn6.  ____ dots
3.  Knobby, bumpy7.  Main course
4.  JourneyNETAAH
EWRNADERDID
KLOAP
AIHIRNP
AODNURLERENTE
EAOVYGANSWERS: 1A-Athena  5A-Dried  6A-Polka  7A-Entree
1D-Andrew  2D-Hairpin  3D-Nodular  4D-Voyage  B-Die Hard9-5-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Sylvester Stallone, Harrison Ford and Don Johnson 
all turned down the lead role in this movie.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 22 TicketsFormer UF gymnast Bridget Sloan 
will be the honorary Ms. Two Bits 
on Saturday. The 31-time All-
American appears the same day 
Florida attempts to extend its 31-
game win streak against Kentucky.Gators rise in AP , Coaches polls
Florida was ranked No. 25 in both polls following a blowout win at home. The 
team also benefited from several teams in the top 25 falling during college 
football's opening weekend. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
London Johnson clapped his 
hands together. The overlapping 
roar of the crowd at the Swamp 
nearly drowned out the signal for 
the Charleston Southern center 
to snap the ball. Then, an orange 
and blue blur came rushing toward 
him.
It was Gators defensive back 
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson flying 
across the line to greet the quarter-
back with a quick slam into the turf 
for his first sack on the first defen-
sive play of the season.
The remainder of the game for 
the CSU offense unfolded much 
like that play, reminding everyone 
why this Florida defense has been 
the strength of the team for so long.
No. 25 Florida danced to a 53-6 
clobbering of Charleston Southern 
in a game in which the defense 
held the Buccaneers to just three 
passing yards. Three. It was only 
the second time since 1996 UF held 
an opponent below 10 passing 
yards in a game.
“That just sets the standard 
for our defense is how I see it you 
know, that’s just how we are, that’s how our defense is,” tackle T.J. 
Slaton said of the Gardner-Johnson 
play. “We’re gonna be aggressive, 
we’re gonna play fast and we’re 
gonna be physical.” 
However, what went right 
last Saturday wasn’t the focus 
when defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham and other members of 
the defense spoke to reporters this 
week.
Instead, they collectively harped 
on a couple things this defense 
needs to do better.
Younger guys need to improve
A lot of inexperienced players 
saw playing time on Saturday dur-
ing the second half of a game that 
had been decided since the first 
quarter.
“(Cornerback) Trey Dean, first 
time playing, was able to go in and 
give us some quality snaps. So, 
from that standpoint I was pleased 
with that,” Grantham said, “but 
when you go back and look at it as 
a whole with our young guys we 
gotta continue to still work and de-
velop and get to where we need to 
be because we’ve got some tough Defense the focus for Gators heading into SEC opener
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
The O’Connell Center crowd stood on 
the tips of its collective toes as freshman 
Lauren Dooley took her approach toward 
a set from Allie Monserez.
With a 24-16 lead in the fourth set, she 
brought back her right arm — almost as 
if she was shooting an arrow — and re-
leased into the ball in a single motion.
The maneuver was too quick for UCF’s 
defense to pick up on Sunday afternoon as 
Dooley’s kill sealed Florida’s second win 
of the weekend during its first home tour-
nament.
A sea of orange and blue jerseys 
flooded the court, and wild screams rang 
throughout the O’Dome.
It’s that same spark of energy that Flor-
ida will need coming into this weekend’s 
matches in Flagstaff, Arizona.Here are three things we learned from 
watching the No. 8 Gators (3-2) compete:
 
Florida is doing well at earning its 
own points
Unlike in many other sports, a volley-
ball team can score points off of its oppo-
nents’ mistakes.
Over the weekend, Florida did a decent 
job of limiting its opponents and scoring 
its own points and ended with a 2-1 re-
cord.
In Sunday’s matchup against UCF, the 
Gators scored 76 points off of kills, blocks 
and service aces while only gaining about 
31 points off of the Knights’ errors (missed 
serves, attack errors, etc.).
Florida scored 68 points in Saturday’s 
matchup against Southern California. 
Twenty-four came off of Trojan errors.
Florida maintained a strong advantage 3 things we learned from 
Florida's tourney weekend Morgan Meets the Eye / Opinions
I would normally recom-
mend taking a step back from 
the hysterically overblown 
hype of this game. Take 
Feleipe Franks’ jump pass, 
take the two blocked kicks, 
take that goofy GIF of coach 
Dan Mullen dancing — take it 
all, and bury it in a box. Bury 
that box in a ditch and toss 
that ditch into a river. 
I would normally recommend taking that 
box out only in emergencies, say, for a po-
tential beatdown of the Gators. 
F*** that. Roll with it, you spunky 
Gators. Ride that wave of euphoria. That’s 
the most patriotic advice I can dish out.
Fan bases — like the American people — 
need to feel good about some things. Small 
victories matter to us. Our collective ritual 
of hootin’ n’ hollerin’ over football-watchin’ 
serves a greater purpose.It breeds debate for people 
who otherwise wouldn’t nor-
mally talk to those they disagree 
with. It gives some folks a reason 
to look forward to next week and 
a sense of community.
All of those feelings are sorely 
missing, especially in today’s po-
litical and social climate.
Strip away all of the expecta-
tions for the Gators this season. Shed the 
veil of 8-4 predictions. Ignore the “It’s-only-
the-first-game-against-an-FCS-team” talk.
Be excited. Overreact after every win be-
cause the experts told you your team didn’t 
stand a chance. Melt down with every loss 
because the optimists jinxed it. 
It’s OK to enjoy something. It’s OK to 
feel overwhelming emotion because a ball 
bounced your way as opposed to theirs. 
That’s not being selfish, that’s being human. It’s more than OK to be hype about UF 
football — it’s 100 percent American
Morgan McMullen
@MorganMcMuffin
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 16Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Defensive back Chauncey Gardner-Johnson recorded a sack on UF's first defensive series Saturday 
against Charleston Southern. The defense had three sacks during the 53-6 rout. 
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
MEN’S TENNIS
By Kyle Wood 
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s tennis team is reloading 
with talented youth and new faces this sea-
son following a quarterfinals loss in the 2018 
Division I Men’s Tennis Championship. 
The team saw a lot of 
turnover in the offseason, 
returning only six players 
from last season’s roster 
while adding five under-
classmen. Those signees 
were part of a class that 
earned a No. 1 ranking 
from tennisrecruiting.
com. 
Brothers and Gainesville natives Grey 
and Harry Cacciatore from Buchholz High 
School rounded out the top haul after sign-
ing in April. They’ll join fellow five-star re-
cruits Lukas Greif and Sam Riffice, both of 
whom signed in November 2017.
Sophomore Brian Berdusco will also join 
the team following his transfer from Pepper-
dine. He was granted immediate eligibility 
to play in early June and has three years 
remaining. Berdusco, a Florida native, was 
also a five-star recruit out of high school.
Sophomores Andy Andrade and Oliver 
Crawford were two of UF’s best singles 
players a season ago. Andrade compiled a 
28-11 overall singles record while Crawford 
went 27-8 and posted the best winning per-
centage on the team in doubles.
Duarte Vale, also entering his second 
year, tied for the fourth-most doubles victo-
ries on the team last season.
Johannes Ingildsen, perhaps the best 
overall player on the team, returns for his junior season. 
In 2018, he earned All-American Doubles 
honors and was named to the All-SEC Sec-
ond Team in addition to receiving multiple 
academic honors. His 30 singles wins led the 
team, and he excelled against ranked oppo-
nents in both singles and doubles.
Seniors McClain Kessler and Alfredo 
Perez round out the 11-man roster. Kessler’s 
29 doubles wins were the second most on 
the team while Perez was also among the 
team’s best with 25 doubles wins, eight of 
which came against nationally ranked op-
ponents.
Florida lost four players from last sea-
son’s roster, most notably Chase Perez-
Blanco. The recent UF graduate compiled 31 
doubles wins to lead the team. His presence 
on the court will be missed among his team-
mates this season, but the void will be filled 
with a strong freshman class.
The Gators finished the 2018 spring sea-
son ranked No. 10 by the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association with numerous players 
nationally ranked in singles and doubles.
Perez (14), Ingildsen (26), Crawford 
(43), and Vale (98) were all among the best 
singles players in Division I. Ingildsen and 
Perez finished as the second-best doubles 
team in the country while Vale and Kessler 
(22), Andrade and Perez-Blanco (37), and 
Perez-Blanco and Crawford (59) were all 
ranked as well.
The fall season begins for the Gators in 
Cary, North Carolina, with the 50k Chal-
lenger from Sept. 8-16. Preseason rankings 
from the ITA will be released on Sept. 12.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgGators hope to rebound 
with fresh recruiting classBy Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Florida soccer made history on Sunday, but 
not the kind that would warrant a press release.
UF was shutout in four consecutive matches 
following a 3-0 loss to No. 4 Southern Califor-
nia. This marks the first such streak in program 
history, breaking the previous record of three 
games set in the team’s inaugural season in 
1995.
Florida has fallen out of the United Soccer 
Coaches rankings after being ranked as high as 
No. 5. This followed a scoreless draw with No. 
7 UCLA and losses to Ohio State, No. 21 Okla-
homa State and USC. Things won’t get any eas-
ier for the Gators with their trip to No. 3 Florida 
State on Friday.
Despite the lack of goals, coach Becky Bur-
leigh still sees some positives in Florida’s attack. 
“The last two games we played, we had a 
pretty strong focus on staying defensively com-
pact and hoping that we were going to counter 
out of that,” she said. “And we’ve had some 
ability to counter out of that, we just haven’t 
gotten the final product.”
Burleigh is right; Florida hasn’t gotten the 
final product. The team hasn’t manufactured 
enough chances, and the numbers don’t lie: In its last four games, UF has been outshot 54-27. 
Its 10.17 shots per game is tied for 242nd in the 
nation.
There is hope on the horizon, however, with 
star forward Deanne Rose scheduled to come 
back this weekend. Rose, Florida’s leading scor-
er a year ago, has only appeared once this sea-
son, missing time with a hamstring injury and 
then to play with the Canadian National Team.
Even with Rose’s expected return, the Gators 
will need more production from midfielders like 
Mayra Pelayo, Briana Solis and Sarah Troccoli. 
The trio of midfielders combined for 30 points 
last season. This year they’ve only accumulated 
three.
The defense hasn’t exactly been horrendous. 
Still, its 1.26 goals allowed per game ranks 176th 
in the nation. Problems arose early on when it 
came to defending set pieces. While that par-
ticular problem has improved, Florida will need 
to avoid lapses in concentration like the one it 
had against USC when it allowed three goals in 
a 16-minute stretch.
FSU is allowing the third-fewest number of 
goals per game in the nation this season. Un-
fortunately for Florida, things could get worse 
before they get better.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgUF falls out of rankings after historic scoreless streak continues
GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The men’s and women’s golf teams hold 
intriguing potential heading into the fall 
season. Both teams are coming off national 
championship appearances and are return-
ing many of the same players.
The biggest loss for the 
men’s team, which was 
eliminated on Day 3 of the 
national championships, is 
Andy Zhang, who turned 
pro after his sophomore 
season. 
Zhang had a phenom-
enal season last year, win-
ning the SEC Individual Championships and 
the individual title at the Kissimmee NCAA 
Regional, earning First Team All-SEC honors 
and becoming a finalist for the Fred Haskins 
Player of the Year Award. The Gators also 
graduated Alejandro Tosti, who had four 
top-25 finishes last season.
Two players to watch heading into the 
fall season are senior Gordon Neale and 
sophomore John Axelsen, two of three re-
turning players who had at least one top-five 
finish last season.
Neale tied with Zhang for the most top-
10 (4) and the most top-25 (7) finishes last 
season, and he had the second-lowest stroke 
average in school history (71.48). Axelsen 
joined the team for the spring season and ex-
celled immediately, earning All-SEC Fresh-
man Team honors.
Neale and Axelsen will be joined by five 
other returnees along with a pair of highly 
regarded recruits in Aden Ye and Eugene 
Hong. Ye was ranked second in the Golf-
week/Sagarin rankings at the time of his 
signing and won the 2016 Nanjing Open. 
Hong, on the other hand, has been ranked in the Golfweek/Sagarin rankings as high 
as 13th and 27th in the World Amateur Golf 
Rankings.
The women’s team also returns much 
of the same roster that finished 21st in the 
national championships last season, gradu-
ating only Taylor Tomlinson, who had five 
top-25 finishes.
One reason why the women failed to 
advance in the national championship last 
season was a lack of elite play in the tourna-
ment. No UF player finished in the top 30.
That might change with returning junior 
Sierra Brooks. Brooks, who finished 35th at 
the national championships, was easily the 
team’s best player last spring after joining the 
team via transfer from Wake Forest. Brooks 
won two tournaments last season, includ-
ing her debut with the Gators at the Florida 
Challenge, and she was the team leader in 
stroke average (72.03, the second-lowest in 
school history) and top-10 finishes (4).
Brooks and junior Marta Perez should 
create a dangerous combination for the 
Gators this upcoming season. Brooks stole 
the headlines last season, but Perez wasn’t 
too far behind, either. Perez had the lowest 
round total last year (66), tied Brooks for the 
most top-10 finishes and had more top-25 
finishes (8) than Brooks (6), though Perez 
competed in four more tournaments.    
Jenny Kim and Clara Manzalini are the 
newest additions to the women’s squad. Kim 
was a 2017 AJGA All-American as well as a 
two-time state champion. Manzalini — join-
ing the Gators from Milan, Italy — has ex-
perience with the Italian women’s national 
team. The men start their season on Sept. 7 
in Dalton, Georgia, while the women get go-
ing on Sept. 9 in Charleston, South Carolina.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgFlorida prepares for fall seasonLexie Miller / Alligator Staff
The Gators (2-3-1) have allowed the third-most goals per game (1.26) in the SEC.
Ingildsen
Brooks
SOCCER16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenuegames coming up.”
Dean, along with cornerbacks C.J. Hen-
derson and Marco Wilson, opted to stay af-
ter practice Monday night to work on their 
techniques. Wilson said defensive backs 
always do. 
The inexperience of the younger guys 
showed, and Grantham noted the speciﬁ  cs that they need to focus on.
“It’s a matter of just continuing to under-
stand your technique, your leverage, mak-
ing sure you get the right ﬁ  ts, leverage your 
gaps, doing those kind of things, being able 
to execute the call when it comes,” he said. 
“It’s really nothing more than being able 
to get some experience, get it on tape and 
continuing to work out it out in practice this 
week and be better next week.”Tackle better, please
Mullen told reporters that despite the 
great defensive efforts he saw on Saturday, 
his players must get better at tackling.
Missed tackles were somewhat of an is-
sue in Saturday’s game, especially when the 
reserves checked in. A missed tackle in the 
fourth quarter led to the biggest run of the 
game for the Buccaneers, and it led to their 
only score of the night. 
Wilson and Henderson both agreed with Mullen that the focus this week will be on 
improving tackling. 
The Gators registered 68 tackles on Satur-
day despite missing quite a few.
Wilson said that the subpar tackling could 
have had something to do with it being the 
ﬁ  rst game of the season.
“That’s probably a little bit of it, just get-
ting used to thudding in practice and not re-
ally going out there and hit for real,” Wilson 
said. “It will deﬁ  nitely get ﬁ  xed.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Wilson: DBs always work more after practice
in not relying on their opponent 
to up their own score. Producing 
its own chances will be important 
moving into tougher competition.
Substitutions are key
Sophomore Macy Phillips has 
the kind of arm that could turn 
into a huge weapon against any 
team moving deeper into the sea-
son.
The 5-foot-7 defensive special-
ist demonstrated her lethality on 
the back line last weekend. 
Her serves found the ﬂ  oor 
three times before a USC player 
found a way to keep the play go-
ing.
Phillips’ weakness, however, 
is her inconsistency. Despite her 
three aces throughout the week-
end, she logged seven service er-
rors.
“Macy certainly brings a big 
gun,” coach Mary Wise said 
on Friday after Florida’s loss to 
Southern California. “The key is, 
can she limit her errors… but she 
has really worked on that.”
Other players, like freshman right-side hitter Haley Warner, 
had their spotlight moments as 
well. 
Warner tallied 13 kills for the 
weekend, six of them coming 
from the Gators’ matchup against 
Louisville.
Having a 17-player roster will 
help extend playing ability for the 
long season ahead.
Establishing strong con-
nections between the middle 
blockers and setters
It’s hard to establish quick 
connections on the court, espe-
cially during tough rallies.
This is a pivotal aspect of why 
a middle blocker can be such a 
dominating force in a match.
Junior Rachael Kramer, a 
6-foot-8 attacker, has been work-
ing on her connections with red-
shirt senior setter Allie Monserez 
for three years.
Kramer has had a little over 
four months to establish that kind 
of connection with freshman set-
ter Allie Monserez.
Using two setters and six hit-
ters for an offense can have a 
lot of beneﬁ  ts. But running one where a hitter can attack the 
same way off of two different set-
ters is a bit more complex.
Part of keeping that establish-
ment secure is taking advantage 
of the situation when rallies are 
in-system, meaning the setter has 
three options for an offensive at-tack.
Keeping the middle blockers 
as involved as possible through-
out the match can make a tre-
mendous difference in scoring 
key points.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Freshman hitter had 13 kills over three games
I attended Auburn University from 
2008-2011. It was a great experience 
for all of these reasons. The culture 
up there revolves around football 
even after multiple losing seasons. 
That’s not the right or wrong way to 
live life, it just happens to unite a 
politically purple county in a deep-
red state.
Besides, there’s no real reason 
Franks can’t win a Heisman this sea-
son. Nobody can say that with ulti-
mate certainty at this point in time. 
There’s no real reason Florida can’t 
go undefeated until the SEC Cham-
pionship Game. Lord knows FSU 
didn’t look too hot Monday night, 
and LSU’s quarterback play still 
leaves a lot to be desired.  
There will obviously be stumbles 
and fumbles along the way. Mullen 
will not be here forever. Tim Tebow 
will eventually stop taking our calls.
So thump your collective chest, 
Gators fans, while you still can. Feel 
good about a 53-6 beatdown of an 
inferior opponent. It’s OK.
Morgan McMullen is the sports 
editor at The Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @MorganMcMufﬁ  n and con-
tact him at mmcmullen@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Setter Holly Carlton (left) and middle blocker Rachael Kramer 
(right) go up for a block against USC on Friday. 
