We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
OPS workers protest at UF President’s mansion
Part-time employees at UF demonstrated against what they say  
are unfair practices, pg. 8
Autobuses, roll out
Gainesville could have driverless buses as soon as Aug. 20, pg. 8Former, current and future UF swimmers com-
pete in national competition. 
Olympic gold medalist Caeleb Dressel among the competitors, 
pg. 15VOLUME 112 ISSUE 106
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Dana Cassidy, 
Danielle Ivanov
and Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writers
When the panel left and the 
chairs were folded, a 3-year-old 
girl danced about the room in her 
sandals and pink dress.
As the little girl bounced 
around without a care in the 
world, the music continued to 
play and her mother continued to 
worry.
Less than an hour before 
she began dancing, the room at 
the Gainesville Woman’s Club 
echoed with survivors’ accounts 
of the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School in 
Parkland.
Margaret Hamer, a local 
“spokesmom” for the group 
Moms Demand Action, brought 
her daughter only after the panel 
ﬁ  nished their discussion.
“The reason she is here today 
is because I don’t want her to be 
that 16-year-old telling those sto-
ries,” Hamer said. “As a mother, 
sitting in that crowd, listening to 
those kids weeping, I don’t want 
my kid to have to be up there.”
The club hosted more than a 
dozen young speakers at 5 p.m. 
Thursday as the March for Our 
Lives Florida bus tour traveled through Gainesville. The evening 
was divided into two sections: 
a series of speeches and stories 
from children and young adults, 
then a panel discussion involving 
the audience and their questions.
“Vote them out!” was the 
rallying cry of the evening. Ev-
ery speaker — be it 11-year-old 
Aagneya Singh Banerjee or Rob-
ert Schentrup, brother of Park-
land victim Carmen Schentrup 
— called out the current Florida 
representatives for their inaction 
on gun violence prevention.
“One day, I will take your 
job,” Banerjee said of Florida rep-
resentatives, earning a supportive 
roar from the crowd.
Liz Stout, a survivor of the 
Parkland massacre, delivered a 
speech detailing the shooting and 
the struggle of life afterward.
“I graduated, but today, I have 
a hole in my heart that my senior 
year had been ruined by a mind-
less and unstable murdererer,” 
Stout said.
Aalayah Eastmond, another 
Parkland survivor, read a poem 
she wrote about the shooting. A 
few lines were:
“Truth is, I hid underneath 
his dead body. Truth is, I wish I 
didn’t.”
“Truth is, nobody deserves ‘Road to Change’ tour talks gun violence, voting in Gainesville
The Associated Press
‘Butterﬂ  y King’ remembered
Lincoln Brower dedicated his life to studying monarch butter-
ﬂ  ies. See how his family and colleagues described him, pg. 5
SEE R2C,  PAGE 4
Chris Day / Alligator Staff
Avery Augspurg, 11, holds a sign that pleads for safety in his school during a protest outside of Rep. 
T ed Yoho’s ofﬁ  ce. The rally was part of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School students’ “Road to 
Change T our” that stopped in Gainesville on Thursday.T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 106
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
CORRECTION:  The Alligator ran a 
story titled "'Road to Change' brings gun 
debate, voter awareness to Gainesville" 
on Tuesday, July 24. In it, Robert 
Schentrup is identified as the father of a 
Parkland shooting victim. Schentrup is 
the brother of the victim. The Alligator 
apologizes for this error.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 106
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Karla Paredes, Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Emily Perpich, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Ruben Riera
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The UF Campus Teaching 
Observatory hosts a free view 
of Mars
Mars will reach the closest dis-
tance from Earth on Tuesday. 
At the minimum distance of 
0.38 astronomical units (57 mil-
lion kilometers), the planet will 
shine as a reddish bright object 
low in the sky to the south-
east, easily visible with the na-
ked eye in the constellation of 
Capricornus. Weather permit-
ting, the UF Campus Teaching 
Observatory is planning to have 
a special public session Friday 
between 9:30 p.m. and 11:30 
p.m. to view Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn and other objects. 
Several telescopes will be setup 
including the historic 8-inch 
Alvan Clark refractor. The view 
through a telescope will reveal 
its disk (24.3 arc seconds diam-
eter) and some surface features. 
For more information visit the 
Public Night webpage at astro.
ufl.edu/public/aug.html. This 
is a free public event cour-
tesy of the UF Department of 
Astronomy.
‘Immigrants of Gainesville’ 
exhibit
Photographer Renee Hoffinger 
will talk about photos and 
stories in her “Immigrants 
of Gainesville” exhibit at a 
reception from 1 p.m. to 3 
p.m. Sunday at Emmanuel 
Mennonite Church located at 
1236 NW 18th Ave. The exhibit 
is co-sponsored by Welcoming 
Gainesville and will continue 
through November.
GFR opens its newest fire sta-
tion 
Fire Station 1, located at 525 S. 
Main St., is across Southwest 
Fifth Avenue from its previous 
home. The station is now op-
erational, but Gainesville Fire 
Rescue (GFR) will host an offi-
cial open house and dedication 
ceremony Aug. 11 at 8:30 a.m. 
and invites the community to 
attend and tour the station. The 
new fire station houses 12 fire-
fighters and four emergency re-
sponse units, including a chief 
officer, and it is the city’s busi-
est station. GFR operates nine 
fire stations throughout the city, 
with 179 personnel and had 
more than 24,000 responses last 
year. The facility has updated 
computer dispatching and sta-tion alerting equipment. There 
is room for two additional ve-
hicles and for more firefighters 
to be added during the station’s 
expected 50-year lifespan. The 
station was designed to meet the 
most stringent of environmental 
standards, including electric ve-
hicle charging, and it is expect-
ed to be awarded its Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) designation later 
in the year. The two-story con-
crete block and steel building is 
more than 22,000 square feet, 
with most of this space given 
to apparatus bays designed to 
house existing fire response 
units and rapid opening doors 
to improve response times. 
The interior spaces include a 
community and training room, 
dormitories, full kitchen and of-
fices. Please send direct media 
inquiries to Chip Skinner, assis-
tant public information officer, 
at 352-393-7842 or skinnerc@
cityofgainesville.org.
Foundations Academy
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural 
Affairs Department (PRCA) is 
pleased to offer another year 
of Foundations Academy. The 
after-school program takes 
place from Aug. 20 through 
May 31 and is available at four 
locations: Albert “Ray” Massey 
Recreation Center, Eastside 
Community Center, Clarence 
R. Kelly Community Center 
and Porters Community Center. 
PRCA has adopted the Florida 
Recreation and Park Association 
initiatives for programming to 
include education, health, eco-
nomic development, environ-
mental sustainability and com-
munity building. Participants 
will be involved in various 
recreational and educational ac-
tivities such as tutoring, tennis, 
art and crafts, basketball, board 
games, bowling, volunteerism, 
citizenship and more. The fees 
for Foundations Academy are 
$18.50 per week for city resi-
dents and $27.50 per week for 
those living outside of the city 
limits. The after-school en-
richment program is available 
Monday through Friday from 
2 p.m. to 6 p.m. Scholarships 
are available at all locations. 
For additional program infor-
mation, please contact Mary 
Harker, program coordinator, 
at 352-393-8438 or harkermm@
cityofgainesville.org.AP NEWS AROUND THE STATE
Florida Tri-Rail commuter train 
strikes, kills man
A commuter Tri-Rail train in 
Florida has struck and killed a 
man.
Tri-Rail spokeswoman Bonnie 
Arnold tells news outlets that the 
“trespasser” was fatally struck 
Sunday afternoon by a south-
bound train in northeast Miami-
Dade. The man was pronounced 
dead at the scene. Authorities 
have not released his name.
There were more than 100 pas-
sengers on board the train at the 
time of the crash. Arnold says 
none of the passengers reported 
any injuries. A bus shuttled rid-
ers between the Golden Glades 
Interchange and Hollywood sta-
tions following the crash.
Miami-Dade Police are investi-
gating the crash.
Senators ask feds to probe com-
pany running Florida tolls
Sen. Bill Nelson is asking for a 
federal investigation into a com-
pany that manages the Sunpass 
toll system in Florida, accusing 
the company of mismanagement.
Nelson and Sen. Gary Peters of 
Michigan on Monday requested 
the Federal Trade Commission 
to investigate Conduent State & 
Local Solutions.
State transportation officials in 
Florida blame the company for 
an upgrade to the system that re-
sulted in delayed and inaccurate 
charges.
Sunpass suspended posting 
charges in June for what was 
supposed to be a week during the 
upgrade, but charges didn’t re-
sume posting until a month later.
Florida officials recently suspend-
ed paying the company until the 
problems are resolved.
The request from the senators 
says the company has burdened 
consumers with onerous toll 
charges.TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Alex Wind, 17, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and the project 
strategist for “March for Our Lives, ” leads the rally outside of Rep. T ed Yoho’s office.Lauren Cohen, 14, leads protesters in chants 
advocating for votes against gun violence. Kirsten McConnell, 17, leads the 
crowd in chants such as “Votes beat 
Money” and “School zones not war 
zones. ”
‘Road to Change’ leads demonstrators against gun violence
Photo Story by Chris Day4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff 
Madison Gore, an 18-year-old UF political science freshman, hangs with 
friends by her protest sign outside the Gainesville Woman’s Club. 
Roughly a dozen registered to vote
to die under gun violence. Truth 
is, I almost died under gun vio-
lence. Truth is, America is gun 
violence.”
“But we can fix it.”
The panel outlined just how it 
would “fix it.”
Andrew Garfield, a panel 
member and president of the UF 
Never Again group, said voting 
was the only way.
According to the panel, only 
one-fifth of eligible 18- to 29-year-
olds exercise their right to vote.
Garfield tried to inspire stu-
dents to increase that number by 
saying youth have the power to 
change the world.About a dozen people became 
newly registered voters after the 
speaking event, said Tom Ber-
gan, a member of the “Road to 
Change” team. He said the Flor-
ida tour has registered more than 
200 people just this summer.
Earlier that day, voters and 
protesters alike rallied outside the 
offices of Rep. Ted Yoho, state 
Sen. Keith Perry and state Rep. 
Chuck Clemons around 11 a.m. 
simultaneously.
The three congressmen being 
protested by the March for Our 
Lives movement are all Republi-
cans and affiliate themselves with 
the National Rifle Association. 
Perry received an “A” rating from 
the group, while Yoho received 
$1,000 from the group in funding.Prior to the event, Perry said 
he wasn’t sure why they were 
only protesting Republicans.
“We elect people to go up and 
represent (the people) in Con-
gress, so engagement in a civil 
manner is critically important,” 
said Perry.
At Yoho’s office, protesters 
gathered outside the building 
in 90-degree weather. People of 
all ages carried signs that read 
“VOTES BEAT MONEY” and “Put 
Children 1st! NOT the NRA, NOT 
the GOP.”
UF freshman, March for Our 
Lives activist and Stoneman 
Douglas alumnus Kevin Trejos 
said he has spoken to many con-
gressmen since the attack at his 
school.“I’m here because I want Ted 
Yoho to know that when I be-
come a constituent in less than a 
month, that I do not support his 
policies, and I will gladly vote 
him out,” Trejos said.
The protest continued on for 
the next hour, with no appear-
ance from Yoho.
Student leader for March for 
Our Lives Jovanna Liuzzo said 
Chuck Clemons met with her and 
another student leader, Ryan Ser-
vaitis, before leaving through the 
back door.
Liuzzo said Clemons was 
originally supportive of the stu-
dent protesters attending. She 
explained they discussed his sup-
port from the NRA and finding so-
lutions to gun violence nationally and locally.
“I’m grateful that I got the 
chance to speak with him, but 
he can’t have words that are mis-
leading,” Liuzzo said. “He (told 
us) that he wants to hear student 
voices and that he encourages my 
presentation, while contradicting 
that and (leaving) right after.”
Liuzzo said she has not heard 
from Clemons since then.
Despite the silence from lead-
ers, Trejos said he will keep par-
ticipating in marches like Thurs-
day’s until change is made.
“I will be protesting now. I will 
be protesting next week,” Trejos 
said. “I will be protesting as long 
as our politicians don’t represent 
us and our values.”R2C,  from pg. 1Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff 
Libertarian Party member Chris Rose II (right), 29, waves flag with the 
words “Come and Get It” printed next to a firearm with 21-year-old T ay-
lor Wyatt Foland (left).  The two protested across the street from the 
Gainesville Woman’s Club during the “March For Our Lives” panel.
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff 
T om Bergan, David Finley, Ingrid Fernandes and Gracey Jean-Bernard stand behind a booth for 
“March For Our Lives — Road to Change. ”Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff 
Amit Dadon, a student from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, answers questions in the 
Gainesville Woman’s Club during the “March For Our Lives – Road T o Change” event on Thursday.
TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
unpaid bar tab
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 19-year-old 
UF student early Saturday for allegedly run-
ning out on an expensive 
bar tab.
After racking up a bill 
that reportedly amounted 
to $367.06, Finnegan Davis 
attempted to pay his tab at 
Fat Daddy’s bar, located at 
1702 W. University Ave., 
around 1:30 a.m. The gen-
eral manager tried to charge the student’s Visa 
card, but it declined.
The manager reportedly called over one 
of the bar’s security guards, who attempted 
to keep Davis at Fat Daddy’s while law en-
forcement was called. The security guard had 
turned away from Davis when he heard a 
ﬁ  ght start behind him.
Davis allegedly ran from Fat Daddy’s and 
across West University Avenue to UF’s cam-
pus, leaving his card at the bar. A University 
police ofﬁ  cer, who reportedly saw Davis run 
from the bar, detained him near Library West.
The manager and security guard from Fat 
Daddy’s were brought by another UPD ofﬁ  cer 
to where Davis was arrested. According to the 
arrest report, both of the witnesses identiﬁ  ed 
Davis as the man from the bar.
Davis was allegedly drunk when he was 
arrested. He didn’t admit to stealing $367.06 
worth of alcoholic drinks or running from the 
bar, according to the report.
He reportedly only told ofﬁ  cers he meant 
to pay his debts and that he would pay them. 
Davis was taken to Alachua County Jail where 
he was later released Saturday afternoon, ac-
cording to jail records.
The Alligator reached out to Davis for 
comment, but he declined.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGPD: Man 
charged with 
grand theft for 
Davis
BROWER BEGAN 
STUDYING BUTTERFLIES 
IN 1957.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Former UF professor emeri-
tus and renowned expert of 
the monarch butterﬂ  y Lincoln 
Brower died July 17 at the age 
of 86.
Brower’s wife, Linda Fink, 
conﬁ  rmed July 20 that he 
passed away at their home in 
Roseland, Virginia, due to Par-
kinson’s disease.
“He was always a pretty 
happy fellow and … a life of 
the party,” said Brower’s son 
Andrew, a professor of biol-
ogy at Middle Tennessee State 
University. “Whatever room he 
came in, everybody liked him 
and respected him a lot.”
Brower dedicated his life to 
studying the monarch butter-
ﬂ  y, observing their migration patterns and advocating for 
their protection. He produced 
eight ﬁ  lms, two books and 
more than 200 scientiﬁ  c papers 
throughout his career.
“He was very humble and 
enthusiastic, interested in 
everything, a very gracious 
gentleman — just a wonder-
ful human being,” said UF 
professor emeritus of biology 
and Brower’s former colleague 
Jane Brockman.
Brower was born Sept. 10, 
1931, in Summit, New Jersey. 
Andrew Brower said his fa-
ther’s interest in butterﬂ  ies be-
gan around the age of 12 or 13.
Brower received his bach-
elor’s degree in biology from 
Princeton University in 1953 
and began studying butterﬂ  ies 
while earning his Ph.D. in zo-
ology at Yale University in 
1957. He went on to teach at 
Amherst College in Massachu-
setts from 1958 to 1980 before 
coming to UF in 1980.Andrew Brower said his fa-
ther’s favorite part of teaching 
at UF was being able to edu-
cate graduate students.
“He loved interacting with 
students who were enthusias-
tic about natural history like he 
was,” Andrew Brower said.
Brockman said Brower was 
devoted to the education and 
communication of natural his-
tory and chemical ecology, the 
study of chemistry and biol-
ogy’s interactions in the en-
vironment. She said Brower 
developed an active research 
program within the department 
and upgraded the research ca-
pabilities of the university.
“He was a really wonderful 
addition to our department,” 
Brockman said.
One of Brower’s most nota-
ble research projects had to do 
with the butterﬂ  ies’ migration. 
He discovered that butterﬂ  ies 
in the Northeast ﬂ  y thousands 
of miles to the mountains of central Mexico during the win-
tertime.
This was a fascinating dis-
covery because the butterﬂ  ies 
had never been to Mexico but 
shared the lineage of ones that 
had traveled during a previous 
migration cycle, said Brock-
man.
Brower’s passion for the 
monarch sustained throughout 
his career. Toward the end, he 
focused on conservation ef-
forts, such as educating and 
helping local Mexicans in the 
wintering region in a quest to 
save the forestry of the butter-
ﬂ y .
Andrew Brower adopted his 
father’s love for the insect, and 
he also has taken to studying 
butterﬂ  ies.
He believes his father’s 
legacy and efforts will leave 
a lasting impact in the ﬁ  eld of 
science.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org‘Butterﬂ  y King’ Lincoln Brower remembered
THE LANDMARK CASE MAY BE 
UP FOR DEBATE IN THE SUPREME 
COURT.
By Lauren Mackey
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the nomination of Judge Brett Ka-
vanaugh for justice of the Supreme Court 
earlier this month, people are speculating 
that Roe v. Wade might be overturned. 
The 1973 court case legalized abortion 
nationwide. If it were to be overturned, the 
regulation of abortion would be up to the 
states. 
“I’m really excited for the possibility 
that Roe v. Wade is overturned — I really 
hope that it actually happens,” said Kevin 
Aponte Lemos, a UF mathematics junior and the pro-life chair of UF Young Ameri-
cans for Freedom.
Lemos’ opinion is based on his moral 
convictions from being raised Catholic, he 
said.
“My faith is pretty important to me, and 
I believe in the sanctity of all human life,” 
Lemos said, “and I think that from a bio-
logical perspective, a fetus is a human, so 
it should have the same rights that other 
humans have.”
However, overturning Roe v. Wade 
would indirectly lead to the deaths of wom-
en and children across the country, said 
Mariam Mohamed, a UF women’s studies 
senior and the vice president of UF Genera-
tion Action.
Having an abortion is 10 to 14 times 
medically safer at any given point in a 
pregnancy than it is to carry a pregnancy to term, she said.
“There is no possible good outcome 
from restricting access to a procedure like 
this that is so important in this world,” she 
said.
College students, especially at UF, need 
better access to consent education, multi-
ple birth control methods and the morning 
after pill, Mohamed said.
The Gainesville chapter of the National 
Women’s Liberation is currently pushing 
for a vending machine on campus that stu-
dents could purchase the morning after pill 
from, she said.
“The idea that you can only get Plan B 
from the UF inﬁ  rmary from 8 a.m. or 9 a.m. 
to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 
not on games days and just whenever the 
clinic is open,” Mohamed said. “That’s not 
enough.”UF students renew interest in Roe v. WadeEditorial
ColumnElection prep:
Part 3
A look at disability in the 21st century
On July 26, 1990, the Americans with Dis-
abilities Act was passed. It recently passed 
its 28th anniversary, which means it’s 
been almost three decades of the ofﬁ  cial 
reshaping of society’s accommodation, 
perception and admission of disabled people.
However, in the scheme of history and govern-
ment, that’s not a very long time for such immense 
legislation to be implemented, studied and adjusted 
for millions of people. Plus, there are still so many 
issues and elements of confusion.
First, there is the question of what deﬁ  nes a disability. 
When ﬁ  rst enacted, the act had a somewhat limited idea of 
what it was. In 2009, the ADA Amendments Act became effec-
tive Jan. 1. This expanded the people who can get necessary 
care by broadening the meaning of disabled. But still, it’s very 
vague and open to interpretation.
A new generation is growing up with the idea of inclu-
sion and giving people the aid and accessibility they need 
from the start. But society is prone to putting people in boxes 
with labels, which makes them not “normal.” This can lead to 
ostracization or discrimination. Because of this, people might 
feel dissuaded from ﬁ  ghting for accommodations in public, at 
work, in school or beyond.
Another issue is deﬁ  ning a “reasonable” disability and ﬁ  g-
uring out how, and if, people get the help they need under the 
act. There’s not a clear split between what does and does not 
count as a signiﬁ  cant impairment. From my perspective, the 
answer is never clear or guaranteed. But running things on a 
case-by-case basis leaves uncertainty for those who are apply-
ing for help and those interacting with those applying for help.
Some people see a wheelchair and automatically associate 
it with disability. On the other hand, people with invisible ill-
nesses might be attacked for using help they need. Recently, 
there have been a few news stories about people wrongly be-
ing called out for being a “normal” person using handicapped-
accessible parking or varying wheelchair use.
In my experience, I have beneﬁ  ted under the ADA by re-
ceiving an individualized education plan in school before col-
lege due to my medical condition. Decades ago, that may not 
have happened. Now, I am grappling with my future as an undergraduate student and wondering what my 
health will allow. 
With the internet and handheld media, aware-
ness can spread faster than ever. Technology also 
allows for improvements in accommodations.
Despite advancements, I still feel like some ideas 
are stuck in the past. When advocating for a dis-
ability, I think a struggle is that it can be ﬂ  uid. The 
pain or expectations that can be met differ each day 
or even by the hour.
This adds an element to needs that I don’t think 
is always considered. Disability isn’t just sight, hearing or mo-
bile impairment. It can also be learning disabilities, chronic 
illness or mental health that change from situation to situation.
There is a wide array of personal stories about disability. 
There are also changing ideas about what a disability is and 
how it is deﬁ  ned and treated in health care.
Advising from medical professionals is a key element in 
getting help. However, this creates hurdles. In medicine, there 
are differences in access to and the status of care based on 
socioeconomic status, location and more. It is up to others to 
decide if someone is handicapped enough to receive a diagno-
sis that gets someone the ADA documentation they need. This 
can create an environment where people are hard on them-
selves for not being “sick” enough for help but ﬂ  oundering 
without it. Furthermore, it can be hard to get people in the 
medical ﬁ  eld to believe pain or ﬁ  nd its cause. Diagnoses can 
take years.
Media and education can make a huge difference by rais-
ing awareness and telling stories about how just listening and 
making slight adjustments allows for inclusion. It also shows 
that disability is not one thing. Most importantly, it is certainly 
not a case where it means people are automatically an inspira-
tion, incapable or less than someone else.
I think the main point of handling disabilities in society 
should be understanding and clarifying. It shouldn’t be a time-
consuming ﬁ  ght for people who are already adjusting to a so-
ciety that doesn’t always accommodate them and, if they have 
to ﬁ  ght for it, it should be on easily discernible grounds.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Monday was the last day for Alachua County residents to 
register in time to vote in the primary elections. How-
ever, if you’re already registered, the primaries that take 
place Aug. 28 are your only chance to let candidates 
know how you feel.
In our latest installment of our four-part election preparations, 
we’ll be looking at candidates for the Alachua County School 
Board, the Florida attorney general and Alachua County judge 
for Group 2. Please note these editorials are not an endorsement 
of any candidate.
Alachua County School Board
Districts 1, 3 and 5 are all up for grabs this November. Cur-
rent District 1 representative April Grifﬁ  n is running against Tina 
Certain. Grifﬁ  n was ﬁ  rst voted onto the school board in Novem-
ber 2010 and has served as its vice chair since November 2017. 
Grifﬁ  n is an accountant with 23 years of experience working with 
Gainesville Regional Utilities. Both candidates are graduates of 
UF. 
One main difference between the two is their opinion on the 
One Mill tax, a property tax used to fund arts and technology 
programs as well as guidance counselors. Certain opposed the tax 
because she said she felt it beneﬁ  ted advantaged students in mag-
net programs. Grifﬁ  n supported the tax. One Mill was approved 
in a 2016 ballot measure with 77 percent of the vote.
District 3 has two candidates — Judy DeJesus McNeil and 
April Barefoot Tisher — looking to unseat incumbent Gunnar 
Paulson. Paulson has been the chairman of the board since his 
election in 2013 and recently voted in favor of allocating nearly 
$895,000 for state-mandated school resource ofﬁ  cer programs.
District 5 pits newcomer Paul Wolfe against incumbent Rob 
Hyatt. Hyatt is a retired music educator, having spent 38 years 
teaching students. Wolfe is running on a platform that includes 
getting rid of excessive standardized testing in schools.
Attorney general
A pair of Republicans, a pair of Democrats and an Independent 
are vying to replace the outgoing Pam Bondi. Ashley Moody and 
Frank White represent the Republican side of the race. Moody 
sports an endorsement from Bondi while White has presented 
support from a handful of Florida House members.
The two Democrats squaring off against each other are Sean 
Shaw and Ryan Torrens. Shaw is currently suing Torrens for ac-
cepting an “illegal campaign contribution.” Shaw, a Levin Col-
lege of Law graduate, has called for a repeal of the “stand your 
ground” law. One of Torrens’ main focuses is ending predatory 
lending.
The lone Independent on the ballot will be Wellington attor-
ney Jeffrey Siskind. He said he decided to run in an effort to re-
duce gun violence in the wake of the Parkland shooting.
Alachua County judge, Group 2
Four candidates are up for the position Aug. 28: Craig DeTho-
masis, Meshon Rawls, Darla Whistler and Jon Uman. DeTho-
masis is a UF alumnus and an adjunct lecturer at the Levin Col-
lege of Law. Rawls is also a Levin College of Law alumnus and 
served as a public defender for seven years.
Whistler is the third of the Levin College of Law graduates. 
She has served as a federal prosecutor in Gainesville’s district 
since 2007. Uman is the only candidate who doesn’t hold a law 
degree from UF. After graduating with his bachelor’s degree from 
UF, he went on to study at George Washington University Law 
School and has been working in state and federal courts since 
1988.
We at The Alligator urge you to learn more about these and all 
other candidates for local, state and national ofﬁ  ce before head-
ing to the polls in August and November. Florida residents can 
register to vote at registertovoteﬂ  orida.gov.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
National politics in the U.S. tend to 
drive people to different ends of 
the political spectrum. We can’t 
help but be drawn into the cyclone 
of outrage. It draws in everyone 
with a connection to TV or Twitter with 
a siren song — the talking heads on cable 
news essentially say, “Don’t worry. Don’t 
re-examine your position on immigration. 
Your instincts are right. Instead, get mad 
at these other guys.” What you may realize 
is that your associates and loved ones have 
radically different views. Stick to your posi-
tion, but know that making a political point 
isn’t worth a ruined friendship.
There has been a ﬂ  urry of news articles 
published about how President Donald 
Trump is ruining peoples’ relationships. 
“Can social psychologists explain why Trump is ruining my friendship?” 
is seen in the Los Angeles Times. 
“He Likes Trump. She Doesn’t. 
Can This Marriage Be Saved?” 
is seen in The New York Times. 
“Trump presidency is destroying 
marriages across the country” 
is seen in the New York Daily 
News. What gives? Is Trump such 
a force of nature that he can split 
America in two at the marriage?
Yes. Sort of. Trump’s election 
has deeply divided a country that was ripe 
for division. The political climate is inch-
ing back toward the polarization we saw 
in the 19th century (think battles over 
women’s suffrage, racial strife, the Civil 
War), according to Christopher Federico, a 
University of Minnesota professor of psy-chology and political science. 
Set sometime between age 18 
and 25, a person’s political in-
clinations rarely change over the 
course of their life. If your mar-
riage or friendship happens to get 
between your politics — pulled 
in opposite directions — chances 
are it will snap. 
But that’s painting a grim pic-
ture of politics and a pessimistic 
picture of your spouse. While 
it is our natural tendency to want to ﬁ  nd 
information that justiﬁ  es our previously 
held beliefs, something “sciencey-types” 
call a conﬁ  rmation bias, that bias can be 
overcome. If Trump versus former Secre-
tary of State Hillary Clinton is killing your 
marriage, ask yourself this: “Do I know the programming schedule of MSNBC by the 
hour? Do I know the same for Fox?” Exam-
ine your side of the equation to understand 
that you may also be to blame for the rela-
tionship’s deterioration, no matter how bad 
you believe Trump, Clinton or whoever is.
Many are looking at their Republican 
and Democrat friends, husbands and/or 
wives and evaluating if their relationship is 
truly worth it. The real question is whether 
politics are truly worth it. The smile-and-
wave, baby-kissing hand-shakers will drop 
the charade and go back to their nice homes 
with families they love (most of them, any-
way). You should, too.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political sci-
ence junior. His column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday. Marriage in the age of Trump and the 24-hour TV news cycleColumn
Pop star Demi Lovato’s drug over-
dose has triggered an ongoing de-
bate over whether addiction is a 
choice or a disease. 
Clearly, when someone picks 
up drugs or alcohol for the ﬁ  rst time, they 
are making a “choice,” but we need to put 
these situations into context rather than 
analyze them at face value.
Consider how much pain someone must 
be feeling to push past their own knowl-
edge of the dangers of drugs and use them 
anyway. Everyone knows how destructive 
opioids are. We are constantly reminded 
from a young age. Anyone who has cho-
sen drugs has calculated that the potential 
damage of the drug does not outweigh the 
agony they are already experiencing.
People make the argument that some-
one like Lovato who has access to psychi-atric professionals and has cho-
sen drugs is suffering from a lack 
of character rather than mental 
illness. Mental illness is an all-
encompassing problem. Lovato’s 
reluctance to get the proper help 
she needs is a symptom of her 
health problem rather than a 
cause. Why would someone who 
is thinking rationally deliberately 
put themselves in danger? People who use 
drugs aren’t thinking rationally, and it’s 
not always their fault. Lovato has been 
open about her bipolar diagnosis.
Supporting people with mental health 
issues has drastically risen in popular-
ity. Everyone talks about the “stigma” to-
wards mental illness, but it’s often those 
very same people who contribute to the 
problem. People want to help those with psychiatric issues, but the truth 
is these illnesses don’t present 
themselves in a socially accept-
able way.
Mental illness manifests it-
self in its victim in an ugly way. 
Because there aren’t physical 
symptoms, people have a hard 
time separating the disease 
from the personality. But there 
is a difference. People with mental health 
issues often feel that they are replaced by 
an entirely different person when they 
experience episodes. Once the episode 
passes, they might not agree with things 
they’ve said while under the attack of their 
own brain. If you reject people once they 
start to suffer from their disease, there’s no 
point in advocating against the stigma. You 
are the stigma.I think the misunderstanding we have 
toward people with mental illnesses stems 
from the normalization of it. You’re not 
depressed because you had one bad day. 
You’re not bipolar because your mood 
changed. And you do not have obsessive-
compulsive disorder because you like a 
clean room. Millennials’ eagerness to par-
ticipate in a community that they don’t ac-
tually belong in detracts from those with 
real problems.
The choice to use drugs to self-medicate 
is being made by a brain with compro-
mised critical thinking. People with addic-
tions are victims of their own bodies. Even 
if you disagree, placing blame won’t help 
anyone. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her 
column comes out Tuesday and Thursday. Addiction is a symptom of mental illness, not a personality ﬂ  awColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A deafening applause erupted 
after Jeremiah Tattersall said UF’s 
permanent preeminence demands 
permanent employees.
Tattersall and around 40 OPS 
workers, UF students and civilians 
protested the discussed mass firing 
of OPS workers at the university 
outside of UF President Kent Fuchs’ 
mansion Sunday.
Tattersall, lead organizer of the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition 
and former UF other personnel ser-
vices (OPS) worker, said the uni-
versity treats OPS workers poorly, 
refusing to offer them benefits, paid 
leave or job security.
The university was shut down 
for four days during Hurricane Irma 
in 2017. OPS workers did not re-
ceive any compensation during this 
break, but permanent workers did, 
Tattersall said.
UF’s reasoning behind not pay-
ing OPS employees was that it was 
“illegal” due to policy, Tattersall 
said. However, Alachua County 
Public School’s temporary workers 
did receive pay for the mandated off 
days.
“We’ve been pressuring the Uni-
versity of Florida to reclassify OPS 
workers as permanent workers,” 
Tattersall said. “If we want to stay 
(as a top 10 university), then we 
have to have employees that stay 
(at UF).”
The protest began at 2 p.m. 
when a bus filled with OPS workers pulled into the parking lot. Alumni, 
children and professors also attend-
ed the event.
More than 10 individuals spoke 
at the event, each one explaining 
their reason for protesting. The 
group also chanted while holding 
up signs that read “We demand $15 
& Union Rights.”
Reagle, who would not share 
her first name, left her OPS position 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History last week. She said she felt 
strongly about speaking out be-
cause everyone else in her position was too afraid to.
“The (museum) environment is 
very toxic. Everyone’s depressed 
(and) anxious because they don’t 
know what’s going on,” Reagle said 
of the mass firings.
UF associate professor in the De-
partment of History Paul Ortiz said 
Fuchs should value the voices of the 
OPS employees and support them in 
becoming permanent workers.
The services temporary employ-
ees provide are essential to the cam-
pus community, Ortiz said, and it 
pains him to see people not being paid adequately.
“We are all in this together,” Or-
tiz said. “We’ve got to make sure 
everyone feels that they’re a mem-
ber of the Gator Nation, and they 
don’t feel that if they’re treated un-
fairly.”
The protest lasted over an hour 
and concluded with the protesters 
moving from the grass on the edge 
of the parking lot to the front gate of 
the mansion to see if Fuchs would 
make an appearance. 
He did not.
Tattersall and Ortiz hope the pro-test will encourage UF to give clear 
instructions to department heads 
on what exactly needs to be done 
to keep employees from being un-
necessarily fired. He explained that 
to succeed in the future, Fuchs and 
university officials need to engage 
more with the community.
“If you need someone to work 
a position for more than a year, or 
17 in some cases, then that’s not a 
temporary position,” Tattersall said. 
“Make it permanent.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgOPS employees protest against Fuchs, policies 
Dana Cassidy / Alligator Staff
Demonstrators gather outside UF President Kent Fuchs’ mansion on Sunday afternoon to protest against potential mass firings and poor benefits. 
By Vincent McDonald
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents will be able to 
board a driverless Regional Transit Sys-
tem bus as early as Aug. 20. Until then, a 
team of UF researchers wants your opin-
ion on it. One might approach you at a 
crowded bus stop to get it.
Researchers from UF’s Transportation 
Institute are visiting busy bus stops, like 
Rawlings Hall, to distribute QR code-cov-
ered slips of paper and spread the word 
about their new online survey.
Launched July 16, the survey col-
lects data on public perception of the 
self-driving “Gainesville Autobus,” both 
before and after people start interacting 
with it. The city first revealed the auto-
bus last May, which is part of a pilot pro-
gram funded by the Florida Department of 
Transportation.
The autobuses will only be driving on 
a section of Southwest Second Avenue, 
starting in downtown and turning around 
at Innovation Square, according to a vid-
eo by UF Transportation. Only autobuses 
will be on this route, and it is planned for 
the route to extend from Depot Park to UF 
over time. 
Anh Le, a 21-year-old biochemistry se-
nior, said she knew the autobus was be-
ing discussed but wasn’t aware it would 
be operational as soon as August.
She said she has mixed feelings about the autobus and that unemployment could 
be a potential setback of its program.
“[The autobus] would decrease the 
manpower you would need,” she said, 
“so more people would lose their jobs.”
Pruthvi Manjunatha, a postdoctoral 
researcher and project manager of the 
study, said researchers will analyze the 
general trend of Gainesville residents’ 
opinions and demographic information, 
like age. Researchers will also look at how 
public opinion changes after the autobus 
starts running.
Using a theory called the technology 
acceptance model, the team will investi-
gate what factors positively or negatively 
affect people’s opinions of the autobus. 
Once the analysis is complete, the re-
searchers will send the results to the city, 
he said.
“We also need to see what doesn’t 
work so that the people who are imple-
menting this project can know what to 
change,” Manjunatha said.
Manjunatha said he is excited to see 
people’s thoughts about the autobus roll 
in.
“What happens, especially in the engi-
neering community... we’re so good with 
mathematics and models and technology 
[that] we often forget who we are design-
ing this [for],” he said. “It’s about the 
public and the people.” 
The survey for autobus opinions is at 
tinyurl.com/rtsautobus.Researchers seek public opinion on driverless buses
Vincent McDonald (left) / UF Transportation and Parking Services (right)
“Autobus only” signs (left) are appearing at bus stops across 
Gainesville. A projected launch date for the driverless buses 
(right) is Aug. 20. 
TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Jacob Atem doesn’t know 
when his birthday is. As someone 
who was born 
in a place with 
no hospital in 
South Sudan, he 
said every day is 
his birthday.
When he was 
around six years 
old, his parents 
were killed during the Second Su-
danese Civil War.
He shared his story in a USA 
Today opinion piece July 22. He 
was one of 20,000 young boys 
who were forced to ﬂ  ee their homes in Sudan. These children, 
known as “lost boys,” had to 
travel more than 1,000 miles be-
fore arriving at the Kakuma refu-
gee camp in Kenya.
Atem earned his Ph.D. in en-
vironmental and global health at 
UF. He is a postdoctoral fellow 
at the Center for Humanitarian 
Health at Johns Hopkins Bloom-
berg School of Public Health.
“Public health, I ﬁ  nd, was a 
better way to serve my people not 
only in America but in South Su-
dan,” Atem said. “(It’s) my way 
to contribute to society.”
Atem said he wasn’t able to fo-
cus in school prior to arriving at 
the refugee camp due to extreme 
hunger. Additionally, educators there weren’t properly trained, 
and 50 students would have to 
share a single book.
These experiences inspired 
Atem to co-found The Southern 
Sudan Healthcare Organization 
in 2008. The goal was to create 
a clinic and provide health sup-
plies, services and education to 
those in South Sudan.
“We take health for granted 
here in America,” Atem said. 
“I’m helping the people of South 
Sudan and the refugees who are 
already vulnerable to different 
kinds of diseases.”
Up to 3,000 patients enter the 
clinic, which was built in Maar, 
monthly. The thousands of pa-
tients who enter come in to give birth or be treated for malaria, 
dysentery or sexually transmitted 
diseases, Atem said.
His story has inspired other UF 
students like junior public rela-
tions major and media chair for 
Students Organize for Syria (SOS) 
Marya Zaidi.
Zaidi, 20, said Atem shared his 
journey with her and others when 
he gave a talk to SOS at the uni-
versity.
“His story is very inspiring and 
should be shared with everyone,” 
Zaidi said. “His life now empha-
sizes education and service, and I 
really look up to that.”
SOS is an activist group dedi-
cated to raising awareness and 
support for the refugees in Syria. Zaidi said she believes it’s im-
portant to remain compassionate 
toward others, and turning our 
back on refugees goes against the 
basic values of the American ide-
ology.
“I personally believe that as 
a human, it is our duty to help 
other humans in need, especially 
those suffering from inhumane, 
violent acts of war and crime,” 
Zaidi said. “It is absolutely im-
portant that we stick to (our) 
country’s foundation and ﬁ  ght for 
freedoms and equality for all.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org‘Lost boy’ no more: A UF graduate’s trek from refugee to doctor
JEFF GREENE’S CAMPAIGN 
STOPPED TO GIVE OUT MORE 
THAN 100 BACKPACKS.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Seven-year-old Gabriela wore her 
new backpack and a Jeff Greene stick-
er on her shirt as she ran around the 
picnic tables at Depot Park with her 
6-year-old brother Justin.
The children had just received free 
backpacks and stickers from the cam-
paign of Democratic gubernatorial 
candidate Jeff Greene. Workers began 
handing out the backpacks Monday at 
5:30 p.m.
Carina Hernandez, mother of Ga-
briela and Justin, said she came to the 
event to get bags for her four children. 
All of her children are enrolled in pub-
lic schools throughout the Gainesville 
area.
“I really appreciate them giving out backpacks, I really do,” Hernandez 
said. “It helps a lot.”
More than 100 backpacks were giv-
en out, event organizer Katy Burnett 
said.
Greene said it was the campaign’s 
third trip to Gainesville, and the cam-
paign will travel to Tampa next.
“It’s not the place with the most 
voters,” Greene said. “If you’re trying 
to be efﬁ  cient you probably wouldn’t 
come here, but you know this is an 
important, a very important, part of 
Florida. You know our best university 
is here.”
The children walked away with 
colorful bags to use at school when it 
starts again in the coming weeks.
“It’s a little, tiny gesture,” Greene 
said. “What I really want to do is I 
want to make a big change, a perma-
nent, big change in Florida for every 
family.”  
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgCandidate’s campaign brings 
backpacks to Gainesville kids HILL WAS ONE OF FOUR 
REPORTEDL Y INVOLVED IN A BID TO 
STEAL BAGS FULL OF CLOTHING.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested four women 
Sunday night for attempting to steal more 
than $1,000 worth of clothing from Burlington 
Coat Factory.
Angela Hill, 45, Latoya Smith, 39, 
Larneshia Perry, 26, and Ke-
nyausha Tobler, 28, report-
edly walked into the store at 
around 7:40 p.m.
The women allegedly 
took large trash bags and 
hid them before walking 
into Burlington, located at 
2643 NW 13th St. Accord-
ing to the arrest report, they 
ﬁ  lled the bags with clothes they took off the 
shelves. The women used three tools to take 
alarms off the clothes.
While in the store, they then allegedly hid 
the full bags in different spots and walked out 
of the store empty-handed.According to an ofﬁ  cer report, the women 
got scared and hid the clothes. Hill later told 
ofﬁ  cers they intended to ﬁ  ll the bags with 
clothing and shoes and walk out without pay-
ing.
Altogether, the clothing they attempted to 
take from Burlington was worth $1,767.03. 
More trash bags were found after Hill’s car 
was searched. Many of the items inside the 
bags didn’t have price tags, but the clothes 
that did have tags totaled $3,900.
According to the arrest report, Hill told of-
ﬁ  cers the women went to other stores earlier 
Sunday and repeated the same thing.
She also reportedly said they’ve stolen 
from Burlington in the past. GPD spokesman 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said the previous incident 
at Burlington occurred Wednesday.
Alachua County Jail records show Hill is 
the only one currently being held for a charge 
of grand theft. Her bond is set at $25,000.
Perry and Smith were both released Mon-
day afternoon. Tobias said the fourth woman, 
Tobler, was only issued a sworn complaint be-
cause she was pregnant.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgWoman charged with grand theft  Atem
Hill
10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Ethan Hughes
Alligator Contributing Writer
In 2016, the Florida Board of Governors 
passed legislation requiring public universi-
ties to form centralized compliance ofﬁ  ces 
and ethics training programs for all employ-
ees. 
On Wednesday, UF will meet the ﬁ  nal re-
quirement, said Gary Wimsett, UF’s director 
of Compliance & Conﬂ  icts of Interest.
The university’s nearly 30,000 employees 
have until Oct. 15 to complete a new ethics 
training program called “Compliance: A Col-
laboration for Success.”
The deadline for universities to meet the 
requirements is in November, he said. This 
program, which is overseen by Chief Compli-
ance Ofﬁ  cer Elizabeth Ruszczyk, was the last 
requirement UF had to meet.
“I think one of the fundamental underpin-
nings of this is that we feel like everybody 
here has a responsibility to create and main-
tain a safe learning environment both for fac-
ulty and students,” he said.
The training is on an online system and 
takes about 20 minutes to complete, and it 
must be retaken every two years. UF spokesman Steve Orlando said he 
thinks requiring employees to retake the 
training is appropriate because laws and reg-
ulations change frequently. Without training, 
employees could accidentally make an illegal 
or unethical decision.  
Wimsett said the content of the program is 
largely based on sections of the Florida Code 
of Ethics, a chapter in the statutes that estab-
lishes laws for state employees. The sections 
mostly deal with conﬂ  icts of interest and gifts.
Conﬂ  icts of interest arise when employees’ 
ﬁ  nancial interests interfere with their ability 
to fulﬁ  ll their obligations to UF, he said. Gifts 
are illegal to accept if they are designed to in-
ﬂ  uence a public employee’s behavior.
“We answer to the taxpayers,” Orlando 
said. “We’re the stewards of their money, and 
we’re working in their name, and so we need 
to be mindful of that. We need to remem-
ber that, as public employees, we need to be 
transparent.”
Wimsett said another goal of the program 
is to introduce employees to the services and 
policies of UF Compliance & Ethics, such as 
the compliance hotline.
The hotline allows employees to report 
concerns anonymously, he said. Employees should report all suspected wrongdoing by 
calling 877-556-5356 or going to the UF Web 
Reporting System. 
“It’s such a big place and so much going 
on that we really depend upon people letting 
us know if they see problems out in our uni-
versity community that we can investigate,” 
he said.
He said UF’s non-retaliation policy pro-
tects employees from being ﬁ  red or punished 
as revenge for accusations.
This will be covered in the training pro-
gram, which consists of PowerPoint slides with assessment questions at the end, Wim-
sett said. Some of the slides will include sce-
narios to help explain complicated concepts.
Wimsett said the goal is to improve safety 
for students and employees. 
“Just a lot of ways of looking out for each 
other through the laws, policies and regu-
lations that if we’re all just a little bit more 
sensitive to them and a little bit more aware 
of them, and we also feel like there’s a place 
we can go to get problems resolved,” he said. 
“That helps create this safe learning environ-
ment for everybody.”  UF employees to take ﬁ  nal step in new ethics training program
Florida Board of Governors
UF employees have until Oct. 15 to complete the new program. University ofﬁ  cials 
say the remainder of its workers will do so by Wednesday. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$650/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS.  Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
7-31-5-2
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1800/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000                    8-22-18-7-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
Moving?
Gainesville Houseplant Rescue
will save your plants!
https://goo.gl/forms/e96b4jcSec88n5EQ2
or Facebook                              7-31-18-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
DISH WASHERS NEEDED!
Join our team, new restaurant
opening in Celebration Pointe
$8.50/hr with opportunities for advancement 
for hard working individuals
Reasonable work load and hours, breaks 
provided. 
Please contact tevins72@gmail.com
or midicigville@gmail.com if interested
7-31-18-5-14
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR INSECT 
REPELLENT RESEARCH STUDY AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
UF IRB#201700763
We are seeking volunteers for participation in 
a study of insect repellents and how they will 
prevent bites from mosquitoes in a field set -
ting. Participants must be between the ages of 
18 and 55. The study will take up to 6 visits to 
complete (compensation is provided per visit). 
If you would like to participate or you would 
like more information please contact the study 
director Emma N.I. Weeks Ph.D., Phone 352-
273-3954, email: eniweeks@ufl.edu     8-2-18-
5-14
PART-TIME
● yard work ● cleaning ● chores ● errands, 
etc. 6 - 12 hours per week.
$10 / hr + tip.
Apply at:  www.Gator2018.com         8-7-5-14
SIMEDHealth is hiring a full time Maintenance 
Technician for our Gainesville office location. 
$14-$16 per hour. 
Visit our website at
simedhealth.com/jobs to apply.    8-9-18-5-14
PART TIME - $15 PER HOUR - FUN  
Promote delicious wines at your local 
grocery store on weekends!
APPLY HERE: Cheerfulpromo@gmail.com 
Include your phone #                    7-7-18-3-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19Learn more about Christian Life
For the True WORD Like It Has 
Never Been Given Before
– Tune In
Kingdom Life Community Church
*Visit us at:
www.KingdomLifeCommunity.org
*Like us at:
www.Facebook.com/KLCC300
*Follow us at:
www.Twitter.com/KingdomLifeCom1
*Watch us at:
www.YouTube.com/KingdomLifeCommunity    
7-31-18-1-19
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Learn how you can make an extra
$300-$1000+ weekly as a college student. 
Go to: www.alexwaytofreedom.com    8-2-
18-4-20
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
LEARN HOW to make an extra
$450 per week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: www.studentsurvey.club    8-2-18-4-20
Make Money Online
While In College. 
https://tinyurl.com/y86d9y4a     
8-15-18-5-20Learn how to make up to $400
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: http://www.makemoneynow.shop/
8-15-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Muslim veil
6 Behind us
10 Fashion’s 
de la Renta
15 Self-__:
personally
mindful
16 Trade show
17 Eclipse shadow
18 Synagogue scroll
19 Paella morsel
20 In poor taste
21 *LeBron’s sport
24 Cereal mix
27 NASDAQ locale
31 Play a part
32 *Insect used in
genetic research
37 Hither partner
38 Plural medical
suffix
40 NYC gallery
district
41 Lewd material
42 Primary source of
income ... and
words that can
precede the two
parts, respectively,
of the answers to
starred clues
47 Part of town, in
slang
48 Street
49 Branch of
mechanics
concerned with
forces in
equilibrium
52 Loving
55 Frying liquid
56 *Glazed morning
snack
59 Watery expanse
60 Fracas
62 Hammer head
63 Blender selection
65 Diva’s delivery
66 *Form a queue
68 Teen anti-DWI gp.
69 Didn’t stay
70 Of a battery
terminal
71 Small ocean
landmass
72 Mid-month date
73 Pathetically tiny,
as a sum of
money
74 Tourney ranking
DOWN
1 Boater or bowler
2 “Letters From __
Jima”: 2006 film
3 Pickle container4 Many Yemenis
5 On __ of: for
6 Quarter of a
bushel
7 Wheel connection
8 Squabble
9 Mausoleum
10 Expenditure
11 Word before fry
or potatoes
12 Network with its
HQ in Ottawa
13 18-Across holder
14 Bit of sunlight
22 Title of respect
23 Hole-making tool
24 Chinese
chairman
25 State school near
L.A.
26 Immortality
28 Tick-borne illness
named for a
Connecticut town
29 Mouth-puckering
30 Explosive for
Wile E. Coyote
33 Springsteen’s
“Born in the __”
34 Physicist’s
particle
35 Divinity sch.
degree
36 Watch chain
39 Senate position
41 Lead actress43 Put up with
44 Art style seen in
Miami’s South
Beach
45 Pakistani
language
46 Friendly horn
sounds
49 Horn of Africa
native
50 Like big wedding
cakes
51 Flat on one’s
back52 Once-a-year
flower
53 Pine dropping
54 Wandered
(about)
57 Italian salami
city
58 Obeys
61 Diner grub
64 Three-pronged
Greek letters
66 Beat a hasty
retreat
67 Tissue layer
By David Poole
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/31/1807/31/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 31, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Bar rooms?
6 Organic jewelry
source
11 Nation west of
Mumbai
15 Part of a John
Williams quintet
16 High-end
German
appliance brand
17 Overhaul
18 “Bummer!”
21 Harmony
22 Odds partner
23 Bench press
target
24 An
unquestionable
fact
30 In the past, once
31 Nutritional abbr.
32 Northern
terminus of I-79
33 Operatic villains,
often
36 Veto, in Vienna
37 Actress Meyer of
“Johnny
Mnemonic”
38 Matterhorn, e.g.
39 Hershey’s
collectible
43 Field concerned
with fields: Abbr.
44 Alexa
counterpart
46 Fishing hole site
47 Kept from
squeaking
49 Sweater fabric
50 What may come
to those who wait
51 “... that struts and
frets his hour __
the stage”:
Macbeth
53 Pressing feeling
57 Salon
application
58 Rancor
59 Get rid of
62 What words
concealed by the
other four
longest Across
answers do ...
and also, what
each of them is
67 West of Gotham
City?
68 Privileged group
69 Western __
70 Giant great
71 How many
commute72 What Italians
may use to
commute
DOWN
1 Notes
2 Grayish
3 “__ even!”
4 Gate closers
5 Yearbook gp.
6 Self-affirming
query
7 Watches
8 Something fit for
a king?
9 Symphonic rock
gp.
10 Call the game
11 Called for
takeout, say
12 Fickle
13 Org. promoting
fluoridation
14 Rich quaff
19 Pub inventory
items
20 Proper
25 “South Park” kid
26 Find better
words, say
27 Civil rights
theorist Guinier
28 Trace amount
29 Got wind (of)
33 Luxuriates
34 Dior dress35 Amy Lowell
poem of a
“fresh-washed
and fair” time
36 Private
40 Eye-related prefix
41 Salon product
42 Common lunch
hour
45 “Indications 
are ... ”
48 Lean
51 More nasty, as
weather52 Hammer part
54 Yale figure
55 Gear for a
gaucho
56 Meditative 
ones
60 Small business
61 Mediterranean
mount
62 Baked __
63 Director Lupino
64 S.D. neighbor
65 Work at
66 Cherokee, e.g.
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/27/1807/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 27, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Open with a key
1.  African country 5.  Award: “Best ____”
2.  Sideways6.  Respond
3.  Type of raisin7.  ____ peddle
4.  Light ____LCNUOK
GAADNUROCTA
EARTC
TLALEAR
NACURTRTUCCLH
TCSWHIANSWERS: 1A-Unlock  5A-Actor  6A-React  7A-Clutch
1D-Uganda  2D-Lateral  3D-Currant  4D-Switch  B-Calcutta7-31-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA, 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This city is home to about 5 million people 
and is nicknamed the “City of Joy.” 
BONUS
18 Personals 19 Connections 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 20 Events/NoticesAccording to  a July 22 incident 
report from Gainesville Police, 
UF wide receiver Kadarius 
T oney was found with a rifle in 
his car.BOSCH HIRED AS UF SOFTBALL ASSISTANT COACH
Former Syracuse assistant Mike Bosch is the newest member of Tim Wal-
ton's coaching staff. Bosch replaces former-assistant Jennifer Rocha, who 
accepted a position with Oklahoma. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
Alligator Staff Report
Of the hundreds of meets, 
matches and games that UF athlet-
ics participated in over the 2017-
18 season, only five made the final 
cut as nominees for the Gators’ 
best game of the campaign. 
Our panel of Evan Lepak, Chris 
O’Brien, Mark Stine, Brendan Far-
rell and Andrew Huang rummaged 
through the long list of matches  
and games and made selections 
from the basketball, baseball, soft-
ball and volleyball schedules as fi-
nalists for Game of the Year in this 
staff report.
Evan: When I think back about 
some of the most exciting games in 
the 2017-18 Florida athletics year, 
there’s one that continues to re-
play in my head.
When the then-No. 7 UF men’s 
basketball team took on Gon-
zaga at the PK80 Invitational in 
Portland, Oregon, I was expecting 
a good game, but what unfolded 
before my eyes on that Black Fri-
day had me thinking Final Four for 
this Gators squad.
Florida’s fast-paced offense, the 
one that took the college basket-ball world by storm early in the 
season, continued to impress that 
night, accumulating triple-digits 
for the fourth time in their first five 
games.
The Gators would go on to beat 
Gonzaga in double overtime, 111-
105.
A slow first half had UF down 
36-29 to a tough Bulldog team that 
came in nationally ranked.
Things would turn for the bet-
ter in the second half of play with 
Florida scoring 49 points, leading 
to a deadlock at 78.
UF guard Jalen Hudson took 
off in the second half, scoring 22 
points in the period alone.
Hudson would add nine more 
in the overtime periods, including 
a three in double OT that gave the 
Gators a 106-99 lead and effective-
ly put the game out of reach.
Hudson’s teammates Chris Chi-
ozza and KeVaughn Allen helped 
lead the team’s offensive charge 
as well, scoring 26 and 23, respec-
tively.
Chiozza played 46 of 50 min-
utes and led all Gators with 10 
assists. After the game, he was 
so exhausted that two teammates 
helped carry him to the locker room.
Florida’s marquee win over the 
Zags was huge for the team’s over-
all resume, as it would find itself in 
a tailspin afterwards, losing three 
straight.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org
Chris: The UF basketball dou-
ble-OT marathon against Gonzaga 
could be a good selection here, but 
Game 3 of the baseball team’s 
Super Regional against Auburn  
on June 11 supersedes the basket-
ball matchup.
Although the team ultimately 
fell short in the College World Se-
ries, the path to get to Omaha went 
the distance, as the Tigers refused 
to give the Gators anything easy.
Now a Cincinnati Reds pros-
pect, third baseman Jonathan In-
dia got things going in the bottom 
of the first inning with a bomb to 
left field.
Auburn tied it in the third in-
ning at one apiece, but Florida got 
it back in the bottom of the fourth 
with a little bit of trickery. Second 
baseman Blake Reese and center 
fielder Nick Horvath executed a first-and-third play where Horvath 
fell down on a steal to second, dis-
tracting the Tigers pitcher and al-
lowing Reese to score.
Auburn struck again in the sev-
enth inning to even the score at 
two with a sacrifice fly.
Nine innings wasn’t enough to 
decide the winner-take-all match-
up. No, it went all the way to 11 
innings.
I’m sure you’re familiar with 
how this story ends, but I’ll quick-
ly recap it. Left fielder Austin 
Langworthy, a Williston native, 
uncorked a line-drive home run 
in the bottom of the 11th that just 
barely got past the right fielder and 
put UF in the CWS.
I was in the press box for the 
moment and man, it was chaos. 
It was such a fun contest to be in 
attendance for, and something I’ll 
remember the rest of my life. Defi-
nitely the game of the year.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Mark: The UF baseball team 
provided a brilliant final game in 
it’s Super Regional against Au-
burn, but the better Gainesville 
finale came in the softball team’s 
Super Regional victory over 
Texas A&M. 
The SEC foes split each of the 
opening two games of the series 
by a one-run margin, and a bat 
change by freshman Jordan Mat-
thews may decided the series. 
After going 0 for 6 as Florida’s 
designated player in the first two 
series games, Matthews switched 
from the 24-ounce bat that she 
used all season to a 25-ounce bat, 
similar to one she used in high 
school. 
In the rubber match, she went 
3 for 4 against the Aggies’ ace, se-
nior Trinity Harrington, and ended 
her night on the bottom of a dog-
pile at home plate. 
Matthews knocked two singles 
and scored a run to help put UF 
up 2-1 heading into the seventh in-
ning. 
However, Texas A&M pulled 
ahead 3-2 after first baseman Tori 
Vidales blasted a go-ahead home 
run off Florida right hander Aleshia 
Ocasio for the second-consecutive 
night.
Matthews stepped into the box 
in the bottom of the seventh with 
two outs, two on and a 2-2 count. alligatorSports Awards: Game of the Year
Carmelo Anthony has final-
ized his buyout with the Atlanta 
Hawks, making him a free agent 
again. His intentions now are to 
sign with the Houston Rockets. 
That being said, the 2018 NBA 
free agency season has pretty 
much seen all the big moves it 
had to offer: LeBron James to Los 
Angeles, Paul George re-signing 
with Oklahoma City, the Kawhi 
Leonard-DeMar DeRozan swap, 
and now Anthony’s pending spot 
on the Rockets’ roster.
Melo is under a lot of pressure 
to perform, though, even if Hous-
ton’s offense is a better fit for him 
than what OKC’s system forced 
him to be. The 10-time All-Star 
averaged career-lows pretty much 
across the board last season, 
partly because his talents weren’t 
fully utilized within the Thunder 
offense and partly because he 
refused to accept that at 34 and 
with 15 seasons under his belt, he 
is not the star he used to be.
Anthony’s name and reputa-
tion – already damaged from a 
failed stint in New York – was 
only run through the mud even 
further a season ago. But he’s not 
the only player facing high expec-
tations next season.
Giannis Antetokounmpo is 
entering his sixth, and most im-
portant, year of his young NBA 
career.
The “Greek Freak” has shown 
consistent improvement since 
being drafted by Milwaukee in 
2013. Last season he averaged 
career highs in points, rebounds 
and shooting percentage. His 
26.9 points per game ranked fifth 
in the league, while his 10.0 re-
bounds per game ranked 11th. What NBA 
players have 
most to prove 
next season?Huang Story Short
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
UF third baseman Nicole DeWitt slides into home base during the Gainesville Super Regional against 
T exas A&M. The Gators defeated the Aggies on a walk-off homer by freshman Jordan Matthews.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
FOOTBALL
The Associated Press
PARKLAND, Fla. (AP) — The first prac-
tice of the new season was over, and the only 
sound on the campus of Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School was dozens of football 
players screaming in delight.
It was 2:15 a.m., and they were having a 
water balloon fight .
At last, on a campus shaken by tragedy, 
there was joy.
The Eagles — now ambassadors for a 
school and community still reeling from the 
Feb. 14 massacre that left 17 people dead, in-
cluding assistant football coach Aaron Feis , 
who was killed while trying to use his body 
to shield students from the cascade of bul-
lets — took the field for practice at 12:01 a.m. 
Monday.
Under Florida rules, teams could begin fall 
workouts July 30. The Eagles didn’t wait a 
minute longer.
“This is the only thing we have to show 
our respect,” coach Willis May Jr. said. “This 
is the way we can show our respect to those 
guys, with our great effort and with our great 
attitudes. Be leaders within the school. I hope 
we see all that from these kids this year.”
Douglas has had the “midnight madness” 
practice on opening day several times before, 
but this was different. A uniformed sheriff’s 
deputy was on campus throughout the eve-
ning, his patrol vehicle parked adjacent to the field during practice. The site of the shootings 
— the 1200 building — still stands, cordoned 
off by a chain-link fence. Many want it lev-
eled, but for now it stands because it’s essen-
tially evidence, a crime scene.
Players, as they walked out of the locker 
room in rows of two shortly before midnight, 
had to stroll past the 1200 building on their 
way to the field for practice. Barely anyone 
seemed to look its way.
“Our community is still very much in the 
traumatized healing process,” said Parkland 
Mayor Christine Hunschofsky, who sat in the 
bleachers with about 100 other people for the 
middle-of-the-night practice. “This is not a 
sprint. This is absolutely a marathon. And we 
will never forget. No one who was here will 
ever forget. But we also have to look at a way 
forward.”
And Monday was a small step forward.
But the reminders of Feb. 14 remain ev-
erywhere.
There is one locker with a door painted 
gold in the locker room — it belonged to Joa-
quin “Guac” Oliver, one of the 17 victims, 
the boy who adored Miami Heat star Dwy-
ane Wade so much that his family buried 
him in a Wade jersey. The fence around the 
1200 building is partially covered by banners 
with messages of support from neighboring 
schools. Inside the cafeteria, where parents 
reported for the preseason meeting, another 
banner still hangs. It’s from the students of Columbine High School, where a similar trag-
edy took place in 1999.
On the field, there are more signs, re-
minders to play for Feis and how to be “MSD 
Strong.” The shirts most of the coaches wore 
had some reminder of the shooting. May 
tugged on a new shirt just before practice, one 
with “17” in the middle, the reasoning there 
obvious.
A school that was a sanctuary is now, in 
many ways, a memorial .
“Are we perfect? Are we happy all the 
time? How can we be?” said Johanna Feis, the 
younger sister of the slain coach whose desk 
remains next to May’s inside a cramped foot-
ball office and hasn’t been issued to anyone 
else on the staff. “I’m not OK at this moment, 
but we’re pushing through, so we are OK.”
The Eagles obviously did not want this at-
tention.
They did not want to be asked to play a 
Canadian team in Georgia on Sept. 1, but now 
view the trip as a great opportunity. They did 
not want to see Feis, athletic director Chris 
Hixon, cross country coach Scott Beigel — 
all victims on Feb. 14 — honored with the 
Best Coach award at the ESPYs. They did not 
want to turn Feis’ name into a motivational 
acronym, the letters in football parlance now 
standing for “Fearless, Emotion, Intensity and 
Sacrifice.”
They would rather see things go back to 
normal, whatever that was before the after-noon of Feb. 14.
“You represent this high school,” May told 
his team just before practice started. “Every 
time you put that Douglas (jersey) on, make 
it count for something. Make it mean some-
thing. When somebody faces us this year, 
one thing I want them to know is, you ain’t 
getting an injured Eagle. You’re not facing an 
injured Eagle that’s just going to let you roll 
over them. You better bring the best you got.”
The reminders notwithstanding, boys 
were being boys Sunday night as they waited 
for practice. They had a team meeting in the 
bleachers to go over fundraising plans, and 
whooped for joy when it came time to tape a 
promotional video.
They returned to the locker room after the 
meeting to wait for practice, some laying on 
the hard tile floor, others chilling on benches, 
virtually everyone on their phones. Music 
blared. Kids danced. Some coaches had pizza.
It was loud and festive.
It was football season. And for a couple 
hours, all felt right again.
“I just want to make sure the kids will be 
OK,” said Johanna Feis, who comes to most 
practices and helps the program with some 
clerical work like putting together the roster. 
“It’s difficult to be here. But at the end of the 
day, it’s nice that I can go sit in my brother’s 
chair. These kids, they loved my brother so 
much and they still do. And I think it’s amaz-
ing. They know they’re making him proud.”At Stoneman Douglas, football season comes with heavy heartsSWIM
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Improvements from for-
mer Gator Caeleb Dressel 
and current and future Gators 
marked a lively end to the 
2018 Phillips 66 National 
Championships in Irvine, Cal-
ifornia. 
Dressel, who struggled 
through the first two days of 
competition on Wednesday 
and Thursday, restored order 
by first winning the 100-me-
ter fly on Friday with a time 
of 50.50, the best time world-
wide since Dressel’s 49.86 at 
the 2017 World Champion-
ships. He followed that up 
with a second-place finish in 
the 50-meter freestyle on Sun-
day. 
The 800-meter freestyle 
final on Sunday also saw a 
quartet of Gators, both cur-
rent and future, place well 
and set personal records. In-
coming freshmen Robert Fin-
ke and Trey Freeman quali-
fied for the finals, placing 
third and eighth, respectively. 
Current Gator Ben Law-
less also set a program re-
cord in the event with a time 
of 7:57:56 in his ninth-place 
finish, while teammate Mitch 
D’Arrigo finished 24th. 
Finke, Freeman, Lawless, 
and D’Arrigo’s personal re-
cords were four of eight set by the program on the final 
weekend of competition. 
Additionally, Kieran 
Smith’s swim in the B final 
of the 200-meter individual 
medley was good enough for 
14th overall in the event. 
As a result of their perfor-
mances at the 2018 Phillips 
66 National Championships, 
Dressel, Finke, and UF alum-
nus Conor Dwyer all quali-
fied for the 2018 Pan Pacific 
Championships in Tokyo in 
August. 
Finke qualified on 
Wednesday with his second-
place finish in the 1500-meter 
freestyle, while Dwyer made 
the team after his second-
place result in the 200-meter 
freestyle. Dressel nearly did 
not make the team with his 
struggles earlier in the week, 
but his aforementioned vic-
tory in the 100-meter fly se-
cured his spot. 
Taylor Ault placed 16th 
overall in the 1500-meter 
freestyle, and Hannah Burns 
finished in 15th the 200-meter 
individual medley. 
Grant Sanders, Kahra Wil-
liams and incoming freshmen 
Miguel Cancel and Vanessa 
Pearl also ended up qualify-
ing for the finals of their re-
spective events. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators at the USA Swimming Nationals: A weekend roundup
The Associated Press
Former UF swimmer Caeleb Dressel took first in the 100-fly at the Phillips 66 National Championships in Irvine, 
California. He, along with two other UF notables, will advance to the P an Pacific Championships  in T okyo.
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 31, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueBut the Bucks lost in the ﬁ  rst 
round of the playoffs in three of 
the last four seasons, and if it 
happens again, Antetokounmpo 
will face the label of an elite tal-ent who fails to elevate his team 
to success, much like Anthony 
Davis before his Western Confer-
ence Semiﬁ  nals run last season.
Then there’s Philadelphia’s dy-
namic duo of Ben Simmons and 
Joel Embiid. Can they make it back to the playoffs and show up 
for the big moments? 
Will Simmons improve his 
shot? Can Embiid actually stay 
healthy? How much further, and 
faster, can “the Process” prog-
ress?How about Blake Grifﬁ  n, a ris-
ing superstar-turned-yesterday’s 
news, trying to resurrect his ca-
reer in Detroit? 
Like Embiid, Grifﬁ  n has a his-
tory of injuries – but has shown 
the ability to ﬂ  at-out dominate 
when healthy. Grifﬁ  n has a repu-
tation for not being a winner, and 
if he can lead Detroit to real suc-cess in the LeBron-less Eastern 
Conference, the high-ﬂ  yer could 
return to the superstar status he 
so narrowly missed with the Clip-
pers.
Andrew Huang is a sports writ-
er. You can follow him on Twitter 
@AndrewJHuang or contact him 
at ahuang@alligator.org.Can Embiid, Griin stay healthy? The Gators’ season hung in the balance along 
with a trip to the Women’s College World Se-
ries. 
An offering from Harrington jumped off 
the freshman’s bat, sailed through the night 
sky and disappeared over the left-center ﬁ  eld 
wall. 
“It was one of the best series I’ve been a 
part of,” UF coach Tim Walton said. “That’s 
just one of those holy sh*t moments.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Brendan: I’m going to have to go with 
the volleyball Gainesville Regional ﬁ  nal 
against USC.  With the strongest team in 
years, this really felt like the season that the 
Gators’ volleyball team would ﬁ  nally break 
through and win the ﬁ  rst national champion-
ship in program history. 
Mary Wise, owner of the most wins of 
any female college volleyball coach, looked 
poised to claim the one thing that eluded her 
in her illustrious coaching career. 
After breezing through their ﬁ  rst three op-
ponents, the Gators met their ﬁ  rst real test of 
the tournament against 14th-ranked Southern 
California. Though they did win the ﬁ  rst set 
25-23, the Gators found themselves ﬁ  ghting 
to keep their season alive after a couple of 
rough sets left them trailing 2-1. 
Like a pair of heavyweight boxers trad-ing haymakers, the Gators and Trojans al-
ternated points in a thrilling, intense fourth 
set. Down 24-23 and with the end of an era 
a point away, Shainah Joseph and Rhamat 
Alhassan, two members of the team’s laud-
ed senior class, responded with a combined 
three-consecutive points to win the set and 
send the game into a tie-breaking ﬁ  fth set. 
Despite giving their season one last des-
perate breath, the Gators got off to a slow 
start in the ﬁ  fth set, trailing 9-5. However, 
a double hit, a kill by senior Carli Snyder, a 
block and an error by USC left the game tied 
at nine, and the Gators never looked back, 
scoring 10 of the match’s last 12 points and 
winning the tiebreaker 15-11. 
The ﬁ  ve-set, adrenaline-ﬁ  lled game was 
the third-longest NCAA tournament game in 
program’s history, and it might just be the 
most memorable. The win would also send 
the Gators to their ﬁ  rst Final Four since 2003, 
where they would also advance to their ﬁ  rst 
national championship game since that year 
as well. 
Between the stakes of the match and the 
actual game itself, I’m not sure any other 
game from this past year can top this. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
Andrew: You might not have seen the 
Florida volleyball team knock off Stan-
ford in the Final Four of last season’s NCAA 
Tournament. If so, you missed UF's best 
match of the year.The stage was as grand as it was historic. 
The winner advanced to the national 
championship game, but there was much 
more at stake. Florida hadn’t made it that far 
since 2003, and coach Mary Wise – already 
the only female coach to reach the NCAA title 
game – was trying to do it again, with the 
help of a stellar senior class.
The match started out wonderfully for the 
29-1 Gators. 
They took the opening two sets from the 
Cardinal, holding the lead for the last 16 
points of the ﬁ  rst. They ﬁ  nished strong to 
take the second, winning three of the last 
four points.Then the momentum took a sharp turn 
Stanford’s way. The Cardinal gained control 
of the match, winning the third and fourth 
sets handily to tie things up. Stanford used 
a 12-4 run to power through the third, and 
then opened up a 4-0 lead in the fourth. It 
did not trail in the period, and extended its 
advantage to 11-2.
But somehow, the deﬂ  ated Gators turned 
it up a notch in the deciding ﬁ  fth set. They 
took the lead for good thanks to a 5-0 run and 
scored four of the last ﬁ  ve points to earn their 
elusive championship game berth.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 14Volleyball played two thrillers
Alligator File Photo
The UF volleyball team made it to the championship game for the second time under coach Mary Wise. 
It defeated both Southern California and Stanford in thrilling matches to advance to the title match. 
