We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
GATORS COLLAPSE IN FINAL HOME GAME
Florida’s women’s basketball team scored 
two points in the third quarter on the way to a 
28-point loss to UT, pg. 14Read coverage of the Tallahassee march 
A survivor of the shooting plans on attending UF, pg. 9
Impact Party swept SG Spring elections
They took the execute ticket and majority of Student Senate seats, pg. 5
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 62
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
AN UNEXPECTED LEADER
Elliott Nasby / Alligator 
Dignity Village resident Rupert Heard, 55, from T oledo, Ohio, gives a tour of his camp ﬁ  t for three. As camp leader, he manages his group’s ﬁ  nances and stocks up on daily supplies. 
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite controversial tweets 
made by Dinesh D’Souza following 
the Parkland school shooting last week, student group Young Ameri-cans for Freedom still plan to invite 
him to speak on campus this April. 
D’Souza, a conservative author 
and speaker, came under ﬁ  re Tues-
day after mocking survivors of the shooting in a series of tweets regard-ing the Florida legislature’s decision to vote down a bill that would ban assault weapons. The UF chapter of the organization still plans to in-vite D’Souza to speak on campus on 
April 12, according to its website. 
The event will cost $15,000, the or-ganization wrote in a Facebook mes-sage. 
“University of Florida Young 
Americans for Freedom is proud to host conservative author, ﬁ  lmmaker, and speaker Dinesh D’Souza,” the organization wrote in a statement. 
UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
said UF doesn’t have a contract with the speaker at this time, so the event is not conﬁ  rmed. The Student Senate passed a resolution Jan. 23 that gave $5,100 to the organization for the D’Souza speaking event, according 
to Alligator archives. The Alligator 
couldn’t conﬁ  rm where the rest of the money for the event came from. 
On Tuesday, D’Souza called a 
Stoneman Douglas student, who talked to media, “coached and also a bit deranged.” He tweeted President Donald Trump should ignore “me-dia-manufactured theatrics.” 
About two hours later, he shared 
an article about Florida lawmakers who rejected a bill to ban assault ri-ﬂ  es. “Adults 1, kids 0,” he wrote. He followed up with another tweet with a picture of the students hearing the decision from lawmakers and wrote, 
“Worst news since their parents told 
them to get summer jobs.”
He apologized the next day.“While it aimed at media manip-
ulation, my tweet was insensitive to students who lost friends in a terrible tragedy. I’m truly sorry,” he tweeted.
The organization refused to com-
ment on the tweets speciﬁ  cally but 
said its members were praying for 
the victims and families of the shoot-ing. 
“We are dedicated to educating 
students on the importance of our constitutional freedoms including the second amendment,” the state-
ment reads. 
Ian Kampert, a UF English ju-
nior, believes they should rescind 
D’Souza’s invitation. 
Although he would like UF to 
step in and prevent D’Souza from speaking, he’s not sure they have the power. 
“If they were unable to stop Rich-
ard Spencer from speaking, then Dinesh D’Souza is small potatoes compared to Richard Spencer,” he said. 
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Rupert Heard used to sleep with a knife 
by his side. 
With no one to watch his back while he 
lived in an abandoned building off South-
west 13th Street, he wanted to be prepared in case he needed to defend himself.
Stuck alone in a place that wasn’t his, he 
felt trapped in a lifestyle he never expected. 
“I felt overwhelmed, like I didn’t have 
any other options,” Heard, 55, said. “There 
was a sense of hopelessness.” 
For about a week he drifted, hungry and 
alone in the November cold, until he fol-lowed up with a friend who recommended Dignity Village, a homeless tent community 
of about 150 off of NE 39th Avenue, near the Gainesville Regional Airport. 
Now, Heard ends each night around a 
small ﬁ  re, breaking bread with his closest friends. 
He wakes up in his neon yellow tent, rest-ing for a second before he uses the camp’s 
old kettle to brew his famous cup of coffee.
“A toast to Gainesville,” Heard says over 
his raised coffee cup before reciting a daily 
prayer. 
Although he never expected to be home-
less, Heard said providing for his fellow Dig-
UF group to bring speaker who mocked Parkland survivors At homeless camp, a man has become a leader to support others
SEE FEATURE,   PAGE  8FEATURE FRIDAY:
GATORS COLLAPSE IN FINAL HOME GAME
to a 
passed a resolution Jan. 23 that gave 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
HIGH  83° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
My Fulbright in 7 Minutes
UF Fulbright Programs invites 
everyone to “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Thursday at the UF 
International Center in The 
Hub. To RSVP, please email UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com. For more information, email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Spring Fling GatorNights
A Spring Fling GatorNights will be held Friday at the Reitz Union. Hypnotist Daniel James will perform and the film "Coco" will be playing. GatorNights is 
always Friday, always free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Gay Movie Night: TaeKwondo
The Gay Community Center of North Florida will hold a viewing of the movie at 7:30 
p.m. today at 3131 NW 13 St. 
Gay Movie Night is on the last Friday of each month. A $2 do-nation is requested to cover cost of snacks. Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication, please model your submission after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 62
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
The newly opened Taco Bell, located 
at 1404 W. University Ave., will host an 
event from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday.
The restaurant will offer 50-cent tacos 
and rafﬂ  e off a 50-inch TV, gift cards and 
T-shirts, said Kayla Lampp, the Mexican 
fast-food chain’s general manager. 
“It’s kind of like to tell them, you know, 
we’re here right across from the school, 
and we’re ready for them now,” she said. However, customers still have to wait 
for booze-ﬁ  lled Baja Blasts, their Moun-
tain Dew-ﬂ  avored signature drinks. The cantina doesn’t have an anticipated date for a liquor license yet, Lampp said. 
Gabrielle Grilli, a UF English junior, 
said she’s a loyal customer so she plans 
on getting 50-cent tacos this weekend.
“I’m, like, kind of obsessed with Taco 
Bell,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCantina-style Taco Bell to 
oﬀ  er 50-cent tacos, raﬄ   e 
By Sabrina Conza
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bite Squad, the website 
and mobile app that allows 
users to order food for deliv-ery, added 20 new restaurant locations in Gainesville.
Company spokesperson 
Liz Sniegocki said the com-pany  now offers delivery from a total of 97 restaurants in Gainesville.The additions include 
Chick-ﬁ  l-A, Relish and Fire-house Subs.
The company delivers up 
to 7 miles from the restau-rant’s location, and its most popular restaurant partners in the city are Piesanos and Gators Dockside, she said. 
She said the company 
has been growing since its Gainesville launch in Febru-
ary 2017 and expects to con-tinue growing this year.
“We want to have food for 
whatever mood our custom-ers are in that can be deliv-
ered to their door,” she said.
Shalena Hoang, a 19-year-
old biology freshman, said she uses Bite Squad weekly so she’s excited that for more restaurant options available.
“I think I will start using 
it more because I only have 
more options,” she said.Bite Squad adds delivery service 
from 20 more restaurants By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Nicholas John Jagodzinski, 19, was spot-
ted picking up trafﬁ  c cones by a University 
Police ofﬁ  cer Wednesday night, according to a police report. 
At about 10:30 p.m., near the intersection 
of Northwest 19th Street and Northwest First Avenue, Jagodzinski picked up two orange cones belonging to Bob’s Barricades behind Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity and University Lu-theran Church, according to the report.
After his arrest, Jagodzinski said he took 
the cones to impress people watching, po-lice said. Jagodzinski is a UF sophomore engineering major, UF spokesperson 
John Hines wrote in an 
email.
Each cone was worth 
about $20, according to the report. Jagodzinski faces a 
charge of petty theft. Jag-odzinski was taken to the 
Alachua County Jail and later released after posting a $500 bail. He could not be reached 
for comment. 
-***
Juan Nicolas Pacheco, 20, was arrested 
after police responded to a call about some-one being passed out on a bench Thursday morning.  
At about 4 a.m. on the 
Northwest side of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, Pacheco was found covered in vom-it and smelling of alcohol, according to an arrest re-port. He told police he had been out drinking and gave 
ofﬁ  cers his Florida driver’s license, accord-ing to the report. 
While speaking to police, Pacheco took 
out his wallet and opened it, according to the report. Inside, police saw a Maryland driver’s licence in the front clear slot.“It’s fake. It’s fake,” Pacheco told police, 
according to the report.
After his arrest, he told police he bought 
the license from ID God, according to the re-port.
Pacheco is a UF junior biomedical engi-
neering major, UF spokesperson John Hines wrote in an email. 
Pacheco was arrested on a charge of fraud 
for possession of a forged driver’s license. He was later released on his own recognizance. He could not be reached for comment. 
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
UPD: Student arrested for picking up cones, another for fraud
Jagodzinski
 Pacheco
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
By Sabrina Conza
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alfonso Tejada made a pasta that fits 
every diet’s needs, from anyone who’s on 
a keto diet to people who are allergic to 
gluten. 
It’s so good, the UF alumnus said, his 
wife eats it three times a week. So he decid-ed to pitch the idea on one of his favorite 
TV shows, “Shark Tank.” 
Eight months later, the UF alumnus 
and his product, Palmini, will be featured 
on “Shark Tank” at 10 p.m. Sunday on ABC. He will ask the “sharks,” famous in-vestors, to invest $300,000 for 10 percent 
of his company. Tejada graduated with a bachelor’s degree in finance in 2009 and a 
master’s degree in business administration in 2011. 
When he applied to the show through 
email in June, he didn’t expect to hear 
back. But the next day, he got a call.
“I was extremely excited,” he said. “I 
started jumping around because it’s one of those things that you don’t think is pos-
sible until it happens.”
Tejada said he founded his company, 
O.A. Foods, in 2012. It sells quinoa and 
chia products online, as well as the main 
product he marketed on the show, Palmini, 
which he created last year.
It’s a noodle made out of the vegetable heart of palm, Tejada said. It’s a pasta al-
ternative for those looking for a healthy 
option or people with dietary restrictions 
preventing them from eating pasta.
He said a 75 gram serving has 15 calo-
ries, 3 grams of carbohydrates, no sugar and is gluten-free. Seventy-five grams of 
Barilla, a popular pasta brand, has about 
275 calories and 56 grams of carbs.
Tejada said he knew his pitch had to 
be creative and unique because only about half of the pitches the sharks hear get aired. 
So he had his friend dress up as a can 
for the pitch to get the investors’ attention, 
particularly Mark Cuban. The multibillion-aire has experience in food and is the most 
recognizable out of the five sharks, he said. 
Although Tejada said he couldn’t reveal 
if he got a deal with a shark, he wants to encourage entrepreneurs to apply for the 
show.
“It was an awesome experience, and I 
had a lot of fun while doing it,” he said.
Jack Renaud, a 22-year-old UF politi-
cal science senior, said he watches “Shark Tank” a few times a month and thinks it’s good publicity for UF to have an alumnus 
on the show. 
He said he thinks Tejada’s product is a 
good idea and plans to research it after the 
show airs. 
“It’s good to be conscious of what 
you’re eating,” he said. UF alumnus to pitch low-
calorie pasta on “Shark Tank”  
THE GROUP HAS RAISED MORE 
THAN $4,500 IN THREE DAYS.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
As Brandon Taylor scrolled down the list of 
those killed in the Parkland shooting at Mar-
jory Stoneman Douglas High School, he didn’t expect to see the name of a 15-year-old student he used to tutor.  
Taylor, 20, a UF computer science engineer-
ing sophomore, tutored then 10-year-old Peter Wang at the Kumon Math and Reading Center in Coral Springs, Florida. 
“He was just one of the happiest kids ever,” 
Taylor said. “He was there learning stuff be-yond his years. He couldn’t be happier about it.”
Peter, 15, died as he held the door open for 
his fellow students to escape, according to the New York Times. The violence was close to home for Taylor. He is one of 20 UF students organizing a bus trip for students to attend the March For Our Lives in Washington D.C., a na-tional march to pressure government officials to enact gun reform and to support victims, on March 24.
“In the past, everybody knew about it, but 
nothing happened,” he said. “Now everybody knows about it, and everybody will have to listen.” 
Taylor is raising money for the buses need-
ed to make the trip on GoFundMe. His goal is $15,000, and he already raised more than $4,500 in three days. 
Any extra money will be donated to the 
Broward Education Foundation’s GoFundMe campaign to raise money for victims and their families, Taylor said.
Jaimie Ivers, 20, a UF public relations soph-
omore, posted on Facebook asking students if they were interested in a bus trip from UF to D.C. The group is also looking into organizing a march in Gainesville on March 24, she said. 
The post received more than 300 likes and 
150 comments from students interested in both hosting a local march and traveling to D.C.
“I wanted to bring UF to help support Park-
land and help end gun violence in America,” she said. “Parkland really should be the last mass shooting.”
The tragedy also mobilized her roommate 
Julia Tiplea, 19, a UF marine science sopho-more. 
She said the outpour of national support en-
courages her to make it to the march and seek justice for gun violence victims. 
“It makes me feel good to know that people 
around the country, like strangers I don’t even know, are donating to our cause just to get UF students to march for our rights,” Tiplea said.
The Stoneman Douglas students who orga-
nized the #NeverAgain movement against gun violence give her hope. 
“Young people are powerful, and we 
shouldn’t be discredited just because we’re 
young,” she said.UF students raising money to 
march in D.C. for gun reformFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Christina Morales, 
David Hoffman and 
Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writers
Minutes after Ian Green won 
the Student Government presiden-
tial election for Impact Party, his friends congratulated and hugged him, and his mom wiped the tears that streamed down his face with a tissue. 
“I just want to thank God first 
and my parents for supporting me,” Green said. “I’ve worked so hard for this, and I can’t wait to get to work.”
Green, along with his running 
mate, David Enriquez, won the Spring SG election. They will be-come the next Student Body presi-dent and vice president, respec-tively, after getting a total of 5,971 votes, or 59.25 percent, of the 10,381 ballots cast over the course of two days. Impact’s treasurer candidate, Stefan Sanguyo, won with 5,694 votes, or 57.8 percent of the total. 
Erica Baker, supervisor of elec-
tion, wrote in an email 6,484 votes cast Tuesday, 3,897 votes cast Wednesday and 25 students vot-ed using absentee ballots. This is 3,512 more votes than Spring 2017, when only 6,869 students voted, according to Alligator archives. Of the 50 Senate seats for academic colleges up for vote, Impact won 36, Inspire Party won 14 and Chal-lenge Party won none.
This is the third consecutive 
year Impact won the executive ticket and the fifth time a black stu-dent was elected as Student Body president. Inspire’s president and vice president candidates, Revel Lubin and Bijal Desai, received 2,715 votes, or 26.94 percent of the vote. Challenge’s candidates Janae Moodie and Shayli Patel received 
1,312 votes, or 13.02 percent of the 
vote.
Alyssa Bethencourt, Inspire’s 
treasurer candidate, got 3,021 votes, or 30.67 percent of the to-tal. Chase Werther of Challenge received 1,065 votes, or 10.81 per-cent of the total.
More than 200 students crowd-
ed into the Reitz Union Atrium to support candidates. In a room filled with nervous jitters, members from each party put their tension aside and wished each other luck.
Before the results were an-
nounced, they chanted.
“I-M-P-A-C-T. Impact is for you 
and me.” 
“Inspire. It’s time. Together, we 
shine.”
“Hey hey, ho ho. Challenge the 
status quo.”
Sanguyo embraced his running 
mates as the room echoed with shouts after Baker announced Im-pact took the treasurer seat. 
“I’m excited to work for the Stu-
dent Body,” he said. “I really hope I don’t let the students down.” 
The room silenced before Baker 
called out the winners of the presi-dential and vice presidential ticket — Ian Green and David Enriquez. 
Green’s mom, Val Green, his 
dad, Vince Green, his younger sis-ter, Olivia Green, his godmother, Pam Prier from Jacksonville and his girlfriend, Lauren Milgrim, stood by his side the entire night decked out in Impact T-shirts read-ing, “The Future is Green.” 
It was a long six-hour drive 
from Marietta, Georgia for the Green family, but Val Green said they couldn’t miss the election.
“I’m very excited to come and support Ian and be a part of a very historic election,” Val said.
When Baker announced En-
riquez won, his eyes got watery and he couldn’t stop jumping up and down. 
“I want to thank the community 
behind me, my Latino communi-ty,” he said.
Revel Lubin locked arms with a 
row of Inspire members and looked up as the election results were an-nounced. The Inspire crowd stood silent as Impact was called again and again to claim Senate seats. 
Lubin remained with his arms 
locked, staring up and nodding. He leaned over to hug Alyssa Bethen-court after she lost the treasurer seat to Impact’s Stefan Sanguyo. Bethencourt, a UF Innovation Academy telecommunication ju-nior, smiled as other party mem-bers showered her in hugs. 
In that moment, Bethencourt 
said she felt relief and pride, not disappointment.
“More than anything, I’m proud 
of the party,” the 20-year-old said. “I’m just grateful for the opportu-nity.”
After losing by one vote last se-
mester in the District C election, Bianka Ramirez, a philosophy and economics junior and Inspire can-didate, returned to the ballot as a Liberal Arts and Sciences candi-date. She lost again by fewer than 80 votes. 
She held hands with fellow In-
spire running mates Jessica Zheng and Luke Morris when it was an-nounced Impact won the seven Liberal Arts and Sciences Senate seats.
“This is more fuel for me,” the 
20-year-old said. “I’m never going to stop.”Bijal Desai said he’s proud of 
Inspire’s campaign and platform, 
which included advocating for a 
sexual assault reporting program.
“We stood for what we stood 
for. We fought for what we fought for,” he said. “We brought what we felt the biggest issues on cam-pus are to the forefront.”
Inspire gathered at the patio 
area by the Reitz pond to give each other hugs and words of encour-agement. Lubin spoke to his fellow party members and told them to look up at the stars in the sky.
“It always takes a certain 
amount of darkness to see the star,” he said, quoting a Martin Lu-ther King Jr. sermon. 
Lubin said his party members 
should be proud of their hard work and keep faith in their vision for UF. Inspire senators will continue to share their ideas as the minority party in SG, he said. Lubin said he would run for Student Body presi-dent again, if that’s what God has planned for him.
“I don’t take a loss as a loss. It’s 
a lesson learned,” he said. “There’s beauty in it.”
With three parties on the bal-
lot, there was a question of how that would impact the votes. In-spire President Ben Lima said it is impossible to tell if Challenge split the vote.
“This is a democracy,” he said. 
“Sometimes there’s going to be multiple parties, and that’s the re-ality of party politics. That’s the reality of what the semester was.”  
Lima said Inspire does not in-
tend to merge parties with Chal-lenge but is open to accepting Chal-lenge members with open arms. 
“Inspire is here to stay,” he said.
About an hour after the results were announced and Challenge 
didn’t win a single seat, Janae 
Moodie said she still felt victory in 
her heart. 
Moodie’s smile didn’t fade 
as she read the results with her mother, Marcia, 60, who took a five-hour RedCoach bus ride from West Palm Beach to Gainesville on Wednesday to support her daugh-ter.
“I feel like I got my freedom on 
January 9th when I resigned,” she said. “In the end, we still stood up for what was right and what was different — this doesn’t feel like a loss.” 
Marcia, who wore three Chal-
lenge stickers on her navy blue and white-striped dress, said she was proud of her 21-year-old daughter. 
“I’ll always be proud of her,” 
she said. 
Holding back tears, Shayli Patel 
said she still had hope for an inde-pendent movement. 
Patel, Challenge’s candidate for 
vice president, said she still plans to fight for issues like renaming the O’Connell Center and access to free menstrual products.
“We can still fight for issues as 
students when we stand together united,” the 21-year-old econom-ics junior said. “We started this to bring about change, and that feel-ing won’t go away any time soon.” 
Challenge spokesperson Wayne 
Selogy said Wednesday night was not the end of the party by any means. 
Selogy said he’s aware people 
might accuse Challenge of stealing votes away from Inspire in light of Impact’s sweeping victories. 
“In a true democracy, everyone 
has the right to give it their fair shot, and that’s exactly what we did,” he said. 
Impact Party sweeps SG election third year in a row
A total of 10,381 students voted — 3,512 more than Spring 2017T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Student Body President-elect, Ian Green, 22, and Student Body Vice President-elect, David Enriquez, 20, cheer as Impact Party wins the executive ticket at the Reitz Union. Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Inspire Party members stand together while the Student Government Spring election results are announced at the Reitz Union on Wednesday night.
•   •   ••   •   •
•   •   •The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
After you dodge the gaggle of fraternity men, begging you 
to give them the “I voted” sticker you’ll get after casting your 
ballot, you ﬁ  nd your place in line and dig through your back-pack until you ﬁ  nd your rarely used Gator 1 Card. You dust it off and mindlessly scroll through social media on your phone until you reach the front of the line.
The friendly older woman at the desk hands you a red card 
with detailed instructions on how to cast your ballot. After conﬁ  rming your year and major on about six different screens, you ﬁ  nally reach the ballot. 
Oddly enough, however, the ballot doesn’t say what you 
expect. Instead, it reads ...
Darts & Laurels
Hearts were shattered this Tuesday when members of the 
Florida House of Representatives refused to even con-sider a bill that would have banned assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. 
House Democrats attempted to debate the bill on 
the ﬂ  oor six days after the tragic shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. The bill would have banned the sale and possession of semi-automatic weapons and high-capacity maga-zines, like the kind used by confessed killer Nikolas Cruz. 
Unfortunately, House Republicans decisively blocked the 
move with a 71 to 36 vote, deciding they wouldn’t even discuss the bill. How many more lives need to be lost before we realize there is a simple solution? How many lives will it take for Re-publicans to ﬁ  nally value safety over National Riﬂ  e Association 
funding? To the Florida House Republicans, we award our ﬁ  rst 
dart.
This callous decision, however, only served as fuel for those 
advocating for stricter gun reform. On Wednesday, Tallahassee 
streets were ﬂ  ooded with nearly 100 Stoneman Douglas students and thousands of other supporters as they rallied for gun control outside the capitol building. 
Students also managed to schedule audiences with Gov. Rick 
Scott, State Attorney General Pam Bondi and leaders of the state 
House and Senate. The teenagers recounted their tragedy and 
presented their pleas. The fearless efforts Stoneman Douglas stu-dents and other Americans have exhibited since the shooting are nothing short of inspiring. Millions have been using the calamity as a reason to change our country for the better. To these stu-
dents and the others who have been advocating for stricter gun laws, we award our ﬁ  rst laurel.
While we didn’t see movement in the Florida House for a ban 
on assault riﬂ  es, we did get a glimmer of hope from President 
Donald Trump. On Tuesday, Trump said he directed Attorney 
General Jeff Sessions to propose changes that would ban bump ﬁ  re stocks, which make it easier for shooters to ﬁ  re rounds faster. We admit, this isn’t the change we are waiting for, and it deﬁ  nite-ly isn’t enough. But it is something, dear readers. And for that, we are grateful. For probably the ﬁ  rst time in Alligator history, we award our second laurel to Trump. 
This Monday, we announced our endorsements for Challenge 
Party’s executive ticket and Inspire Party’s Senate seats in this 
Spring’s Student Government Elections. We were disappointed, 
but not surprised, when we saw Impact Party sweep the election for the third year in a row. We had hoped more students would vote, and we’d see an end to system parties like Impact, which refuse to focus on the real needs of students.
Only 10,381 ballots were cast this Spring. At a school with 
around 50,000 students, that number is embarrassing. To the 
students who chose not to vote, we award our second and last dart of the week. When you refuse to let your voice be heard, 
you are agreeing to succumb to the status quo and supporting the 
convoluted and corrupt system that has been in place for far too long within SG.
Politically fueled late-night TV will not last forever
Late-night television is strange. Thirty 
years ago, it satiated the same need that late-night web surﬁ  ng does today: mind-
less entertainment to help you unwind 
at the end of the day. Despite the expo-
nential growth of other nightly entertainment sources, late-night shows are still chugging 
along. 
Each show starts the same way. The fun-
nyman walks out to an applauding crowd, 
while his band plays some cute little tune. Then he tells a handful of jokes written by a room full of writers ear-
lier in the day. The shows are usually taped sometime 
in the afternoon and try to incorporate some news or current events in the opening monologue. 
During the election, the joke material ﬂ  owed like 
milk and honey. If the debates weren’t enough, Presi-dent Donald Trump’s Twitter feed proved to be the fountain of youth for joke writers, providing endless streams of material to poke and prod. 
Since Trump took ofﬁ  ce, the political jokes have 
not subsided at all, and don’t show any signs of stop-ping. Late night hosts that dish the most out at Trump —  most notably Stephen Colbert and Jimmy Kimmel — have signiﬁ  cantly improved their ratings. Somewhere in 
the middle, you have the more neutral late-night hosts, 
venturing into the political realm here and there, but with far less veracity than Colbert or Kimmel. 
Then, on the non-political side, you have Jimmy 
Fallon, standing alone in his vacuum devoid of Trump 
bashing.  In an interview with the “Today” show, Fal-
lon said that bashing Trump is “just not what I do,” and that he “doesn’t really even care that much about politics.”
You have to admire Fallon for having such self-
awareness and sticking to his guns, despite plummeting ratings. It appears “The Late Show with Stephen 
Colbert” has taken the lead among late-night shows, riding his nightly politically fueled 
monologues. In the last year, Fallon’s lead 
over Colbert among younger viewers dropped from 364,000 to only 57,000. 
Despite this loss of valuable ground, 
Fallon has steadfastly remained apolitical. Instead, he focuses almost entirely on pop culture, something that I imagine is quite the 
challenge these days. 
I think Fallon is making the right move by abstain-
ing from the bash-Trump train. He might take some losses right now, but in the long-run, this will prove to be the wiser move. When looking back at these turbu-lent years, Fallon will, at the minimum, be able to take 
pride in being solely a source of positivity in a world of 
suffocating despair. In the coming months and years, the allure of criticizing Trump will eventually subside, and the casual late-night viewer will grow tired of the incessant negativity. 
Late-night television became what it is today because 
it served as a lighthearted source of laughter and fun, an escape from the doldrums of the workweek. Even if society and the world at large are crumbling down, 
nobody wants to be reminded of it by a comedian on 
TV forever. Right now, regardless of if you ﬁ  nd him and his artiﬁ  cial laugh funny or not, Jimmy Fallon is the only one genuinely playing the role of late-night host correctly. 
Abstaining from this trend for cash and instead 
focusing purely on positive humor is a much more sus-tainable, and enjoyable, strategy for the long term.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
focuses on entertainment.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
This time four years ago, I was taking 
last-minute tours of campuses across the 
country, and there was something that 
made UF’s tours different. Was it the or-
ange and blue? Was it that classic, mid-tour Gainesville rain shower? Close, but no — I 
noticed UF doesn’t pay their tour guides.
UF is not a perfect institution, and it 
doesn’t make you a hater to think or say 
that. As my time here is coming to a close, I’m reﬂ  ecting on the work I’ve done at UF, 
both inside and outside of class.
I’ve never been a Florida Cicerone. I 
never applied and I never even considered applying. I love UF, but being a Cicerone 
is unpaid work. I chose instead to apply to 
be a 2016 Preview staffer. This choice was guided, in part, by ﬁ  nancial in-centive. As much as the campus loves the Preview program, not 
a lot of students know Preview 
staffers are paid. This matters. 
To be honest, I wouldn’t have 
applied to Preview if it didn’t 
pay. You have to take — and pay 
for — a 3-credit, 4000-level class 
in the Spring, and then spend three months of your summer working your 
swampy butt off. To me, that sounds like we 
deserve compensation. I’ve had a job since I was 14 years old, and paying Preview staff-
ers made it feasible for me to apply. 
Stafﬁ  ng as work creates an opportunity 
for low-income students to get involved — students who wouldn’t be able to 
commit their summers for free. 
Involvement culture at UF dis-
turbs me in a number of ways. One being the way it rhetorical-ly encodes unpaid labor for the 
university as “Gator pride.” The 
attitude strikes me as elitist — 
you can love something and still 
need money to live. Unpaid labor 
takes privilege, and we need to see students 
without privilege given the opportunity to 
participate and succeed in every dimension of campus life. If major involvement oppor-
tunities at UF, like the Florida Cicerones, 
are serious about having a diverse group 
of students, they’re doing themselves a dis-service by closing the door to students who love UF but have to work to be here.
Across the nation, tour guides at other 
institutions are paid. At our public-educa-tion rivals like the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Michigan and 
yes, even Florida State University, pay their 
tour guides. This is a small bar to clear. 
There doesn't need to be a big dispute. If 
the Alumni Association is serious about representing UF, they need to start paying 
the students who do the footwork for them. 
We owe it to incoming Gators to make this change before they ever knew there was 
such a gap.
Andrew Cushen is a UF Spanish senior.
$202 million. 
That’s how much money “Black 
Panther” made in its opening week-
end. The next highest grossing ﬁ  lm for the weekend of Feb. 16 to Feb. 18 
only made $17 million. “Black Panther” is the 15th highest-grossing worldwide box ofﬁ  ce of 
all time and is rated 97 percent fresh on Rot-
ten Tomatoes, an American review website for 
television and ﬁ  lm. I haven’t seen the movie 
yet myself, but the outstanding opening week-
end bode well for ﬁ  lms with similarly diverse 
casts about to hit theaters like “A Wrinkle in Time” and “Crazy Rich Asians.” 
Seeing people who look like them in ﬁ  lm 
can be immensely beneﬁ  cial to young kids of color. Unfortunately, this alone hasn’t been a 
convincing enough argument for Hollywood to 
create more diverse ﬁ  lms. 
Movies with a predominately black, His-
panic or Asian American cast were thought to only appeal to those communities, and any ﬁ  lm or TV series starring minorities often fac-
es immense pressure to perform well. If they 
don’t, the instance could be used to prove this outdated and discriminatory idea that media representing minorities 
won’t make money. Basically, ﬁ  lms 
with a diverse cast can’t fail because they run the risk of becoming the 
reason that others don’t even get a 
chance. 
“Black Panther” shows black 
movies can sell to a wide audience, 
even internationally. This achieve-
ment counters the long-held Hol-
lywood theory that certain ﬁ  lms won’t sell, 
which executives have used as an excuse to 
create ﬁ  lms with only white leads. 
They’ve similarly used the idea that actors 
of color aren’t well-known and therefore won’t 
bring in as much revenue as an excuse to whitewash roles. Even when a ﬁ  lm explicitly 
calls for a person of color, roles are often still 
given away to white actors. As a result, actors 
of color must clamor for the few roles that are 
available. 
Even when a project breaks out to the 
mainstream, it has to be outstanding in order to show it’s really worth the effort for Holly-wood decision-makers to go out of their way to cast actors who aren’t 
white. Margaret Cho’s “All-Amer-
ican Girl” is an example of a TV show that fell short of its expecta-
tions. It premiered in 1994, and it 
was groundbreaking at the time due to its portrayal of an Asian Ameri-can family at a time when Asians 
were not represented on TV. 
TV critic Jeff Yang wrote a bad 
review of the show that was later used to 
show that Asian Americans didn’t support 
“All-American Girl,” and that it should be can-
celed, according to an article written by Yang 
20 years later for Quartz.  After “All-American 
Girl” was canceled in 1995, the next sitcom with an Asian American cast came 20 years 
later — it was “Fresh Off the Boat.”
A lackluster ﬁ  lm or TV show can hinder 
opportunities for a marginalized group for de-
cades. The cast feels the pressure to pave the way for their community. When you see your-
self represented, you want so desperately to 
like it, you’re willing to give it multiple chances to be good. Anything other than loyally watch-ing the episodes feels traitorous. This is how I 
felt watching “Dr. Ken,” another Asian Ameri-
can family sitcom that premiered after “Fresh Off the Boat” and was later canceled. 
“Black Panther” shows a black team behind 
and in front of the camera can be a winning combination, at home and abroad. This is ulti-mately a step toward a more inclusive media. 
Some have criticized "Black Panther" itself as 
being racist and have even created campaigns 
committed to taking down the “Black Pan-
ther” Rotten Tomatoes rating. This raises the 
question — when was the last time you ques-
tioned seeing a ﬁ  lm with an all-white cast?  It’s 
normal, isn’t it? Even though operating in an 
all-white world is completely unrealistic, let’s think critically about our media and support 
increased opportunities for actors of color. I 
hope you’ll all join me in supporting “Black 
Panther” this weekend. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column focuses on race 
and culture.UF must start paying its tour guides, stop marketing unpaid labor as Gator pride
'Black Panther' shows movies starring minorities can sell to a wide audienceColumn
ColumnAndrew Cushen
opinions@alligator.org
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
at the camp about eight months ago and after three 
months living there, Heard was voted the new leader of his group of three. 
Heard fetches firewood when it gets cold to keep 
his friends warm. In the summer, he waits in line for ice. Each day, he makes the short journey for food, water and gas for the camp grill from Grace Market-place, a homeless shelter. 
He manages finances, fixes plates of corn beef 
hash and turns on “Mike & Mike in the Morning” for 
others to get their daily fix of UF sports. 
“I was actually terrified when I first came out 
here,” he said. “Now that I kind of settled into my 
role, I feel pretty good.”
Residents of the campgrounds, which are set up 
outside of the Grace Marketplace, often band togeth-er and form their own self-governed groups, clus-tered in a circle around the marketplace. 
Within his camp, Heard is the first to greet visi-
tors, walking up with a bit of swagger and a toothy smile. He fills silence with stories about the day or his laughter. Even residents outside of Heard’s small camp visit. One friend, Steve, jokes he comes by ev-
ery day because Heard has a better living room, and 
a good ceiling fan.
“I love him because he takes care of my friend,” 
said Steve, who declined to give his last name. 
Steve’s friend Mike Burnette, a 68-year-old Viet-
nam veteran who says he plans to stay at Dignity until he dies, is one of the two other members of Heard’s camp. Wheelchair-bound and suffering from gout in both feet, Burnette relies on Heard to help 
him survive.
Burnette trusts Heard with the camp’s money sup-
ply, his monthly veteran’s benefits check of $1,074. 
“He helps me every day, and I appreciate it, really 
do,” he said. 
Heard moved into Dignity around the time the 
camp’s previous leader, Pete, was about to be “voted 
off the island,” Steve said. Pete would waste all of Burnette’s money by the tenth of every month, blow-
ing it on liquor instead of groceries. 
As Pete ignored his responsibilities, Heard started 
taking care of the camp’s chores. Heard said he was upset seeing how Burnette was being abused.
Even the people who are often forgotten about 
need someone in their corner, Heard said. It was im-
portant for Heard to help Burnette when he needed it. “They’re out here and nobody cares,” Heard said.Bob Gailey, the director of Christian Campus 
House, visits Heard and others every Wednesday evening, passing out bananas and peanut butter sandwiches with volunteers. 
Gailey has been coming out since Dignity 
opened in 2014, and said the visits almost always run smoothly. Alachua County and Putnam County together had an estimated 844 homeless people in 
2016, according to a report from the National Home-
less Information Project.
But about two weeks ago, Gailey parked his van 
and told his group to stay put. 
People were shouting and pointing fingers, ac-
cusing each other of stealing from another’s pile of firewood.
At Dignity Village, small disputes can turn ugly — 
knives, baseball bats, sticks, or fists are pulled over a 
few owed dollars, Steve said. 
Just last month, police responded to 47 calls at 
the camp, Gainesville Police Department spokesper-
son Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
That night, however, police weren’t called. In-
stead, Heard intervened.
“He comes in as kind of the peacemaker,” Gailey, 
58, said. “And that’s a difficult place to do that, be-cause you’ve got alcohol involved, you’ve got who 
knows what involved.”
Heard’s life was upended about a year ago when 
he lost his job at Earth Fare grocery store, replaced 
by a younger employee in the meat section, he said. 
He couldn’t afford his monthly rent and was evicted.
When that happened, it was as if all his past 
troubles, including his history of substance abuse, 
became overwhelming. Heard said he started to lose hope.
Now, he said he hopes his legacy can be the posi-
tive things he’s doing for his camp and neighbors.
He gives socks to Brian next door without being 
asked. He keeps an eye on Kenny, who has epilepsy. 
When the camp gets items donated — which isn’t 
nearly enough, Heard said — he makes sure every-one gets their pick.
“I’m not out of the game yet,” he said. “This isn’t 
the place where I plan to stop. I’m going to continue 
to be who I am, the fabric of my personality, and the 
way that I was raised up.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgElliott Nasby / Alligator 
Rupert Heard, 55, smiles in front of his new tent that was donated earlier this month by UF Christian Campus House. At the homeless camp, Heard helps the others get by.
Lindsay Crown / Alligator Staff 
Dignity Village resident Rupert Heard, 55, uses a cooler to keep perishable 
items from going bad, and plastic bins to store unrefrigerated items. 
FEATURE,  from pg. 1Rupert Heard hopes he can leave a positive legacy at the campFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
GATORS COME IN
ALL
+ SHAPES SIZES
JOIN US AT PLAZA OF THE AMERICAS!BEYOU TIFUL28282626
EVERYBODY 2727
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer 
About a month ago, Ariana Ortega wanted 
to study at UF after she graduated from high 
school because of its high-quality education.
When she opened the acceptance letter Feb. 
9, she screamed, jumped up and down and 
hugged her mom.
But everything changed Feb. 14, when 17 
people were shot and killed in her high school, 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas, in Parkland, Flor-ida. One of her best friends, 16-year-old Car-men Schentrup, died in the carnage. Carmen had planned to attend UF in Fall, Ariana said.
In the days since Carmen’s death, Ariana 
has found a new reason to become a Gator: to 
honor Carmen, who will never fulﬁ  ll her own 
dreams of walking across Turlington Plaza or cheering for the Orange and Blue from the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium stands.
“It feels right,” said the 17-year-old, who 
plans to major in industrial engineering. “I know Carmen wanted to go there really bad, so being there — it just feels right.”
Ariana was one of the hundreds of students 
who marched to advocate for stricter gun laws in Tallahassee on Wednesday. About 5,000 people attended the march, according to one of the about 20 police ofﬁ  cers who stood border-ing the crowd of protesters.
Before Carmen became a victim — before 
her name became a symbol for gun control activism in Florida — she was Ariana’s ﬁ  rst friend in seventh grade when Ariana moved to 
Parkland. Carmen was also new in town.
“We bonded instantly,” Ariana said. “From 
there, we helped each other adjust.”
On Wednesday, joined by other students 
from her high school, Ariana met with state 
legislators before marching with hundreds of people who ﬂ  ooded the streets.
***Zach Randolph, a 15-year-old Stoneman 
Douglas sophomore, rode a bus from South Florida to the state’s Capitol to protest.
Prepped in white tennis shoes that had 
the names of all of the 17 victims written on them and an “NC” scribbled on the soles to represent Nikolas Cruz, Zach said he was there for Jaime Guttenberg, a 14-year-old who died at the shooting. Jaime was Jesse’s sister, and Jesse is Zach’s best friend.
Zach said he wrote “NC” under his shoes to 
step on him every time he walks.
His right hand was balled up in a ﬁ  st glued 
to his side as he gripped a sign in his other 
hand that read, “We are the spark that will 
light the ﬁ  re that will burn the NRA down.”
After hiding for more than two hours in a 
peer counseling room at Stoneman Douglas the day of the shooting, Zach said he called Jesse to check in on him. Jesse said he hadn’t heard from Jaime yet. Zach assured his friend that his sister must be safe with other teachers.
“Maybe they didn’t let her go on her 
phone,” he told Jesse. “It’s going to take a while to spot her out of 3,000 students.”
Later that night, however, Zach’s mom got 
a phone call.
It was Jesse’s mom, Zach said. Jaime died.When he heard the words, a blinding rage 
took over him. He turned and punched a wall.
“I’m just mad at the whole situation,” he said. “It’s unreal.”
It wasn’t sadness he felt after Jaime’s death, 
he said, but anger. Anger at the people who let it happen. The march in Tallahassee was his way of demanding change.
And the shooter, Nikolas Cruz? He’s angry 
at him, too.
“I hope he rots in a cell,” Zach said. “The 
death penalty is too easy for him.”
***
Ginger Schantz of Gainesville, is a mother 
of two school-aged children. She drove to rally 
for gun control and support students like Zach 
who are going through “the unimaginable.”
“There are no words,” the 53-year-old 
said. “I don’t have a vocabulary to describe 
the depth of sadness and fear — the depth of emotion that you could experience as a mother thinking of something like that happening to your children.”
After Schantz found out about the march 
on Facebook, she immediately started recruit-ing politically active friends, she said.
After the stay-at-home mom prepared 
breakfast and packed lunch for her kids 
Wednesday morning, she reminded them she 
would be driving up to protest.
She gave them the contact information of 
their “back-up mom,” who would be their emergency contact during school.
Schantz’s husband also happened to be out 
of town for the day.
She convinced three fellow mothers to join 
her, and all four of them did what moms do on 
road trips — talk about their children. They put 
themselves in the Parkland mothers’ positions and all agreed it would be horriﬁ  c. They were eager to support the victims, she said.
As she and the other moms marched to the 
state capitol, a sea of teenagers surrounded them, pumping their ﬁ  sts toward the sky.
“They’re fearless,” she said of the students. 
“They’re going to take this problem head on.”
***Once she becomes a freshman at UF, Ari-
ana won’t have to explain how she had been laughing with friends when the school’s ﬁ  re 
alarm went off for the second time Feb. 14.
She won’t have to recall how she heard si-
rens and couldn’t ﬁ  gure out why her school 
administrators were rushing her off campus.
When she meets Stoneman Douglas alumni 
at UF, she won’t need to reveal how she cried and clung onto a friend when she discovered someone they knew had been injured during 
the shooting.
When she recounts that experience now — 
her experience during the high school shooting 
on Valentine’s Day her senior year — her voice is steady. She enunciates words like “change” and “guns.” The words have more meaning to her now. 
After Feb. 14, she is no longer just a high 
school student. She’s become an activist for gun control.
She said she’s thought a lot about how — 
and if — she and her schoolmates will ever get 
over the experience.
“I don’t think we’ll ever be able to be the 
same,” she said. But in a way, she doesn’t 
want to be. Change needs to happen, she said. 
“It may not come all at once. Change comes 
step by step.”
jtavel@alligator.orgFEARLESS: Students and parents demand gun reform
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Thousands cheer outside the Florida State Capitol Wednesday afternoon, as one of 
the speakers at the rally claimed that the country needs “an assault weapon ban now. ”  
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/16/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be not publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pmBy Marina Burke
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ten years after opening as the ﬁ  rst craft 
brewery in Gainesville, Swamp Head Brewing 
Company is inviting six other breweries to cel-
ebrate its growth. 
The company is collaborating with six 
local breweries to create six special edition 
beers, one for each company, to debut April 7 
at Swamp Head’s 10th anniversary party, “10 
Years of Gainesville Beers.”
The beers will range from $5 to $7 and be sold in 12 and 16 oz. servings, said Swamp Head’s marketing coordinator Brandon Nap-
py.  
Though he could not release speciﬁ  c de-
tails on the beers, Nappy said each beer will 
combine the personalities of Swamp Head 
and of each of the six partner companies. 
The event will not only celebrate Swamp 
Head’s success, but also the evolution of the 
craft beer scene in Gainesville, Nappy said.
“We’re a company focused on communi-
ty,” Nappy said. “We’ve gone from being the only brewery in town to having all these other different breweries and creating a close-knit 
community.”
Gainesville resident Nick DeConna, 35, 
said he has been a regular at Swamp Head 
since it opened its doors in 2009, and he plans to attend the anniversary event. His favorite 
Swamp Head beer is the Stump Knocker pale 
ale, which he said is smooth with a great hop-py ﬂ  avor. 
“I love the fact that it’s local, good beer 
and run by great people,” DeConna said. “I’m excited about the future of Swamphead and love watching them grow and expand.”Swamp Head to celebrate anniversary with special beers
Downtown thrift store 
to close after 80 years
By Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF and international researchers discovered a 
new use for a high blood pressure drug — to pre-
vent or slow down Type I diabetes.
David Ostrov, a UF pathology, immunology and 
laboratory medicine associate professor, said re-
searchers used UF’s supercomputer, the HiPerGa-
tor, as part of the study published Feb. 13. They dis-covered a commonly used high blood pressure drug called Aldomet, also known by the generic name methyldopa, can help those with Type I diabetes. 
Ostrov said nearly 60 percent of people who con-
tract Type I diabetes have a gene known as HLA-DQ8. The gene produces a molecule that essentially causes the immune system to attack itself.
The researchers found that Aldomet binds to 
the HLA molecule to block it from attacking the immune system, Ostrov said. The drug is generally considered safe because it has been used on preg-nant women and those with high blood pressure for about 50 years. 
To ﬁ  nd a way to slow Type I diabetes, research-
ers used the supercomputer to test a variety of drugs and similar compounds in order to ﬁ  nd the right one, Ostrov said. The experiment was completed over the course of 10 years using the supercomputer in combination with lab testing live animals.
UF’s supercomputer is the third-fastest U.S. uni-
versity supercomputer, according to Alligator ar-chives.
“This has been a long career goal,” Ostrov said. 
“I feel like our dream is partially realized.”
The drug is now being tested in human clinical 
trials in order to be FDA approved, Ostrov said. 
The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation 
funded about $120,000 for the research, which was 
published in the Journal of Clinical Investigation.
Ostrov said the next step is using similar research 
methods to ﬁ  nd treatments for other autoimmune 
diseases that have HLA molecules associated with them, such as celiac disease and multiple sclerosis.
“This paves the way to using the exact same 
strategy for a variety of autoimmune diseases and cancer,” Ostrov said. 
Dr. Aaron Michels, director of Clinical Immunol-
ogy at the Barbara Davis Center for Diabetes, said he was another researcher on the study. They tested the top 150 to 160 compounds the HiPerGator sug-gested would bind to the molecule in the lab and eventually moved to live animals.       
“The computer really, really helped us take an 
insurmountable amount of information and scale it down to something that we could test on the lab bench,” Michels said. UF researchers assist in study to 
prevent, slow down Type I diabetes
Swamp Head Brewing Company 
is collaborating with:
Alligator Brewing Company
First Magnitude Brewing 
Cypress & Grove Brewing Company 
Inﬁ  nite Ale Works 
Blackadder Brewing Company
Hoggetowne Ale
IT WILL HAVE ONE FINAL 
SALE THIS SPRING. 
By Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Gainesville thrift store that opened 
in 1935 will sell its clothes and accesso-
ries for the last time this semester. 
The Junior League of Gainesville 
Thrift Shop closed its doors Jan. 3 so 
the League’s board members could 
evaluate how well the store was doing, said Margot DeConna, president of the Gainesville organization. But by the 
end of the month, the members decided 
the shop, located at 430 N. Main St., will not reopen. 
The Junior League of Gainesville is 
a local chapter of the national nonproﬁ  t organization of women committed to promoting voluntary work, developing the potential of women and improving communities, DeConna said. 
The shop will have a ﬁ  nal sidewalk 
sale sometime this spring, but the ex-act date and discounts are still being decided.
The store’s sales have been declin-
ing in the past two to three years, De-Conna said. Operation costs and com-petition with other thrift shops in town also contributed to its closure. 
“This is a really, really hard decision 
and one that we’re very sad about,” De-Conna said. “We also look back with pride on all that we’ve been able to ac-complish.” 
Within three years, DeConna said 15 
Junior League Thrift Shops have closed nationwide. In total, the organization has 300 shops in the U.S. and four in-ternational locations.
Christine Barnes, a 20-year-old UF 
horticultural science junior, said she had been going to the thrift store since she was a freshman and plans on tak-ing advantage of the ﬁ  nal sale. 
“I loved being able to ﬁ  nd afford-
able, cute clothes and know the pro-ceeds were going toward a good cause,” Barnes said.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Marina Property- Priced to sell!!!Private waterfront community.With Concierge Boat Service & boathouse slip.Only $139,880Video: www.WaterfrontLifeFL.net877.628.3349 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker     2-23-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     2-23-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
2003 Honda Element
silver, 157,000 miles, excellent condition, runs great, one owner, $4,500.amorvillar77@gmail.com    2-26-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  352-256-8370,352-246-86452-28-18-3-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 201812   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
CASH FOR GATORSWe are buying: Coins, Currency, Stamp Collections, Gold Jewelry, Silver, Antiques & Collectibles. Raise Cash easily and quickly.Call: 352-213-3802         2-23-3-13Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
Now Hiring PT & FTLloyd Clarke Sports, 1 m N of UF on 13 St. Gainesville's local leader in running and hiking gear for over 42 years. Applications available in store. Serious applicants with consistent availability only. Must work 1 day on weekends.     2-26-5-14
We need After School Program Staff for ages 3-6 & 1st- 8th grade. M-F 2:00-6:00 PM. Starting Immediately. Submit resume to mmschool@millhopper.com     2-28-18-3-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Part time bilingual assistant (English/Spanish) for law office. Please send your resume to yvlawoffice@gmail.com    3-2-18-4-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     3-14-18-6-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-12-21-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE Interactive Town Hall
Youth Tobacco Prevention Policy Panel
UF HealthStreet, 2401 SW Archer Road 
Feb 28, 5:30-7p. Live and Live Stream
More details at www.myhealthstreet.org
2-28-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Med. recording
4 Type sizes
9 “__, then ... ”
13 __ Post: Nassau
County, N.Y.
school
14 Spectacle
15 Haunted house
sound
16 Letters on a
communications
corp. logo
17 *Dog that really
needs a bath?
19 The Gray Lady of
the press: Abbr.
20 Exile of 1979
21 Els on greens22 *Donkey that has
mastered the
hurdles?
26 AB negative,
among blood
types
27 Cockpit no.28 Prepared29 Big Ben feature
30 Odysseus’
faithful dog
32 *Holiday
employment
schedule in“Animal Farm”?
39 Friend of
d’Artagnan
40 Unsullied
41 One-fifth of MD44 Swindle
45 Any Beatle, say
47 *Offer to acquire
a rising agent?
51 Give one final
flicker
52 Greatly reduced
sea
53 Old possessive
55 When required ...
or a terse hint to
solving thestarred clues
58 Where Simone
Biles won fourgolds
59 Welsh actor
Roger
60 Subway
entrance
61 Lake Mich. state62 Criteria: Abbr.63 Thompson of
“Creed”
64 Org. with a tee in
its logoDOWN
1 Joie de vivre
2 Lockup3 Throaty4 Hunter’s need5 Trap during winter6 Sound on some
San Francisco
streets
7 Small batteries
8 Muddy abode9 “__ very hard,
and ... play very
hard”: Maya
Angelou
10 Regional animal
groups
11 “Forrest Gump”
actor
12 Most stale17 Voids
18 Bully
23 __ toast24 Baby food array25 Bit of aquatic life26 Nutritional fig.30 Cadillac compact
31 Hue of many
Renaissance
drawings
33 Long list
substitute, briefly
34 “Cat on __ Tin
Roof”
35 Xperia maker36 Best
37 Causing to foam
38 Marshy expanse
41 Pleasures shared
by Churchill and
Castro
42 It might be
stuffed at home
43 Like one who is
beside oneself?
45 How land prices
are often
calculated46 Lean (on)48 Stab
49 Refreshing 
spot
50 Range with one
end in
Kazakhstan
54 Small figure
wielding much
force?
56 Del. winter hrs.
57 Jeanne d’Arc,
e.g.: Abbr.
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/23/1802/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 23, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Word with rose or
road
4 AMA part: Abbr.
9 __ Bornes: card
game
14 Caen comrade
15 Thick-skinned
herbivore
16 Big Apple stage
honors
17 Longtime PBS
news anchor
19 Open, in a way20 Delon of cinéma
21 Exactas, e.g.
23 Site for a railroad
signal
30 Part of __31 Hawk or eagle
32 Tic-toe link
35 “That was close!”38 Buckwheat dish39 Statistic including
farmers and theirneighbors
43 “25” album maker44 Wedding
invitation encl.
45 Yellowknife is its
cap.
46 Mournful artwork48 Abhor51 Kielbasa55 Anorak part56 Really cool place
to live?
59 Grouchy look63 Primitive area,
and what’sliterally found inthis puzzle’scircles
66 Ventricular outlet67 Thar Desert
country
68 JFK Library
architect
69 180-degree river
bend
70 __ Heights:
Mideast region
71 Serpentine letter
DOWN
1 Mexicali’s locale
2 Oscar winner
Jannings
3 Joltin’ Joe
4 Bull-riding
venues
5 Warning to a
chatty
theatergoer
6 Chivalrous title7 Year not
designated as
such untilcenturies later
8 Kitchen gizmo
9 Greek menu
staple
10 Hebrew : Ben ::
Arabic : __
11 Lemon on “30
Rock”
12 Floral neckwear
13 Clairvoyant’s gift
18 Turkish dough22 Only Canadian
MLB team
24 “Murder on the
Orient Express”
(2017) actor
25 Value system
26 Irritated words27 “__ the bag”28 “Not gonna
happen”
29 Researcher’s
request
32 “The Sound of
Music” name
33 Sound34 Fish basket36 #TestforRadon
org.
37 Chinese martial
arts
40 Meter opening?41 Rule governing
intentional
walks?
42 Open fields
47 “Ray Donovan”
network, briefly
49 Ang Lee’s
birthplace
50 Its main product
was originallygiven theportmanteau
name “Froffles”52 Ferber novel
53 Hersey’s “A Bell
for __”
54 Skip church?57 Pindaric verses58 Malady suffix59 __ Paulo60 Regatta chief
61 Marble, e.g.
62 Geneva-based
commerce gp.
64 XLV x X
65 Sedona, for one
By Mark McClain©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/22/1802/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, February 22, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Sweet liquid
1.  Stomach sickness 5.  As far as
2.  Manicurist’s target 6.  ____ smoke
3.  Rapid in tempo 7.  Restfulness 
4.  RouteCARNTE
AENUSALNIUT
ICARG
CCELIUT
RAOELGLPEEROS
UESRCOANSWERS: 1A-Nectar  5A-Until  6A-Cigar  7A-Repose
1D-Nausea  2D-Cuticle  3D-Allegro  4D-Course  B-Iron Curtain2-23-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This term dates back to 
the end of Word War II. BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 ConnectionsCoach Roland Thornqvist and 
the rest of Florida's women's tennis team is facing Saint Mary's today at 4 p.m.Gators begin Last Chance Meet this morning
Florida's men's and women's swimming and diving teams are kicking off 
their final meet before the NCAA Championships today. The three-day event gives UF's swimmers a final opportunity to qualify for the national title meet. South Carolina, Miami and Florida Gulf Coast are also competing.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
TENNESSEE 70, FLORIDA 42
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
The number two appeared in the box 
score numerous times after Thursday 
night’s Florida women’s basketball game. 
The Gators’ made three-pointers? 
Two. The Gators’ amount of steals? Two. UF’s third-quarter point total? Two.
It was a night of stastical lows for the 
Gators as they fell to No. 15 Tennessee 
70-42 at the O’Connell Center.
The two-point third quarter was the 
biggest blemish during a night where 
Florida’s offense struggled to find mo-
mentum. UF shot 1-of-12 from the field 
in the frame and didn’t make any of its 
nine shots from behind the arc. Paulina 
Hersler was the only Gator to score in 
the period, draining a jumper at the 2:17 
mark.
“We were depleted,” Newbauer said. 
“But hats off to (Tennessee) for the ad-
justments they made. We knew they 
were gonna try to take away the three-
point line.”
All game long, UF couldn’t get past 
UT’s press defense. The Volunteers ap-
plied full-court pressure and denied Florida at the three-point line from start to finish.
Florida (11-17, 3-12 SEC) shot 2-of-
18 from behind the arc, its worst perfor-mance from downtown all season.
The relentless pressure also forced the 
Gators into 25 turnovers, their second-highest total all season (Dec. 31 at Au-burn: 28 turnovers).
“They got their hands in the passing 
lanes,” guard Funda Nakkasoglu said. “It kind of got in our heads and that played 
a big part in why we had so many turn-
overs.”
Newbauer said the game was a “tale 
of two halves,” as UF played shot-for-
shot with the Volunteers (22-6, 10-5 SEC) 
in the opening 20 minutes, trailing by 
only four points at the break.
Hersler was the only Gator to score in 
double figures on Thursday night. The forward had 12 points on 6-of-12 shoot-
ing with five rebounds inside.
Nakkasoglu, who was averaging over 
20 points per game over the last four 
games coming into the night, failed to score in double figures for the seventh 
time this season. She recorded nine 
points on 3-of-10 shooting and only knocked down one of her five attempts from deep.
“With the amount of turnovers, we 
didn’t get as many shot attempts,” Na-
kkasoglu said. “I think that’s one big 
reason why we didn’t have more than 42 
(points) or we didn’t have better shots.”'A tale of two halves': UF crashes and burns in final home game
BASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
The 16th and final NCAA base-
ball regional announced in 2017 was 
Gainesville. The Gators obviously knew they were in, but in Coral Ga-bles, crowded around a television in the bowels of Mark Light Field, the Hurricanes huddled together and lunged toward the screen in antici-pation. 
Their faces sank in unison. Their hats covered their flooded 
eyes. Their arms held their heads in surrender. Their lockers reading “Omaha” suddenly had less mean-ing. For the first time in 44 years, the Miami Hurricanes hadn’t made the postseason. 
And the Florida Gators, whose 
regional was the last hope for the unusually middling ‘Canes (32-27), were part of the reason why. 
Florida’s pitching dismantled 
Miami last February, shutting them out on Friday and Saturday before finally allowing two runs on Sun-day in UF’s three-game sweep. And there’s reason to believe that trend could continue this year.
UF’s trio of starters — Brady 
Singer, Jackson Kowar and Tyler Dyson — looked polished on open-ing weekend. Singer, touted as the nation’s top MLB Draft prospect, didn’t allow an earned run in seven innings against Siena a week ago. His counterparts weren’t too far be-hind.
But it's UF’s offense that has 
been making headlines so far this season, and it’ll look to continue doing so tonight when the No. 1 Gators (5-0) renew their once-a-year cross-state rivalry with the Miami Hurricanes (2-2) at 7 p.m. in Coral 
Gables. 
“It means a lot to us,” outfielder 
Nelson Maldonado said. “We’re go-
ing over there with our heads held 
high, and we expect a lot going into 
the weekend.”
Maldonado has been Florida’s 
top hitter so far this season. Through 
five starts and 17 at-bats, he’s hit-
ting .588 with five RBIs. He’s not alone in his production. 
Senior captain JJ Schwarz is right 
behind him at .474 with five RBIs of 
his own. Six regular starters in all 
are hitting over .333. 
One surprise contributor has 
been Wil Dalton, a junior college 
transfer. Although his JUCO num-
bers were straight out of baseball 
fan fiction — a .392 average with 60 runs and 58 RBIs — those stats Florida, behind explosive offense, 
eager to renew Miami rivalry tonight
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
It doesn’t get any easier for 
Mike White and the Gators.
Florida’s third-year coach will 
try to right the ship against No. 12 
Auburn (24-4, 12-3 SEC) Saturday at 8:30 p.m. at the O’Connell Cen-ter. UF (17-11, 8-7 SEC) is coming off its third consecutive defeat, a 62-57 road loss to No. 19 Tennes-see on Wednesday night.
Florida fell behind the Volun-
teers thanks to its worst first-half offensive performance of the sea-son. The Gators were held to 18 points in the opening frame, but put up 39 points in the second half.
“They’re one of the best defen-
sive teams in the country,” White said after the game. “Unfortunate-ly, we had some open threes that didn’t go down, we didn’t convert at the foul line like we needed to and of course, at the rim we con-tinue to struggle.”
The Tigers and Volunteers are 
first and second, respectively, in the SEC standings. Florida is in a six-way tie for third with Missis-sippi State, Kentucky, Arkansas, Missouri and Alabama.
The Gators face the Crimson 
Tide on Tuesday and close the regular season on March 3 against the Wildcats.
"The lower half of this league 
is full of a bunch of good teams," White said. "I think (the SEC Tournament) will be wide open.”
The SEC’s six-way tie for third 
place carries significant implica-tions with the 2018 SEC Tourna-ment less than two weeks away. The top four seeds get to sit out Gators continue tough 
SEC slate against AuburnAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Forward Paulina Hersler was the only Florida player to score in the third quarter of Thursday 
night's game against T ennessee, making a jumper with 2:17 left in the frame.
SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 16SEE WOMEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
SOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadi-
um fell silent Wednesday night 
with nothing but the wind blow-
ing through the once echoing 
bleachers full of rowdy Gators fans.
The diamond was quiet, but 
the night was far from over for UF’s softball team following its doubleheader with Oakland. 
Once the stands were cleared 
after Florida’s 6-2 and 10-0 vic-
tories over the Golden Grizzlies, 
the Gators took the field again. But they weren’t competing against another team.
Instead, each player need-
ed to complete their assigned chore, one that was given to them at the start of the season.
Sophomore pitcher Katie 
Chronister is responsible for cleaning the bullpen, which consists of raking it down and watering it before she calls it a 
day.
“It’s a pretty good job for me 
because that’s where I live,” she 
said.
However, others aren’t as 
lucky.Freshman Jordan Matthews 
is responsible for picking up bags and coolers.
Others, like sophomore 
catcher Jordan Roberts, have more challenging jobs. Roberts is responsible for keeping home plate — in addition to the pitch-er’s circle — spotless.
“I think it’s just a pride thing 
to do that for our managers and help them out,” she said. “Even though we know it’s tedious 
and sometimes we don’t want to 
do it, it’s a pride thing, and you feel good because you take care of your own field in that way.”
This year, the Gators soft-
ball team competed for jobs like these in their Orange and Blue game — an intrasquad scrim-mage held before the season 
began.
The winning team got to 
choose which chores they want-
ed first, and then the losing team picked from what was left 
in order of seniority.
Florida will return to its 
“real” job again this weekend at 
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
at the Aquafina Invitational.
The Gators (10-1) will take 
on Maryland (2-7), Illinois State (4-6), Iowa State (6-4) and Geor-
gia Southern (7-2) in a six-game home tournament.
Friday afternoon, the Gators 
will take on Maryland at 4:30 and Illinois State at 7.
Florida will follow with two 
games a piece on Saturday and Sunday.
“It can be exhausting,” Rob-
erts said.
Coach Tim Walton said that 
playing at home has its advan-
tages.
“We can do a lot more here 
with our video, so it’s good to 
go back and teach and get some teaching moments,” he said.
Walton is confident that his 
pitching staff and defense will be able to handle the heavy schedule.
He will also count on the 
depth of his roster to play mul-tiple positions when needed.
“That’s the beauty of playing 
so many games, we get a chance 
to get a lot of different looks,” 
he said. “It’s a nice luxury to have athletes in all positions.”
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators doing their jobs ahead of this weekend’s tourney
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore pitcher Katie Chronister is responsible for the postgame task 
of cleaning UF’s bullpen after home games. “It’s a pretty good job, ” she said.
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
At James G. Pressly Stadium on Tuesday, 
you could hear the deafening blast of a starter 
pistol going off every few minutes, followed by 
the sight of a small puff of smoke whirling up into the air.
Athletes lay on the ground stretching, and 
coaches stood watching on the sides wearing 
caps and sunglasses.
Senior KeAndre Bates, ju-
nior Yanis David and sopho-
more Clayton Brown took turns making long, structured 
strides before leaping into a rectangular sandpit, preparing for their upcoming events.
The mood all around was 
one of excitement and antici-pation.
UF’s No. 2 men’s and No. 8 women’s track 
and field teams will travel to College Station, Tex-as, to compete in the 2018 Indoor SEC Champi-
onships at Gilliam Indoor Stadium this weekend. 
Coverage will begin on SEC Network at 3:55 p.m. on Saturday and 6 p.m. on Sunday.
“We live for this time of year,” coach Mike 
Holloway said. “The SEC meet is one of the best meets in the world, and we’re just blessed and 
fortunate to be a part of it.”
Bates, the reigning indoor national cham-
pion, will look to collect the fourth SEC title of his college career this weekend. The three-time 
2017 SEC Champion holds titles in the indoor and outdoor triple jumps as well as the outdoor long 
jump.Bates said in practice on Tuesday that to pre-
pare for SECs, he has been focused on listening 
to his coaches and sticking to what has worked.
In addition to the exhilaration of being in a 
championship environment, there are two things that excite the El Paso native about returning to 
his home state: family and Shipley Do-nuts. 
His biggest goal for the meet is simple.
“Execute,” Bates said. “Because the marks 
come after. (They) don’t even exist until they 
happen anyways, so it’s (about) execution.”
Bates has led the nation all season in the 
men’s triple jump, and he ranks seventh nation-ally in the long jump.
For freshman Amanda Froeynes, she will be 
competing in the first SEC indoor championships of her collegiate career.
Froeynes has been leaning on her coaches and 
experienced teammates to help her get ready for the conference meet.
“They’re my family,” she said. “They’re just 
really supportive.” 
She will compete in the pentathlon on Satur-
day and in the high jump on Sunday.
“Of course I’m nervous, but I’m really excited 
to see what I can do now,” Froeynes said. “I feel 
like I’m in better shape now than I was when I did my pentathlon three weeks ago.”
UF is seeking its eighth SEC title on the men’s 
side and ninth on the women’s side.
“We started preparing them mentally from the 
first day of practice,” Holloway said. “We need to match the drive, desire and intensity of the other teams there. If we do that, we’ll be fine.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFlorida heads to College Station 
for SEC Indoor ChampionshipsGYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
The Florida gymnastics team is finding 
its groove, having won its previous five 
meets by an average of 0.480 points. 
Coming off its second-highest road total 
of the season — a 196.950-point perfor-mance to defeat Georgia on Feb. 16 — it returns home tonight to host No. 11 Arkan-
sas (2-7, 2-4 SEC).
But as Florida tries to extend its winning 
streak to six consecutive meets, it will have 
something else on its mind as well.
For the 12th year in a row, UF (6-1, 
4-1 SEC) will don pink uniforms instead of its regular orange or blue ones to sup-port breast cancer awareness at the annual Gators Link to Pink meet. The cause is an 
extra source of motivation for the Gators, a 
team that usually draws its energy off each other and its packed home crowd.
“When I first came to Florida, we did 
the Making Strides Against Breast Cancer 
walk, and it was really great to see all those 
survivors and their fight,” freshman Alys-sa Baumann said. “I wanna compete this weekend for them.”
The meet holds a more personal mean-
ing for junior Alicia Boren.
Boren is proud to call her aunt, Kathy, 
a cancer survivor and was happy to share the Gators’ victory last year on Jan. 27 with 
her when she attended their Link to Pink 
meet against Auburn.Tonight, Kathy will watch her niece 
perform for a great cause again against the Razorbacks. 
“I’m excited to be able to have that with 
her again this year,” Boren said. “Seeing the smile on her face makes the smile on my face even bigger.”
UF has defeated the Razorbacks in six 
straight regular-season meets, but this year, Arkansas draws confidence from its own wins against Georgia on Jan. 26 and Auburn on Feb. 9.
But as the Gators enter their eighth 
meet of the season, coach Jenny Rowland has moved her attention further down the schedule. 
“(We’re) starting to focus on trying to 
get those lineups solidified here in the next couple of weeks and ready for postseason,” Rowland said. 
With the team still having two more 
meets left in the regular season, Rowland can settle for now with Florida’s most re-cent success. This includes the Gators’ latest win against Georgia, where five dif-
ferent Gators made eight career- or season-
best marks. 
“All in all, execution, landings, the 
team’s just been doing a fabulous job step-ping up everyday in the gym and actu-
ally transferring that onto the competition 
floor,” Rowland said. 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgUF facing Arkansas tonight 
in 12th annual Link to PinkTRACK & FIELD
Bates
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2018
usually don't translate to the Division I level. 
Through ﬁ  ve games, Dalton is exceeding them with a .471 average and a team-best nine RBIs. 
“A lot of guys are off to a good start,” 
Schwarz said. “So hopefully we bring that into 
Miami.”
The Hurricanes, meanwhile, have shown 
shades of last season. The team’s only consis-
tent hitter has been former Florida outﬁ  elder 
Danny Reyes. 
Reyes played at Florida in 2016 but trans-
ferred to Broward College after the season. 
He’s now starting in left ﬁ  eld for the Hurri-canes, and he’s hitting .571. 
Aside from knowing Reyes, many Florida 
players are also acquainted with some of Mi-ami's pitchers. Friday night starter Jeb Barg-feldt started against the Gators last year (six innings, two earned runs), and fellow week-end starter Evan McKendry pitched in relief (two innings, no earned runs).
“We’re familiar with a lot of their pitchers 
and Danny Reyes, who’s off to a great start,” Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’ll be a good challenge for us to go on the road for the ﬁ  rst time.”
Maldonado and Schwarz both have mem-
ories of raucous Miami fans from two years ago, noting that Hurricanes fans are loud and proud, which is probably why O’Sullivan thinks the experience will be good for younger players. 
However, his veterans aren’t too worried 
about the noise. 
“Their fans stay on you the whole time,” 
Schwarz said. “Hopefully we bring our best baseball so the fans don’t play a part in it.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg. 14Dalton hitting .471 this season
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida baseball coach Kevin O'Sullivan is feeling conﬁ  dent heading into the Gators' three-game series against Miami this weekend. "It'll be a good challenge for us, " he said.
the ﬁ  rst two rounds of the tournament on March 7 and 8, resting instead un-til the quarterﬁ  nals on March 9.
This only puts more pressure on 
the Gators to start ﬁ  nding wins late 
in the season, starting with Auburn.
The Tigers are coming off a 90-71 
victory over Alabama on Wednesday, 
their eighth in the last 10 games.
They avenged a 76-71 loss on 
Jan. 17 to the Crimson Tide without their second leading scorer, sopho-more guard Mustapha Heron (illness) and sophomore forward Anfernee 
McLemore (out for the season with 
an ankle injury).
McLemore leads the SEC in blocks, 
swatting 2.7 shots per game.
Auburn received big performances from guards Bryce Brown and Jared 
Harper against Alabama. Brown, the Tigers' leading scorer on the season, 
had 18 points while Harper, the Ti-
gers' leading assist man, poured in 21 points.
Auburn's backcourt will be a hand-
ful for Florida guard Chris Chiozza, who started to look like his old self against the Volunteers with 11 points, nine assists and six rebounds.
Chiozza had scored in single dig-
its in four of the previous ﬁ  ve games and will look to continue getting his rhythm back against the Tigers.
"It's an incredibly difﬁ  cult league," 
White said. "It's got tremendous depth."
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org MEN'S BBALL,  from pg 14Chiozza scored 11 vs. Vols
The Gators were also missing one of their key 
playmakers during the game. Sophomore Delicia 
Washington was held out due to a nagging left an-
kle injury. Newbauer said her status is day-to-day and that the Gators' starting guard wanted to give it a go even with her ailment.
“We just didn’t feel like it was the best thing for 
our program,” he said.
Despite the loss, the Gators’ home crowd stuck 
around to pay its respects to a few of its own. For 
Hersler, forward Haley Lorenzen and guard Dyan-
dria Anderson, Thursday night was the last time the three seniors would play at the O'Connell Center.
“These fans are special,” Lorenzen said. “These 
fans are always going to come back because of the foundation that we’re laying for this year.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org WOMEN'S B-BALL,  from pg. 14Final home game for UF's seniors
Florida’s Thursday 
Night Woes
• 2 third-quarter points
• 2-of-18 three-point shooting
• 4-of-7 free-throw shooting
• 25 turnovers