We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
New UF VP sworn in
Amy Hass had held the interim VP position since July 2017, pg 4
UF’s MSD alum react to Texas school shooting
Several former students have formed a group in response to the 
Parkland shooting, pg 5Historic UF lacrosse season ends 
in loss
How the Gators’ highs and lows highlighted 
their fourth consecutive Big East title, pg 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 88
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Bailey Wingate
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF graduate became possi-
bly the ﬁ  rst woman from Kuwait to 
pass the February 2018 Washington, 
D.C., Bar Exam. Accurate records 
aren’t kept of nationalities of those 
who pass. But according to James 
Klausner, a UF engineering profes-
sor, a lack of Kuwaiti women in the 
ﬁ  eld makes it a strong possibility 
she’s the ﬁ  rst.
Fatemah Albader graduated from 
UF in 2014 with a double major in 
political science and public rela-tions. She then went on to get her 
Juris Doctor from Emory Law in At-
lanta and took the bar exam in D.C. 
in February. 
She said she always was inter-
ested in human rights but was not 
sure what speciﬁ  c route she wanted 
to take.
“Over time, I started publishing 
articles with law journals around 
America and I realized that I wanted 
to help out the people in the Gulf 
(Cooperation Council), whether I’m 
here in America or in Kuwait,” Al-
bader said. “I just want to advocate UF grad likely ﬁ  rst Kuwaiti 
woman to pass D.C. bar
SEE KUWAIT,  PAGE 4By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
man accused of kidnapping and 
robbery Saturday.
Charles Allen Green, 49, 
was charged 
with unarmed 
robbery and 
kidnapping  
to facilitate a 
felony.
The ﬁ  rst 
two victims 
left Publix, lo-
cated at 1302 N. Main St., and 
went to their vehicle, according 
to the report. The vehicle report-edly had the windows down be-
cause the air conditioner didn’t 
work.
When the victims got in the 
car, they saw Green lying down 
in the back seat, according to the 
report. Green then allegedly sat 
up and demanded money. He 
also allegedly threatened them by 
saying he could “do great bodily 
harm” and grabbed the driver’s 
ponytail and took her phone.
According to a GPD press 
release, the victims were afraid 
Green would hurt them and com-
plied with his demands for mon-
ey and to drive him to multiple 
locations.
The ﬁ  rst location was X Tra Beverage Discount Store, located 
at 119 NE 16th Ave., according to 
the report. Green took the keys 
with him when he exited the ve-
hicle while the driver and pas-
senger stayed in the car. 
The driver remembers Green 
forcing her to drive through the 
area of Howard Bishop Middle 
School and Forest Green Apart-
ments, according to the report. 
During this time, Green alleg-
edly took $100 out of the driver’s 
purse.
The victims and Green then 
drove to Citgo, located at 3845 
NE 15th St. The vehicle was al-
legedly seen parked in front of GPD arrests kidnapping suspectTHIS IS THE FIRST TIME THE 
CITY WILL HAVE A MINORITY-
MAJORITY COMMISSION.
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
The City of Gainesville held a ceremony 
Thursday to swear in two new city com-
missioners. 
Commissioner Gail Johnson, voted into 
power during the March elections, will 
serve as commissioner at large. Commis-
sioner Gigi Simmons, elected in a runoff 
election May 1, will serve District 1. Both 
commissioners will serve three-year terms.
It is the ﬁ  rst time the city will have two 
African American women on the commis-
sion and a minority-majority of commis-
sion members. 
“This is the outward sign of progress, 
and it’s a day to celebrate and be joyful,” 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe said. 
Johnson was joined by her daughter, 
Zora, as she took oath. She thanked her 
supporters, campaign managers, interns, 
friends, daughter and grandmother. Her 
grandmother passed away a month ago, 
but Johnson still held a seat for her in the 
front.
Johnson emphasized she is a city com-
missioner today because of the inﬂ  uential 
women in history before her. 
“I stand on the shoulders of those who 
have become before us. That have done 
the important work of advocating for in-
clusion, equality and justice. Those whose New City Commissioners sworn into oﬃ   ce Thursday
Sloan Savage / Alligator Staff
Commissioner Gail Johnson (center right) is sworn into ofﬁ  ce alongside her daughter Zora (center left). She and Gigi Simmons 
became the ﬁ  rst pair of black women to serve on the city commission at the same time. 
Green
SEE KIDNAPPING,  PAGE 4SEE COMMISSION,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 88
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie 
  Alexander, Ruben Riera, Charles 
  Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT'S HAPPENING:
Survey for Improvements at 
Northeast 31st Avenue Park 
The City of Gainesville wel-
comes feedback on future park 
improvements at the Northeast 
31st Avenue Park, which is 
located at 1700 NE 31st Ave. 
Interested residents are in-
vited to complete an online 
survey (http://tinyurl.com/
NE31stAvePark) to let us know 
what improvements you would 
like to see at this neighbor-
hood park. The survey is avail-
able Monday, May 21 through 
Monday, June 4, 2018
'Free Fridays' Concert Series 
presents 21 Blue
The “Free Fridays” Concert 
Series, as part of its celebration 
of June as African American 
Music Appreciation Month,  
presents 21 Blue with Longineu 
Parsons and Ted Shumate June 
8 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the 
Bo Diddley  Community Plaza. 
The public is invited to bring 
their blankets and lawn chairs 
to the downtown amphitheater 
and enjoy this free world-class 
blues concert that will take 
you from Louis Armstrong to 
Howlin’ Wolf to Miles Davis to 
Jimi Hendrix and beyond. Bo 
Diddley Plaza is located at 111 
E. University Ave. in downtown 
Gainesville. For more informa-
tion about this event, please 
contact David Ballard at bal-
larddg@cityofgainesville.org or 
352-393-8746.
Dragonflies of Florida
Florida Museum of Natural 
History researcher Dr. Franklin 
Snelson will lead a “talk and 
walk” on the 169 dragonfly 
species recorded in Florida at 
9 a.m.Saturday, May 26 at 9 
a.m. at Prairie Creek Preserve. 
Participants should wear hik-
ing shoes (boots preferred) and 
long pants. If you have binocu-
lars, please bring them too. It 
never hurts to bring water and 
snacks.  
FWC Investigator receives Guy 
Harvey Award  
Fort Pierce resident Kyle 
Patterson, a law enforcement 
officer and investigator with 
the Florida Fish and Wildlife 
Conservation Commission 
(FWC), has received the Guy 
Harvey Ocean Foundation 
Award for Marine Conservation. 
Patterson was honored for his 
dedication to enforcing ma-
rine conservation and boating 
safety laws at the recent FWC 
Commission meeting in Fort Lauderdale.
 
Prescription drug monitoring 
programs not shown to affect 
drug overdoses
Prescription drug-monitoring 
programs aim to prevent over-
lapping or multiple prescrip-
tions for frequently abused 
medications such as opioids, 
a practice known as “doctor 
shopping.” Yet, there is scant 
evidence that such programs 
are having a positive effect on 
the number of drug overdoses, 
a new study by a group that in-
cludes a UF Health researcher 
has found. Researchers parsed 
more than 2,600 academic pub-
lications and found just 10 of 
those articles linked prescrip-
tion drug-monitoring programs 
to fatal opioid overdoses. An 
analysis of the 10 studies found 
extremely limited evidence of a 
reduction in fatal overdoses but 
not enough to draw firm con-
clusions. The findings are pub-
lished in the Annals of Internal 
Medicine.
  
 Hippodrome screens 'MAME'
The 1974 film will be featured 
in the Cinema's upcoming 
"Cocktails & Classics" film se-
ries screening Saturday, May 
26, at 7:30 p.m. Tickets include 
the one-night-only screening, a 
specialty cocktail and the recep-
tion, which begins at 6:45 p.m. 
and features catering by Mojo. 
Legendary Lucille Ball heads an 
all-star cast in her final feature 
film appearance. Reserve your 
tickets by calling 352.375.4477 
or visit thehipp.org.
 
Aquatic Leadership Camp
Registration for the 2018 
Aquatic Leadership Camp is 
open. The week-long summer 
camp is offered for youth 11 
to 14 years old, with six ses-
sions available at H. Spurgeon 
Cherry (Westside) Pool, start-
ing June 11. All campers learn 
the primary responsibilities of 
a lifeguard. Those passing all 
modules will have the oppor-
tunity to earn an American Red 
Cross certification in First Aid/
CPR/AED. Campers will have 
the opportunity to explore local 
springs and natural areas during 
fun and memorable field trips. 
Swim tests may be administered 
Monday-Friday between 4 p.m. 
to 7 p.m. at either the Northeast 
Pool (352-334-2191) or 
Westside Pool (352-334-2187). 
For camp information, please 
contact Scott Chase, program 
coordinator, at 352-393-8751 or 
ChaseSA@cityofgainesville.org.
 
Got something going on? Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to editor@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. 
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Olympian sues USA 
Swimming, saying it failed to 
protect her
SEATTLE — Olympic swimmer 
Ariana Kukors Smith sued USA 
Swimming on Monday, alleging 
the sport's national governing 
body knew her former coach 
sexually abused her as a minor 
and failed to protect her while 
shielding him.
Kukors Smith alleges Sean 
Hutchison, who began coaching 
her at a swim club near Seattle, 
groomed her for sexual abuse 
when she was 13, started touch-
ing and kissing her when she 
was 16, and engaged in sexual 
activity with her when she was 
17.
"This lawsuit is about holding 
people accountable who should 
have protected a 15-year-old 
girl," Kukors Smith told report-
ers, adding, "I needed help and 
there were people in positions 
of power that could have helped 
me."
Hutchison has denied the alle-
gations, which emerged earlier 
this year when Kukors Smith, 
now 28, posted an emotional es-
say online. Hutchison, assistant 
coach on the 2008 U.S. Olympic 
team, has not been charged with 
a crime. The office of his attor-
ney, Brad Meryhew, said he had 
no comment on the lawsuit.
ALLIGATOR CORRECTION:
In an article published  
Thursday titled "A Guide to 
summer in Gainesville,” we in-
correctly stated the location of 
the Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings 
Historic State Park as being in 
Cross City. The state park is lo-
cated at 18700 County Road 325 
Hawthorne, Florida, in Cross 
Creek.HIGH  88° LOW  68°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 88TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.orgfor equal rights for women and Mus-
lims in the Gulf region.”
For her, coming to America from 
Kuwait in 2009 was a culture shock, 
but having her mother with her made 
the transition easier. The biggest dif-
ference was the amount of indepen-
dence she had when she arrived here, 
which took a few years for her to get 
used to.
Albader’s path is one that is rela-
tively unheard of in Kuwait. While 
the engineering ﬁ  eld is going through 
a women’s empowerment movement, 
the law ﬁ  eld is still male dominated, 
she said. 
“I want to go back and be a role 
model for those people,” Albader said. “I want to show people that they can 
do it, that they can go out there and 
become lawyers or law professors.” 
In the future, Albader plans to do 
work regarding human rights and pos-
sibly become a teacher who can speak 
out to others and motivate them to 
take action for human rights as well. 
Albader knows she comes from a 
place where it is unusual for a woman 
to be in the law profession, but she 
hopes her accomplishment can make 
a difference in Kuwait and the Middle 
East, she said.
“I’m pretty sure I’m the ﬁ  rst Ku-
waiti woman to even pass the D.C. 
bar because it’s not very common 
there,” Albader said. “But I want to 
change that.”KUWAIT,  from pg. 1Albader also wants to teach
By Charlie Daffron
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs 
announced Thursday that Amy 
Hass will be the new UF vice 
president and general counsel.
Hass has worked in the Of-
ﬁ  ce of the Vice President and 
General Counsel since 2006. 
She became the interim vice 
president in July 2017 after Ja-
mie Keith’s resignation. Keith 
was under investigation for 
mishandling public records.
Hass served as interim for 
almost a year before ofﬁ  cially 
receiving the position.
“It’s certainly been valuable to have had the opportunity to 
serve in this role for the past 
year and to ﬁ  ll those gaps that 
I hadn’t ﬁ  lled in my deputy po-
sition,” Hass said.
Hass’ duties include giving 
UF legal advice and mitigating 
UF’s potential legal or ﬁ  nancial 
risks.
She wants to help UF reach 
its full potential by supporting 
its many research efforts.
“We need to spend some 
time focused on forward prog-
ress in the types of places 
where embracing risk is impor-
tant to be able to achieve some 
of those really amazing things 
that this university is poised to do,” she said.
She also hopes to expand 
the legal expertise of the other 
attorneys working in the gen-
eral counsel ofﬁ  ce. She wants 
to give her attorneys the oppor-
tunity to broaden their portfo-
lios and become well-versed in 
multiple areas of law, so they 
can better assist their clients.
“We are poised at the Uni-
versity of Florida to do some 
really great things, and we’re 
capable of getting there sooner 
rather than later,” she said.
@charlie_daffron
cdaffron@alligator.orgNew UF VP, general counsel swears in
the Citgo on store video. When 
Green walked into the store the 
driver realized he did not take the 
keys, so the victims ﬂ  ed the area 
and returned to the driver’s home, 
according to the report.
At around 10:34 p.m., GPD got 
a call from a citizen saying Green 
approached him in the parking lot 
of The Oaks Mall, according to the 
press release. 
Green allegedly told the citi-
zen his wife was in labor and he 
needed help, according to GPD’s 
press release. The citizen agreed 
to helping the man and gave him 
a ride to different places. 
During this, the citizen sus-
pected Green was buying drugs, 
according to the release. The citizen then dropped Green off at 
the 2000 block of Southwest 34th 
Street and called police.
After being dropped off, Green 
got a ride to the area of Taco Bell, 
located at 3408 SW Archer Road, 
according to the arrest report. 
Ofﬁ  cers identiﬁ  ed Green and 
then arrested him, according to 
the media release. He admitted 
to being in all of the locations but 
said it was consensual.
After reading Green his Mi-
randa rights, he said he has been 
addicted to cocaine for about two 
years and used it three to four 
times Saturday while being driven 
around by multiple people, ac-
cording to the arrest report. 
Green said he was in the ﬁ  rst 
two victims’ vehicle and admit-
ted they drove him around so he 
could buy cocaine; however, he denied forcing the victims to drive 
him anywhere. 
According to an ofﬁ  cer, Green 
smelled like alcohol. Green told 
the ofﬁ  cer he didn’t remember the 
entire day because of the alcohol 
and cocaine use, the report said.
Green was recently arrested by 
GPD on March 7 for exploiting a 
disabled person by getting into 
a vehicle with them and having 
them drive him around to buy 
drugs, according to the report. 
The victim reportedly had Asperg-
er’s syndrome. 
Green remained in the Alachua 
County Jail on Sunday in lieu of a 
$55,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute 
dcetoute@alligator.orgKIDNAPPING,  from pg. 1GPD: Green made several stops with victims
footsteps we follow in,” Johnson 
said.
Johnson promised the audience 
to do three things during her time 
as commissioner and asked them  
to do the same for her. 
“One, I’m going to listen,” 
Johnson said. “Two, I’m going to 
show up. And three, I’m going to 
be a champion for the change that 
you all want to see.” 
Simmons was joined by her 
two sons, Sterling and Nicholas, 
as she took her oath. She thanked 
Jesus, her mentor of 20 years, her 
campaign team, her mother, her 
sons and her late grandmother.
She said her mother, a single 
parent, taught her the value of 
work ethic, and her sons are her inspiration. Simmons said today’s 
historic moment is something all 
can all be proud of.
She shared a story of personal 
experience from just a year ago 
with the audience. 
“I am proud to say that I was 
staff, and I was greeting our cur-
rent commissioners,” Simmons 
said. “I was a greeter at the front 
door a year ago today.”
She said she wants to use her 
platform to inspire those who feel 
they cannot make it.
 “We can no longer turn a blind 
eye to the inequities that shame-
fully exist in this city,” Simmons 
said. “There’s a lot of work that 
needs to be done, but I am a true 
believer that if we work together 
side-by-side and hand-in-hand, 
that we can achieve great things.”COMMISSION,  from pg. 1Simmons wins irst electionTUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Ten people were killed and 10 were wound-
ed after a 17-year-old student opened ﬁ  re at 
Santa Fe High School in Texas. It is the deadli-
est school shooting in America since Feb. 14, 
when 17 people were killed at Marjory Stone-
man Douglas High School in Parkland. 
Emily Weingarten, a 19-year-old UF busi-
ness management sophomore and MSD alum-
na, said she ﬁ  rst heard about the Santa Fe 
shooting through Twitter. When she saw Santa 
Fe High School was trending, she immediately 
knew why. 
“We said ‘Never again,’ but it’s happening 
again,” Weingarten said.
Weingarten was reminded of what hap-
pened at Parkland and felt sympathy for the 
victims in Texas. 
“I know how much my community has 
struggled with the loss of 17 lives,” said We-
ingarten. 
Max Baron, a 20-year-old UF English junior 
and MSD alumnus, said he feared the day Park-
land would no longer be the most recent deadly 
school shooting.
“All it took was three months to go by,” 
Baron said. “How many more times will this 
go on?”
Weingarten and Baron are members of Nev-
er Again Florida, a group advocating for stricter gun control laws and better access to mental 
health care. They also promotes gun violence 
awareness, increasing youth votership and 
helping personally affected students.
Adler Garﬁ  eld, a 19-year-old UF advertis-
ing junior, is Never Again Florida’s president 
and MSD alumnus. He said he and others were 
upset and frustrated when they heard another 
high school mass shooting occurred. 
Never Again Florida met with UF President 
Kent Fuchs in April to discuss the program’s 
goals, Weingarten and Garﬁ  eld said. The goals 
include having more accessible ofﬁ  cers on site 
in case of campus threats and helping incoming 
MSD students make a comfortable transition 
into UF.
Baron said NAF is already starting a relief 
fund for the neighborhood and families affected 
in Texas. He said forum members have volun-
teered to ask the superintendent of Santa Fe 
High if they need ﬁ  nancial assistance.
The group said a key to stopping the high 
incidence of mass shootings across the nation 
is not through banning guns but increasing the 
restrictions on easy access to guns.
“We need a safer America,” Garﬁ  eld said.  
“For our generation, the next generation and 
the generations to come.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF MSD alumni grieve over 
mass shooting in Texas 
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Commission 
met Thursday to discuss the Alachua 
County Comprehensive Plan update, 
something local governments are re-
quired to do every seven years. 
One of the fundamental things in 
the comprehensive plan is the urban 
cluster, which is the boundary for 
urban growth within the unincor-
porated county, said Ben Chumley, 
senior planner for Comprehensive 
Planning for the Alachua County 
Growth Management Department.
The urban cluster serves to di-
rect growth to a speciﬁ  c area, as op-posed to allowing people to develop 
land anywhere in the county. It’s a 
boundary set to direct urban devel-
opment from growing in the borders 
of the county. 
The unincorporated county 
Chumley referred to is undeveloped 
land in the area of Alachua county 
that is not in one of nine incorpo-
rated, or developed, cities, such as 
Gainesville and Newberry. 
Chumley said the debate is about 
whether or not the urban cluster is 
large enough to accommodate for 
the population growth being project-
ed for the unincorporated area over 
the next 20 years. 
The growth management depart-ment staff used population projec-
tions from the UF Bureau of Eco-
nomics and Business Research to 
predict the demand for this growth. 
Not all the commissioners were 
in agreement on the population pro-
jections and urban cluster capacity. 
Commissioners Lee Pinkoson and 
Mike Byerly took different stances. 
Byerly said the urban cluster has 
always been a politically debated 
subject.
“People who have cow pastures 
or land, they want to develop out in 
the boonies, want us to move the 
line all the time so they can develop. 
People who live out there and really 
don’t want the city coming in their backyard constantly want to hold 
the line back,” Byerly said. 
Byerly supports leaving the urban 
cluster line where it is. 
“The staff showed us that there’s 
ample development capacity and 
room for growth over the next 20 
years, where the line is right now,” 
Byerly said.
Pinkoson is concerned with get-
ting accurate numbers to determine 
the growth rate. He believes the pro-
jections should be based off histori-
cal numbers. He said the population 
projection numbers being provided 
through the BEBR are lower than 
numbers the past would project. 
“If we know that something has been happening pretty consistently 
from a historical perspective, why 
wouldn’t we use that as opposed to 
using some lower number,” Pinko-
son said. 
Byerly says the BEBR’s numbers 
are the most reliable standard to use.
 “They’re the professionals, and 
they’re the experts on projecting 
population growth,” Byerly said. 
The growth management de-
partment staff will be doing further 
analysis on both the historical and 
the BEBR numbers in preparation for 
discussion at a future meeting. 
@sloansavage
ssavage@alligator.orgAlachua County Commission debates the county’s urban sprawlBy Eman Elshahawy
Alligator Contributing Writer
With several medical marijuana dis-
pensaries now open for business, the 
Florida Department of Highway Safety 
and Motor Vehicles and state and local 
law enforcement are warning Florida 
drivers, “Drive Baked, Get Busted.”
Since the recent legalization of medical 
marijuana, the Florida Legislature passed 
a law which entails the Department of 
Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles to re-
ceive $5 million in funding to implement 
a statewide driver safety campaign. 
“The (“Drive Baked, Get Busted”) 
campaign aims to educate Florida drivers 
of the dangers and laws of impaired driv-
ing, especially marijuana,” said Alexis 
Bakofsky, the deputy communications di-
rector of FLHSMV.
The campaign has hit Gainesville 
streets with billboards posted near medi-
cal marijuana dispensaries in town and 
TV ads on local channels.
The local impact generated by the cam-
paign has Gainesville Police reiterating to drivers that any form of impairment can 
constitute a DUI, said Capt. Jorge Cam-
pos, the GPD patrol support bureau com-
mander.
“I’m gravely concerned with trafﬁ  c 
crashes or people getting hurt from mari-
juana,” he said. “Widespread use of mari-
juana is not as much as alcohol, but it’s 
still there.”
He warns that driving under the inﬂ  u-
ence of marijuana can lead to impairment 
by decreasing motor function, reaction 
time and balance.
Florida Highway Patrol Chief of Pub-
lic Affairs Capt. Tom Pikul said drivers 
suspected of using marijuana are given a 
DUI ﬁ  eld sobriety test requiring them to 
perform physical tasks that indicate im-
pairment.
This includes walking in a straight line 
heel to toe, standing on one leg and fol-
lowing a moving object horizontally or 
vertically to test for nystagmus, a jerking 
motion in the eye that occurs under any 
form of impairment.
For more information on the campaign 
visit ﬂ  hsmv.gov/drivebakedgetbusted.State campaign warns drivers, 
“Drive Baked, Get Busted”Editorial
ColumnWhat’s Twitter for?
The changing tides of time and townships
My Preview counselor did a great job 
of laying out a roadmap for being a 
UF student. She told me about what 
college will be like going forward: 
how I’d build a work ethic and 
collegiate-level study habits, ﬁ  nd a group of 
friends that I’d keep for a lifetime and develop 
myself professionally and spiritually. Preview 
readies you for changes you’ll see to your stu-
dent persona. What it can never prepare you 
for is seeing your hometown change right out 
from underneath you.
There are two equally important roots to the word 
“hometown.” Changes in “town” are gargantuan and 
conspicuous. They soak up taxpayer dollars and are 
voted on by committees. Changes at “home” can be 
more disarming. You might come home to a dog that’s 
slower than he was over Spring Break, that struggles 
to get up to greet you and wags a bit more meekly al-
though you love each other just the same. They didn’t 
tell you about this part at Preview. Most of the improve-
ments are good despite some of the sad ones. Your par-
ents may have turned your room into a storage closet or 
a home gym depending on their activity levels. Your liv-
ing room might have gotten a new paint job, and there 
may be a different car in the driveway. 
It happens to every one of our hometowns, but Mi-
ami is the only one I can speak for personally. After 
spending months in sleepy Gainesville, the shock of 
being dunked back into a ﬂ  urry of high-rises and free-
ways can be disorienting. The jolt is exacerbated by the 
constant construction on the once-familiar drive home. 
There are exit ramps to places that didn’t exist when I 
drove past them in August. The skyline is home to at 
least two new skyscrapers that seem to have sprout-
ed overnight. You’ll have to adjust to their suspicious twin outlines projected against that familiar 
off-white overcast Miami-summer sky. Be-
ing away for school, you only get strobe-light 
glimpses at how your town is evolving. You 
begin to feel like a visitor in your old stomp-
ing grounds.
Coming back, I found myself marveling at 
mundane things. A city bus took my breath 
away the other day. I was dumbstruck by the 
repaving of a popular street in Coral Gables. 
I got on the train and had to double-take at 
the electronic advertising space inside the car. 
Where once there were dingy posters, there are now 
bright, animated squares of color. These are improve-
ments, but you can’t help but feel like they are a bit 
alien.
I had another epiphany standing on a street corner in 
downtown Miami as I was trying to ﬁ  nd my way home 
for the day. I was staring into a large fresh pane of black 
glass that still crackled at the edges with blue paint-
er’s tape. There was newness and hustle and bustle all 
around me. But in that moment, I was struck by my 
own reﬂ  ection in the glass. I had changed just as much 
as Miami had in the last 10 months. For every change I 
could see in the buildings and streets there were just as 
many in my head and in my heart. 
When you do go back to your old city, town or mu-
nicipality of some sort, try not to be unsettled by de-
velopments around you. The most important changes 
are happening within you — a place you will always be 
able to call home.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political science junior. 
His column comes out Tuesday and Thursday. TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
On Friday, right-wing political commentator Ben Shap-
iro tweeted, “If you wear your pants below your butt, 
don’t bend the brim of your cap, and have an EBT 
card, 0% chance you will ever be a success in life.” 
That same day, a Twitter user named Racism 
WatchDog (@RacismDog) tweeted its response: “WOOF 
WOOF WOOF WOOF.”
It’s a dog-eat-dog world out there. But if Twitter has a 
say — which it almost always does — it’s a dog-befriend-dog 
world. WeRateDogs (@dog_rates), a Twitter account that does 
exactly as it advertises, made a new “doggo” friend two days 
later. 
“Proud of you,” WeRateDogs tweeted. 
Racism WatchDog has been active since November 2017, 
but it rose to a more mainstream audience when it took aim at 
Shapiro on Friday. 
Shapiro had 1,535 likes on his tweet by Monday night. Rac-
ism WatchDog had 181,303 on its response.
All this is to say that when utilized to its full extent, Twitter 
is not what it started as. At its core, the platform was sup-
posed to be a way for news to transcend social and geographic 
boundaries. Think Facebook’s original mission, but without 
the obvious drawbacks of your grandmother digitally poking 
you or Farmville invitations.  
Maybe there was a time when Twitter was used “properly.” 
But if that period existed, it’s long expired. Gone are the inno-
cent days of Vines from wacky high school kids. Gone are the 
innocent polls asking innocent questions.
Nowadays, it’s all about the ratio.
“Getting ratio’d,” to use the Twitter vernacular, is when a 
particular tweet is of questionable intent, or content, and racks 
up exponentially more comments in response as opposed to 
likes. It’s generally seen as a bad tweet that got attention for 
the wrong reasons.
Shapiro’s tweet was “ratio’d” to about 2,800 comments to 
its 1,535 likes. 
Two days later, conservative speaker and convicted felon 
Dinesh D’Souza made a pass at the musical “Hamilton,” the 
story of America’s ﬁ  rst Treasury Secretary and his immigration 
to the then-British colonies. Though D’Souza’s remark didn’t 
have the same outcome, the disparity between his tweet’s ar-
bitrary approval numbers compared to Racism WatchDog’s 
seems like plenty of evidence to decide a clear victor in that 
non-confrontational confrontation.
“‘Hamilton’ pretends nonwhite immigrants made Ameri-
ca...,” D’Souza tweeted, possibly non-ironically missing the 
point of the production. It might be a little more ludicrous 
that “Hamilton” suggests our Founding Fathers solved their 
disputes with rap battles and ﬂ  ashy dance numbers, but never 
mind that. “There’s no way Thomas Jefferson was BLACK!” is 
the tone the tweet strikes, which, yeah, good call, sir. 
Of course, Racism WatchDog had none of that. “WOOF 
WOOF WOOF,” the account responded. As of Monday night, 
D’Souza’s tweet had garnered 12,391 likes. Racism Watch-
Dog’s had 70,994. 
Twitter’s original mission has clearly ﬂ  own the coop. The 
spread of disinformation and blatant propaganda has seen to 
that. So, we propose a new mission statement for the social 
media app. 
“Make friends with all the dogs in the world.” It’s simple, 
it’s current and, perhaps most importantly, it’s beﬁ  tting of the 
environment in which we live: a dog-befriend-dog world.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Something happened Feb.17, 2016 
in my hometown of Melbourne, 
Florida. Something I couldn’t stop 
thinking about and still think of 
from time to time. A couple pur-
chased the winning Powerball jackpot 
ticket at a Publix that I had been to many 
times, just a few miles from my house. I 
was 17 at the time, and all day at school I 
kept thinking about it. People laughed and 
marveled in the curiosity, but I took it per-
sonally. I felt like God was playing a joke 
on me. I was sure the whole world, the lot-
tery system and my hometown was set up 
and rigged against me. It felt like I, alone, 
was being punished by being three months 
away from 18 in a town where a $528.7 
million lottery ticket was sold. 
It isn’t uncommon for teenagers to feel like the whole world revolves 
around them. And it deﬁ  nitely 
isn’t uncommon for teenagers to 
have identity crises — which is 
what I was having. Just a week 
earlier, I had been denied ad-
mission to multiple colleges and 
found out I would attend UF 
with the Innovation Academy in 
Spring rather than regular Fall. I 
felt helpless, and a lot of my friends did 
too. 
It’s not hard to understand why most 
teenagers are frustrated. They feel like 
adults but are treated like children. They’re 
so close to freedom but entirely scared of 
it. By the time most people reach 20, they 
transform from deserving kids into appre-
ciative adults. College can be the catalyst for this change. This develop-
ment is expected and typical; it’s 
part of growing up. The entitle-
ment I felt toward life to give me 
my dream school or Mega Mil-
lions ticket is something a lot of 
teens feel. Gratitude is what dis-
tinguishes an adult from a child.  
When we arrive at college as 
freshmen, we ﬁ  nd the things we 
want are difﬁ  cult to get. It’s a competitive 
atmosphere, and it’s hard to get internships 
or to become a club president. This forces 
us to work harder and truly appreciate the 
fruits of our labor. Lately, I notice myself 
trying to burden my parents less and creat-
ing opportunity on my own. Taking money 
from my parents isn’t fun anymore — it’s 
embarrassing. As I contemplate my 20th birthday coming up in a few days, I think 
this growth is something worth noting.
Being a teenager was fun. There was 
more room for error. Any attention was 
good attention. We were encouraged to 
dream big, not practically. But as you move 
into your twenties, look forward to more 
recognition and less reprimands. Take ad-
vantage of your mental and physical peak 
to advance yourself professionally. Things 
aren’t given to us anymore; we have to 
get them for ourselves. My teen years are 
gone, but I’m not sad and you shouldn’t 
be either. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday.Not winning the lottery taught me about growing up Column
There have been a 
number of reports 
concerned with An-
droid phones tracking 
people's locations and 
even what ﬂ  oor they are on 
in a shopping center. This 
data is then used for targeted 
ads -- if you are in a ham-
burger joint, you’ll probably 
get ads for diet products.
There are potential uses 
including crime ﬁ  ghting. 
If you have a known drug 
dealer's number, then you 
can assume that anyone who 
stops at the same location is 
likely to be buying drugs.
There are other possibili-
ties to consider. The location 
changes of a car driver over 
a speciﬁ  c distance will give 
speed. My own life, however, 
is moderately boring so you 
can remove me from the data 
collection!
- Dennis FitzgeraldMy father, John Drake, 
succumbed to Alzheim-
er’s disease in 2012. He 
didn’t live to see me be-
come an advocate, but I 
know he would have been proud.
We have a health care tsunami 
on our hands. It’s Alzheimer’s, 
which affects 5.7 million Ameri-
cans and costs our country $277 
billion annually. 
Besides funding a cure, we 
need to declare Alzheimer’s a na-
tional public health issue. That’s 
why I’m excited about the BOLD 
Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act 
(H.R. 4256/S 2076), which has 
95 cosponsors in the House. This 
bipartisan bill will help establish 
Alzheimer’s centers of excellence 
at leading research institutions and 
increase early detection and diag-
nosis.
In memory of my father, I ask 
Rep. Ted Yoho to co-sponsor this 
vital piece of legislation and lead 
the way as an Alzheimer’s Con-
gressional Champion.
- Barbara DrakeLetters to the Editor“I’m so OCD” is a phrase you can 
hear when someone is tidying up 
a mess.
Or there’s calling someone 
“schizo” for being all over the 
place.
However, the use of these phrases are 
something that should fade out of everyday 
vocabulary.
This past semester, I took the class “Ab-
normal Psychology” where I learned about 
mental illnesses. With May's designation  as 
Mental Health Awareness Month, it is im-
portant to have discussions about reducing 
the stigmas surrounding people with mental 
health issues.
It would never be acceptable for some-
one to say “I’m so asthma” when they’re 
feeling out of breath. Mental illnesses are 
not adjectives; they are nouns of serious diagnoses that are just as real as 
physical illnesses.
Mental health issues include 
anxiety, autism spectrum disor-
der, bipolar disorder, eating disor-
ders, depression, obsessive com-
pulsive disorder, post-traumatic 
stress disorder or schizophrenia. 
As a journalist, the Associated 
Press Stylebook says not to “de-
scribe an individual as mentally ill unless it 
is clearly pertinent to a story and the diag-
nosis is properly sourced.” 
The stylebook implicitly states not to 
use words like “crazy” or “insane” when 
describing someone with mental health is-
sues. The standard should be no different 
for daily conversations with friends.
Now, with mass shootings, mental health 
seems to have taken on further stigma.
Just because someone is diagnosed as mentally ill does not mean they 
are inherently violent. In fact, 
mentalhealth.gov notes “the vast 
majority of people with men-
tal health problems are no more 
likely to be violent than anyone 
else.”
Mental health diagnoses are 
common. In fact, the National Al-
liance on Mental Illness notes one 
in ﬁ  ve adults experience it in a year. 
You can ﬁ  nd fact sheets about mental ill-
ness from the National Institute of Mental 
Health. Often, it is people between 18 and 
25 who are diagnosed most prevalently, but 
they are not as likely to seek treatment ac-
cording to statistics from NIMH obtained 
from the Substance Abuse and Mental 
Health Services Administration. Women are 
also more likely to receive a diagnosis be-
cause NIMH says men are often less likely to talk about their feelings and get mental 
health treatment, which seems to indicate 
further stigma surrounding men and mental 
illness.
There is no shame in needing help or 
talking about your feelings. On campus, U 
Matter, We Care and the Counseling & Well-
ness Center are there for students, raising 
awareness and providing aid to Gators in 
need. The Disability Resource Center also 
provides students with classroom aid if 
needed after a mental health diagnosis.
Everyone can be a part of the change that 
destigmatizes mental health issues and dis-
cussions.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column comes out Tuesday and 
Thursday.Let’s destigmatize mental health Column
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
Come see Coach Mullen May 24, 2018  
7 pm. Holiday Inn (13th & Univ.) Free to members, $25 for guests.
Join the Fightin’ Gator Touchdown 
Club and receive: discounts at 
local businesses, including food, 
drinks, and golf; see website 
for complete list. You will have 
access to buy football season 
and away game tickets.
www.FGTC.org or www.facebook.
com/FightinGatorTouchdownClub  
or @FGTCgatorsThe FGTC has c ontributed over 
$400,000 to an endowment for 
athletic scholarships. We have 
monthly guest speakers Jan-July, 
and weekly mid-Aug to mid-Nov
Also, come out for our Fishing 
tournament, June 23rd, at the 
Plantation on Crystal River.
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Cade Musuem opening features hands-on exhibits 
The Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention opened to the public on Saturday. The museum 
encourages learners of all ages to meet an inventor, think like an inventor and be an inventor.  The 
grand-opening event featured interactive activities in the museum’s Creativity and Fab Labs as well as 
the unveiling of two completed exhibits.
Tim Belz, 68, runs the Cade Museum printing press on Saturday. Originally from St. 
Louis, he came to the museum’s opening to demonstrate how the press operates.A drawing by the Cade Museum’s resident artist, which is a robot 
called Botsy. The machine was out-of-service on opening day.
Steven Clemmer, 23, and Kyle Rubin, 20, demonstrate how to make slime on Saturday 
afternoon at the Cade Museum’s grand opening event. The museum’s Creativity Lab 
encourages visitors to test out different scientiﬁ  c equipment and experiments. Photos by Marcelo Rondon 
Alligator StaffTUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Public enjoys ﬁ  rst swim at Poe Springs Park post-hurricane 
 Photos by Davio Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff
Left:  53-year-old grandmother 
Carla Price (right) and 25-year-
old mother Nekosha Jones 
(left) watch their children play 
in Poe Springs Park during the 
reopening of the park on Friday 
morning. 
Below: Excessive algae 
grows on the riverbed of Poe 
Springs Park after being left 
undisturbed since September 
2017. The county park ofﬁ  cially 
reopened to the public on Fri-
day morning following damage 
caused by Hurricane Irma.  10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President Ian 
Green can often be seen sporting a 
suit, but now graduates in his home-
town get to do the same. 
Green announced via Facebook on 
Thursday he spent part of his presi-
dential salary on suits for three recent 
high school graduates in his home-
town of Marietta, Georgia. Green has 
spent more than $200 on suits and 
plans to continue, he said. 
Suit recipients belonged to Sons of 
Zion, a program Green and his father 
created at their church, he said. The 
program helps young black men lack-
ing role models ﬁ  nd structure.
“I felt that I could have a greater 
impact on giving back to my commu-nity — the community that has helped 
to shape me to the individual that I am 
today,” Green said. 
The last Student Government exec-
utives to donate their salaries were on 
the 2015 team, according to Alligator 
archives. 
The president’s salary is $10,361.26, 
SG ﬁ  nance manager Gary Bryant wrote 
in an email. Green’s salary comes from 
student activity fees.
Sen. Branden Pearson (Indepen-
dent, Lakeside) said the salary has 
been supported by students. 
“I think that if the Student Body of-
ﬁ  cer has the ability to use that salary 
to give back, I’d really encourage them 
to do that,” Pearson said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org SG Pres.  to donate salary
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Highway Patrol arrested a man Sun-
day after he allegedly collided with another car 
while driving under the inﬂ  uence with a dog 
in the car.
Jeffery Holland, 58, was 
driving a gold-colored Saturn 
when the incident occurred 
on State Road 26 and North-
east 47th Street, according 
to the arrest report. At about 
12:15 p.m., the front of the 
Saturn collided with the rear 
end of a gray Dodge Ram 
pickup truck.
According to the report, a passerby got a 
video on her phone that showed a man wear-
ing a green athletic jersey and light brown 
shorts exit from the driver’s door of the Sat-urn. A brown dog then exited out of the win-
dow from the same side.
On the video, the suspect was noticeably 
stumbling. He reportedly ﬂ  ed on foot soon af-
ter. Deputies from Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce later found him about 200 yards from 
the crash scene. He was identiﬁ  ed as Holland.
While searching the Saturn, a 12-pack of 
Natural Ice beer was found on the passenger 
side ﬂ  oor, according to the report.
An ofﬁ  cer spoke with Holland and noticed 
the smell of alcohol. According to the report, 
Holland was unable to perform roadside exer-
cises and refused to give a breath sample. The 
ofﬁ  cer believed Holland’s capabilities were im-
paired by alcohol, drugs or both.
Holland’s bond is currently set for $20,000. 
There has been no update on the location of 
the dog.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgFHP: Man ﬂ  ees during traﬃ   c stop  
Holland
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
● ● MARGIE'S SECOND THOUGHT ● ●
2210 NE 55th Blvd, Gville. 386-972-2556
10 am - 6 pm, 7 days a week
● Baby supplies & toys ● Appliances ● 
Furniture ● Clothes ● Linens ● Rugs, Etc.       
6-5-18-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"For Sale: Kymco Like 200i Scooter.
Just broken in and serviced. Transferable 
warantee, windshield and cover. $1500. Don 
352-328-0764    5-29-18-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
00 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
Designated drivers are the greatest97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2 male Grad students seek a
male roommate who is clean &
studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,
own bed/bath, on bus stop
close to UF. Pool, hot tub,
tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3
util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House across from Law house available 
August 2018! 4/2 full bath renovated, gran-
ite counter tops, parking, WD, lawn care and 
sunroom for studying! Walk to class! $2250  
352-317-6353    5-22-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
W/D, front & back porches. $840/mo + utils. 
Call 352-871-6413    5-24 18-4-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-
ing use caution and investigate the sin-
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Low cost painless laser hair removal. 
VIP Health & Laser 12 blocks from UF. 
Free consult limited spots. 800-410-1678, 
viphealthandlaser.com     5-22-1-16HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      5-24-18-
4-14
Established studio seeking applicant with 
exp teaching kids martial arts. Looking to 
start ASAP. Email cory.schafer@iskaworld -
hq.com to apply. PT $10-14/hr    5-24-18-4-
14
The Floor Store at Thornebrook is looking for 
sales staff part time up to 25HRS
Pay $10 to $15 / HR Apply in Person.
5-22-3-14
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer-
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
Gainesville Regional Utilities (GRU) currently 
has an opening for a Temporary Part-Time 
Energy Analyst to work for the Energy and 
Business Services Division.  AA/DFWP/EOE/
VP Visit our website to apply: https://www.
governmentjobs.com/careers/gainesville    
5-24-18-2-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Far from
homogeneous
8 Fight back
14 Threatening
15 Red hot chili
pepper
16 Bed buyer’s
concern
17 Still on the plate
18 Suffix for Gator
19 Like cactus-
friendly climates
20 “__ making a 
list ... ”
21 Family guy
23 “Oliver Twist”
criminal
25 “Sommersby”
star Richard
26 Deeply absorbed
27 Clickable pic
28 Skippy rival
29 Roadie’s load
30 San Antonio
Spurs coach
Popovich
31 Worth having
34 With 36-Across,
mass-produced
... and what each
of four black
squares in this
puzzle is?
36 See 34-Across
37 “Spun” tales
38 Arm 
bone-related
41 News letters
42 Trike rider
43 Having no slack
44 Soft French
wheel
45 Bump up against
47 Coastal flock
48 Blues-rocker
Chris
49 Somerhalder of
“The Vampire
Diaries”
50 Two in a row?
51 Prompt on stage
53 Massage
technique
meaning “finger
pressure” in
Japanese
55 Stocking
attachments
59 Rodeo ropes
60 Massachusetts
site of Phillips
Academy
61 This one or that
one
62 Dangerous waveDOWN
1 Bashful pal
2 Texter’s “If you
ask me”
3 Vigor’s partner
4 “Terrible” French
kid
5 Crucifix
6 Foolproof
7 Guinness suffix
8 Carted off to jail
9 Looked at closely
10 “The __ is calm
tonight”: “Dover
Beach” opening
11 Coming up
12 Show contempt
13 Present perfect,
for one
15 Saving one’s
bacon?
19 Really excited
21 Polynesian nation
22 One who strikes
while the iron is
hot
24 Top pitcher
25 Birthday present
26 Risqué
28 Soup du __
30 Essence
32 Vintage hue on a
photo app
33 Scary-sounding
lake35 Nautical speed
unit
36 Cross-sectional
X-rays
38 Development site
39 Metallica
drummer Ulrich
40 Woman with a
habit?
44 Nantes native
45 Flier’s window
alternative
46 Iranian faith47 Stun gun brand
50 Winnebago
relative
52 Pakistan’s
national
language
54 Mt. St. Helens
output
55 Mobster’s piece
56 “2 Fast 2 Furious”
actress Mendes
57 Sleep acronym
58 Indian title
By Debbie Ellerin
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/22/1805/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 22, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 IMDb listing
5 Sylvester and
others
9 Biblical voyager
13 Put out in the
open
14 Predecessors of
much email:
Abbr.
15 Pasta tubes
16 Shakespeare’s
riverside haunt?
18 Spanish wine
region
19 On fire
20 Irresistible desire
21 Plead to be given
22 Overjoys
24 Snow-day play?
26 Need to return
the favor to
27 Decks
28 Fake
31 Ambitious sort
32 H.S. course
35 Essential pig?
38 Biblical voyage
serving that
probably upset
some
passengers?
40 Cork’s place:
Abbr.
41 “There’s no
choice for me”
43 Takes
responsibility for
44 Shut
45 Tack on
47 Poor wig
maintenance?
50 Nap
54 Kind of family
55 World’s most
cultivated
avocado, named
for its developer
57 Roleo surface
58 Goes down
59 Sadness ... or,
read another
way, what five
puzzle answers
have in common
61 Steps over a
fence
62 Line 32 items on
1040 forms
63 Not working
64 “Ah, right”
65 Cousteau’s
milieux
66 Not as muchDOWN
1 Internet provider
2 Help
3 In a way, in a
way
4 __-faced
5 Sentence
component
6 Off-road rec
equipment
7 Lenin frenemy
8 Nine-digit ID
9 Horseplay
outbursts?
10 Switch words
11 Pear variety
12 Basketball Hall of
Fame announcer
Chick
15 Treat before
washing
17 Went really fast
21 Seller’s need
23 Sepulcher
25 Wash against
gently
28 __ patrol
29 QE2 designation
30 Word of assent
31 Bridge support
32 Finalize, with
“up”
33 Cylindrical
container34 Word often
improperly
punctuated
36 Kind of paint
37 Pepé Le Pew’s
pursuit
39 Fashion
42 “Wait a minute!”
44 Barnyard sound
45 Gauge
46 Pancake, for 
one
47 Martini partner48 Apartments or
condos
49 “Friend Like Me”
singer in
“Aladdin”
51 Arrive at a base,
maybe
52 Trade things
53 Keats’ “The Eve
of St. __”
56 Open slightly
59 Badly lit
60 Shop __ you drop
By David Alfred Bywaters
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/18/1805/18/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, May 18, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Occur
1.  ____ trail5.  ____ pants
2.  Grower 6.  Peaceful pause 
3.  Gourmet 7.  Blood carrier 
4.  HappyEHPNAP
NIKGIHAKKIH
CRTEU
AERNPLT
PRUECEIRREYAT
RECHEYANSWERS: 1A-Happen  5A-Khaki  6A-Truce  7A-Artery
1D-Hiking  2D-Planter  3D-Epicure  4D-Cheery  B-Patrick Henry5-22-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person served as the first 
and sixth governor of Virginia. BONUS
1. When was the last time before 
2017 that the Philadelphia Phillies hit 
three consecutive homers in a game?
2. Name the last major-league play-
er before Colorado’s Charlie Black-
mon in 2017 to lead off two consecu-
tive games with a triple.
3. Before 2016, when was the last 
time the Oakland Raiders had a win-
ning record for an NFL season?
4. When was the last time a men’s col-
lege basketball team west of the Missis-
sippi won the NCAA Tournament?
5. Name three of the four NHL play-
ers to have scored 600 or more career 
goals in fewer than 1,000 games.
6. Who are the only three drivers to 
have won a NASCAR Cup champion-
ship at age 43 or older?
7. In 2017, Venus Williams became 
the oldest finalist (37) at the year-end 
WTA Finals. Who had been the oldest?
Answers
1. It was 2008, when Chase Utley, 
Ryan Howard and Pat Burrell did it.
2. Miami’s Jose Reyes, in 2012.
3. It was 2002.
4. Kansas, in 2008.
5. Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, 
Brett Hull and Alex Ovechkin.
6. Bobby Allison (age 45 in 1983), 
Dale Earnhardt (43 in 1994) and Lee 
Petty (45 in 1959).
7. Martina Navratilova was 36 when 
she reached the championship of the 
WTA Finals in 1992. 
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 21, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 Rides
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.The UF baseball team had four 
players on the All-SEC First 
T eam announced Monday. 
Third baseman Jonathan India 
won SEC Player of the Year.Gators men's tennis to play at Individual Championships
Oliver Crawford, Alfredo Perez and Johannes Ingildsen will represnt Florida 
at the NCAA Individual Championships beginning on May 23. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
The Gators’ lacrosse season 
came to an end Saturday afternoon 
when they were defeated by James 
Madison 11-8 in the NCAA Quar-
terfinals.
Despite the disappointing fin-
ish, the 2018 season was filled 
with many high points for Florida. 
The team won 17 games, tied for 
the third-best since the program’s 
inception in 2010, and tied for the 
second-best since UF joined the Big 
East in 2015.
The Gators captured their 
fourth-consecutive Big East title. 
They have won every Big East tour-
nament since they joined the con-
ference. UF’s streak of 33-straight 
conference victories is still active, 
and it won an NCAA Tournament 
game for the first time since 2015.
Florida entered the season with 
high expectations, as the team was 
unanimously picked during the 
preseason to defend its conference 
championship. It lived up to those 
expectations and then some.
UF started the season with a vic-
tory, shutting down a ranked Colo-
rado team in its season opener, 16-
9. After that, the No. 1 team in the 
country, Maryland, came to town. 
The Gators played the Terrapins 
tougher than they had in previous 
matchups, and despite losing the 
game 16-14, the team showed it 
could compete with the best in the nation.
That was put to the test in the 
following game against Loyola on 
February 25. The Greyhounds led 
by two goals with under three min-
utes left in the game, but late goals 
from junior Lindsey Ronbeck and 
rising star sophomore Madisyn Kit-
tell sent the contest into overtime. 
Senior Shayna Pirreca saved the 
day, scoring an early goal in the 
extra period to end the game.
It was one of many memorable 
performances from the senior at-
tacker, who is one of only six play-
ers in the history of the program to 
reach 200 career points. She was 
second on the team in scoring with 
59 goals (Ronbeck, 65). Over the 
past two seasons, she had a scor-
ing streak of 40 games that ended 
in her final match with the team on 
Saturday.
Florida earned two wins against 
top-10 teams this season, first de-
feating No. 3 North Carolina in 
Chapel Hill 17-10 on March 3. Pir-
reca led the way in that game, scor-
ing six goals in the victory.
Ten days later, the team de-
feated No. 10 Navy on its home 
field, erasing a first-half, eight-goal 
deficit to win 19-16. However, the 
come-from-behind victory didn’t 
come without a cost.
Ronbeck left the field with a 
knee injury early on and didn’t 
return for 18 days. The Gators’ of-SEASON RECAP: A rundown of UF's historic 2018 campaign
SEE LACROSSE,  PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
Senior attacker Shayna Pirreca finished her career as a Gator as the program's fourth-all time points 
leader (209) and with junior attacker Lindsey Ronbeck for 2018 team lead (81).
WOMEN'S GOLF
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
 
The Gators saw their season end on Sun-
day at the NCAA Championships in Stillwa-
ter, Oklahoma.
The team had a season full of high and 
low points but ultimately should consider its 
2017-18 year successful based on its relative 
lack of experience.
The year in highlights:
Ocean Course Invitational
Elin Esborn came out swinging in Kiawah 
Island, South Carolina.
In the first official tournament of her Flor-
ida career, the redshirt freshman scorched 
the Ocean Course Invitational in September 
2017 en route to a finish in fifth place.
The Gators finished in third out of 17 teams and their consistency showed, with 
three golfers finishing between 20th and 
23rd.
The Landfall Tradition
The cold in Wilmington, North Carolina, 
got to Florida as it hit a low point with the 
Landfall Tradition in late October. 
Out of 18 teams, the Gators finished 13th 
and struggled to get anything going in their 
worst tournament of the fall. 
Coach Emily Glaser acknowledged the 
team’s toils in the event. 
“This is part of our journey and an impor-
tant learning day,” Glaser said in a release.
 Florida’s spring would prove to be much 
more fruitful.
Florida Challenge
Sierra Brooks burst onto the scene after a rough end to her career at Wake Forest 
and quickly established her dominance in 
the Florida Challenge in Lecanto, Florida, in 
late January. 
Brooks paced the field with a 6 under and 
won the individual event while helping UF 
to a tough runner-up finish to Miami. From 
that point, Brooks became the team’s go-to 
golfer. 
Allstate Sugar Bowl
Another day, another title for Brooks. 
With a 7 under, she ran away from the 
pack en route to another win. Moreover, the 
Gators would finally find a breakthrough for 
a team championship. The Gators’ score of 
9 over scorched the second-place USC Tro-
jans’ card of 18 over.
SunTrust Gator InvitationalThe Gators enjoyed playing on their 
home course in March as they sprinted away 
with a win and a new record in the SunTrust 
Gator Invitational in Gainesville. 
Their final score of even par was the best 
in the event’s 46-year history, blowing away 
the old record set in 2017 by seven strokes. 
Brooks finished runner-up, Esborn in 
third, Perez tied for fifth and no Gator com-
peting for the team finished worse than 18th. 
It was a solid display of golf, and the team 
looked comfortable – Esborn commented 
that being on your home course helps.
Liz Murphey Collegiate Classic
A month later, the team fell apart in 
Athens, Georgia, in its final regular-season 
tune-up match for the SEC Tournament. Out  A look back at the Gators' up and down year on the links
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
“The Florida Way.”
It’s the phrase UF softball se-
nior Aleshia Ocasio used to de-
scribe her team’s play in its SEC 
Tournament Championship vic-
tory over South Carolina on May 
12. 
Tough pitching, stingy de-
fense and patient plate appear-
ances highlighted the Gators’ 
performance against the Game-
cocks, and they displayed the 
same pillars of play in this week-
end’s NCAA Gainesville Regional 
against opponents Bethune-Cook-
man and Ohio State.
Pitching
Florida threw two no-hitters 
while hosting regional play. 
Junior Kelly Barnhill and Oca-
sio combined to pitch a no-hitter 
against the Wildcats on Friday, 
while the senior held the Buck-
eyes hitless for seven innings in 
Sunday’s regional ﬁ  nale. 
“(Ocasio) deﬁ  nitely had her 
best stuff,” junior Amanda Lo-
renz said. “When you see the ball 
moving like that from left ﬁ  eld, 
you know something’s working 
good.”
The upperclassmen united to 
pitch all of UF’s 19 innings, pick-
ing up 36 strikeouts and allowing 
only six walks. Barnhill gave up 
the only earned run of the tourna-
ment – a solo home run by senior 
Ashley Goodwin – in Florida’s 
ﬁ  rst matchup with Ohio State on 
Saturday. 
As a staff, the Gators posted an 
ERA of 0.36 in the three games.
Defense
Defensive sharpness on the 
clay complimented Ocasio’s bril-
liant no-hit performance. The UF inﬁ  eld played errorless softball 
behind its senior pitcher, who 
forced 10 ground outs in Sunday’s 
game.
Third baseman Nicole DeWitt 
and shortstop Sophia Reynoso 
each picked up four assisted outs. 
Second baseman Hannah Adams 
made a spectacular play readjust-
ing to a ball that ricocheted off 
Ocasio’s glove for her only assist 
of the game but was outdone by 
Reynoso. In the bottom of the 
ﬁ  fth, the sophomore adjusted to 
a ball knocked up the middle by 
the mitt of Ocasio, scooped it up 
and made a sidearm throw to ﬁ  rst 
for the out. 
DeWitt, Reynoso and Adams 
have a combined eight errors on 
the season. Florida ranks second 
in the nation in ﬁ  elding percent-
age (0.984), behind only the 
reigning national champions, 
Oklahoma (0.988). 
Plate Discipline
The Gators were a walk-gener-
ating machine last weekend. 
They drew 34 bases on balls 
over the three-game stint and set 
a single-game season-high with 
15 on Saturday. They were also 
hit by seven pitches in regional 
play. 
Despite only batting 0.229 
with runners on-base and 0.243 
with runners in scoring position, 
Florida manufactured 22 runs. 
Eleven UF batters reached base 
via walk or hit-by-pitch and came 
around to score in the Gainesville 
Regional.
“The stats don’t matter,” Lo-
renz said. “That’s why I love 
postseason. It doesn’t matter how 
it happens. All that matters is the 
outcome.”
@mstinejr 
mstine@alligator.org
Check out ESPN’s website when 
you have a moment. I want to 
show you something.
First, click the link to the NBA 
homepage. The top of your screen 
now has a long row of tabs that lead to 
different facets of NBA coverage: scores, 
schedule, standings and stats, to name a 
few.
Now ﬁ  nd the men’s college basketball 
homepage. “NCAAM” has its own link sep-
arate from the “NBA” tab but is structured 
the same as its professional counterpart.
Here’s where it gets interesting. When 
you browse the list of sports homepages 
from the ESPN.com homepage, you’ll see 
that the WNBA and women’s college bas-
ketball, like the men, have their own, sepa-
rate links.
But don’t be fooled. If you click on WNBA, you get the same list 
of sub-links: scores, schedule, 
standings and stats. And, as it 
turns out, a link to the wom-
en’s college basketball homep-
age, represented as “NCAAW” 
and “More,” with the “More” 
consisting of: scores, sched-
ules, standings and stats, to 
name a few. In the top left cor-
ner, you realize what you’re 
looking at is the overarching 
Women’s Basketball homepage – because 
female athletes aren’t as important as male 
athletes, right?
In sum, ESPN.com divides it’s basket-
ball coverage like this: NBA, NCAAM, and 
Women’s Basketball.
Warning guys, I’m pulling the S-word 
out.That’s sexist!
Why are men’s college bas-
ketball and the NBA on their 
own tabs, but women’s college 
basketball and the WNBA are 
lumped together? This sim-
ple action de-legitimizes the 
WNBA, a league of profession-
als who are already ﬁ  ghting for 
the respect they deserve.
Sure, the NBA is more estab-
lished, more popular and more 
proﬁ  table. But ESPN is owned by Disney, 
a 50-billion-dollar goliath. You’d think its 
online department would have the resourc-
es to make this website issue go away.
There are WNBA fans with the same 
fervor and love for their teams and favor-
ite players as NBA fans, and they would 
love to see more in-depth coverage from the self-proclaimed “worldwide leader in 
sports.”
While commercials of NBA stars intro-
ducing some of the world’s best basketball 
players (yes, professional women’s bas-
ketball players are very, very good at the 
sport) and talking about how good they are 
is a start. Still, there is so much work to 
do.
I apologize if I sound like I’m drilling 
the same point over and over. It’s because 
I continue to fume over a hypocritical so-
ciety that constantly breaks its promise of 
equality across the board.
Or in this case, equality across the back-
board.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports writer. Follow 
him on Twitter @AndrewJHuang and con-
tact him at ahuang@alligator.org. Gators advance to NCAA Super Regional ‘The Florida Way’
I’m calling out ESPN for disrespecting and underrepresenting the WNBAAlligator File Photo
Senior pitcher Aleshia Ocasio held the Ohio State Buckeyes hitless Sunday, throwing the ﬁ  rst complete-
game no-hitter in Florida postseason history. She also had a hand in a combined no-hitter Friday.
Huang Story Short // Opinion
Andrew Huang
twitter: @AndrewJHuang16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 22, 2018
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$3 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSfense sputtered with the star at-
tacker's absence.
The team survived a close 
call against Vanderbilt in Nash-
ville on March 18, eking out 
a one-goal victory against the 
Commodores, followed by a 
home loss to Towson. It scored a 
then-season low 11 goals in both 
games.
But Ronbeck's return on 
March 31 against UConn proved 
to be the catalyst for UF. The 
team went on a tear through 
Big East play, running the table 
in its regular-season conference 
schedule for the third-straight 
season. With the addition of 
Ronbeck, the Florida scoring at-
tack kept opposing goalkeepers 
busy, averaging 18.9 goals per 
game down the stretch.
UF demonstrated the im-
mense gap between itself and 
the rest of its conference, and 
this was best illustrated in its 
April 14 game against Mar-
quette. The Golden Eagles en-
tered the game as the only other 
undefeated team in Big East 
play. The Gators beat them 18-6.
After clinching the regular 
season title against Denver 18-
13 on April 21 in the midst of 
snow ﬂ  urries in the Mile High 
City, Florida turned its attention 
to the Big East Tournament.
In the conference semiﬁ  nals, 
UF waltzed past Marquette for 
the second time, winning by a 
19-8 clip this time around. Ron-
beck’s eight goals set a tourna-
ment record for goals in a game.
The Gators faced Denver again in the conference champi-
onship game, but this time in the 
friendly conﬁ  nes of Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium. UF rode home-
ﬁ  eld advantage and won 18-6 to 
take the conference trophy back 
to Gainesville once again.
In the NCAA Tournament, 
the team exorcised its ﬁ  rst-game 
demons, defeating Colorado 
again, 13-9, before eventually 
falling to James Madison.
Looking ahead to 2019, the 
future of Florida lacrosse ap-
pears bright. Though it loses Pir-
reca and defensive leader Aniya 
Flanagan, it returns Ronbeck, 
whose 65 goals was tied for 
19th-best in Division I lacrosse. 
It also returns midﬁ  elder Sydney 
Pirreca – the team’s third-lead-
ing scorer – and promising fresh-
man offensive players Grace 
Haus and Shannon Kavanagh. 
Defensive starters Cara Trombet-
ta, Sabrina Cristodero and goalie 
Haley Hicklen will all be on the 
team next year as well.
UF will also play its ﬁ  rst sea-
son in the American Athletic 
Conference in 2019. 
While 2018 didn’t end with 
the team hoisting the NCAA 
Championship trophy in Stony 
Brook, New York, it showed a 
lot of promise. Heading into her 
tenth year with the program, 
coach Amanda O’Leary will look 
to build on this season’s success-
es while correcting the problems 
that landed the team short of its 
ultimate goal.
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org LACROSSE,  from pg. 14UF has won the last 
four Big East titles 
of 12 teams in the Liz Murphey Col-
legiate Classic, UF ﬁ  nished in 10th. 
Brooks led the team with a score 
of even and an 11th place ﬁ  nish, 
but none of her teammates ﬁ  nished 
better than 25th and their scores 
added up quickly to a dismal 34 
over. By comparison, tournament-
champion Alabama shot a 15 un-
der.
SEC Tournament
Perez saved the Gators from 
elimination in stroke play at the 
SEC Tournament in Birmingham, 
Alabama, with a score of even par 
– good enough for a tie for fourth. 
Had Perez shot the same score 
as the next teammate below her 
(Brooks with a 9 over), UF would 
have missed the cut and not made 
it to match play on a tiebreaker.
In match play, UF ran into a 
very potent Arkansas Razorbacks 
attack and lost 3-2 in heartbreaking 
fashion.
NCAA Austin Regional
In the NCAA Regionals, the top 
six teams from each region advance 
to the NCAA Championships.
After Day 1, the Gators were in 
trouble after ﬁ  nishing in a tie for 
sixth. They picked it up in Day 2, 
though, moving up into third, a 
spot they would stay in after Day 3.
Esborn and senior Taylor Tom-
linson led the team into the Cham-
pionship, an “awesome hurdle to 
cross for this team,” according to 
Glaser.
NCAA ChampionshipsAfter the ﬁ  rst day in Stillwater, 
Oklahoma, UF was in good shape 
in a tie for tenth as the top 15 teams 
at the event advanced to match 
play.
After Day 1, however, it was all 
downhill.
Even though the Gators shot the 
same score in round two as they 
did in round one (15 over), they 
dropped three spots.
In round three, UF again shot a 
15 over in round three. The lack of 
adjustments proved to be the kiss 
of death for Florida as it dropped eight spots and saw its season end.
One has to wonder if a lack of 
experience had an effect in the 
Gators’ downfall, as they only had 
one upperclassman on the entire 
roster.
Still, that fountain of youth is a 
sign of optimism for Florida as it 
should be good for years to come 
with, barring a late transfer, only 
Tomlinson graduating in the next 
two years.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org GOLF,  from pg. 14Brooks arrived in January, led 
Florida with two individual wins
Chris O'Brien / /Alligator Staff
Brooks had a team-low stroke average of 71.78  in addition to 
winning the Florida Challenge and the Allstate Sugar Bowl. 
