We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Mullen, Grantham prepare for homecoming 
The Gators’ head coach and defensive coordinator are among a 
handful of ex-Mississippi State coaches returning to Starkville 
this Saturday, pg. 14We stan a queen who comes to campus
Queen Quet, of the Gullah Geechee nation, spoke about hurri-
cane relief and her history, pg. 4
Scoot scoot 
City Commission to consider a scooter rental program, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 15
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
Students sit at voting stations at the Marston Science Library computer lab polling location and cast 
their votes for Student Government elections Tuesday afternoon. Marston is one of several locations 
students can vote at on Wednesday. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
An increase of 200 students 
voted on the ﬁ  rst day of Student 
Government elections compared 
to last Fall. 
A total of 5,517 students vot-
ed Tuesday, said Henry Fair,  the 
SG supervisor of elections. Last 
Fall, 5,318 students voted on the 
ﬁ  rst day. Students will elect 50 
senators based on residence this 
Fall. Voting will continue today 
from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., and 
results will be announced at 
night.
Voting locations are scattered 
throughout campus in places 
like the Reitz Union printing lab, 
Southwest Recreation Center 
and Marston Science Library. 
Nish Patel, a 20-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance junior, cast his ﬁ  rst SG 
ballot. He voted for candidates 
from both parties in District D, 
he said. “They were campaigning 
pretty hard, and they were sure 
of what they wanted to accom-
plish on campus,” Patel said. “I 
just wanted to support them all.”
It was a privilege for Garrett 
Graham, a 19-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore, to vote, 
he said. He voted for Impact Par-
ty because he is a member of the 
Zeta Beta Tau fraternity. 
“They support the fraternity 
and Greek-life system,” Graham 
said. 
After learning her classmate 
was running with Inspire Party, 
Lilith Maki, an 18-year-old UF 
engineering freshman, voted in 
her ﬁ  rst SG election. 
“I would like to see students 
have more of a voice in activities 
and things that directly affect 
them like football games, food 
and ﬁ  nancial aid,” Maki said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSG elections see increased ﬁ  rst day turnout
FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY HAD 
A HIGHER PERCENTAGE 
OF BLACK STUDENTS.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
A noose left on campus. A white nation-
alist rallying. A man displaying a Swastika. 
All within a year. 
UF has been given an F ranking for racial 
representation by a University of Southern 
California Race and Equity Center study. 
The study was released Tuesday. It shows 
the university was one of eight in Florida 
that received the lowest grade in the racial 
representation category, which is measured 
by how black undergraduate student en-
rollment reﬂ  ects the population of 18- to 
24-year-old black Florida residents.
A look into the center’s data shows that 
only 6.1 percent of UF’s Student Body is 
black. This is the fourth-lowest percentage 
out of the 13 public Florida universities. 
Mackintosh Joachim, a 19-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance and women’s studies sophomore, 
and the treasurer of UF’s National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People 
chapter, was not surprised that UF failed in racial representation equity.
“They claim they care about diversi-
ty, they claim they care about inclusion,”  
Joachim said. “However, none of it has hap-
pened.” 
Eight other Florida universities received 
F rankings. Only three schools were given 
a D rating, including Florida International 
University. Florida Atlantic University re-
ceived the highest ranking in the state at a 
C, according to the report.
UF was also given a C for gender equity, 
a B for completion equity and a B for black 
student-to-faculty ratio. 
Joachim said he feels out of touch as the 
only black student in some of his classes. 
It’s difﬁ  cult to go to class with a white fe-
male professor discussing the experiences 
of an African-American woman, he said.
“If UF hired more black faculty members, 
then students would most likely feel wel-
come at this university,” Joachim said.
UF practices a race-blind admissions pro-
cess, which means race is not considered 
when selecting a student said Rick Bryant, 
the UF director of admissions operations. 
Reports like this don’t take into consider-
ation students who don’t disclose their race UF fails on marks of racial diversity 
ALACHUA COUNTY RESIDENTS 
CAN SAVE AROUND $300 
YEARL Y.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer 
For some, Gainesville Regional Utilities 
bills may become cheaper.
In August, UF partnered with the Com-
munity Weatherization Coalition, a year-
long program that gives people access 
to energy efﬁ  cient home equipment and 
appliances to help residents reduce their 
utility bills, said the coalition’s program 
director, Alane Humrich.
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability will give 
$50,000 worth of free installations and ad-
justments to energy efﬁ  cient light bulbs, 
water conserving shower heads and bet-
ter insulation for pipes for 150 homes this 
year, Humrich said. The ofﬁ  ce typically 
averages assisting 100 homes a year.
“That’s really impactful not just for the 
community, but for the environment as 
well,” Humrich said.The coalition opened 10 years ago and 
has assisted over 900 houses, Humrich 
said.
A majority of the houses have poor ﬁ  x-
tures or old appliances due to a lack of 
ﬁ  nances, Humrich said. Each house can 
save around 6,000 gallons of water and 
$300 each year after the upgrades, she 
said.
Anyone can apply for the program, in-
cluding UF students, but Humrich said the 
program typically serves the low-income 
elderly in Gainesville. Around 40 percent 
of the households it accepts usually have 
children, she said. 
Volunteers from UF will attend 12-
hour training sessions to learn how to 
help people perform these upgrades, said 
Matthew Williams, the director of UF Of-
ﬁ  ce of Sustainability.
“We’re able to take passion and knowl-
edge and really show a signiﬁ  cant differ-
ence in our community,” Williams said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF ‘sparks’ initiative to 
reduce county utility costs5,517 students cast a ballot
SEE EQUITY,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Student Government Elections
Vote for your Student 
Government senator from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. today. Polling 
locations include Broward 
Recreation Room, Hough Hall 
Room 120, Health Science 
Center C2-41C, Jennings Hall 
Library, Levin College of 
Law BGH Student Commons, 
the second floor of Marston 
Science Library in the comput-
er lab, Murphree Conference 
Room, Norman Education 
Library, Reitz Union SG Print 
Lab, Springs Area Office 
Room C202 and Southwest 
Recreation Social Lounge. 
Questions? Visit sg.ufl.edu/
elections, or email Henry Fair, 
the SG supervisor of elections, 
at elections@sg.ufl.edu.
Apply Now for 2019-20 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, 
complete the Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid at faf-
sa.ed.gov. Students can file a 
2019-20 FAFSA as early as Oct. 
1. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to 
receive the 2019-20 FAFSA re-
sults from the federal proces-
sor is Dec. 15. Students are 
recommended to apply well 
before Dec. 15 to ensure that 
the federal processor has time 
to analyze and send the results 
of the FAFSA to the UF Office 
for Student Financial Affairs. 
Financial aid is awarded on a 
first-come, first-served basis, 
so apply as early as possible to 
be considered for the most aid. 
The 2019-20 FAFSA will also 
be available on a new phone 
app called myStudentAid.
Gay Movie Night 
September’s Gay Movie Night 
is being held at 7:30 p.m. 
Friday at the Pride Community 
Center, at 3131 NW 13th St. 
This month’s movie is “The 
Skinny,” which is a comedy 
about four young, black, gay 
men and their lesbian best 
friend. They arrange to meet 
up in New York City one year 
after their graduation from 
Brown University. Their plans 
for a weekend of fun start 
off well and relaxed in each 
other’s company, as only old 
friends can be, but old tensions quickly resurface. Drinking, 
drugs, hidden desire and the 
demands of promiscuity put 
friendship, trust and even lives 
at risk. Gay Movie Night is on 
the last Friday of each month 
and is a free service of the 
Pride Community Center. A $2 
donation is requested to help 
cover the cost of snacks.
GatorNights – Stage Reitz
GatorNights is this Friday. 
Students can watch an im-
provised comedic musical, 
“Shamilton,” at 9:30 p.m. 
in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom or participate in 
the Hamilton hip-hop class at 
8:30 p.m. in the Lower Level 
Dance Studio B. Students can 
also decorate a “Phantom of 
the Opera” mask and com-
pete with friends at naming 
Broadway musicals based 
on tunes. “Ant Man and The 
Wasp” will be shown at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz 
Auditorium. Popcorn and soda 
will be offered. There will also 
be free bowling and billiards in 
the Game Room and breakfast 
at Midnight Munchies to fin-
ish off the night. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always 
free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card from 8 p.m. to 
1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a guest.
Florida Museum to open new 
‘Permian Monsters’ exhibit 
Saturday
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History will open 
its newest featured exhibit, 
“Permian Monsters: Life be-
fore the Dinosaurs” with free 
activities from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Saturday. As an early 
celebration of National Fossil 
Day, visitors may speak with 
members of Florida fossil 
clubs about what fossils can 
be found around the state and 
meet paleontologists and ge-
ologists who work to uncover 
the secrets of these ancient 
remains. Visitors can learn 
about the world’s greatest ex-
tinction event with life-size 
models, real fossils, interactive 
dig pits and computer games. 
While the exhibit has an en-
trance fee, museum members 
and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card will receive free 
admission. For more informa-
tion, visit floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/permian-monsters 
or call 352-846-2000.
La Casita Encuentro (Reunion)
A public dialogue will be held 
on the past, present and fu-
ture of the community insti-
tution La Casita. The Samuel 
Proctor Oral History Program 
will hold the dialogue between 
the founding members of UF’s 
Institute of Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures at 6 p.m. on Oct. 3 at 
Ustler Hall Atrium. As UF re-
builds La Casita, the program 
invites members of the com-
munity to take part in a dia-
logue on where the community 
will go from here. The conver-
sation will also focus on what 
the community can do today to 
sustain and deepen our com-
mitment to La Casita, ethnic 
studies and civic engagement 
at UF and beyond. 
Bicycle Ride to support Breast 
Cancer Research
The Pink Pumpkin Pedal-Off is 
a charity bicycle ride to raise 
funds supporting local re-
search on treatment-resistant 
breast cancers. Ride distances 
are 10, 22, 40 or 62.5 miles. All 
rides begin and end at the UF 
Cancer and Genetics Research 
Complex. The ride is Oct. 28.  
Register at pinkpumpkinpedal-
off.org. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 15
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling, Paige Arneson,
Madison Forbis 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Visit the ALDI booth at the Fall Career Showcase!
The career fair will be hosted at the O’Connell Center on  
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 from 9am to 3pm. 
Learn more about a career as an ALDI District Manager at 
careers.aldi.us/district.
In 4 years, I can make 6 figures 
and take my career in any  
number of directions.
$80,000 in your first year, with a company that has an award winning 
onboarding program, is a great start. We have also been recognized as one of 
the Best Places to Work for Recent Grads, a National Top Workplace and one 
of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for four years running.
With the entrepreneurial nature of the job, and the countless ways to personalize 
my career going forward, it is easy to see why becoming a District Manager at 
ALDI was my number one career choice.
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district
Welcome to more.®
STUDENTS USED NATIONAL 
VOTER REGISTRATION DAY 
TO ENCOURAGE 
CIVIC PARTICIPATION. 
By Emily Thomas 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students walking through Turlington Hall 
or the Plaza of the Americas have likely heard 
the same question: “Are you registered to vote 
in Alachua County?”
On Tuesday, students had yet another op-
portunity to get registered thanks to Gators 
Vote Everywhere and the Alachua County Su-
pervisor of Elections. At Pugh Hall, 46 people 
registered to vote or updated their registration 
and more than 100 people pledged to vote, 
said Jenna Tingum, the Gators Vote Every-
where team leader. 
The Alligator spoke to UF students at the 
event about why voting matters, and what 
they feel are the most critical issues facing the 
nation. Here are four of their responses: 
Jenna Tingum, 20, statistics junior 
As the team leader for Gators Vote Every-
where, Tingum devoted her day to helping 
students register to vote. As students ﬁ  ltered through the doors, Tingum greeted them with 
a smile and a Polaroid camera to capture their 
civic activism. 
She hopes Tuesday’s festivities inspired 
students to exercise their right to vote.
 “We are among the biggest potential vot-
ing blocks, but we are among the fewest who 
turn out,” Tingum said. “If we band together 
and vote this election, we will have a massive 
effect on the democracy.”
She hopes to reach potential student voters 
by engaging people who may not necessarily 
be interested in politics and relating their de-
grees to current political topics, she said.
“I feel like each person has their niche, like 
what they’re really excited about and what 
motivates them to get out,” Tingum said.
Harjot Sodhi, 20, economics sophomore
Harjot Sodhi, who also volun-
teers with Gators Vote Everywhere, be-lieves voting is important for students because 
they are the ones who often feel they aren’t 
sufﬁ  ciently represented in politics. Voting 
serves as a way to hold politicians account-
able, he said. 
“I want to uphold our democracy, and I 
think that voting is one of the most important 
rights that we are given, and it is the ultimate 
way for us to be represented and have our 
voices heard,” Sodhi said.
Like Tingum, Sodhi considers voting to be 
one of the most important issues facing Florid-
ians, speciﬁ  cally the disenfranchised. 
“I think one of the most important (is-
sues), which is actually quite a non-partisan 
issue, is the right to restore voting rights for 
convicted felons,” he said.
Jamie Lee, 21, statistics and political 
science senior 
Jamie Lee pledged to vote Tuesday be-cause she believes young people should be the 
ones making decisions for the future, she said. 
“For students speciﬁ  cally, it’s important 
because this is the age where you start to get 
involved in politics and the real world, so it’s 
important to start paying attention,” Lee said.
Some of the issues most important to Lee 
include gun control and general equality, such 
as women’s rights, civil rights and the right to 
sexuality, she said.
“We are all people,” Lee said. “I don’t 
think anyone should be discriminated against 
because of anything about how we are.”
Dana Daley, 20, political science junior 
Dana Daley plans to show up at the polls 
in November because she wants to challenge 
the stigma that young people don’t have the 
power to make a change in government. 
College students and young people have 
been at the forefront of most social move-
ments and hold more inﬂ  uence than they real-
ize, she said.
Daley doesn’t think the most notable po-
litical issue is any speciﬁ  c policy. Instead, she 
feels what the country desperately needs is 
for people to come together, despite party af-
ﬁ  liation, to work toward change everyone can 
agree on, she said.
“I think uniﬁ  cation is what we need more 
than anything,” Daley said. GUNS, VOTING RIGHTS, ENVIRONMENT: WHAT MATTERS TO THE COLLEGE VOTER?  
Jenna Tingum
 Jamie Lee
 Harjot Sodhi
 Dana Daley
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2018THE HOSPITAL WOULD LIKE TO 
HAVE 50 THERAPY DOGS. 
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Beau always seemed to have a sixth sense. 
The 4-year-old goldendoodle can trot into 
any room and find the person most in need of 
a good lick or snuggle, said Terry Biehl, the 
dog’s owner. 
One day during a shopping trip at Lowe’s, 
Beau cuddled up to a woman in the middle of 
the store. Unbeknownst to him, the woman’s 
mother had just passed away, and Beau’s af-
fection brought her to tears. 
“He just seems to know who to visit,” 
Biehl said.
Now, Beau uses his knack for nurturing as 
a therapy dog, and UF Health is hoping to re-
cruit more good boys. 
The Neuromedicine Interdisciplinary Clini-
cal and Academic Program is hoping to re-
cruit more volunteer therapy dogs at the UF 
Health Neuromedicine Hospital. Currently, 
the hospital has about 12 to 15 regular pet 
handlers that volunteer, said Sydney Fuller, a 23-year old UF public health graduate stu-
dent and NICAP intern. The hospital hopes 
to increase this number to 50, according to a 
UF Health blog post. The program has seen 
positive results so far from the use of therapy 
dogs, which is why it is hoping to expand the 
program. 
“They’re doing great things for our pa-
tients,” she said.  
The group will be hosting a therapy dog 
certification day Oct. 6 to grow the program, 
Fuller said.
Anyone can become a volunteer if they 
have a dog and attend the training program, 
Fuller said. The training is to ensure the dog 
and handler are a good fit for the patients. 
Dogs also have to go through the certifica-
tion necessary to be a therapy dog, Biehl said.   
Biehl said Beau’s old soul and affectionate 
nature made him a perfect fit. She’s seen the 
way he helps patients open up, she said. 
While Beau will continue to make the 
rounds at the hospital, Biehl is already mak-
ing plans for his future occupation. 
“In his next life, if there’s such a thing, 
he’ll come back as a Walmart greeter,” she 
said. UF Health Neuromedicine Hospital seeks to recruit more therapy dogs  
Courtesy to The Alligator
Beau, a 4-year-old goldendoodle, poses for a photo. He works as one of about 12 
therapy dogs at the UF Health Neuromedicine Hospital. 
or those who are multiracial, he said.
“We want the University of Florida to 
represent the best and the brightest who are in the state of Florida,” Bryant said.
UF has been working to improve its 
race equity by reaching out to students as 
young as eighth grade through recruitment 
and partnership programs, Bryant said. He also said UF was one of the founding 
members of Coalition, a universal college 
application service that promotes diversity 
in race and income in college applicants.
But for Joachim, to improve the race representation equity rates, UF needs to 
listen to the black student body more. 
“This is a wake-up call to UF and Presi-
dent Fuchs to try to change things on cam-
pus,” Joachim said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgEQUITY,  from pg. 1UF also given C grade for gender equalityBy Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students were in the pres-
ence of royalty Tuesday night.
More than 60 people stood 
as Queen Quet, the chieftess 
and head of state of the Gullah 
Geechee nation, slowly entered 
the UF Chemistry Lab auditorium.
The queen, whose legal name 
is Marquetta Goodwine, was 
dressed in a long, patterned royal 
blue gown and wore her thick, 
curly braids underneath a black 
headwrap. 
Golden bangles clacked on her 
wrist as she gently waved the 
Gullah Geechee flag, singing the 
deep, loud notes of a song in the 
Gullah language.
The Gullah Geechee people are 
African slave descendents who 
live in Georgia, Florida, South 
Carolina and the Sea Islands off 
of North Carolina.
The queen’s speech covered 
topics ranging from environmen-
tal issues and the exploitation of 
the Gullah Geechee people to the 
flooding the community is facing 
after the devastation in the Caro-
linas from Hurricane Florence. 
“We’re losing the real trea-
sures,” she said.Ryan Thomson, a 29-year-old 
UF sociology and criminology 
& law doctoral student, said he 
wrote his dissertation on envi-
ronmental justice and the South 
Carolina Gullah Geechee people 
over the summer. Thomson and 
Queen Quet are working to bring 
post-hurricane relief aid to north-
eastern South Carolina and the 
Gullah Geechee islands.
The Gullah Geechee people 
are stereotyped as exotic, overly 
emotional natives in southern is-
land regions of the United States, 
Queen Quet said. The culture is 
rooted in agriculture, oral history 
and religion, she said.
Queen Quet hugged Aaron 
Dozier’s daughters, Aayanna, 12, 
and Anjel, 11, after her speech. 
Dozier, a 35-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said his 
father told him to listen to the 
Geechee music to improve his 
singing as a child in the church 
choir. He said it’s time for his 
daughters to learn about the his-
tory of African families who were 
brought to the Carolinas from a 
credible source like the queen.
“We keep a piece of that his-
tory together,” he said.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgGullah Geechee nation Queen Quet speaks at UF
Over 60 people attended 
Angela DiMichele / Alligator Staff
Students and community members lined up to donate money to the Gullah Geechee Sea Island 
Coalition to raise money for post-hurricane relief after Florence.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
An 18-year-old man was arrested 
for raping his friend in June, depu-
ties said.
Brendon Mykal Eugene, of 
Gainesville, was arrested Monday 
afternoon after admitting to sexually 
battering an 18-year-old woman in 
their apartment, according to an ar-
rest report. 
Eugene and the victim were close 
friends and shared an apartment but 
were not in a relationship, the report 
said. The victim was intoxicated and 
sitting alone on the couch when Eu-
gene came home from work. He sat 
next to the victim and began inching 
closer to her, the report said. 
He told her he loved her even 
though they were dating other peo-
ple, the report said. She told him she 
only saw him as a friend.
The victim began falling asleep on 
the couch, and Eugene told her to go 
to her bedroom. He followed her and 
told her to take off her pajama pants, 
the report said.
Eugene began kissing her, but she 
told him to stop. He ignored her de-
mands and raped her, the report said.When the girl’s mother called Eu-
gene with deputies, he said what he 
did was wrong, deputies said.
Eugene admitted to the sexual 
battery when deputies interviewed 
him Monday, the report said.
Eugene was suspected of a sex of-
fense in 2014, but the victim didn’t 
press charges, the report said. 
He was charged with sexual bat-
tery and was released from Alachua 
County Jail without bond. 
Eugene couldn’t immediately be 
reached for comment.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgACSO: 18-year-old man arrested for rape
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kevin Kimbrough strutted 
around the Stephen O’ Connell 
Center armed with a bagel and 
a giant fake resume on a poster 
Tuesday afternoon.
Kimbrough, a 23-year-old 
UF computer science engineer-
ing senior, introduced himself 
to students and employers as 
“Harold Holder” holding his 
resume that listed accomplish-
ments like being the Hare 
Krishna Scholarship Recipient. 
Kimbrough said he wanted 
to make Career Showcase less 
intense. 
“We don’t want to impede,” 
Kimbrough said. “But we want 
to make people smile.”
More than 360 employers 
and 2,659 students came to the 
arena from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. for 
the ﬁ  rst day of the semi-annual 
career fair, Career Connections 
Center spokesperson Dana McPherson wrote in an email.
More than 6,000 students 
are expected to attend the  two 
days of the showcase: a non-
technical day Tuesday and 
technical day Wednesday, said 
Ja’Net Glover, the senior direc-
tor for career services.
Ryan Kealy, a UF alumnus 
and recruiter for Alight Solu-
tions, a human resources ﬁ  rm, 
connected students with the 
same company he met during 
the showcase two years ago.
“It’s really cool to come 
back and see, as a former UF 
student, all the booths again 
and get the other side of it,” 
Kealy said.
Gabriela Garcia, a 22-year-
old international business grad-
uate student, attended her third 
showcase to secure a job after 
she graduates in May.  
“The worst experiences 
led to my best ones because I 
know how to better prepare for 
them,” she said. Over 2,600 students 
attend Career Showcase  
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
Gainesville residents may not have to worry about 
spending up to $1,000 on a scooter.
The City Commission will discuss a proposal to bring 
scooter rentals to Gainesville at 1 p.m. Thursday, city 
spokesperson Chip Skinner said.
The city currently has a two-year contract with Zagster, 
a bike-sharing company, which lets people rent bicycles 
online or at four docking stations downtown. The bikes 
have to be returned to the stations, Skinner said.
The dockless system would rent scooters people can 
leave wherever they drive them, instead of returning them 
to a station. Someone else could then rent them through 
an app, Skinner said.“It’s really about the convenience of users,” he said.
Assistant City Manager Dan Hoffman said the city is 
looking to implement the program in late fall or spring.
Gainesville’s bike-sharing contract with Zagster, which 
costs about $32,000 a year, makes the new program lim-
ited to scooters until the contract expires in May 2019. 
With the dockless system, the city would collect fees 
from companies instead of losing money, Hoffman said.
Grace Tyler, an 18-year-old UF political science fresh-
man, said the program is a great idea as long as the city 
can keep track of all the scooters.
“If I could rent a scooter for a day, that would be great, 
and it could be cheaper than renting an Uber,” Tyler said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgCity proposes new scooter rental programStudents met non-technical 
companies Tuesday.Editorial
Column
Gainesville adopts chains, abandons individuals
A few nights ago, I had a conversation with 
two men. One was a handyman for the apartment 
complex where I reside. This was Jim. The other 
was his friend Andre, who does not work for the 
same grouping of apartments, but his extensive 
understanding of air conditioning units placed him 
in my humble apartment after dark. 
Andre and Jim came to fix my thermostat and 
air conditioner. I was there to assist Jim in not 
helping Andre. We were occupied with small talk 
at my kitchen table. Andre had finished the wiring, but we 
sat together for another hour, give or take, discussing bills, 
the hardships one endures in a car accident and above all 
else, the imperialist behavior of Trimark Properties. 
Let me be candid with you: Jim and Andre were not the 
names of my companions that night. However, everything 
about our conversation was true. We talked about the de-
struction Trimark imposes on the neighboring low-income 
communities, caused by the ever-increasing geographical 
mark it is making in the area. (When the hell did The Cas-
cades complexes get built there?) The more property it owns  
near campus, the less options students have. The choice is 
between paying Trimark’s exuberant (really, comedic) rates 
or living in another part of town. If we are being realistic, 
this does not affect most of Trimark’s current and future resi-
dents; as I would guess most of these tenants are funded by 
their families. However, as Trimark’s footprint increases, the 
pushing away of students begins extending to non-students, 
who  would prefer to remain in their community. The result 
of Trimark’s behavior becomes a frenzy of gentrification. 
That frenzy impacts regular people, Jim and Andre for 
example, who now have to work harder and longer hours 
to allow smaller landlords in the area to compete with the 
colossal Trimark. If your contributor can be candid again for 
a moment: I am riddled with bias when I write this column. 
I am a naïve 21-year-old who has lived in Gainesville for a 
marvelous 21 years. This city has been kind to me, and it has been so because of local figures like Jim and 
Andre, who were willing to work on my air con-
ditioning late into the night, not because anyone 
told them to (I assured them that it could wait), 
but because they are truly benevolent individuals. 
Let’s not forget, gentrification doesn’t just af-
fect employees in the housing industry. Trimark is 
just one piece of a larger problem. It affects the lo-
cal businesses that have thrived in Gainesville lon-
ger than myself, a well-known example being the 
beloved Burrito Brothers, who were put out due to the hin-
drance that nearby construction put on customers trying to 
access the restaurant by car. The big money being brought to 
town causes boutiques like Wolfgang to be erased from exis-
tence and restaurants like Kabab House to be pushed away 
from the foot traffic of West University Avenue. Gainesville’s 
desire for corporate money is revoking our local individu-
als’ ability to make their impact on the city, to leave a mark 
doing what they love to do. It would break my heart if the 
Gyro Plus brothers were forced to relocate and make way for 
yet another fast food joint, only to lose the customers that 
kept them afloat due to an extreme change in location. It is 
the personality that these business owners and hard-working 
individuals bring to Gainesville that makes it the diverse city 
that I love too much to leave. 
Is this capitalization of our city inevitable? Is it the natu-
ral order of capitalism to replace individuals with a series 
of chain restaurants, department stores, and supercenters? 
Perhaps this is simply a sign of progress in our economy. If 
so, we must ask ourselves if the economic prosperity of cor-
porations is worth the sacrifice of individuality from Gaines-
ville’s downtown area. That individuality has not yet been 
eradicated, but someday there might be a The Standard at 
Gainesville on every other corner. Perhaps Jim, Andre and I 
will reconvene to deliberate when that day comes.
Joe Dickerson is a UF English senior. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
#MeToo will outlive 
Kavanaugh hearings
#MeToo will outlive its hashtag. It will outlive Twitter. It will 
likely outlive social media. Long after we have graduated, past 
the prime of our college lives, the heydays of our careers and the 
golden years of our old age, the Me Too movement will persist.
Women have always existed under a system that discourages 
them to speak up about sexual assault. Women bury assaults 
for fear of embarrassment or ridicule because coming forward 
with an old accusation is a surefire way to get it dismissed as an 
ancient wrongdoing.
Even if sexual assault were eradicated tomorrow, the move-
ment would march on. Two-thirds of sexual assaults go unre-
ported. The number is greater among college-aged students, who 
only report sexual assault one-fifth of the time. Every day, the 
number of unreported assaults grows.
Each accusation, no matter how old, is not yet treated with 
deference and respect. That day is still far ahead, down a road of 
social progress we have not traveled far along.
Current hearings in the U.S. Senate show that to be the case. 
Judge Brett Kavanaugh, whom President Donald Trump nomi-
nated to be an associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, is 
saddled with sexual assault allegations from the 1980s that are 
complicating his confirmation hearings. Christine Blasey Ford, a 
former classmate of Kavanaugh’s, accused him of holding her 
down, putting his hand over her mouth to silence her and trying 
to remove her clothes at a party in 1982, according to USA To-
day. Her lawyer said Ford considers it to be an “attempted rape.” 
Those allegations first came forward Sept. 16.
On Sunday, Deborah Ramirez, a former classmate of Kava-
naugh at Yale University, came forward with another allegation. 
She said Kavanaugh exposed himself to her and shoved his penis 
in her face at a dormitory room party during their freshman year 
of college while playing a drinking game.
Ford is appearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee 
Thursday to testify on the alleged assault. Ramirez is not yet 
scheduled to testify.
As the hearings unfold, keep a watchful eye on how many 
times Ford is asked to provide vivid details from a traumatic 
event that allegedly happened 36 years ago. Keep close tabs on 
how many times she is doubted, told her story isn’t credible and 
asked why she didn’t report sooner. Lookout for senators who 
tell Ford she is making it up. That it’s a smear. Note the senators 
who act as if they know more about the assault than Ford does.
It happened to Anita Hill, who accused Clarence Thomas of 
sexual misconduct at his confirmation hearings. Thomas is now 
Associate Justice Clarence Thomas. What happened to Anita 
will happen to Ford, testifying against Kavanaugh. When asked 
if Kavanaugh would be confirmed, U.S. Senate Majority Leader 
Mitch McConnell said, “We’re going to be moving forward. I’m 
confident we’re going to win, confident that he’ll be confirmed 
in the very near future,” according to Reuters. So to answer the 
question on everyone’s mind: Yes, Kavanaugh will likely become 
Justice Kavanaugh.
 But in spite of his confirmation, women will not stop. They 
will bring their stories to the Senate floor. They will speak out 
against their assaulters. They will keep chipping away at the 
stigma of being a victim. Gradually, women today will lay the 
groundwork for women to follow, so those who come after can 
have a platform from which they can speak with authority. They 
will make sure #MeToo never dies — that it survives until the 
day sexual assault is a relic of a time long past. We hope that day 
comes soon.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORJoe Dickerson
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.It’s a common occurrence: I unlock my 
phone and my ﬁ  nger gravitates, as if 
magnetically, to Instagram — the photo 
app that has undoubtedly shaped the 
way my generation shares and docu-
ments memories and moments and crafts our 
public selves.
With each scroll I make on my feed, I’m 
brought face-to-face with the friends and ac-
quaintances I follow, along with their cof-
fees, gameday outﬁ  ts, rainbow sprinkle ice 
cream cones, golden retriever encounters, 
travel throwbacks and artistic renditions of last 
night’s Gainesville sunset — which is all great 
and expected as a part of the Instagram culture 
I subscribe to, along with millions of other users.
But what I never signed up for are photo cap-
tions with rogue apostrophes in places where 
no apostrophe should ever live, and puns that 
are wrongly but proudly sporting the wrong 
“you’re” or “your.” If I see one more football-
esque caption that says “Saturday’s are for the 
boys” (where the apostrophe in "Saturdays" is 
not needed because it completely changes the 
meaning of the sentence), I forfeit.
Perhaps my most juicy grammar police con-fession is that I sometimes opt out 
of “liking” photos with captions that 
have glaring mistakes.
Of course, typos and slip-ups are 
bound to happen, especially when 
typing lengthy descriptions with a 
cramped phone keyboard in a rath-
er small photo-editing app — but 
it’s the constant errors on simple 
words and phrases (and lack of 
utilizing the “edit caption” feature) 
that make me concerned about the rusty gram-
mar skills of the many “Saturday’s are for the 
boys”-culprits in my life and in younger gen-
erations.
While the captions clad with misused con-
tractions or commas certainly bother me, that’s 
not actually the most frustrating part of this 
whole Instagrammar debacle.
I ﬁ  nd that the more time I spend on Insta-
gram simply viewing and mentally correcting 
these mistakes that would make any grammar 
police ofﬁ  cer cringe, the more I notice myself 
making the same careless errors in my own 
writing. It’s as if scrolling past the wrong forms 
of “they’re,” “there” and “their” is giving me second-hand word misusage.
This makes me consider how 
messages and images on Instagram 
can linger in our minds, even if 
they’re not favorable — and how 
social media, especially Instagram, 
can normalize poor writing habits.  
For example, I’ve even noticed 
some companies and lifestyle brands 
I follow posting captions or quotes 
and graphics with similar mistakes 
as those described above, like wrong word 
usage or misplaced apostrophes. Although I 
notice the errors, it’s likely some followers of 
those accounts don’t believe anything could be 
wrong with the text because the post is from 
a reputable brand, which means they could 
repost the photo and caption for their friends, 
who may see it and think it’s great and that its 
spelling and grammar are perfect.
Some people may argue that Instagram is 
just for fun, and having a comma or apostro-
phe in the right place doesn’t really matter as 
long as the majority of people get the general 
message or idea of a post. That’s certainly a 
lovely sentiment, but in my mind, it does mat-ter that we treat our Instagram captions with 
the care and proofreading they deserve.
If we become lackadaisical with the gram-
mar on our social media posts, we’ll be more 
likely to make similar mistakes in our own 
writing, whether we’re penning an important 
email or a big project for work or school.
Plus, in an era in which our social media 
proﬁ  les can act as extensions of our profes-
sional portfolios, we should be conscious of 
what we’re posting and writing under our 
name. While a caption with a comma splice 
isn’t exactly violent or offensive (depending on 
your career path, that is), I think incorporating 
best writing practices in our personal content 
would do us well.
After all, using the proper word choice or 
double-checking whether or not to use a com-
ma or a hyphen isn’t as nerdy as you think 
— and it won’t cramp your aesthetic or color 
theme. I promise.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.The rise of Instagrammar: How social media is taking a toll on our writing 
Six years 
ago, the Flor-
ida Dream 
Defenders put 
forth an action 
to change the 
name of the 
Reitz Union. 
This was in 
response to 
the not-so-
new-found knowledge that ex-UF 
President Julius Wayne Reitz (1955-
1967) was both incredibly homo-
phobic and undeniably racist. This 
was met with antipathy by the white 
fraternity and sorority members of 
the Student Senate. The action was 
denied over claims it violated the 
Student Constitution. The Reitz fam-ily still contributes money to UF, 
which was a major inﬂ  uence on the 
Student Government’s dismissal of 
the action. This also shows money 
is more important than a student’s 
feelings of security and what is con-
sidered appropriate.
An explanation about Reitz: Dur-
ing his tenure as the president of UF, 
he allowed witch hunts for homo-
sexuals and leftists, yet this building 
honors him. A low estimate touted 
by UF states 22 people on staff were 
ﬁ  red and students were expelled for 
being homosexual. The staff was 
dismissed without tenure after being 
accused by a state senator. Yet this 
building honors him. He is quoted in 
1988 as saying “As a matter of fact, 
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit that anyone who was a homosexual was a com-
plete aberration.”
Among the 85 black students 
Reitz denied was Virgil Hawkins, 
whose name should have replaced 
that of Reitz. Hawkins sued the 
school, and a court order ultimately 
forced integration. UF credits Reitz 
with helping integrate the campus 
for obviously double-minded reasons. 
But we need to stop giving bad 
actors, such as Reitz, a pass. What’s 
always brought up is “they were a 
person of their time,” which could 
work if it’s a medieval doctor who 
didn’t anesthetize patients. But, on 
matters such as this, it’s important 
to remember there were always peo-
ple who knew to treat other human 
beings with respect.  These contro-versies with Reitz occurred in the 
1960s, but in 1924, Society for Hu-
man Rights was founded, and in the 
1950s the Mattachine Society was 
formed. Both of these groups were 
dedicated to gay rights, and the in-
formation was out there. Reitz was 
just a bad person at his core.
This isn’t the only reason the 
name change is necessary. In 2018, 
many students whom Reitz would 
not have wanted at this school still 
attend. The students within margin-
alized communities who he targeted 
are still targeted to this day — being 
pushed off the stage at graduation, 
for example. A task force of UF’s 
Black Affairs found last year that of 
600 polled, nearly a third of the black 
students felt they didn’t belong at UF and over half experienced microag-
gressions. Reitz’s name and actions 
were actually cited as an isolating 
factor. Having a bigot retain power 
in name only empowers bigots.
It doesn’t stop there. Other build-
ings, such as the O’Connell Center, 
Buckman Hall and Smathers Li-
brary, are named after problematic 
ﬁ  gures. I understand that renaming 
the building won't erase Reitz’s ac-
tions, but it will help diminish their 
legacy. In 2015, SG passed a resolu-
tion encouraging the renaming of 
Reitz Lawn. It’s time to rename both 
the building and lawn. Pressure SG. 
Reitz continues to harm students.
Levi Cooper is a UF English senior. 
His column appears on Wednesdays.Reconsider renaming Reitz Union to ﬁ  x a glaring history of UF's prejudice
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org
Levi Cooper
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7Who’s hungry? 
Flip over to Page 9 for our round-up of the top eats at the Union 
Street Farmers Market.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. Series Review of the Week:
Check out Page 10 for our review of Netﬂ  ix’s 
‘Sisters’
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Hollywood met The Swamp as two sea-
soned School of Theatre and Dance alumni 
came back to Gainesville on Friday. 
Television stars Beth Dover, of “Orange 
is the New Black,” and DaJuan Johnson, of 
“Bosch,” found their way back to Constans 
Theatre. There they spoke to current students 
and discussed their experiences in the working 
world.
Interim Director of the School of Theatre 
and Dance, Dr. Ralf Remshardt, moderated the 
afternoon asking Dover and Johnson a slew of 
questions about their journey navigating the 
acting world.  
A question on the minds of many young 
aspiring actors was, “What is a typical work 
week like?”
Dover quickly responded that there isn’t 
one. 
As the hour progressed, Dover and Johnson 
continued to give insight into their journeys as 
actors. Both mentioned frequently going to act-
ing classes in their current lives to stay sharp 
and meet new people. 
Dover said she wanted to get back into in-
teracting with people and decided to do a tour 
of cities, speaking with people. 
“I decided I missed seeing people one-on-
one. This is the ﬁ  rst stop of what may be like 
40 cities,” Dover told the audience. 
Remshardt said many alumni from all 
schools within the College of Arts reach out to 
the university to reconnect with teachers and 
the school. The actors personally contacted 
School of Theatre and Dance professor Tim 
Altmeyer to come and speak with students both in his course and in a general setting. 
“It’s not unusual for us to be contacted by 
alumni to offer services and check on what 
we’re doing,” he said. 
Dover graduated from the UF theatre 
school with her bachelor’s in theatre perfor-
mance in 1999. She is known for her roles on 
shows such as “Orange is the New Black,” 
“Chasing Life” and “Another Period.” Johnson 
received his bachelor’s in theatre performance 
in 2000 and has credited roles in shows such 
as “Bosch,” “Agent Carter” and “Brooklyn 
Nine-Nine.”
The main objective of this event was for 
those pursuing a career in the arts and in other 
majors to see actors who have recently started 
their career and know how things work today. After the general session, both actors spoke 
brieﬂ  y with The Alligator, and I asked them a 
few questions before “celebrating Gainesville-
style.” 
Maner: Have you ever thought about 
Gainesville or UF since graduation?
Beth Dover: Absolutely. UF was a for-
mative experience in my life and my closest 
friends were my friends in college.
Maner: What was it like stepping back in 
here for the ﬁ  rst time?
BD: It has changed so much and become 
so huge, I mean there are so many more the-
atres and you guys have such a great facility 
here. It’s almost unrecognizable how much it 
has been built up since I’ve been here, like the 
Reitz Union. Everything looks so different DaJuan Johnson: It was a little bit more 
emotional for me this time around because I 
was with her [Beth] and we just remembered 
‘we did this here.’ 
BD: It was pretty special to be able to do 
this with DaJuan, I must say.
Maner: Coming in to the interview did you 
feel pressure to provide information or did be-
ing back provide a comfortable environment?
BD: It felt very intimate and familial. It feels 
really nice that you guys care about what we 
have to say, and I know it’s something that I 
would’ve wanted when I went here — to hear 
people’s different struggles in this industry and 
how people navigate the waters of being an ac-
tor.
Maner: Is there anything you found out 
that you wish you would’ve known when you 
left school?
BD: I didn’t understand the business side of 
this industry, and I really had to ﬁ  nd my way, 
but I think that’s part of the journey.
DJ: I don’t think anyone comes out of 
school feeling fully prepared for any profes-
sion. There was so much we learned along the 
way. 
BD: We got to spend four years in the col-
lege of life.
Maner: Do you have any ﬁ  nal piece of ad-
vice for students wanting to pursue an acting 
career?
BD: Stay in class, create your own material, 
surround yourself with people that inspire you 
and are doing work you would like to do and 
try to create a balance in your life.
DJ: Remember there is no ABC plan to 
achieving a dream.
BD: Yeah, there is no one way to succeed 
in this business.‘OITNB’ AND ‘Bosch’ stars come to campus
HOLLYWOOD meets GAINESVILLE
Carolina Watlington
T elevision stars DaJuan Johnson, left, and Beth Dover, right, visited UF to 
discuss their rise to fame and give advice to those entering the business.
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
Finding reasonably priced yet stylish every-
day looks for the average college student on 
a budget is easier than ever. Prove you don’t 
have to spend hundreds of dollars to stay on 
top of your fashion game by going on a shop-
ping spree at these unique stores.   
La Chua Vintage 
A small, curated vintage shop rooted with 
an Old Florida mentality, La Chua Vintage 
gives guests the sense of traveling back in time 
to a more organic, traditional Florida lifestyle. 
Jars of seashells, old suitcases and antique 
maps of the state of Florida are placed around 
the store like a traveler’s studio. Shop owner 
Sabrina Kaar, 33, is constantly on the hunt for 
a treasure-trove of valuables that will add qual-
ity and aesthetically pleasing style to La Chua 
Vintage. 
We were blown away by the wide selection 
of vibrant dresses, ranging from casual maxis to sundresses. Kaar will be moving to a new 
space, located at 2031 NW Sixth St. The new 
shop, Auk Market, will have its grand opening 
Nov. 1. Kaar encourages customers to “allow 
yourself to step outside your comfort zone and 
try something on and don’t worry about what 
other people think about it. If you love it and 
you feel good in it then that’s all that matters.” 
La Chua Vintage is currently located at 2029 
NW Sixth St. 
Future Perfeckt Vintage 
Filled with iconic brands and known for 
best-seller denim like Calvin Klein, Guess, 
Levi’s, Tommy Hilﬁ  ger and Gap, Future Per-
feckt Vintage should be your next stop if you’re 
on the hunt for affordable, ‘90s inspired jeans 
that are customized speciﬁ  cally to give that 
distressed, grunge look. It’s basically a denim 
lover’s paradise that’s only a few minutes 
away from campus. Other great products in-
clude handmade beaded bracelets, moonstone 
rings, graphic tees and vintage bomber jackets. 
The store itself is pleasantly inviting with its pale pink walls, pop artwork and vast win-
dows. Customers are immediately welcomed 
by a friendly smile and great customer service. 
Prices for denim range from $15 to $20. 
Future Perfeckt Vintage is located at 1001 
NW Fifth Ave. 
Urban Thread
If you’re searching for name-brand clothing 
like Urban Outﬁ  tters, Free People and Anthro-
pologie, then Urban Thread is your next des-
tination. Urban Thread offers popular brands 
and recycled vintage clothing at discounted 
prices. Vintage shopping can be stressful since 
some stores are so jam-packed with items that 
it makes the shopping experience overwhelm-
ing. Urban Thread stands out because the shop 
organizes all the racks by brand and size so 
customers can easily rummage through the 
sections with ease. Wooden shelves containing 
Supergas, Nike sneakers, colorful wedges and 
edgy booties decorate the light green concrete 
walls while a simple chandelier in the cen-
ter adds atmospheric lighting. Clothing items range from cocktail dresses to statement skirts 
and classic blouses. 
Urban Thread’s two locations in town are 
1236 NW 21st Ave. and 802 W. University Ave.     
Flashbacks Recycled Fashions Inc. 
After graduating from UF with a ﬁ  nance de-
gree, Steve Nichtberger opened Flashbacks Re-
cycled Fashions Inc. in 1986 because he want-
ed to create a place where people could have 
fun while shopping and create lifelong connec-
tions with fellow customers. “I have always 
realized that what I’m doing is going to make 
a lot of people who don’t have a whole lot of 
money able to get by,” Nichtberger said. A 
hip store ﬁ  lled with style and character, Flash-
backs is the place to go if you’re looking for 
retro and vintage furniture, artwork, clothing 
and antiques. Flashbacks’ employees are eager 
to help shoppers with any questions. Half the 
fun at Flashbacks is just spending time brows-
ing through the stands.  
Flashbacks is located at 818 W. University 
Ave. The Avenue’s favorite local vintage shops in GainesvilleWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenueWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
Music brings generations of 
Gainesville locals and UF stu-
dents together at Gainesville’s re-
cord fair, held twice a year at The 
Wooly, and hosted by Arrow’s 
Aim Records. 
On Sunday, patrons bonded 
over some of the greatest music 
artists as they fumbled through 
vinyls, deciding which of the rare 
and precious albums to snag be-
fore vinyl becomes completely 
obsolete. The irony? Vinyl is mak-
ing a comeback in terms of qual-
ity and popularity, according to 
Jeff Smith, the owner of Arrow’s 
Aim Records, located next door to 
The Wooly.  
“Vendors come from all over 
the Southeast, and they buy, 
trade and sell records and memo-
rabilia,” Smith said. 
Music vendors from all over 
the Southeast region and North 
Florida gathered to compete for 
the best bargain amongst the 
masses. Who were the masses? Well, a variety of students, lo-
cals and even people just pass-
ing through Gainesville in search 
of some classic albums that have 
hardly been touched. The stage 
of The Wooly was ﬁ  lled with 
brand new record players with 
high-quality needles and gadgets, 
selling for some steep prices but 
ﬁ  lled with buried treasures. 
Vendors sold vinyls, cassette 
tapes and CDs featuring music 
from all generations. Imagine 
everything from Frank Sinatra 
to Jimi Hendrix to Dr. Dre all in 
one room! Music fanatics were 
practically drooling. Many cus-
tomers were on the prowl for the 
perfect records to complete (or 
begin) their collection, whether it 
be Pink Floyd’s “Dark Side of the 
Moon” or Led Zeppelin’s “Houses 
of the Holy.” 
For these music lovers, this 
was not a casual perusal for some 
cool albums. This was a hunt, an 
archaeological search for artistic 
fossils. Many customers claimed 
it is one thing to know what 
you’re looking for and another to dig for it … it can take hours 
to ﬁ  nd that one album that sepa-
rates you from eternal musical 
bliss. It requires patience, espe-
cially when that one album is hid-
den amongst at least a thousand 
others in a low-lit room full of 
people pleading for bargains with 
men rocking long, white beards. 
Smith said interacting with 
customers was the best part of 
working the event. 
“The social part of it is great.” 
Smith said. “I get to see people 
that I haven’t seen before. It’s 
twice a year, so it’s just enough.”
The most exciting aspect of 
the event was seeing there are 
still people out there with good 
music taste. While “good” music 
taste is subjective to each indi-
vidual, many at the event claimed 
it is important to have diversity 
in artists and genres, to listen to 
different types of music from all 
eras. You could ﬁ  nd students ﬂ  ip-
ping through stacks and stacks of 
Fleetwood Mac and ABBA, while 
adults checked out the latest Arc-
tic Monkeys collections. The Wooly and Arrow’s Aim Records host bi-annual record fairBy Emma McAvoy
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s a Wednesday afternoon. The sun is shining, 
the birds are chirping, your stomach is growling. 
Luckily, the Union Street Farmers Market at Bo Did-
dley Community Plaza hosts a wide variety of ven-
dors serving diverse, delectable treats to Gainesville 
locals from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.  every Wednesday. 
Satisfy your cravings for everything from cold brew 
coffee to vegan pastries. Here are the top ﬁ  ve ven-
dors at the Union Street Farmers Market. 
1. Suki’s Guide to Kimbap Korean Sushi
Suki’s is by far the most unique vendor, cooking 
up delicious Korean sushi. This is not your ordi-
nary sushi, though. It is full of ingredients that are 
unlikely to go together in a regular meal, but Suki 
turns them into complementary ﬂ  avors that will 
make your mouth water at every bite. While each 
item on the menu is popular, some crowd favorites 
include the Ojingeo Roll and zucchini pancakes. 
The Ojingeo Roll is a roll with spicy dried squid, 
pineapple, bok choy, pickled daikon and scrambled 
egg with scallions. It’s an unlikely ﬂ  avor combina-
tion but so delicious, especially if you enjoy spicy 
foods. The zucchini pancakes are everything you 
could want in an afternoon snack: fried dough with 
hearty ﬂ  avors, including zucchini, butter and gar-
lic, topped with a tangy cream sauce. On top of all 
that, Suki is a warm, welcoming hostess who cares 
about her customers’ appetites! 
2. Vine
Did somebody say bread? If you’re looking to 
satisfy those carb cravings at the Farmers Market, 
check out Vine’s bread and pastries. Vine serves 
up sweet and savory goods such as chocolate chip 
cookies, guava and cheese croissants, chocolate 
croissants, cinnamon buns and jalapeno loaves 
of bread. The guava cheese croissant is buttery and stuffed with a sweet cream cheese and tangy 
guava jam that goes perfectly with a cup of cof-
fee. Vine also sells fresh organic pasta and organic 
sourdough bread. Its bread has a nice, ﬁ  rm crust 
with moist dough that would make for a delectable 
choice for sandwiches, charcuterie boards or just a 
late night snack to nibble on!
3. Arepa Milko
Feeling some Hispanic food? Arepa Milko carries 
decadent choices of arepas, empanadas, croquetas 
and ﬂ  an. The arepas are warm, ﬂ  avorful and ﬁ  lled 
with mozzarella cheese that melts in your mouth. 
People standing in line for this vendor salivate just 
glancing at all the different options! A personal 
favorite is the ham, chicken and cheese croqu-
eta, which is pureed chicken and ham tossed with 
cheese that gets stuffed in fried corn dough. It may 
clog your arteries with every bite, but it is worth it.
4. Weaver’s Whimsy Farm
More of a snack person? Weaver’s Whimsy 
Farm offers tiny samples and large trays of creative 
snacks, such as bacon-wrapped dates stuffed with 
blue cheese and chocolate chip avocado cookies. 
Yes, there really are avocado cookies, and they are 
wonderful. The cookies speciﬁ  cally have so much 
ﬂ  avor, because the avocado creates a more chewy, 
rich texture for the cookie which many prefer over 
a crunchy cookie. Weaver’s Whimsy Farm grows 
all of its ingredients on an organic farm, so every-
thing is natural and unprocessed. 
5. Opus Coffee
In need of that afternoon ﬁ  x? Opus Coffee serves 
up a variety of roasts and blends for each under-
caffeinated customer. One of its most popular types 
of coffee is the nitro cold brew, a coffee brewed 
with nitrogen gas. Its roasts are strong and robust, 
and it offers a variety of creams and almond milk 
to add a hint of sweetness to your brew of choice. Top ﬁ  ve tasty vendors at the Union Street Farmers Market 
Emma McAvoy
Suki’s Guide to Kimbap Korean Sushi  serves up  dishes with 
off-the-wall ﬂ  avor combinations that keep its customers coming 
back every Wednesday.
Emma McAvoy
Music lovers of all ages gathered at The Wooly to sift through 
countless records for vinyl treasures.
FOOD
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
GUIDE TO 
  DINING    
OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  436 
SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3   
dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange pie. 
Now that is a meal any FL Gator can 
enjoy. So come on out to the creek 
+ take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman 
Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing 
nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day of the week. 
Come in and check out one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about 
our Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open 
Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and modern Korean dishes with the 
best sushi in town Weekday specials including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one beer, wine and sake from 4pm-
7pm! 352-384-3733
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off select 
wines by the glass, $5 select specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 3-6 pm 
Mon-Fri. Located just south of Archer Road on 13th Street in the Shands 
Parking Garage. Private room available. Great for rehearsal dinners, 
student life organizations, and other group events. Always taking 
reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like us on Facebook and follow us on 
Instagram @chefcarlwatts for upcoming events and daily specials.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
   
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own 
cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, 
lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor 
seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, 
Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  
welcometocivilization.com By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Imagine you’re in your 30s, going through 
your daily routine and out of nowhere your 
father tells you that you could potentially 
have multiple other half siblings.
This shocking tale is a reality for Julia 
Bechly, the daughter of Julius Bechly, a pi-
oneer in fertility treatment in Netﬂ  ix’s new 
series, “Sisters.” 
The Netﬂ  ix drama follows the lives of 
three women who have all hit a roadblock or 
plateau in their lives, then news breaks that 
famous fertility clinic doctor, Bechly, insemi-
nated multiple clients with his own sperm. 
Now these women, and many other 
strangers throughout Australia, face the pos-
sibility of going from being the only child in 
their families to having multiple half siblings.When the show begins, viewers are in-
troduced to Bechly, an elderly, male, IVF 
pioneer, who is taken care of by his homely, 
albeit considerate, only child, Julia (Maria 
Angelico), who struggles with dating. Dur-
ing the ﬁ  rst episode, in fact, Julia meets an 
online date at a club and hooks up with him 
in the public restroom because of her longing 
for connection. 
We are then introduced to Edie Flana-
gan (Antonia Prebble), a straight-laced at-
torney who is in couples therapy with her 
husband, Tim. Interestingly enough, as we 
move through the season, we learn that Tim 
used to date Julia. On top of that, she and 
Edie were once childhood friends who have 
now grown apart. 
On the other side of the spectrum, there’s 
bubbly, effervescent Roxy (Lucy Durack). 
Roxy is the adopted daughter of two loving, yet controlling, parents who are very invest-
ed in her career as an actress on a family 
show. 
What makes the story so compelling is 
the fact that all of these women are trying to 
convince people in their lives that they are 
secure and together, but in reality, they are 
all broken and in need of people to lean on. 
While all of the characters are problem-
atic in their own right, the theme of family 
is constantly threaded into the series as what 
we as humans need to be happy and mentally 
healthy. 
Throughout the series, they all struggle 
with depending on one another, as they are 
used to being extremely guarded individu-
als. However, they are now connected in a 
unique way.
As they navigate their already compli-
cated lives, they deal with the uphill battle of trying to ﬁ  gure out who the rest of their 
siblings are and how to integrate their lives 
without being invasive or standofﬁ  sh. Netflix’s ‘Sisters’: A fresh look at the meaning of family
Netﬂ  ix
‘Sisters’ follows the lives of three women whose 
lives cross at the junction of family and fate.
SERIES REVIEW of the WEEKBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
KYMCO LIKE 200 i SCOOTER
Recemly serviced. 1800 miles, transferable 
warranty, windshield, cover, top box. $1300. 
Don 352-328-0764    9-26-18-3-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
WE BUY UNWANTED CARS & TRUCKS
 WITH TITLE
352 792-2435 or tai2chi2@yahoo.com
10-1-3-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-52-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
10-5-18-6-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $90/mo.   352-359-1508    
10-8-18-12-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYPUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Don't forget to tell them:
"I FOUND IT IN  
THE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestSeeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Learn how to make an extra $425/wkly doing 
surveys w/major US companies as a student 
at:  www.CollegeCashInc.club     9-26-18-3-
14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Who 
was the first African-Amercian wom-
an to be crowned Miss America?
2. SCIENCE: What temperature 
does water boil in Celsius?
3. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of ladybugs called?
4. MEDICAL: What type of blood 
does a universal donor have?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Armenia?
6. HISTORY: When did the Spanish 
Civil War end?
7. TELEVISION: How does the title 
to this 1990s drama series end: “Bev-
erly Hills, ...”?
8. GAMES: How many dots are on a 
standard, six-sided die?
9. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the father lion in “The Lion King”?
10. MONEY: What is the basic cur -
rency of Iceland?
Answers
1. Vanessa Williams
2. 100 C
3. A loveliness of ladybugs
4. O negative
5. Yerevan
6. 1939
7. 90210
8. 21
9. Mufasa
10. Krona
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 24, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Holographic Kinetics: Advanced Healing Modality
Identify and clear mental, emotional and 
behavioral health issues. Many areas can 
be helped (Anxiety, fear, depression, PTSD, 
suicidal thoughts, addictions, and more)
www.healingwithspirit.net      MA90891
10-5-18-7-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 Muslim 
pilgrimage
5 Made docile
10 Valley with a 
Wine Train
14 Melville’s “Typee” 
sequel
15 Limber
16 Malicious
17 Bandit band
18 Jackrabbits, e.g.
19 Minimum __
20 *Niacin and 
riboflavin
23 7UP competitor 
since 1961
25 Harbinger
28 *Twenty 
Questions 
question
29 “I could be 
wrong”
33 Knocks firmly
34 Pseudonym
35 Part of LACMA
36 *Earth, Wind 
& Fire hit 
album whose 
title means 
“everything 
considered”
38 “Nothing to shout 
about”
39 Some llama 
herders
41 Nuclear reactor 
component
42 Ceylon, now
43 *Fighter pilot’s 
sensation
45 Kikkoman 
sauces
46 Medical lab 
specimen
47 *Bravura 
performance 
reaction, briefly
51 Copies
54 Pogo stick sound
55 Pac-12 team 
since 2011
59 Mule team beam
60 The way we 
word
61 Snapper rival
62 Baaing mas
63 Domingo, for one
64 Whack
DOWN
1 Ungenerous sort
2 Physicians’ gp.
3 Trevor’s 
predecessor on 
“The Daily Show”4 Women’s 
sportswear
5 South Seas island
6 Striped quartz
7 Actress Sorvino
8 Grade sch. level
9 Lucie’s dad
10 Rather and 
Cronkite
11 Gardner of the 
silver screen
12 Sty denizen
13 Tavern offering
21 Vitality
22 Prestigious prize
23 They’re not 
selfish
24 The Supremes, 
e.g.
26 Captivates
27 What the ruthless 
show
28 Gets a present 
ready to present
29 Exodus 
sustenance
30 “That’s a shame”
31 Fashion initials
32 Giggle
34 Reactive criticism
36 Salt’s “Halt!”
37 “Hamilton” 
creator 
__-Manuel 
Miranda40 Once-banned 
James Joyce 
novel
41 Weak excuses
43 __ snap
44 Mariner’s hazard
46 Winning 
exclamation aptly 
arranged and 
spelled by the 
standalone letters 
in the answers to 
starred clues48 Adjoin
49 Bridge site
50 Primatologist 
Fossey
51 Pro vote
52 Comics punch 
sound
53 Scrape (out)
56 Little kid
57 Historical  
period
58 Cry out  
loud
By Ed Sessa
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/26/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, September 26, 2018
ACROSS
1 The one here
5 Group of cronies
9 Natural wound 
protection
13 Discard
14 Prohibited activity
15 “What a shame!”
16 Player getting 
paid
18 Sound from a 
snout
19 Counsel
20 “Am I the only 
one?”
22 Move stealthily
23 “Wait just a 
minute!”
26 “Told you”
27 Rogers Centre 
city
29 Oil field sight
30 Cartographer’s 
dot, maybe
31 Food truck snack
32 Unfulfilled 
campaign pledge 
... and a hint to 
what 16-, 23-, 46- 
and 53-Across all 
contain
37 James of “The 
Godfather”
38 Herbert Hoover, 
by birth
39 O’Hare’s airport 
code
40 Great pains
43 Bobs and waves
46 Docking aids
48 “Rashomon” 
director 
Kurosawa
50 Christmas door 
decoration
51 Health facility
52 Tech sch. grad
53 Closet accessory
56 “Start __”: Rolling 
Stones hit
57 Mandel of 
“America’s Got 
Talent”
58 Melody
59 Coffee servers
60 “If I may  
intrude ... ”
61 Founded, as a co.
DOWN
1 QB-to-receiver 
six-pointer
2 Running track 
obstacle3 Apple video-
editing app
4 Madrid’s country
5 128 fl. oz.
6 Grandpa 
Simpson
7 Vague idea
8 Charges toward
9 Apt 
Shakespearean 
rhyme for “truth”
10 Fire-breathing 
monsters
11 “Interview With 
the Vampire” 
novelist
12 __ choy: stir-fry 
veggie
14 With 37-Down, 
what corn is on
17 “For shame!”
21 Skater Midori
23 Little songbird
24 Color of some 
Hello Kitty 
products
25 Self-esteem
28 Fú tbol cheer
30 Charged  
particle
31 Altoids  
container
32 Saloonkeeper33 Trooper’s speed-
checking device
34 Versailles rulers, 
once
35 Have bills to pay
36 Indian spice 
blend
37 See 14-Down
40 Finder’s cry
41 “Fooled you!”
42 Overeager 
student’s cry
43 Thingamajig44 Set in the right 
direction
45 Like some cows 
and vows
47 Maryland team, 
briefly
49 “Roots” role 
Kunta __
51 Rebel Guevara
52 Big bird from 
Down Under
54 Stunned state
55 Comical Conway
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/25/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, September 25, 2018
1.  Noisier 
1.  Probable 5.  Putty ____
2.  Baseball ____6.  Proprietor 
3.  Forever, ongoing 7.  Insignia 
4.  Pelvis part DLOREU
KIELLYFKNEI
ENRWO
FIOUNMR
RANTEELMEEMLB
AMURCSANSWERS: 1A-Louder  5A-Knife  6A-Owner  7A-Emblem
1D-Likely  2D-Uniform  3D-Eternal  4D-Sacrum  B-Ukraine9-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: With an area of 233,062 square miles, this 
is the largest country entirely in Europe.
BONUS
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFormer UF linebacker Neiron 
Ball is in a medically induced 
coma after suffering a brain 
aneurysm on Sept. 16.
Check out the alligatorSports podcast
Editor Morgan McMullen is joined by online editor Mark Stine, football beat 
writer Alanis Thames and photographer Christopher King to break down 
our trip to Knoxville, T ennessee, the game itself and how each turnover from 
UF-UT relates to an Inﬁ  nity Stone. Find it on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
It has been roughly 10 
months since Florida head coach 
Dan Mullen made the jump 
from Starkville, Mississippi, to 
Gainesville.
He left behind a team he 
helped build from the ground up 
to take over a new one, a team 
that also just happened to need 
rebuilding. He had spent nearly 
10 years transforming Missis-
sippi State into a solid SEC West 
contender.
The Gators, Mullen’s new 
team, will face the Bulldogs, 
his old team, on Saturday at 
6 p.m. It will also be the ﬁ  rst 
time the ﬁ  rst-year Florida coach 
heads back to his old stomping 
grounds.
So naturally, he was asked 
about the sentimental value of 
this trip back to the so-called 
“Starkvegas” during Monday’s 
press conference.
“The people of Starkville 
were great to me and my family. 
Both my kids were born there,” 
Mullen said. “The fans, unbe-lievable.”
He said the fan support made 
his job a lot easier, especially 
when it came to changing the 
culture of the program.
“It was a place I went to and 
asked them on Day 1,” Mullen 
said, "told them we need you 
to show up and sell out the sta-
dium, and if you do that we can 
build a program here. And you 
know what? The fans believed 
in that. The fans bought into 
that.”
He said Mississippi State sold 
out Davis Wade Stadium dur-
ing his ﬁ  rst season, even after 
the team went 2-5 at home. But 
those sentiments are easy for 
Mullen to put aside. 
Mullen said the emotions of 
going back to Starkville will be 
easy for him to get over because 
he is focused on his new team. 
“That’s not hard for me, you 
know what I mean?” Mullen 
said. “I guess that takes pressure 
off everyone else. Our guys can 
focus on the opponent, beating 
an excellent team.”
Defensive coordinator Todd Mullen’s return to Starkville not a concern for coaches, players
Lexie White / Alligator Staff
Coach Dan Mullen built up the Mississippi State football team for nine years before accepting the Florida 
job. "The people of Starkville were great to me and my family, " he said. "The fans, unbelievable. "
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Gators men’s basketball team began last 
season ranked No. 8 in the preseason AP Top 
25. It had a solid run, ﬁ  nishing 21-13, but after 
a second-round exit in the NCAA Tournament 
at the hands of Texas Tech, Florida may not 
grace the top 25 in this year’s preseason poll. 
Still, coach Mike White returns all but two play-
ers who recorded at least a minute last year. 
Year 4 of the White experiment begins in No-
vember, so let’s look at some takeaways from 
the team’s media day on Tuesday.
Jalen Hudson is the face of the program
When asked about leadership on the team, 
White didn’t hesitate to mention Jalen Hud-
son. The Virginia Tech transfer sat out his ﬁ  rst 
season with the Gators two years ago, but last 
season emerged as the Gators’ most consistent 
scorer. He led the team in that category, averag-
ing 15.5 points per game.
Hudson declared for the 2018 NBA Draft in 
March but withdrew his name from consider-
ation to retain his ﬁ  nal year of college eligibil-
ity. He said unﬁ  nished business brought him back to Gainesville.
“I want to solidify my spot in the draft more, 
and really to want to have another year with 
this team and growing and being able to play 
again with these guys,” Hudson said.
White said the redshirt senior has taken a 
step up in being a vocal leader since returning 
to the team.
“I think he’s feeling good about himself and 
his physical and mental output stemming back 
from some of the feedback that he got from the 
NBA last spring,” White said.
Florida will look no further than the 22-year-
old Hudson to ﬁ  ll the hole left by the departures 
of Chris Chiozza and Egor Koulechov.
Keith Stone is still an enigma
The 6-foot-8 junior’s offensive prowess puts 
him in line to retain the stretch-four spot this 
season, but consistency has been a problem for 
him. Despite playing starting minutes most of 
the year, his production didn’t match his po-
tential. He posted three 20-point games last 
season but only averaged 8.8 points per game 
for the year. In the rebounding department, he 
was even less of a factor, bringing in only 4.3 What we learned from UF Media DayO’B-Wan Kenobi / Opinion
This men's basketball 
team has the potential to be 
the best Florida Gators bas-
ketball team outside of the 
2006-07 back-to-back title-
winning teams. Seriously. It 
actually is realistic. 
Yes, the Gators lost two of 
their leading scorers in point 
guard Chris Chiozza and for-
ward Egor Koulechov. But 
they have more than enough talent to 
ﬁ  ll in for the two.
At basketball media day on Tuesday, 
head coach Mike White talked about 
the depth this team possesses — he said 
he has never had a lineup with 13 ca-
pable players in his rotation. Until now.
Point guard and true freshman An-
drew Nembhard will attempt to ﬁ  ll Chi-
ozza’s spot. And he has the potential to 
be even better than Chiozza ever was.
White didn’t conﬁ  rm if Nembhard would be in the starting line-
up come November, as he’s 
in a battle with incumbent 
backup Mike Okauru. But 
it would be a huge surprise 
to me and just about every 
other UF basketball pundit 
out there if Nembhard isn’t 
on the ﬂ  oor for the ﬁ  rst tip.
Furthermore, he’s touted 
as the best passer in the 
2019 class. The next being Rajon Ron-
do, if you will.
There’s a bevy of talent replacing 
Koulechov. The two freshmen ﬁ  lling 
in for “3Gor” are shooting guard Noah 
Locke and forward Keyontae Johnson. 
Locke shot an absurd 47 percent from 
three in high school, and Johnson is 
one of the most athletic players in the 
class.
White says all three freshmen will It’s not unreasonable to think UF 
will become a basketball giant
Chris O'Brien
@THEChrisOB
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Year 2 of the Cam Newbauer ex-
perience promises more of the same 
as far as the style of play for UF: 
fast pace, an active defense and, of 
course, attempting three-pointers at 
a clip that would make Steph Curry 
jealous. 
The only thing coach Newbauer 
wants to be different is the results. 
He said that while he hadn’t dis-
cussed specifically how to do that, 
he kept busy keeping in contact 
with his players.
“The offseason, a lot of times, 
we just talk about trying to get bet-
ter every possession, every drill 
than what we just were,” Newbau-
er said. “But that will be something 
that we focus on when you go into 
game situations.”
Fast starts
One of the issues that plagued 
Newbauer and the Gators last sea-
son was a lack of offensive firepow-
er in the first quarters of games. 
Florida was tied or trailed at the 
end of the first period in 10 of its 16 
regular-season SEC games in 2017. 
It didn’t win a matchup under those 
circumstances. 
Closing out games was also 
an issue with the Gators in 2017. 
In the six games it held a lead af-
ter the first quarter, the team only 
won two. Newbauer chalked these 
issues up to an inability to impose a physical presence among oppo-
nents.
“You want to be the aggressor,” 
Newbauer said. “You don’t want to 
sit back on your heels and wait to 
see what someone else does.”Leadership
The Gators aren’t returning 
many players for the 2018-19 
campaign. Guards Funda Nakka-
soglu and Delicia Washington are 
the only two players coming back 
who played significant minutes last season. Both Washington and Na-
kkasoglu expect to handle a good 
chunk of the leadership responsi-
bilities. 
“I’m going to try to guide and 
help (the new players) as much as 
possible,” Nakkasoglu said. “We need to be eager to learn and just 
take in as much as possible.”
Washington, a 5-foot-10 junior, 
said she thinks Newbauer will have 
a newfound energy with the roster 
turnover.
“He’s not treating anybody dif-
ferently,” she said. “He shows ev-
erybody the same attention, no 
matter if you’re a freshman, a trans-
fer or a returner.”
World travelers
Florida’s roster reflects a key 
aspect of Newbauer’s coaching ten-
dencies. He wants shooters and lots 
of them.
He scoured the globe for players 
to fit that system for the last two 
years and has come up with eight 
players outside of the southeastern 
U.S. Four of those women are from 
other countries, including Nakkaso-
glu (Australia). 
Paige Robinson, a 6-foot-4 JUCO 
transfer, spent time playing for her 
native England in the U18 and U20 
European Championships as well 
as spending three years playing in 
Spain.
“That prepared me a lot with 
the workload,” Robinson said. 
“We practiced every single day 
out there. Playing for Great Britain 
has helped me with my nerves and 
stuff because that was a big thing 
for me.” 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgGators prepare for second year of Newbauer’s rebuild  
Alligator File Photo
Guard Delicia Washington (00) is one of two returning Gators starters for the 2018-19 season. 
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The Gators weren’t satisfied. They 
came into the final day of the Trinity For-
est Invitational trailing five other squads. 
But Florida’s performance Tuesday per-
haps gave the team something to build 
off of as it climbed up the leaderboard to 
finish fourth.
UF’s surge up the standings on Tues-
day was led by sophomore John Axelsen 
(-10) with senior Gordon Neale (-6) and 
freshman Aden Ye (-2) not too far be-
hind. All five golfers officially competing 
for UF finished in the top 35. 
Florida’s final round was the team’s 
best of the tournament and the second-
best of any team on Day 3, only behind 
Baylor’s 270. The Gators finished a stroke 
behind third-place College of Charleston 
and 10 strokes behind first-place Baylor.
Axelsen was threatening the top of the 
individual leaderboard from the begin-
ning of the tournament, leading the field 
after the first day with a 64. He cooled off 
over the next two days, carding a 70 and 
a 69, respectively, but his efforts were 
still enough to place him in a tie for third 
place individually. 
The Gators were in eighth place after 
Day 1 despite Axelsen’s stellar round. 
They needed more contributions from the rest of the lineup if they were to move 
up the leaderboard, a problem that also 
plagued them at the Carpet Capital Col-
legiate, which Axelsen missed due to in-
ternational duty.
The last two days of competition, 
however, were a remedy for that flaw.  
Neale was a combined 6-under over 
the last two rounds to move up 22 places 
and finished in a tie for 10th place. Ye’s 
last two rounds saw him improve from 
tied for 49th to a tie for 19th. The same 
goes for sophomore Chris Nido (+2) 
and freshman Eugene Hong (+2), who 
moved up 26 and 33 places, respectively, 
and both tied for 35th. 
Sophomore Manny Girona (-2) also 
finished the tournament in a tie for 19th 
place, though he was competing as an in-
dividual.
The Trinity Forest Invitational was the 
second of four fall tournaments for the 
men’s golf team as it inches closer to the 
spring season. The Nike Collegiate Invi-
tational, running from Sept. 30 to Oct. 
2, and the Tavistock Collegiate Invita-
tional, which starts on Oct. 21st and ends 
on Oct. 23rd, round out the men’s golf 
team’s fall tournament slate.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgFlorida finishes fourth at 
Trinity Forest InvitationalBy Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
The No. 11 Florida volleyball team travels 
to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to play LSU today 
at 8 p.m.
The Gators (11-3, 2-0 SEC) are on a seven-
match win streak after sweeping Ole Miss and 
Mississippi State over the weekend.
“I think we’ll, at the end of the season, look 
back and go, ‘That was a weekend we should 
win’ because we’re home and it’s early in the 
season while young teams try and find their 
way,” coach Mary Wise said after the match 
on Sunday. “The challenge will be that we 
play both of these teams again a month from 
now.”
Florida will look to start 3-0 in conference 
play for the 24th time under Wise with a win 
over the Tigers.
UF’s aggressive serving was a big reason 
for the first conference wins last weekend. 
The team notched 20 service aces in the two 
matches, including a 13-ace performance 
against Ole Miss on Friday.
Florida has made it clear that it will con-
tinue to serve aggressively no matter who the 
opponent is on the other side of the net.
However, the team will need to keep the 
serving errors to a minimum. The Gators com-
mitted 11 service errors in the two matches. 
While it did not seem to have a significant ef-
fect, it may become a bigger issue as they get 
deeper into SEC play.
LSU (5-8, 0-2 SEC) enters today’s midweek 
contest on a two-match losing streak after it 
dropped both matches in the opening weekend 
of conference play.
The Tigers allowed big runs in crucial times in both losses, forcing them to fight uphill con-
stantly. This was evident in the fifth set against 
Georgia on Friday when they allowed a 4-1 run 
to lose the set and the match.
The Gators’ offense hopes to expose this 
even further with good passing and constant 
attacks to create runs.
Sophomore outside hitter Paige Hammons 
led all returning players in kills with nine 
when Florida swept LSU in 2017. She is now 
a central part of the offense and is expected to 
get even more swings in 2018.
LSU will look to counter with its own of-
fensive firepower, led by sophomore Taylor 
Bannister.
The 6-foot-5 sophomore hits from both 
sides of the court and has a team-leading 219 
kills on an impressive 4.56 kills per set.
Bannister’s aggressive style, however, has 
resulted in lots of errors, hitting for an unre-
markable .216 hitting percentage on the year. 
Florida’s front row, helped by senior middle 
blocker Taelor Kellum, is expected to be the 
key in creating errors against Bannister and 
the rest of the LSU offense.
Kellum has tallied a team-high 10 solo 
blocks this season. She earned SEC Defensive 
Player of the Week honors after she recorded  
22 blocks at the net in the final four preseason 
matches. She said even with the strong confer-
ence start, the SEC schedule still excites her.
“We’ve been waiting for (SEC play) for so 
long,” Kellum said. “Now that it’s here, I think 
we’ve done a really good job of handling our 
business.”
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgUF to play LSU in midweek matchVOLLEYBALL MEN’S GOLFWOMEN’S BASKETBALL16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
Buzzed  
Spelling Bee @ 7:30pm$6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSGrantham, who coached at Mississippi State 
last season with Mullen, echoed that state-
ment.
“My time there was enjoyable, I enjoyed 
it,” Grantham said. “There’s a lot of guys I 
care about on that team. But come Saturday, 
we’re competing against each other to play 
and get a win.”
While a lot of the coaching staff followed 
Mullen from MSU, Florida’s players didn’t. 
But they know the Bulldogs have had this 
game circled on their calendars.None of that matters to them, though. 
When the Gators take the ﬁ  eld on Satur-
day, they will play for their coach. Not be-
cause of his history with MSU, but to show 
they buy into the program he is trying to 
build in Gainesville.
“You know, coming into this game, it’s 
not about that,” Cleveland said. “He tells us 
to just play physical and be consistent and 
just come out there and work hard, play hard, 
play physical and give relentless effort.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 14Defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham also makes homecominga game.
While White praised Stone’s offensive abil-
ity, he said he still has a ways to go in his de-
velopment.
“I want Keith to worry about Keith,” White 
said. “I want Keith to continue to evolve his 
versatility.”
That simpliﬁ  ed approach seems to have 
rubbed off on Stone. 
“The goal is to come out and compete and 
play defense,” he said.
Can Stone take the next step and become a 
reliable forward for Florida, or will his defen-
sive and rebounding weaknesses continue to 
plague him?
White will hope for the former.
Andrew Nembhard is going to play
White said there’s no timeline right now for 
when the Gators will release their starting ﬁ  ve. 
But one thing is certain: Whether he’s a starter 
or not, Nembhard will see the court. A lot.
The true freshman guard from Aurora, On-
tario, Canada, was rated a ﬁ  ve-star prospect on the 247Sports composite. As the No. 23 ranked 
player in the country, he’s the highest rated re-
cruit White has signed at Florida.
Renowned for his passing acumen, Nemb-
hard was a hot topic at Media Day. White said 
his goal is to get Nembhard comfortable run-
ning the offense.
“We won’t be relying on him to be a huge 
vocal leader,” White said. “But we will be rely-
ing on him to direct some trafﬁ  c and lead in 
that regard.”
Replacing Chris Chiozza, the all-time school 
leader in assists, is not an easy task for the 
young player. Nembhard said the biggest chal-
lenge will be assuming the role of court general.
Nembhard, along with sophomore Mike 
Okauru, will compete for the starting point 
guard spot. No matter his role, White believes 
that Nembhard can be an X factor.
“He’ll be one of the best passers that we play 
all year,” White said. “He’ll have a chance to be 
in the conversation to be one of the best passers 
in college basketball.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 14Nembhard highest-ranked UF recruit
Alligator File Photo
Forward Keith Stone is entering his junior season for the Gators. "The goal is 
to come out and compete and play defense, " he said. 
get ample minutes.
Moreover, the Gators have a ton of 
talent returning from injury. White con-
ﬁ  rmed forward Chase Johnson is at full 
strength. Forward Isaiah Stokes has lost a 
ridiculous amount of weight and, although 
White said he needs to get more in shape, 
is a deadeye shooter. Center Gorjok Gak is 
still looking to get to full strength.
And, above all, Florida has a bundle of 
returning talent. Jalen Hudson, Kevarrius 
Hayes, Keith Stone and KeVaughn Allen 
are all coming back this season.
The team was a few clutch threes away 
from knocking off Texas Tech and con-
ceivably making a run at the Final Four 
last season, and there’s no reason to think it can’t make a run this year.
The scariest part about this team 
though? White is on the verge of perhaps 
his best recruiting class ever. Plenty of 
time remains between now and signing 
day. But a few names to keep in mind are 
Scottie Lewis (ﬁ  ve star), CJ Walker (four 
star), Tre Mann (committed ﬁ  ve star) and 
Omar Payne (four star).
As of now, those four players are all 
predicted to land at Florida. They are all 
near the top of the class.
Don’t be surprised if you see this team 
in the Final Four for years to come.
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer at the 
Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @THE-
ChrisOB and contact him at cobrien@al-
ligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14