We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF grad tries to fool Penn & Teller
A former UF psychology student answers questions on how and 
why she ended up on the show, pg. 5
Amid string of car burglaries, one man arrested
A local man was charged with two counts of burglary, pg. 5alligatorSports Awards: Most Improved Player
Our staff is divided on who the 2017-18 most improved Gator 
athlete was. See the nominees, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 103
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alix Mathia had no idea what she was 
going to do with the mannequin when 
she ﬁ  rst got it.
She knew she wanted to keep her 
usual art style because she felt it was part 
of why they invited local artists to con-
tribute.
Mathia was one of 24 Gainesville art-
ists who turned mannequins into works of art, now being called “Rainbow Spir-
its.” The mannequins were from the for-
mer The Oaks Mall Macy’s and would 
have been thrown into a dumpster if 
Terry Fleming didn’t have a dream about 
a better use for them.
Fleming, co-president of the Pride 
Community Center, turned his dream 
into an event. The show, “Artists Sup-
porting Pride — Rainbow Spirits,” pre-
mieres Saturday at 7 p.m.
The event will reveal and auction the Rainbow Spirits to raise money for Pride 
events. Food, wine and refreshments will 
be served, and a book featuring each 
mannequin and the artists will be dis-
played.
Miller, a local artist and the event co-
organizer, said an event incorporating 
Gainesville’s arts and LGBTQ+ com-
munities, hasn’t been done before. He 
helped organize the event and also con-
tributed a Rainbow Spirit of his own.Gainesville artists support Pride 2018 
with upcoming ‘Rainbow Spirits’ auction feedback on new 
auditorium chairs
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Student Government has been seeking a bit of help 
from the butts of students. 
SG set out 10 unique auditorium chairs beside the infor-
mation booth in the Reitz Union for passers-by to test from 
the evening of July 11 through early Tuesday.
They have been seeking feedback on everything about the 
chairs from cushion comfort to cup holder location, SG Al-
locations Chair Trevor Pope said.
Pope announced the test in an email to members of SG. 
The subject line of Pope’s email read “Auditorium Seat ‘Butt 
Test’ Underway.”
The seat test came as the Reitz Union Auditorium is to be 
renovated later in the fall, Pope said. 
Students were invited to cast a ballot for their seat prefer-
ence to help decide which seats will be purchased for the 
project.
“I do not want to see a sea of green,” Daniel Olis, a 
19-year-old UF computer engineering sophomore, said as he 
sunk into chair A.
Chair A was set furthest to the left. Putrid green in color, 
it sat slightly elevated on a black carpet box. 
Olis took a white ballot from the box sat on the informa-
tion desk. He grabbed a pen and began to scribble down 
letters. 
Seat F, a stocky blue seat with rounded cushions, was 
Olis’ ﬁ  rst choice. 
He came to test the chairs after one of his friends became 
fascinated by the display of mismatched seats. 
That friend was Ian Arcena, a 20-year-old UF mechanical 
engineering junior.
“What I’m looking for in a seat is comfort,” Arcena said. 
“If it’s going to be in the auditorium, then I’m going to be 
sitting there for a long time.”
Arcena went down the line of seats, reclining against each 
cushion.
Information desk assistants looked on and laughed as Ar-
cena’s friend, Camille Hernandez, joined in the seat test.
Hernandez, a 20-year-old UF materials science and en-
gineering junior, bounced around seats, testing them in no 
particular order.
She plopped into each chair as though she was testing 
their ability to spring back.‘Butt test’ yields 
SEE RAINBOW,  PAGE 4
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Staff Writer
The Chronicle of Higher Education has 
compiled data reports on public university 
ofﬁ  cials’ wages since 2010. On Monday, the 
publication released its latest study.
UF President Kent Fuchs ranked ninth of 
the list’s 251 highest-paid public college ex-
ecutives. He fell ﬁ  ve spots from the 2015-16 
rankings.Fuchs’ 2016-17 salary 
was reported to include a 
base pay of $866,425, non-
taxable pay of $18,142 
and additional reportable 
pay of $215,408, totaling 
$1,099,975.
Fuchs’ reportable wages 
include $66,045 for retire-
ment and a $25,500 hous-
ing allowance, according to The Chronicle. It is still $2,887 fewer than the fourth-place sal-
ary of $1,102,862.
Fuchs’ salary could buy 73,331 Freshman 
15 Burgers from The Swamp Restaurant or 
6,874 UF parking decals.
“I do think (Fuchs’ salary is) a little exces-
sive,” UF advertising sophomore Zack Archer 
said. “I know he does a lot for the university, 
and it is a great school, but I think a lot of 
other people have association with making 
this a great school and a lot of people aren’t compensated for that.”
Fuchs was hired as UF’s 12th president 
in 2014. His base pay then was $860,000, 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said. The 
Gainesville Sun reported that Fuchs also 
received an “annual deferred payment of 
$180,000” for his ﬁ  rst year at UF, adding up 
to $1,040,000 — $59,975 fewer than his 2017 
salary.Report: Fuchs among top 10 in nation for university executive salary
SEE FUCHS,  PAGE 4Courtesy of T om Miller
Second-hand mannequins were turned into artwork for an exhibition entitled “Artists Supporting Pride — Rainbow 
Spirits. ” Proceeds from the show will go toward funding future Pride events. 
SEE BUTTS,  PAGE 4
Fuchs
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 103
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
HIGH  89° LOW  74°VOLUME 112 ISSUE 103
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne
GATORFeed
Meme of the Week Tweets of the Week
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Doughnuts for do-gooders
Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Alligator Staff
ABOVE: Seven-year-old Ahmed poses in front of the iconic Krispy Kreme Doughnuts 
sign during their “Glazin’ Hot Summer Party” event on Tuesday morning.  Each child 
who attended the event was given a free glazed doughnut.  
LEFT TOP: EMT Kristian Harding (left) and paramedic Alexis Delisle (right) dance 
during Krispy Kreme’s “Glazin’ Hot Summer Party” event.
LEFT BOTTOM: Megan Davis, a 27-year-old Krispy Kreme Doughnuts retail worker, 
distributes their trademark paper hats to children in attendance.
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
Hernandez, standing at around 5 feet 
in stature, said seat height was among 
the most important factors to her.
“Seriously, I don’t like it when my 
butt is too close to the ground,” Hernan-
dez said with a smile.
The top three chairs were: Seat F, a round blue chair; seat G, a second 
rounded chair with black trim, and 
seat C, a stout cushioned chair with 
sleek wooden arms, Pope said at the 
conclusion of the survey.
Pope is hoping to price the chairs 
so that a cost-effective winner can be 
selected.BUTTS,  from pg. 1Ten chairs were testedMiller and his fellow co-organizer, 
Brian Wilson, created a webpage to re-
cruit the artists, Miller said. He was sur-
prised at how many artists “just stepped 
right up to the plate.” 
“When you see these mannequins, 
they are so stunning,” he said. “The 
whole presentation collectively could 
easily be in the Harn or the Chicago Mu-
seum of Art. Nobody held back.”
Mathia, a local muralist and elemen-
tary school nurse, regularly participates 
in art markets and art walks in town. 
Her mannequin piece is called “Inner-
light,” which has a removable candle-
holder at the Rainbow Spirit’s neck. 
Mathia used a common theme in 
her artwork for her mannequin -- col-
orful, acrylic-painted faces with closed 
eyes. The closed eyes are symbolic of not looking through lenses of difference 
and seeing that everyone shares similar 
feelings inside, she said.
“It was just nice to see the (art and 
LGBTQ+) communities come together 
for this because I feel like we all have a 
very similar goal, which is absolute ex-
pression and freedom of choice, which 
I think art is truly about,” Mathia said.
The money from the auctions will 
go to the Pride Community Center and 
Pride 2018, Miller said. The Pride Com-
munity Center provides HIV testing, 
support for people with AIDS and sup-
port groups for the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity.
“Pride has a very strong presence in 
this community, but it’s very insulated,” 
Miller said. “Diversity is a strength, and 
that’s what the entire country is found-
ed on, and yet we’re just so focused on 
dividing each other. That’s why I think 
this is such a great event.” RAINBOW,  from pg. 1Auction will fund HIV testing
Deferred salary is income set 
aside and paid to an employee 
after he or she has earned it. In 
Fuchs’ case, he will receive it 
when his ﬁ  ve-year contract with 
UF ends.
Orlando said Fuchs’ current 
base pay and additional report-
able compensation are $899,087 
and $215,000 respectively, total-
ing $1,114,087.
Two hundred thousand dol-
lars of the president’s salary 
comes from state funding, and 
the remaining balance comes 
from private sources, Orlando 
said.
“The $215,000 payment in-
cludes a retirement contribution 
as well as the taxable value of his 
life and disability insurances,” he 
said.
As chief executive ofﬁ  cer 
of UF, Fuchs is responsible for 
working with the Board of Trust-
ees to oversee the university’s 
academics, research, founda-
tions, organizations and budget-
ing.
“For me, all he’s known for is 
wearing quirky things and (wel-
coming) students,” Archer said. 
“I would do more research on 
what he does. Knowing what he 
does will probably help me bet-ter understand why he gets paid 
that much.”
While Fuchs may be on the 
top-10 list for highest-paid pub-
lic college executives, he isn’t 
the top-earning employee of the 
university. Both Dr. Mark S. 
Bleiweis, UF Health program di-
rector, and Dr. David S. Guzick, 
UF Health senior vice president, 
earn higher wages.The Chronicle reported that 
Bleiweis made $1,375,043 in 2017 
while Guzick made $1,499,211 in 
2017 — both over a quarter mil-
lion more than Fuchs.
Fuchs falls behind University 
of South Florida President Judy 
L. Genshaft and University of 
Central Florida President John C. 
Hitt’s compensations, according 
to The Chronicle. FUCHS,  from pg. 1He’s the third-highest paid in the state
James R. Ramsey
School: University of Louisville
Total Pay: $4,290,232
Jay Gogue
School: Auburn University
Total Pay: $1,827,786
William H. McRaven
School: University of Texas
Total Pay: $1,500,140
Neil D. Theobald
School: Temple University
Total Pay: $1,380,071
John Sharp
School: Texas A&M University
Total Pay: $1,285,147John C. Hitt
School: University of Central Florida
Total Pay: $1,278,371
Judy L. Genshaft
School: University of South Florida
Total Pay: $1,184,520
Douglas D. Baker
School: Northern Illinois University
Total Pay: $1,124,248
W. Kent Fuchs
School: University of Florida
Total Pay: $1,099,975
Michael V. Drake
School: Ohio State University
Total Pay: $1,073,272The top-10 highest paid public college executives:
Source: 2016-2017 reported data from The Chronicle of Higher EducationTHURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police received 
11 reports of car burglaries in 24 
hours starting Tuesday morning, 
according to a GPD press release 
Wednesday morning.
All of the cases involved un-
locked cars and most were in a 
mile radius of Northwest 34th 
Street and Northwest 39th Avenue. 
There is currently no suspect infor-
mation.
A man was arrested by GPD on 
Monday night after he was alleged-
ly seen trying to break into cars in 
the Ridgeview neighborhood near 
Northwest 39th Avenue.
A witness later 
identiﬁ  ed Jeremy 
Hernandez, 35, 
as the man she 
allegedly saw try-
ing to break into 
a car just past 10 
p.m. Multiple of-
ﬁ  cers responded 
to the scene on 
Northwest 33rd Avenue, according 
to a separate GPD press release.
The witness reportedly saw the 
man walking down the street and 
stopping in her front yard, seem-
ingly looking at the nearby houses.
The man was reportedly on his 
phone when he walked away from 
her yard and approached the ﬁ  rst 
victim’s car.
The man allegedly leaned onto 
the car’s window and grabbed 
the driver’s door handle, trying to 
open the car. When he wasn’t able 
to open the door, he continued 
walking down the street, according 
to a witness statement.
The witness was worried be-
cause she saw him trying to con-ceal himself from view in some 
nearby bushes as he walked into a 
neighbor’s yard.
During a police search of the 
area, ofﬁ  cers discovered another 
burglary on Northwest 33rd Av-
enue, close to where Hernandez 
allegedly tried to hide.
After noticing the police pres-
ence in his neighborhood, the sec-
ond victim stepped out of his home 
and decided to check on his car.
The glove box compartment 
was open, paper and other items 
were scattered all over the ﬂ  oor-
board and the interior light was on, 
according to the arrest report.
A GPD ofﬁ  cer approached Her-
nandez at 1900 NW 34th St. Ac-
cording to the press release, Her-
nandez denied any involvement 
with the incident and continued to 
deny it after the witness identiﬁ  ed 
him.
During an interview, Hernandez 
became aggressive and was imme-
diately taken to Alachua County 
Jail. He’s being held for two charg-
es of burglary and one charge of 
loitering. His bond is set at $20,000, 
according to jail records.
Hernandez lives in an area 
that’s recently had a problem with 
car burglaries, according to a press 
release. He has a history of burglar-
ies, and there is an ongoing investi-
gation to see if he is responsible for 
the recent burglaries in his neigh-
borhood.
Ofﬁ  cers and investigators con-
tinue to make arrests of multiple, 
different parties that are not con-
nected, according to a press re-
lease. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgArrested man lives near 
string of recent burglaries 
Hernandez
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Recent UF graduate Emily 
Grifﬁ  th had no clue her psycholo-
gy ﬁ  nal would turn into a featured 
magic act on the television series 
“Penn & Teller: Fool Us.”
In the show, contestants try to 
outsmart the famous magicians 
Penn Jillette and Raymond Teller 
with their magic act. If the secret 
behind the performance cannot be 
determined by either of the judg-
es, the contestant wins a ﬁ  ve-star 
trip to Las Vegas to perform as the 
opening act in Penn and Teller’s 
live show.
The show will premiere Mon-
day at 8 p.m.
I sat down with Grifﬁ  th, 21, to 
discuss the nature of her act and 
experience on the show — she 
even stumped me with her trick.
Q: Where did the idea for 
your magic trick come from, 
and how did you develop it into 
a performance?
A: (The act) was a ﬁ  nal graded 
project for my (creative psychol-
ogy) class — 72 percent of our 
grade. We worked on it for the ma-
jority of the semester. 
The idea for the act came from 
a lot of trial and error. Because 
I’m a psychology major, the area 
of magic I wanted to focus on was 
mentalism because I can relate it 
to my psychology class a bit better, 
and I’m obviously interested in the 
human mind and how mentalism 
works.
I learned one really basic one in 
which someone picks a card, and 
I guess it reading their body lan-
guage. 
After a while, it just became way too easy, so I decided to up it. 
Instead of giving a person a pack 
of cards, I gave them a phone, and 
instead of picking one out of 52 
cards, they pick out of 500 songs 
while I guess what song it is. 
For the show, I increased it to 
1,600 songs.
Q: How did you get to be fea-
tured on “Penn & Teller: Fool 
Us?”
A: I was a fan of the show when 
it ﬁ  rst premiered in the U.S. My fa-
ther and I really enjoyed watching 
it. We thought it was really funny, 
and it was always really entertain-
ing. 
I emailed the producers actually 
right after my (creative psycholo-
gy) class ended saying that I was a 
female magician. I had a trick that 
was original, and I wanted to see 
if they had an interest. They said 
they had just ﬁ  nished ﬁ  lming sea-
son 4 and to email back later in the 
year. I emailed them in November 
and said, “Hey, are you guys still 
interested in seeing this audition 
tape?” and they said, “Sure, why 
not?”
So I ﬁ  lmed (my audition tape), 
sent it in, got an email back in mid-
December saying that they liked it, 
and they wanted me to be on the 
show.
They ﬂ  ew me out from the 
Gainesville airport during Spring 
Break to Las Vegas, I practiced for 
a week, they ﬁ  lmed the little intro 
thing, and then I performed.
Q: What were your emotions 
throughout your performance?
A: My No. 1 goal was to just re-
main as calm as possible. 
A lot of people go on the show 
and try to “fool” Penn and Teller, 
or basically do a trick they can’t 
guess, so a lot of people stress out beforehand. But my goal was more 
“I just want to survive this televi-
sion appearance.”
Q: Although you can’t give 
spoilers, how was your overall 
experience on the show? 
A: It was overall super enjoy-
able. All the people were really 
really nice. All the people found it 
interesting that I had only been do-
ing magic for a year, while a lot of 
them were like career magicians. 
Regardless of the outcome, I 
accomplished my goal, which is 
showing that women can go up 
and do magic — and there’s not a 
lot of women who do that — and 
to be a presence for people, espe-
cially girls who maybe want to go 
into this industry to practice magic 
to show that they can do it.
Q: What are your plans for 
the future after the show has 
aired?  Do you plan on pursuing 
a career as a magician?
A: I have an internship lined 
up in Orlando, and I plan on doing 
that til January or potentially the 
summer, but after that I’m current-
ly applying for Ph.D. programs.
But my future plans don’t really 
involve being a professional magi-
cian, but it’s deﬁ  nitely a world I’d 
like to keep tabs on.
Q: I have to ask — could you 
tell us the secret behind your 
trick?
A: No (laughs), I’m sorry. But 
when it airs, I’m sure someone on 
YouTube will blatantly guess it.
This interview has been edited 
for length. To read the full version, 
including the reporter experiencing 
the magic trick, visit alligator.org.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgQ & A: UF graduate attempts to 
succeed on ‘Penn & Teller: Fool Us’ Editorial
Column
Who bears the costs? How we lost our 24/7 Library
It started out innocently enough. Overnight 
hours for libraries had been a hot topic for sev-
eral years in Student Government-land before 
becoming a reality during the 2012-13 ﬁ  scal 
year. Keep this in mind: SG was the entity that 
started funding overnight library hours (this will 
become more important later on).
As I mentioned last week, then came Newell 
Hall — whose pretty high operating costs forced 
us to cut most of the money we used to boost Li-
brary West’s hours. SG simply felt that they did 
not have the money to keep Newell open in addition to keep-
ing West’s overnight hours. So, SG then “chose the cheaper 
move and adjusted Library West’s hours” as noted by a past 
The Alligator article.
Then came the controversy, then came the Provost step-
ping in to help fund the pilot program which measured Li-
brary West’s and Newell Hall’s usage in Fall 2017. During 
that time, the Provost helped fund Library West’s extended 
hours.
Then, in December 2017, there was a curious platform 
tracker video published on the SG page. In it, former Student 
Body President Smith Meyers and former Senate President 
Ian Green appear, announcing that Library West will again 
be 24/7 for the upcoming spring. “You spoke, and we lis-
tened. Using the data from this survey, as well as the 24/5 
pilot program this past fall, we have worked with the Provost 
to secure funding for Library West to be open 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week,” says Green. The rest of the video 
is mostly the two of them fawning over themselves for being 
able to have two 24/7 study spaces on campus. Watch for 
yourself; this video really didn’t age well at all.
Looks like a happy ever after ending, right? Wrong. What 
the video failed to provide any indication of was this funding 
that SG had secured with the Provost was just for an addi-
tional study to be conducted in the Spring. To quote the ﬁ  nal 
study, “The results from this initial (fall) study were primar-
ily opinions provided through survey responses, so Provost 
Glover agreed to fund overnight hours at Library West again 
in spring 2018 to collect data on occupancy and utilization.”Then, the study ended. SG was asked for their 
decision. An email sent to the Provost from the 
Dean of Libraries goes like so: “After carefully 
reviewing the results of the analysis, Student 
Government has concluded that it will not fund 
overnight hours for Library West. Instead, they 
will make improvements in Newell Hall to address 
the deﬁ  ciencies that were identiﬁ  ed by the study.” 
Sure sounds like it was an SG decision to me.
The framing of the aftermath from President 
Green was a bit different, however, as recorded 
in another past The Alligator article: “The Provost’s Ofﬁ  ce 
made their decision based on the data collected, Student 
Body President Ian Green said.”
At Senate this past Tuesday night, we heard a lot more 
of this shifting of blame to the Provost. There, Green talked 
about how Library West was an academic building that our 
tuition already funds; thus, students shouldn’t have to dou-
ble-pay for the libraries by having SG supplement the tuition-
funded libraries with student fee-funded SG money. Sounds 
pretty agreeable, I suppose.
The stance of our SG administration, it appears, is that 
our university should fund West’s 24/7 hours even though 
SG has traditionally been the entity that has funded the sup-
plemental overnight hours. Could SG have continued to fund 
Newell while funding Library West? I believe so, it’s just 
that — the way I see it — we’re not funding Library West’s 
overnight hours in our attempt to get our university admin-
istration to provide the funding. It’s SG versus the university 
administration and, unfortunately, the students are the civil-
ian casualties while neither entity funds the Library West’s 
overnight hours.
OK, so I guess I didn’t really get to occupancy or ﬁ  nances 
like I said I would… Maybe next week?
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government.THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Bear with us. Things are about to get hairy. Possibly even 
downright grizzly.
You’re settling down in Jellystone National Park, preparing 
for a nice “pic-a-nic.” Your paws unfurl a checkered blanket 
while your date unloads the contents of your basket: “Blue-
beary” pie with honey, some ice-cold bruins and, of course, 
bear claws.
You begin to enjoy your afternoon lunch. The conversation 
takes a turn for the spiritual. “Hey baby, what’s ‘ursine?’” You 
feel that question is a bit polarizing, so you change the subject.
You take out your “Kodiak” camera and snap a photo to 
remember the moment. Before long, you feel your eyes getting 
heavier and lie down for a quick hibernation.
Your dreams are “koala-ﬁ  ably” insane. In one of them, you 
try to fend off a swarm of bees. But it isn’t working. They maul 
you head to toe before you wake up in a cold sweat. You look 
around to see that your date has abandoned you. How “bar-
bear-ic.”
As if things weren’t bad enough, you can’t get your bear-
ings about you. You look down at your map, only to discover 
the markings and locations have been replaced with…
DARTS AND 
LAURELS
Hollywood has never had a shortage of bear movies. 
“Ted,” “The Revenant” and “Brigsby Bear” are just 
a few movies prevalently featuring bears in starring 
roles. They’ve conveyed everything from family val-
ues and fart jokes to brutal attempted murder.
In a world where originality is often downplayed in favor of 
nostalgia, a new movie set to be released in August features a 
grown-up Christopher Robin in need of the spark of imagina-
tion and child-like innocence.
Despite the more-than-likely uplifting tale, we’re dishing 
out a dart to Christopher Robin. And it isn’t just for the mov-
ie. The adult Robin is being played by Ewan McGregor, and 
we can’t help but believe he should be working with Lucasﬁ  lm 
on the long awaited Obi Wan ﬁ  lm. We still love you, Ewan.
We assign a dart to the “Paddington” series as a whole. It 
attempted to do what the “Curious George” series already did: 
crush our childhood dreams. Paddington deserves no more 
time in our lives than what we’ve allotted.
By far the best of the “bear-themed” movies is the “Yogi 
Bear” live-action ﬂ  ick. The goofy, talking bear and his “con-
stant companion” (but really, we all know) Boo Boo attempt 
to save their beloved Jellystone National Park from the seedy 
hands of the city’s corrupt mayor.
One might expect a remake of an iconic cartoon to be hor-
rendous. And it kind of is in some ways. The ﬁ  lm has its nau-
seating dialogue bits and poorly computer-generated charac-
ters that deﬁ  nitely distract the viewer at times.
All of these ﬂ  aws play into the movie’s appeal. It remains a 
silly and feel good movie about the merits of protecting what 
is good. Of loving and caring for our environment.
Yogi and the other characters’ numerous futile plans to 
save the park demonstrate the realities of bipartisanship but 
show us that the “ important things” are often universal.
Thus we award a laurel to the live-action “Yogi Bear” 
movie for its loving attempt at translating American values 
into a modern vessel. We admire its nod to the the things that 
will outlive us.
But it has us wishing we had an endangered turtle to save 
all of America’s national parks.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORZachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.UF’s campus is full of na-
ture and, with it, sus-
tainability efforts to pro-
tect it.
There’s the Ofﬁ  ce of 
Sustainability, protected natural 
areas and extensive major and 
minor studies and classes con-
cerning environmental issues or 
topics like sustainability, wildlife, 
agriculture, reporting and more.
The signature live oak trees stand along-
side Albert and Alberta, Century Tower, 
Gothic-style brick buildings and more as key 
elements that make UF’s campus.
These trees that are perfect for hammock-
ing can often be under-appreciated or taken 
for granted.
Almost a year ago when hurricanes struck 
Gainesville, the historic tree in front the New 
Physics Building met its end. Riding past it 
on my 120 bus route down Museum Road, I 
noticed its missing place.
That was an obvious change leaving a big 
empty space. But you 
can notice ﬂ  yers litter-
ing Turlington Plaza 
and plastic bottles clog-
ging campus trash cans 
if you look closely.
Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas was a ﬁ  erce environmental advo-
cate for Florida ecosystems. She once said 
“you can’t conserve what you haven’t got.”
I think Gainesville is a city that innate-
ly has this mentality. A short drive away 
from Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park, 
Gainesville is a highly ranked bike-friendly 
city that is also known as Tree City USA. UF 
has this identity too with some of its earli-
est education dealing with agriculture. The 
Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability and UF continue this 
legacy.
And it’s a legacy I didn’t realize how con-
nected I was to until recently. My grandma 
told me her aunt, who lived in Gainesville, 
was married to a UF professor of 30 years 
who worked in the soils and water science 
department. I couldn’t believe the story since I only knew about my parents go-
ing to and meeting at UF.
Thanks to family stories, I re-
alize I am able to enjoy some of 
the same spaces they did because 
of conservation and sustainable 
practices.
Sustainability is everywhere 
on campus: the notices for recy-
cling and electricity in dorms, wa-
ter reﬁ  ll and bike repair stations 
and compostable paper towels in the bath-
rooms. You can ﬁ  nd out about initiatives and 
how to go green across campus at the Ofﬁ  ce 
of Sustainability’s site.
UF is recognized for many environmental 
achievements like an Audubon International 
certiﬁ  cation. The master plan for campus 
includes conservation elements to preserve 
the unique ecosystems across campus. There 
are 31 conservation areas, some available to 
explore like walking trails or Lake Wauburg.
Part of UF culture seems to be appreciat-
ing nature and community.
Nature meets in-
doors as vines climb 
brick and windows 
overlook green spaces. 
Students convene at 
Krishna lunch on the 
Plaza of the Americas 
or study hanging in a hammock by Lake Al-
ice. UF bucket list items include plenty of na-
ture and should include participating in some 
sort of preservation project, like working in 
the Field and Fork Pantry garden or partici-
pating in a Sustainability UF event so future 
students can continue to enjoy the natural 
spaces that give UF its name: The Swamp.
As the tune goes, “in all kinds of weath-
er” people across campus work to sustain 
campus and its natural history and environ-
ment through education, conservation and 
clean-ups.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column comes out Tuesday and 
Thursday.THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!
Florida State University 
President John Thrasher 
announced this week that 
the university will be re-
moving a controversial 
statue of one of its founders, 
Francis W. Eppes.
Eppes was the grandson of 
former President Thomas Jef-
ferson and owned up to 91 
slaves. He was on the side of 
the Confederacy at the time of the Civil 
War and has been called “especially rac-
ist” by Thrasher. He was a mayor of Tal-
lahassee and donated money and land, 
which led to the creation of Florida State 
University.
A student referendum in 2016 shot 
down plans to remove the statue with 
71 percent of students voting to keep the 
statue in place. Thrasher, advised by his 
Advisory Panel on University Namings 
and Recognitions, decided the statue will 
be removed because, in addition to his 
racism, Eppes’ role as founder is “over-
stated.”
College Republi-
cans of FSU released 
a statement regarding 
this decision. They 
claimed the president 
had “...(caved) to the 
whims of a loud minority...” and “...it 
simply ignores (Eppes’) generosity.” 
The issued statement has some logical 
ﬂ  aws. It says that “today is a dark moment 
in the otherwise shining history of Florida 
State University,” but then goes on to say 
“we don’t condone Mr. Eppes’s owner-
ship of slaves...” This doesn’t make sense 
because it was directly Eppes ownership 
of slaves and the land that he owned as 
a plantation that allowed him to form the 
university. Calling this history a “shining” 
one seems like a reach.
Then the letter quotes George Santaya-
na saying “‘Those who cannot remember 
the past are condemned to repeat it.’ We 
can only pray — likely futilely — that we 
will be an exception to this rule.” Likely 
futilely? What does that mean? Are they saying they see some kind of 
slavery comeback in the fu-
ture? In this statement, they 
have indirectly acknowledged 
certain members of the country 
are open to returning to a state 
of discrimination and oppres-
sion.
The College Republicans of 
FSU have failed to understand 
the importance of context in 
history. By removing the statue, Thrash-
er’s intentions were not to erase history. 
There is a difference between remember-
ing and honoring. In this country, a stat-
ute is reserved as a symbol of honor. We 
raise memorials to people who should be 
example citizens. Choosing not to honor 
someone doesn’t equate to forgetting his-
tory.
In 2017, only 8.3 percent of students 
at FSU were black. This makes the fact 
that only 29 percent of students voted for 
the removal unsurprising. Black students 
make up a minority of the school, but I 
think their say in the 
matter should be con-
sidered equally if not 
more than non-black 
students because 
their ancestors could 
have been directly 
oppressed by Eppes. Not to mention the 
hostile on-campus environment that could 
be created because of an intimidating stat-
ue that almost encourages racism.
There are plenty of ways to acknowl-
edge Eppes’ good deeds while providing 
context. When we talk about how he con-
tributed to the creation of FSU, we have to 
tell the story from all angles. Explaining 
the fact that he owned slaves puts the sto-
ry into the true context and allows people 
to make up their own minds as to his char-
acter. Accurate history is taught through 
honest textbooks and museums — not by 
glorifying individuals with icons.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising ju-
nior. Her column comes out Tuesday and 
Thursday.FSU’s removal of a statue of a 
slave-owner is progressiveColumn Column
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.orgBy taking care of the environment, 
you take care of the future
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
“Part of UF culture seems to be 
appreciating nature and community.”
Sophie Feinberg
Alligator columnist“Accurate history is taught through 
honest textbooks and museums.”
Layla Soboh
Alligator columnistTHURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Get that natural summer glow!
T ake a look at page 9 for our summer tips on how to 
get the seasons natural beauty trend.Photos from High Dive’s epic 7th birthday: 
Check out page 9 for photos and details about the downtown 
venue’s annual celebration.By Lindsey Brenemen
Avenue Writer
Gainesville has a chance to stop and smell the 
ﬂ  owers this weekend when Catherine Yu’s new 
play “The Day is Long to End” premieres.
The sweet, supple smell of fresh ﬂ  owers will 
saturate the air and color will transform the Black 
Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre 
and Dance Pavilion into a ﬂ  orist shop in 1934 
Vienna today through Sunday. It is the ﬁ  rst time 
this show will be performed for the public. A story 
about ﬁ  nding beauty in chaos, hope in darkness 
and understanding one’s place in an uncertain 
world emerges onto the stage with Danny Shar-
ron’s direction.
“The play takes place in a ﬂ  ower shop with a 
group of ﬂ  orists who are being challenged by their 
notions of beauty and their values for staying in a 
country that is in deep political unrest,” said Yu.
A few years ago, Yu, 31, heard of a special ﬂ  ow-
er shop. A classical shop resistant to any changes 
of the modern world, a home for a collection of ﬂ  o-
rists in love with their craft, a sanctuary for people 
dedicated to the art form of ﬂ  ower arrangements. 
This shop is called Blumenkraft.
Intrigued, she saved up enough money to ﬂ  y 
to Vienna and study the shop for a week. Yu hung 
around on the sidelines of the shop and observed.
Then she returned to New York City. And she 
wrote.
Yu was already a budding playwright with two 
degrees from Stanford University and New York 
University, respectively, and two award-winning 
plays under her belt. In 2015, she wrote “The Day 
is Long to End” and placed the original story in 
New York. She teamed up with her friend of 10 
years, Sharron, 32, and together they produced a 
reading. Then, she put it in a drawer.
Two years later, the world seemed entirely dif-
ferent. The 2016 election launched America into a 
period of utter turmoil. Yu started to draw parallels 
to an era she had been studying for another proj-
ect: the 1930s in Europe. She decided to reopen 
the drawer.
Meanwhile, Sharron, an alumni of UF School of 
Theatre and Dance, was speaking to Jerry Dickey, 
the director of his alma mater. According to Shar-
ron, Dickey has a unique interest in preparing his 
students for the realities of producing a new piece 
of theater. He was pleasantly surprised by this de-
velopment which was not present when he was in 
the school 10 years prior.
As the founding artistic director of Brooklyn’s 
UglyRhino Productions, Sharron was involved in 
multiple productions at once. He knew Dickey 
wanted something that had a larger cast, to afford 
more students the opportunity to be involved. He 
sent a few options, but ultimately the two decided 
on “The Day is Long to End.”
Sharron said being in Gainesville has been im-
portant for the production in more ways than one. 
The quiet, lack of pressure and absence of distrac-
tions has allowed Yu and Sharron to develop the 
play much more deeply than they would have 
been able to in New York, where they both typical-
ly live. On top of that, Sharron said the department 
has made this one of the most supportive projects 
he has ever been involved in.
When Sharron and Yu needed a ﬂ  orist, the de-
partment connected them with Debbie Rowland. She imparted much of her 45 years of ﬂ  oristry wis-
dom in a crash course workshop for the entire cast 
last week.
Nowadays, most plays have small casts: two or 
three actors because of the need for low budgets. 
However, this play has 13 actors and 15 charac-
ters. 
“It’s been a challenge in the best way, too,” 
Sharron said  “Plays like this don’t come along 
very often.”
The cast agrees. Keifer MacDonald, 24, is par-
ticularly thankful for his role in the construction of 
his character, Stefan. He is in his second year of 
the Master of Fine Arts in acting program and has 
been acting since he was in high school, but this 
was his ﬁ  rst experience working with an estab-
lished playwright and director changing things ev-
eryday throughout the developmental residency.  
Katie Haeuser, 29, plays Aleksandra, Stefan’s 
love interest. 
“We are the ﬁ  rst people to bring these charac-
ters to life which is always an interesting and kind 
of exhilarating moment to have,” she said. 
In a production set among dozens of live ﬂ  ow-
ers arranged by a professional ﬂ  orist, Yu’s com-
mand of language is the aspect of the play the stars 
of the show say is the most beautiful. Haeuser and 
MacDonald said she takes lofty ideas and manages 
to make them accessible in a way that could either 
be spoken in everyday life or written in poetry.
Sharron insists theater is the only medium that 
can immerse the audience in the sights and smells 
of live ﬂ  owers which are so intrinsic to the story.
Audiences can experience this at 7:30 p.m. 
Thursday through Sunday, and again at 2 p.m. 
Sunday.The theatre awakens
THEATRE
TF Guntrup
Katie Haeuser and Keifer McDonald 
star in “The Day is Long to End. ”By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
Rock music isn’t dead; it’s just taking 
a smoke break.
This weekend, The Backyard at Boca 
Fiesta will hold a lighter up for local 
Florida rock. At 10 p.m. Saturday, the 
venue will host Golden Pelicans, Gino 
and the Goons, Curleys, and EW. The 
event costs $5 and will last until 2 a.m.
In 2009, former Against Me! drum-
mer Warren Oakes parted ways with the 
band to create Boca Fiesta in downtown 
Gainesville. Shortly after, Oakes estab-
lished The Backyard, a performance and 
event venue, in the adjacent courtyard. 
The spirit of Against Me! — the frugal 
ﬂ  air, the anti-idealism and the bombastic 
do-it-yourself attitude — lives on in the 
performances at The Backyard. And it is 
within this atmosphere that musicians 
like Erik Grincewicz (Golden Pelicans) 
and Gino Bambino (Gino and the Goons) 
are able to thrive.
Grincewicz (vocals), along with Rich 
Evans (drums), Scott Barnes and Sam-
my Meneses formed Golden Pelicans in 
2011. The group, all in their mid- to late-
thirties, look like a gang of debauched 
rooﬁ  ng contractors, and their sound is 
just as mean, sweaty and hard-hitting.
“We play the music you would like 
to hear in a dark bar,” Grincewicz said. 
“Some people want to hear the Aqua-
bats; I want to hear Jesse Hector.”
Inﬂ  uenced by acts like AC/DC, Alice 
Cooper and Judas Priest, Golden Peli-cans incorporate an element of fear into 
their live performances. With tracks like 
“Pissing in a Puddle of Puke,” “Mag-
gots” and “It Ain’t Psychedelic (Unless 
You Kill Someone),” it is difﬁ  cult not to 
feel intimidated by these hard rock musi-
cians.
You really shouldn’t be scared of 
Golden Pelicans’ attitude. The guitars 
may sound wrathful, but it’s really just 
hyper enthusiastic fear, Grincewicz said.
The same can be said about Gino 
and the Goons, a Tampa hard rock that 
Grincewicz is particularly fond of.
“Gino and the Goons are the best 
damn party band in the land folks,” 
Grincewicz said. “You will know every-
one of their songs by the time they walk 
off stage.”
Gino and the Goons frontman Gino 
Bambino said he likes to keep things 
simple. For him and T-bone Jones (bass-
ist), trying to ﬁ  t into genres and catego-
ries is annoying.
“T-bone and I write songs that we 
like,” Bambino said. “If other people like 
them, then great. If they don’t, that’s ﬁ  ne 
too.”
Bambino is a new-age relic from a 
time forgotten. His pleasures are all guilt-
free and his mantra is simple: sex, drugs, 
death and rock ’n’ roll.
Both Bambino and Grincewicz re-
mind listeners of the original simplicity 
of unadulterated rock music. You don’t 
need money, glitz or glamour — you just 
need good music, good friends and good 
beer.Florida rock bands take 
center stage Saturday at 
The Backyard
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Golden Pelicans pose for a late-night photo. Golden Pelicans’ 
latest EP , “Disciples of Blood, ” covers a variety of darker themes.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Tired? Hung over?  
Long night of studying?
We’ve got a vitamin drip or vitamin booster shot for that!
352.792.6811
www.revivalivlounge.com
3300 SW Archer Road, Suite 110RECHARGE. REPLENISH. REVIVE.
Students discounts available.   
T ext VITAMINS to 33222 
for discounts and specials.
Customer Appreciation Event. July 23-28
25% off all services.  All vitamin infusion appointments 
will be entered into a raffle for a free drip.
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsBy Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
As the summer season heat ris-
es, skin care is becoming increas-
ingly important. Once Kylie Jenner 
removed her lip ﬁ  llers, health and 
beauty enthusiasts alike knew that 
this was the summer of a healthy, 
natural appearance.
Here are a few of the unpleasant 
effects of the sun and how to com-
bat them naturally with some items 
that can be found around the house.
Oily Skin: Typically, oil coming 
from the skin means your skin is 
moisturizing itself. However, time 
in the sun can cause your skin to 
produce excess oil and lead to acne 
breakouts. To prevent excess oil 
from clogging your pores, use ap-
ple cider vinegar as a great natural 
cleanser that also provides its own 
moisture.
Wrinkly Skin: Too much sun 
exposure overtime can cause the 
skin to lose elasticity. To get the 
spring back in your skin, use aloe 
vera and lemon. Both ingredients help regain ﬁ  rmness in the skin, 
and the lemon, with it’s vitamin 
C, helps the skin produce collagen, 
giving skin back its natural plump-
ness.
Discoloration: Sun spots, red-
ness, hyperpigmentation; this type 
of discoloration of the skin can be 
caused from sun exposure. Lately, 
a lot of make-up videos have shown 
the use of what seems like just fan-
cy water, but rose water has a lot 
of beneﬁ  ts. Rose water works as an 
effective, light toner to keep your 
complexion even and clear.
Dry or dehydrated skin: It’s 
summer, which means it’s hot and 
you sweat. Sweating can cause you 
to lose a lot of water. The most 
natural way to regain moisture is, 
of course, drinking water. However, 
sometimes that isn’t enough. For a 
deep overnight hydrating treatment, 
rinse your face in cold water, and 
then use coconut oil. The oil pen-
etrates the skin to restore moisture, 
and as a bonus, it restores collagen 
to make you look like you’ve never 
dealt with stress in your life.Natural remedies for the 
natural summer look
LIFESTYLE
By Lindsey Brenemen
Avenue Writer
Four Florida bands rocked High 
Dive last Friday for its seventh 
birthday party.
The Supervillains, a reggae rock 
band from Orlando, ﬁ  nished their 
summer tour last weekend. Dominic 
Maresco, lead vocalist and drum-
mer, expressed how great it was to 
be back in Florida, during the show. 
They may have been there for 
Supervillains, but the house went 
wild for the openers, too. The night 
started with 2ndhnd6toys. Then 
Tamayo took the stage. This mix 
of undergraduate and graduate 
students has only been together of-
ﬁ  cially since January, but they per-
formed as if it’s been much longer.
Next up: Skunkape, another reg-
gae rock band, was the perfect pre-
decessor to the Supervillains. This 
Ocala band is up-and-coming with 
its ﬁ  rst headlining show approach-
ing next month. The bandmates 
have a palpable chemistry, and Tay-
lor Johnson, the lead singer, has a 
talent for vitalizing a crowd.
The night was a roaring event to 
celebrate one of Gainesville’s gems: 
High Dive.The Supervillains at High Dive
MUSIC
Lindsey Brenemen
T op: T aylor Johnson from Skunkape gets face-to face 
with the crowd.
Bottom: Ken Hill from Skunkape shreds at High Dive.
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
According to recent UF gradu-
ate Nicole Cannon, vintage is 
back and better than ever. 
Cannon has expressed her 
love for vintage clothing since 
she was 16. She developed this 
unique sense of style in her soph-
omore year of high school, when 
she began to realize that none of 
the clothes in stores ﬁ  t her taller 
frame quite right. 
“The clothes I’d buy weren’t 
appropriate for school or audi-
tions because I was just starting 
to get into theater,” Cannon said. 
“My theater teacher, who was re-
ally into costuming and vintage 
clothing, referred me to thrift 
stores to ﬁ  nd better pieces for my 
wardrobe.”
Cannon explained how she 
stumbled upon really unique pieces for really cheap. 
“I was able to assemble a 
wardrobe so much faster because 
it was so much cheaper than buy-
ing retail,” Cannon said. 
As her style journey began, 
Cannon said she found many 
unique pieces at thrift stores and 
began to put them together in 
different ways to create her own 
wardrobe.
Cannon’s inspiration for her 
style stemmed from her research 
on old movies from the golden 
age of Hollywood. Most of this in-
spiration came from the women 
of the 1940s and 1950s, such as 
Grace Kelly, Rita Hayworth, Betty 
Grable and, of course, none other 
than the iconic Marilyn Monroe. 
“I just think (Monroe) wore 
clothes so beautifully and had 
such a beautiful style. It was sim-
ple but sexy but not overly pro-
vocative,” Cannon said.Cannon maintains a belief 
that there is still a place for vin-
tage clothing in today’s fashion. 
She is most excited by the “blast 
from the past” that is the high-
waisted trend, as well as the clas-
sic little black dress, pant suits 
and rompers. 
“I also love the high-waisted 
cigarette pants…. high-waisted 
skinny jean, only less skinny at 
the ankle. I love a good pencil 
skirt - always a classic!” 
Essentially, she believes that 
there is a less-is-more quality of 
style making a comeback into 
fashion with classics such as the 
one-piece. Looks that leave a lit-
tle more to the imagination are a 
returning trend. 
“It’s less about what you wear 
and actually about how you wear 
the clothes that makes your style 
stand out,” said Cannon.
She incorporates her vin-tage inspiration into her every-
day style by working parts and 
pieces, like vintage accessories 
and jewelry, into each outﬁ  t. Ac-
cessories may include a vintage 
scarf, purse or pair of shoes. Can-
non will peruse stores like Target 
and Old Navy for items with a 
vintage-styled silhouette or pat-
tern, and go from there with her 
more special pieces. 
“I’ll use that as a base for the 
outﬁ  t and add all the other vin-
tage accessories on top of it to 
give it a much more understated, 
casual, but still vintage look to 
it,” said Cannon.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
Kerry Washington’s run on TV may have 
ended with hit show “Scandal,” but that 
doesn’t mean she’s taking a break from televi-
sion altogether. 
On June 4, Facebook premiered “Five 
Points” on their Facebook Watch platform, a 
series that Washington produces.
The series tagline during all promotion has 
been “One story told ﬁ  ve different ways.” The 
show stars ﬁ  ve teens in high school: Tosh 
(Madison Pettis), Lexi (Hayley Kiyoko), CJ 
(Raymond Cham Jr.), Eric (Spence Moore II) 
and Wallace (Nathaniel Potvin).
Though it took a while to build up, this se-
ries provided a decent amount of storytelling 
for such a short series. The 10 episode season 
only adds up to about an hour of content, leav-
ing little room for extraneous scenes or details.
The ﬁ  rst four episodes of the series were 
released online June 4. Based on those initial 
episodes, it seems like the show will have one 
day that is focused on for the week of release. 
However, the events of that day will be told 
from the perspective of each main character.
Interestingly, the series information and 
promotional snippets say the teens are go-
ing to be talking about a day that drastically changed their lives; yet, the audience has no 
idea what that event is or when it will occur.
The mystery of what this grand event is 
should entice viewers to keep watching. Be-
sides the often alluded to life-changing event, 
huge things have already happened to the 
teens in the ﬁ  rst few episodes, which makes plot development for the individuals even 
more intriguing.
While the ﬁ  rst four episodes are a bit of a 
dramatic build-up, without giving away spoil-
ers, the episodes following do provide much 
drama or answers to the basis of the series.
On July 9, the show posted its season ﬁ  -nale. In the ﬁ  nale, fans get a new perspective 
added to the story to uncover the truth behind 
all of the events that have occurred and dis-
rupted the lives of these high school students. 
Press for the Adam Giaudrone-directed 
show began in late 2017 and piqued the inter-
ests of many TV enthusiasts due to this unique 
platform of Facebook Watch.
Watch is the social network’s attempt to 
get into the video streaming and on-demand 
service industry. The service premiered in Au-
gust 2017.
The programming plan includes drawing 
from Facebook’s byproducts like Instagram. 
It will also include elements from YouTube, 
Twitter and live traditional television.
Right now, Facebook is only allowing cer-
tain people to make shows through the service 
by way of application process, but after some 
time they will eventually let anyone create 
their own content.
While there is no word on a second season, 
many fans are hoping that there is more story 
to tell as the show continues. There is so much 
room to further develop.
I would recommend the show in order 
for people to experience the new Facebook 
Watch, which is executed very well, but I 
don’t think the storyline is anything to run to 
your friends about.UF graduate rocks vintage style all day, every day
Series review of the week: Facebook Watch’s ‘Five Points’
STYLE/FASHION
TELEVISION
Facebook Watch
Five Points is Facebook Watch’s newest series, helping to launch the platform 
into the spotlight.
Emma McAvoy
Cannon sports this vintage 
look for an afternoon out 
on the town with a quick ice 
cream cone.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
Roommate wanted, students only! Half mile 
to campus and on the bus route. Private 1 
bed/bath in a 2/2.5 townhouse with W/D. 
Brand new everything, just remodeled floor -
ing, kitchen with stainless and granite, brand 
new bathrooms, freshly painted and more. 
$800/ month includes all utilities and internet, 
cable, HOA. Please call 321-243-0916 for all 
other details.    7-24-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS.  Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
Lake Property Foreclosure Resale
Originally sold for: $109,900
Liquidation Price: $29,900
Upscale Community
Watch Video: www. LakeLotsCloseout.com
877-712-3650
Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC.    7-19-
1-5
Real Estate Auction- Sylacauga, AL, 515+/- 
acres in city limits, near US. Highways 280 
&amp; 231 offered in our parcels, combi -
nations and/or entirety. July 26, 1:00 pm. 
Gtauctions.com, 1.205-326.0833. Granger, 
Thagard & Associates, Inc., Jack F. Granger, 
#873.    7-19-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Tuesday, July 24th at 10:00 AM
1883 Marina Mile Blvd. (SR 84), Ste 106, 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315
Featuring Bankruptcy case assets: Men’s 
authentic Omega watch, office equipment, 
flatscreen TV’s, electronics, high-end execu -
tive chairs and more! 10%-13% BP.
Featuring Assignment for the Benefit of 
Creditors case assets: Large qty. of desktop 
computers, laptops, tablets, office furniture, 
office equipment, mobile data collection 
equipment, 2013 Triumph Motorcycle, 2004 
Ford E-350 Super Duty Cutaway Conversion 
Van, electronics, men’s authentic Rolex 
watch and more! 15% -18% BP.
Catalog and photos available at www.moec -
kerauctions.com
Assets of various Cases (case numbers list -
ed on our website)
Preview: Day of sale 9 AM to 10 AM - $100 
refundable cash deposit to register. (800) 
840-BIDS - info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin    7-19-1-410
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com  1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N  7-19-1-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$1850/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-19-18-4-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1600/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $950/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
7-31-5-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Seeking part-time copy editor/technical writ -
er. Must have prior editorial/copy editing ex -
perience and must have advanced grammar 
knowledge. Rate is $12/hour. Please send 
resume and cover letter to pda@gue.com.  
7-19-18-5-14
DISH WASHERS NEEDED!
Join our team, new restaurant
opening in Celebration Pointe
$8.50/hr with opportunities for advancement 
for hard working individuals
Reasonable work load and hours, breaks 
provided. 
Please contact tevins72@gmail.com
or midicigville@gmail.com if interested
7-31-18-5-14
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR INSECT 
REPELLENT RESEARCH STUDY AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
UF IRB#201700763
We are seeking volunteers for participation in 
a study of insect repellents and how they will 
prevent bites from mosquitoes in a field set -
ting. Participants must be between the ages of 
18 and 55. The study will take up to 6 visits to 
complete (compensation is provided per visit). 
If you would like to participate or you would 
like more information please contact the study 
director Emma N.I. Weeks Ph.D., Phone 352-
273-3954, email: eniweeks@ufl.edu     7-26-
18-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which U.S. 
president was the shortest?
2. HISTORY: What agreement pro-
vided for the dissolution of the former 
Soviet Union?
3. LITERATURE: Which book in 
the Harry Potter series has a mythical 
creature in its title?
4. TELEVISION: Who played Thur -
ston Howell III on “Gilligan’s Island”?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
method that involves cooking food in 
sealed bags, usually in water?
6. GAMES: What company intro-
duced the “Hot Wheels” toys and 
games?
7. GEOGRAPHY: How many U.S. 
states border the Gulf of Mexico?
8. SCIENCE: What element makes 
up 47 percent of the Earth’s crust?
9. ART: Which art movements was 
painter Max Ernst associated with?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a 
group of kangaroos called?
Answers
1. James Madison, 5 foot 4
2. The Belavezha Accords
3. “Harry Potter and the Order of the 
Phoenix”
4. Jim Backus
5. Sous-vide
6. Mattel
7. Five: Texas, Louisiana, Mississip-
pi, Alabama and Florida 
8. Oxygen
9. Dada and Surrealism
10. A troop or mob
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 16, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 12 AutosTHURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    7-19-
1-16  
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 7/23- 7/26 
from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; 
Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach -
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then 
"workshops” to register.      7-19-18-2-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 New England
sch.
6 Dominant
11 Chest protector
14 Up
15 Stunt cyclist, e.g.
16 Valuable
extraction
17 Exhale over
scalding coffee?
19 Bit of muesli
20 Mariners’ home,
familiarly
21 Bilingual subj.
22 July 4th events,
briefly
23 Five-O cop
25 James or Jones
of jazz
27 Discontinue
slanted material
in articles?
32 Letters of
urgency
34 Long of “In Too
Deep”
35 Broad neckwear
36 One in an airport
queue
37 Talking points?
40 Memorable 1969
bride
41 Harry’s Hogwarts
nemesis
43 Letters in an
unfilled sched.
slot
44 From the top
45 Visit some animal
shelter
residents?
49 Classroom “I
know! I know!”
50 First name in
country
51 Did a number
54 Small application
56 Ear inflammation
60 Fire
61 Delay passing a
congressional
bill?
63 General Mills
cereal
64 Metal giant
65 Debate topic
66 Id follower?
67 Conductor Zubin
68 Arms treaty subj.DOWN
1 Cities, informally
2 Kunis of “Black
Swan”
3 Starting on
4 Clinched
5 Treaded winter
vehicle
6 Wikipedia lacks
them
7 Untimely?
8 Like alarm clocks
9 Part of HMO
10 Half of a very
high price?
11 Schmo
12 Green Zone
country
13 Action at the
track
18 “That’s all wrong!”
22 Streisand, in
fanzines
24 “The Wizard __”
26 They usually end
up in hot water
27 Plotting group
28 Hill of country
29 iPhone array
30 Top-drawer
31 Stash
32 Adapter letters33 “Waitress” Tony
nominee
Bareilles
37 “Hunny” lover
38 Lyft alternative
39 Fashioned from
42 Heavy shoe
44 Saying nay to
46 Plant root growth
47 Pastoral roofing
48 Get one’s hands
on51 Sushi go-with
52 Allies’ enemy
53 Coming right up
55 One in an UGG
box
57 Shock, in a way
58 Post-op areas
59 “Leave it in” mark
61 Bobby’s wife on
“Dallas”
62 Pilot-licensing
org.
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/19/1807/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 19, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Moo __ pork
4 Low-level
employment
9 Starz competitor
12 Police
14 Sweet text
15 “No argument”
16 “Don’t make __
hard!”
17 Drew (in)
18 Backwoods
possessive
19 “__, Brute?”
20 Some ski lifts
21 “It is the __, and
Juliet is the sun”:
Romeo
22 “How cool!”
24 Former JFK
lander
25 “Burnt” pigment
26 Comic strip
woman who
married Irving
27 Baja bear
28 Mac
29 Language suffix
30 Prefaced
33 Au pair’s subj.
34 Many Olympic
events
35 Wolfs (down)
40 Vistula River city
46 Chef’s hat
47 Little untruth
50 Ewe-ish?
51 Uncertainty
52 Master
53 Medieval
weapons
54 Completes a
road test
maneuver ... or
the answers to
starred clues, as
arranged
57 Game before the
finals
58 Doughnut finish
59 Analogy words
61 __ II razor
62 One wearing
gloves to work
63 Poolroom array
64 Tax form IDs
65 Pipsqueak
66 Omar of 
“House”DOWN
1 *It may be
political
2 Starbucks
purchases
3 Lake Placid, 
vis-à-vis 
New York City
4 Jazz
vibraphonist
Jackson
5 Spritzer mixer
6 *Period in the
Age of Reptiles
7 Intimation
8 Blossoms-to-be
9 Subject to court
judgment
10 Common paella
ingredients
11 *New Orleans
time zone
13 *Deep __
15 *Main idea
23 Skinny toon
Olive
25 Mysterious craft
31 Stammering
sounds
32 Disapproving
sound
35 Criterion: Abbr.36 Craftsmen paid
by the barrel?
37 Atlantis dweller of
comics
38 Protocols
39 Greek cheese
41 Tomato variety
42 Greed
43 Creates, as a
fuss
44 Ragtime dance
45 Director Craven47 Uncultivated, as
farmland
48 Mountaineer’s
aid
49 Richard of “Law
& Order: SVU”
55 Pride parade
letters
56 Heist puller
57 City map parts:
Abbr.
60 CIA predecessor
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/18/1807/18/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, July 18, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Trial ____
1.  ____ support5.  May, for example
2.  Microsoft ____6.  Unit of weight
3.  Fuel additive  7.  Refuge
4.  Make goodWRELAY
UBALRMHOMTN
CUNEO
OIWWSND
HNEOLATUMLSAY
MEDEERANSWERS: 1A-Lawyer  5A-Month  6A-Ounce  7A-Asylum
1D-Lumbar  2D-Windows  3D-Ethanol  4D-Redeem  B-Blue whale7-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: A ____ ____ can reach up 
to 98 feet in length.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/NoticesJennifer Rocha is leaving 
her associate head coach job 
with UF softball for the same 
position at Oklahoma. She 
spent the last 13 seasons at 
Florida. MACHADO IS A DODGER
The Baltimore Orioles traded All-Star shortstop Manny Machado to the Los 
Angeles Dodgers for five prospects. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
Alligator Staff Report
In the 2017-2018 season, UF 
had several athletes who shined 
seemingly out of nowhere. We, at 
the Alligator, nominated five ath-
letes for Most Improved Player of 
the Year: Volleyball outside hitter 
Shainah Joseph, football defen-
sive lineman Taven Bryan, base-
ball third baseman Jonathan In-
dia, golfer Andy Zhang and soccer 
midfielder Mayra Pelayo. Our staff 
doesn’t appear to be in agreement, 
as you can see here: 
Andrew: I was a beat writer for 
the 2017 volleyball team and saw 
the standard of excellence that 
Mary Wise’s team adhered to, day 
in and day out. Shainah Joseph  
exemplifies that.
So allow me to shine a light (or 
should I say, “Shainah light”) on a 
name many outside of the UF vol-
leyball following may be unfamil-
iar with.
She’s a Canadian-born, 6-foot-1 
outside hitter with a 40.5-inch ver-
tical jump, who developed into a 
formidable offensive threat, as well 
as the team’s emotional leader.
Joseph’s talent, grit and athletic 
ability crescendoed into a memo-
rable end to her Gators career. Un-
like other stars on that team, like 
teammates Carli Snyder and Rha-
mat Alhassan, Joseph waited pa-
tiently for the spotlight – and did 
not disappoint once she found it.
She set career-highs in virtu-
ally every statistical category last 
year: offense, defense, you name 
it. But her improvements weren’t 
just from 2016 to 2017. Joseph 
turned it up to another level mid-
way through last season. Her scor-
ing totals from the first 16 games 
almost doubled during the last 16. She was another legitimate threat 
to score on a team that already 
boasted superior firepower than 
most around. 
She became someone irreplace-
able, largely responsible for the 
team’s best season in a while: a 
30-2 record, SEC title and a nation-
al championship appearance.
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org
Brendan: I’m going to have to 
go with Taven Bryan here for a 
couple reasons. First, he went from 
being on nobody’s radar to first-
round pick in the NFL seemingly 
overnight. Secondly, his path just 
to make it this far is truly remark-
able.
After being buried on the depth chart behind the likes of Caleb 
Brantley, Joey Ivie and Jon Bullard 
for his first two seasons, Bryan fi-
nally became a starter last season. 
In 10 games, he more than dou-
bled his tackles total from 16 to 37, 
doubled his tackles for loss (3.0 
to 6.0) and his four sacks, up one 
from the year before, were second 
on the team. 
In one season, Bryan went from 
being a depth piece to a first-round 
pick in the 2018 NFL Draft. If that’s 
not a significant improvement, I 
don’t know what is.
Since 1921, only 38 players 
from Wyoming have ever made it 
to the NFL, and Bryan is the first to 
be selected in the first round since 
2001 (Adam Archuleta). Not to 
mention, Bryan was only a three-
star prospect coming out of high school and was originally recruited 
to be an offensive tackle before be-
ing moved to defense. 
Simply put, people from Bryan’s 
background don’t become blue-
chip prospects and NFL starters. 
If there was a bright spot on the 
football team last season, it cer-
tainly has to be the emergence of 
Taven Bryan.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
 
Chris: Jonathan India, not a 
doubt in my mind. 
From a relatively obscure pros-
pect to the No. 5 pick in this year’s 
MLB Draft, India dominated this 
season.
Just flat-out dominated.
The third baseman touted a .350 batting average, a .497 on-
base percentage and an OPS of 
1.214. Those are three RIDICU-
LOUS numbers, but it doesn’t re-
ally stop there.
He went on a 24-game hit streak 
and mashed 21 home runs and 52 
RBIs as well.
But why were his numbers such 
a surprise?
Let’s rewind to the 2017 season.
He batted .274, had an OBP of 
.354 and an OPS of .783. So this 
year, his batting average was al-
most the same as his on-base per-
centage a year before. His OBP 
went up over 140 points and his 
OPS saw an incredulous rise of al-
most 450 points.
India helped carry Florida 
through the Gainesville Super Re-
gional and into the College World 
Series.
His 2018 accolades speak for 
themselves. He was a First-Team 
All-American, First-Team All-SEC, 
and made the SEC All-Defensive 
Team. India also won the SEC 
Player of the Year award and was 
a semifinalist for the Golden Spikes 
Award, which honors the top play-
er in college baseball.
The now-Cincinnati Red also 
smoked some home runs that had 
significant distance on them. I can 
specifically recall multiple times 
during the Gainesville Regional 
and Super Regional where he 
parked balls off the O’Connell Cen-
ter deep past the left-field fence. 
On several occasions after a home 
run, I wondered if it was the far-
thest hit ball I’d ever seen at McK-
ethan Stadium.
This kid raked, and he’ll con-
tinue to do so in the pros.
He’s my Most Improved Player 
of the Year.alligatorSports Awards: Most Improved Player of the Year
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16
FOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Tuesday at SEC Media Days was 
the Dan Mullen parade. 
The first-year Florida coach took 
a break from being a golf caddy for 
his son to strut around in orange and 
blue Jordans and reveal a little bit 
about the state of the program under his tenure. And of course, defensive 
end CeCe Jefferson, offensive tackle 
Martez Ivey and linebacker David 
Reese were there, too.  
Here’s what we learned from the 
Gators’ media event:
Mullen is very comfortable 
with his surroundings
Jim McElwain never looked close to this relaxed when he was UF’s 
head ball coach. 
How can I tell? McElwain never 
put his feet on the table during a me-
dia event, revealing his “swagged-
out” Jordans. 
“I’ve got more swag than CeCe 
(Jefferson) does,” Mullen said. 
The coach is not only comfortable 
in a $200 pair of basketball shoes, he puts tremendous trust in the coaches 
under him, a characteristic he said 
he didn’t have when he took the 
Mississippi State job 10 years ago. 
“Boy, I was a control freak,” he 
said. “I was paranoid. I had to do ev-
erything myself.”
Now with assistants like defen-
sive coordinator Todd Grantham, 
who Mullen called “the best defen-sive coordinator I’ve been around,” 
(and that includes Charlie Strong) 
he gives his coaches greater power 
and control and trusts that they’ll do 
their job to his expectations.
The kicking competition is 
wide open
The Gators have four kickers on Three things we learned about UF from SEC Media DaysAlligator File Photo
Redshirt senior Shainah Joseph broke out in UF's final 16 games, almost doubling her scoring totals from 
early in the season. She helped the Gators to a 30-2 record and a national championship appearance. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
GOLF
The Associated Press
CARNOUSTIE, Scotland (AP) — The eve of 
the British Open felt like cramming for a final 
exam, a multiple choice one with no obvious 
answers.
The wind that blows off the North Sea 
across the exposed links of Carnoustie has 
not been the primary concern during practice 
rounds. Players have a reasonable idea how far 
the ball travels in the air. They just don’t know 
how far it goes on the ground.
“If you get it downwind and you hit that 
little flat draw and it gets running, it will go 
pretty much until it runs into something,” Jus-
tin Thomas said.
That’s not entirely true.
Thomas hit a tee shot on the third hole 
Wednesday afternoon that rolled across the 
humps in the fairway and kept right on rolling. 
It looked as though it would run into a bunker, 
or maybe even the handle of a rake leaning on 
the left edge of the bunker. It missed both and 
eventually came to a stop 232 yards away.
His club off the tee was an 8-iron.
Tiger Woods doesn’t see many occasions to 
hit driver because of how far the ball is roll-
ing across tight links grass that looks dead. It 
hasn’t been this dry since Hoylake in 2006, when Woods hit only one driver all week and 
captured the Open for the third time. This 
might not be much different.
“It’s just hard to keep the ball in play,” he 
said. “It’s going to be an interesting test to see 
which clubs we’re going to be using off the 
tees, and a lot of it is dependent on which way 
the wind blows. So the whole idea of these 
practice rounds is just to get a good feel for 
what I’m going to do, and then adjust accord-
ingly.”
Others are coming to a different conclusion. 
Because while the links are as fast as ever, the 
rough is too thin, too wispy to wreak havoc. 
Dustin Johnson, the No. 1 player in the world, 
figures he’ll hit driver about half the time on 
the 15 holes that are not par 3s. Two-time U.S. 
Open champion Brooks Koepka also is bullish 
on the big stick, saying the driver will come out 
on about eight or nine holes.
Defending champion Jordan Spieth was 
considering his options on the final day of 
practice. On the 415-yard fourth hole, with a 
bunker on the right side of a dogleg left and 
another bunker farther out on the left side, he 
hit a fade over the right bunker. The other op-
tion is a long iron that splits the bunker.
And then Spieth had another idea.
“Aim for the 4?” he asked his caddie, Mi-chael Greller. He then motioned to the gallery 
about 60 yards off the tee to scoot back a bit, 
and Spieth blasted a shot over their heads to-
ward a yellow patch of rough that separates 
the right side of the fourth green from the 15th 
tee. There’s not enough deep grass to get into 
trouble.
The answers will start arriving on Thursday 
when the 147th edition of the British Open — 
and the eighth edition at Carnoustie — gets 
started.
“I think there’s not going to be one player in 
this field that has a game plan on Wednesday 
night and is going to stick to that game plan the 
whole way around for 72 holes,” Rory McIlroy 
said. “It’s just not going to happen with wind 
conditions, with pins. You start to feel a little 
bit more comfortable with a few shots, and you 
might start to take some on.
“Because the golf course is playing so firm 
and fast ... there’s some guys that will see it 
completely different than the way I see it, and 
vice versa,” he said. “It’s going to be really in-
teresting to see how it all plays out.”
Sandy Lyle of Scotland, who won the Open 
in 1985, gets it start with the opening tee shot 
Thursday morning. Spieth, who will try to be-
come the fifth player in the last 50 years to win 
back-to-back in the British Open, plays in the morning side of the draw.
Among those playing in the afternoon are 
Woods, back at the Open for the first time 
since 2015, and Koepka, who will try to be-
come the first player since Woods in that mo-
mentous summer of 2000 to win golf’s two old-
est championships.
Carnoustie is regarded as the toughest of 
the links in any conditions, though it rarely 
sees this kind of yellow-and-brown conditions. 
The ball still rolls on brittle ground into the 
wind. Put the breeze at their backs, and some 
holes will have no more than a wedge into the 
greens.
Johnson hit a 3-iron and a wedge into the 
par-5 14th hole, which measures 513 yards, 
during one practice round. He hit driver into 
the burn — the one by the green — on the 499-
yard closing hole when he arrived Saturday. 
The next day, he scaled back and hit 3-wood 
and sand wedge.
Even so, there is respect for these links.
“If it blows, it’s going to be tough,” Johnson 
said. “And with the ball running, it runs right 
into the bunkers. So you’re still going to have 
to hit good shots, and you’re still going to have 
to play well. The golf course is tough. The par 
3s are tough. Even with the ball running so far, 
the golf course is not playing easy.”British Open presents tough test with no clear answersMany scientists say that dino-
saurs were wiped from the face 
of the Earth by an asteroid. The 
Toronto Raptors are about to meet 
their asteroid.
I’m referring to the Raptors’ 
newly acquired All-NBA forward, 
former Spur Kawhi Leonard. I sup-
pose the firing of coach Dwayne 
Casey, Toronto’s coach of seven 
years – fresh off of leading the 
team to a franchise-record 59 wins 
and the top seed in the Eastern 
Conference – also counts.
Raptors star DeMar DeRozan, 
along with rotation player Ja-
kob Poeltl and a protected 2019 
first-round pick, now reside in 
San Antonio while Leonard and 
shooting guard Danny Green have 
been shipped to Toronto. Neither 
Leonard or DeRozan, by far the 
best players in the deal, seem very 
happy about it.
DeRozan took to Instagram to 
express his frustration with how 
Toronto handled the situation and 
I don’t blame him. Then there’s 
Leonard, who apparently isn’t 
thrilled about playing in Toronto. 
Leonard’s contract expires in a 
year and he has made it clear that 
the Lakers are his preferred desti-
nation via trade or as a free agent. 
I highly doubt that he stays with 
the Raptors past the 2018-19 sea-
son, but there’s also no guarantee 
that Leonard ends up in Los An-
geles. 
There’s buzz about the Lakers picking up All-NBA guard Damian 
Lillard to pair with LeBron James, 
and we have no idea if another A-
lister will join James in L.A. before 
Leonard hits the market next sum-
mer.
But this got me thinking: If 
Kawhi didn’t go to Los Angeles, 
where could he end up?
He could stay in the weaker 
Eastern Conference, where less 
competition stands in the way of 
a Finals run. Boston has the as-
sets to make it happen, but how 
much would making room for 
Kawhi gut the Celtics’ depth? I’d 
imagine Gordon Hayward would 
be out. He plays the same position 
as Leonard and was a high-profile 
free agent a year ago before sign-
ing with Boston. 
Both Hayward and Leonard are 
coming off  significant injuries: 
Kawhi with his quadricep, which 
limited him to nine games last sea-
son, and Hayward, who suffered 
a gruesome leg injury in Boston’s 
season opener against Cleveland 
and missed the final 81 games plus 
the postseason.
And what about Kyrie Irving, 
who left Cleveland to escape the 
shadow of LeBron James? Irving 
might not appreciate adding an-
other player of similar caliber to 
the team. He would no longer be 
the best player on the team, and it 
would only fuel speculations that 
he already wants out of Boston. I 
wouldn’t be surprised if Kawhi’s 
arrival signals Irving’s departure.
The Celtics would still be the 
best team in the East, but is adding 
Leonard a necessary step in their 
progression toward an NBA title?
I could also see him joining 
Philadelphia. Whether or not the 
Sixers were actually close to sign-
ing LeBron before he chose the 
Lakers, nabbing Leonard would be 
the next best thing. They both play the same position and while the 
33-year-old James is the superior 
player today, he will eventually 
age out of his prime. 
Leonard, on the other hand, 
is just 27 and before last year’s 
turbulent season appeared to be 
entering his prime. Also, he’s 
less ball-dominant than LeBron, 
which could make it easier to find 
chemistry with Philadelphia’s star 
point guard Ben Simmons. On top 
of that, Leonard brings a champi-
onship pedigree to a team sorely 
lacking playoff experience.
Leonard, Simmons and Joel 
Embiid would run the East and 
in short time contend for an NBA 
title.
Another team in the East to 
keep an eye on is Indiana. The 
Pacers already have a young star 
who can double as a lockdown de-
fender in Victor Oladipo. Adding 
Leonard to that squad would help 
provide leadership and stability to 
the post-Paul George Indiana.
Of course, there’s a chance he 
ends up back in the Western Con-
ference. Don’t count out the Spurs. 
I know that sounds ridiculous 
at first glance, but imagine Kawhi 
trying to lead an underachieving, 
rebuilding Toronto team through 
the East. He realizes how good he 
had it in San Antonio, how stable 
things were within the Spurs orga-
nization and how lucky he was to 
have a legendary coach in Gregg 
Popovich. 
He’ll have time to gain the nec-
essary perspective in order to clear 
the air with his former team. And 
then the joke’s really on Toronto, 
because he’d go back and line up 
alongside DeRozan, a scary-good 
dynamic duo.
I also like New Orleans. A team 
led by Kawhi and Anthony Da-
vis would sport one of the NBA’s 
best defenses and would ooze star power each time the two shared 
the court together. With DeMarcus 
Cousins gone, there’s another spot 
for a star in the Big Easy and Leon-
ard could be that guy.
Finally, don’t count out Utah. 
Leonard’s desire to play in Los 
Angeles suggests his preference of 
being out of the spotlight may be 
overblown, but I don’t think that means he doesn’t enjoy it. 
The Jazz offer another chance 
to lay low and just play ball, as 
well as a budding star in Donovan 
Mitchell and the reigning Defen-
sive Player of the Year in Rudy 
Gobert.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgLooking into the NBA crystal ball: Kawhi and the Toronto RaptorsHuang Story Short / Opinion
The Associated Press
Despite his prefernce of going to Los Angeles, the San Antonio 
Spurs traded Kawhi Leonard (left) to T oronto Wednesday. 
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @AndrewJHuang16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Evan: If you’re looking for a 
University of Florida athlete that 
truly had a breakout season this 
past year, UF men’s golfer Andy 
Zhang ﬁ  lls that category.
The Beijing, China, native has 
always been ahead of the curve.
Zhang, to this day, is still the 
youngest player to have participat-
ed in the U.S Open. He was only 
14.
So how in the world could he 
be considered a most improved 
performer?
It’s simple, really. He just didn’t live up to expectations his fresh-
man year.
No individual title wins left 
Zhang determined to come back to 
UF instead of turning pro early.
This turned out to be a great 
decision for both Zhang and the 
Florida men’s golf team.
The sophomore ended the 2017-
18 campaign with the best stroke 
average on the team (71.10), along 
with seven top-25 ﬁ  nishes and four 
top-10 ﬁ  nishes.
Zhang was able to pick up his 
ﬁ  rst ever individual championship 
win in style, outlasting Ole Miss 
golfer Cecil Wegener through three 
playoff holes to capture the indi-
vidual title at the SEC Champion-
ship.
He continued his winning ways 
a few weeks later when he won the individual title at the NCAA 
Kissimmee Regional, scoring an 
impressive 13 under.
This summer, Zhang received 
honorable mention All-America 
honors from both PING and Golf-
stat because of his impressive 
sophomore season.
He has already announced he 
plans to turn pro, but one thing’s 
for certain: Andy Zhang will be 
remembered as one of the better 
Gator golfers in school history.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org
Mark: When you look at the 
5-foot-4 midﬁ  elder from West 
Palm Beach, Florida, you may not 
immediately think “Wow, she’s 
physically imposing.”However, Mayra Pelayo was 
one of UF soccer’s most consistent 
forces in 2017. 
The rising senior didn’t show 
much improvement on the stat 
sheet from 2016 to 2017. Actu-
ally, she only had two assists 
compared to nine in 2016, but 
her ability to maintain possession 
with her quick footwork, pickout 
teammates in the box and come 
through in big moments made her 
one of Florida’s most frustrating 
players to defend. 
Pelayo did a lot more than stay 
in the midﬁ  eld for the Gators last 
season. Coach Becky Burleigh 
placed her at left midﬁ  elder, wing 
and striker. Her versatility made 
her a consistent ﬁ  rst choice, as she 
registered a career-high 22 starts in 
2017. She started on the left wing 
for Florida’s NCAA second-round 
matchup with South Florida and 
scored the only goal of the match. 
With about three minutes left in 
the ﬁ  rst half, Pelayo chipped the 
ball towards the back post from 
about 20 yards out and watched it 
soar inside the woodwork.
Against then-No. 1 Stanford on 
Aug. 25, she fed a cross to Gabby 
Seiler for the tying goal in UF’s 3-2 
comeback victory. 
Her ability to come up with big 
plays on the grandest of stages was 
something Pelayo lacked in 2016, 
but she proved herself as one of 
Florida’s most reliable players in 
high-pressure moments last year. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 14Zhang won two events, including the SEC Championshiptheir roster, and with Eddy Pineiro becom-
ing an Oakland Raider, they have to replace 
arguably their best player from a year ago. 
Freshman Evan McPherson hasn’t even 
kicked in front of his head coach, but he 
may be the frontrunner to take the starting 
position.
The Fort Payne, Alabama, native will 
be competing with redshirt freshman Chris 
Howard, redshirt sophomore Daniel Justino 
and redshirt senior Jorge Powell. 
The players can already see the dif-
ference
Ivey, a 315-pound behemoth, should’ve 
been pushing a lot of defenders around last 
season. Instead, he said he felt weak. 
“Coming in you could just tell people are stronger than you,” he said. “The weight 
room wasn’t what it needed to be.”
Both Ivey, Jefferson and Reese all cited 
that the energy is different now under the 
guidance of Mullen and strength and condi-
tioning coach Nick Savage. 
 This was evident during spring 
practice, when the thrill of being at Florida 
was fresh for Mullen and his staff, but con-
tinuing to hear it from three of the team’s 
leaders shows that there’s consistency 
to the energetic attitude. And the players 
haven’t experienced that in a while.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely different,” Jefferson said. 
“We have a staff that brings the type of en-
ergy everyday that you have no choice but 
to feed off of.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
 FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14CeCe: 'It's deinitely diferent'
Chris O'Brien / Alligator Staff
"I've got more swag than CeCe (Jefferson) does, " Mullen said in his Jordans at SEC Media Days.
