We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF downs West Virginia in Jimmy V Classic
KeVaughn Allen (19 points) led the way for 
the Gators over the Mountaineers. Find out 
who else played a role in the win, pg. 13Renters’ rights may reform
Another meeting will be held Dec. 18, pg. 4
SG debate changing election dates
The bill passed after a 30 minute debate, pg. 5WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 42
SHE’S BEEN TO SPAIN AND 
AUSTRALIA. NOW, SHE’LL 
RESEARCH IN ANTARCTICA.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Christina Davis traveled more than 8,000 
miles in one day. 
Davis, a 26-year-old UF microbiology and 
cell science doctoral student, wasn’t heading 
home Sunday for her Winter Break; she was headed to Antarctica. 
Davis is one of 37 researchers from the 
U.S. who will spend two months studying the 
past, present and future of the Mercer Subgla-
cial Lake, a lake beneath a glacier. The trip 
is funded by the National Science Foundation 
with the goal of learning about what micro-
organism life is like beneath a glacier, Davis 
said. 
“There’s a lot to come out of it. For this 
Ph.D., there’s kind of a lot riding on it,” Davis 
said. 
One of the things Davis will be responsible for is gathering samples of microbes, which 
are microscopic organisms that live beneath 
nearly one mile of ice, she said. Her goal is 
to ﬁ  nd out what microbes do, including how 
they impact the environment and the climate.
The researchers will have to carefully ex-
tract the samples without them getting stuck 
in ice before the drilled hole freezes over 
again, Davis said. They will work for four 
days in a row then have a four-day break. 
Geologists, micro-geologists and hydrolo-
gists on the team will date different sediments 
and map the movements of the glacier and meltwater, the water formed by a melting gla-
cier. Each scientist plays an integral role in 
uncovering the story about life underneath 
glaciers, Davis said. 
As the team arrives, there will be training 
sessions and group meetings to determine 
who will get which samples. For 14 days, 
Davis will spend her afternoons conducting 
experiments in the laboratory. Next, the team 
will ﬂ  y out to the ﬁ  eld site, which involves 
crossing the Ross Ice Shelf, Antarctica’s larg-UF Ph.D. student probing beneath Antarctica’s glaciers
SEE ANTARCTIC,  PAGE 4
A MAN IS BEING CHARGED 
WITH ABANDONMENT 
FOR LEAVING THE HORSE 
ON INTERSTATE 75.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Before Teddy Bear Highway’s 
claim to fame, he was just another 
horse on death row. Highway was in the back of a 
horse trailer heading north on Inter-
state 75 when the gate to the trailer 
opened, said Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesperson Lt. Brett 
Rhodenizer. The horse got out and 
injured his knee.
But the mishap was a blessing in 
disguise. Highway was on his way 
to be euthanized, Rhodenizer said.
Now, the man who left him on I-75 will be charged with animal 
abandonment, Rhodenizer said. 
A semi-truck driver saw the gate 
open and ﬂ  ashed his lights to get 
the driver’s attention, Rhodenizer 
said. But when the driver noticed 
the horse was missing, he left with-
out calling law enforcement. 
Deputies have not released the 
name of the driver, Rhodenizer said. 
Highway suffered road burn, cuts and an injured knee that re-
quired surgery Friday afternoon, 
said M.J. Hosack, a staff member at 
Springhill Equine Veterinary Clinic 
in Newberry. 
Highway is recovering well at 
the clinic, she said. 
Since ACSO posted Highway’s 
story online, a handful of his prior 
owners reached out. He used to go 
by the names Jet and Spartan back in the day, Rhodenizer said.
“But to us, he will remain High-
way,” he said.
Deputies have a laundry list of 
people who offered to adopt High-
way, Rhodenizer said. 
Once he’s healed, Highway will 
ﬁ  nd a home. 
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgYeehaw: ACSO solves mystery of horse Teddy Bear HighwayTHIS IS THE SECOND YEAR A STUDENT 
DESIGN HAS BEEN CHOSEN.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Hallmark didn’t play a hand in creating UF President 
Kent Fuchs’ holiday card. A UF student did.
For the second year in a row, Fuchs and his wife, Linda, 
had their ofﬁ  cial holiday card designed by a UF student. 
This year, the couple selected 21-year-old Eleni Yannako-
poulos’ design “Together,” which features snowﬂ  akes made 
out of UF icons including gators, Century Tower and orange 
slices. 
The cards will be mailed to 400 people, including Board 
of Trustees members, signiﬁ  cant donors and former univer-
sity presidents, Fuchs said. The President’s Ofﬁ  ce paid for 
the printing press plates, paper, envelopes, labels and post-
age, which cost about $1,800 in total. 
“The real cost is the time of all of these people,” he said.
The printed holiday cards will be mailed out by next 
week, said UF spokesperson Florida Bridgewater-Alford. 
The electronic version will be released Wednesday. 
The 400 cards were printed on the College of Fine Arts’ 
Vandercook letterpress, Bridgewater-Alford said. The plates UF student designs 
President’s holiday card
SEE CARD,  PAGE  4Christopher King / Alligator Staff  
Drake Bell ‘Found A Way’ to Gainesville
Drake Bell, a star of Nickelodeon’s “Drake and Josh, ” performs Tuesday night at the High Dive in downtown 
Gainesville. Bell played to a sold-out crowd following performances from bands Arrows in Action, Letdown 
and Cardinal Grey.  
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
HIGH  58° LOW  34°
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Fall Collection Day event
Sustainable UF is having its 
Fall Collection Day from 7:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. in the northwest 
corner of the O’Connell Center 
parking lot. This event makes 
it easy to drop off unwanted 
household items, clothing, 
hazardous waste, old electron-
ics, furniture, appliances and 
non-perishable food items. 
Usable items will be donated 
to people in the community, 
and damaged goods, haz-
ardous waste and electronic 
equipment will be recycled or 
disposed of safely by partner-
ing organizations. Food dona-
tions will be donated to the 
Field and Fork Pantry, house-
hold items will benefit Habitat 
for Humanity, clothing and 
unopened toiletries will be do-
nated to UF HealthStreet, and 
office and school supplies will 
benefit the Tools for Schools 
program.
Swamp Records’ Fall Fest
Swamp Records is hold-
ing its Fall Fest from 6 p.m. 
to midnight at The Wooly, 
at 20 N. Main St. Venmo 
“SwampRecords” $12 for pre-
sale tickets or pay at the door 
while supplies last. There is a $3 charge for people under 
21 at the door. The event is 
16+. The lineup includes flip-
turn, The Savants of Soul, The 
Forum and Hugo $anchez. 
Anita: Speaking Truth to Power 
Film Screening
The UF Center for Gender, 
Sexualities and Women’s 
Studies Research and UF 
Women’s Student Association 
is showing “Anita: Speaking 
Truth to Power,” followed 
by a discussion about abuse 
of power and sexual harass-
ment at 6-8:30 p.m. at Ustler 
Hall. Dean Laura Rosenbury 
will be introducing the docu-
mentary with opening remarks 
about the significance of Anita 
Hill’s testimony and the Judge 
Clarence Thomas confirmation 
hearings.
THURSDAY
Plastic Bag and Styrofoam Ban 
discussion for Gainesville
The Gainesville City 
Commission will be discuss-
ing a single-use plastic bag 
and styrofoam ban at 6:30-
7:30 p.m. at City Hall, at 200 
E. University Ave. The public 
can attend to voice their opin-
ion. The commission has been 
discussing a ban on single-use 
plastic bags and styrofoam for 
over a year. FRIDAY
Day of Wellness
The WELLS Collective is 
spending Friday help students 
to study, relax and work on 
art before finals week at 10:30 
a.m. to 9 p.m. on the fifth floor 
of McCarty Hall C. All people 
who identify as queer, trans-
gender, people of color and/
or allies are welcome. A free, 
light dinner will be served at 
6:30 p.m., and an additional 
art activity will be held at 8-9 
p.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 42
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Lokela Blanc,
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan Salguero, Annika SefferMikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Inside
fl i
Inside
Puerto Rico:  
Resilience  
after the  
storm
A little over a year after Hurri -
cane Maria devastated Puerto 
Rico, the University of Florida has 
emerged as a leader in research and 
scholarship focused on rebuilding.   
UF is uniquely  positioned because of its 
geography and Florida’s familiarity with 
Puerto Rico’s context when it comes to 
climate, tropical issues and Hispanic cul -
ture. On Jan. 16 at 6 p.m. in the Pugh 
Hall Ocora, architecture professors Mar-
tha Kohen and Nancy Clark, who have 
spearheaded this international effort will 
discuss UF’s work and collaborations 
aimed at helping the island imagine a 
more resilient future.Wednesday, December 5, 2018
    To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSSeasons Eatings live from the 
Field and Fork Garden – Dec. 12
Feeling a little end-of-semester restless-
ness?  UF faculty and staff are invited to get out 
of the classroom and into the garden to visit the 
Field & Fork Campus Food Program’s Farm and 
Garden for a special tour and workshop featur -
ing Anna Prizzia and Dina Liebowitz.
Join UFHR WorkLife for a special Wellness 
Wednesday presentation in person at the Farm 
New process for grading  
and degree certification
The University of Florida’s COMPASS (Cam-
pus-wide Modernization Program to Advance 
Student Services) implementation is unifying 
systems to benefit students as well as faculty and 
staff who access student-related information.   
New processes related to grades and degree cer-
tification were implemented on Sept. 24. UF 
faculty and staff who assign grades, issue end of 
term grades and/or certify degrees are reminded 
to check out related Human Resources “tool-
kits” and/or take the training well in advance of their process deadlines. Toolkits for Grades, 
Degree Certification and other processes relat -
ed to the Student Information System, includ -
ing links to instruction guides, online training, 
security roles, and contact information, can be 
found on the HR website at https://learn-and-
grow.hr.ufl.edu/toolkits-resource-center/
student-information-systems, and are linked 
off the COMPASS website at http://compass.
ufl.edu. The Office of the University Registrar 
is also emailing faculty and staff regarding the 
new procedures.and Garden on Wednesday, Dec. 12, at noon. 
For those unable to come in-person, you can still 
join in virtually via Facebook live (search for @
UFatWork).
Learn what’s growing in winter farms and gar -
dens and get tips, tricks and great new recipes 
to eat fresh all season long. Questions? Email 
hrs-wellness@ufl.edu.Have you ever felt like you’re just not 
reaching people with your message?   
In an age of distraction when people’s attention 
is a scare resource, how can you deeply engage 
others to form meaningful partnerships and in -
crease your effectiveness?
The Strategic Communications Academy for UF 
Leaders & Scholars (SCA) answers these ques -
tions and many more. As a partnership between 
UF’s College of Journalism and Communica-
tions and UFHR T raining & Organizational 
Development, this unique professional develop -
ment program offers an opportunity to elevate 
strategic thinking, communication skills and 
professional impact.
Designed for faculty and staff in leadership po-
sitions or for thought leaders in their fields of 
study, the seven-month program helps partici-
pants improve their professional performance by 
using evidence-based communications strategies 
rooted in psychology, sociology, neuroscience, 
political science and communications science. 
Participants will learn to:   •   Build and manage relationships with the  
        individuals and organizations crucial to  
        helping them achieve their goals
  •    Hone storytelling skills to inspire support  
       for a department’s mission and vision
  •    Develop a strategic communications  
       framework
  •    Write with confidence, clarity and charisma
  •    Create memorable and compelling presen- 
       tations worthy of the TED stage
  •    Facilitate high-stakes meetings with  
       influencers, such as high-level administra- 
       tors, policymakers and funders
  •    Interact with the news media to build  
       credibility and call people to action
  •    Think quickly in challenging communica- 
       tion scenarios
  •    Leverage social media to develop a mean 
       ingful digital network
  •   Use design and systems thinking to create  
       meaningful calls to actionThe 2019 program will meet once a month 
from March through September 2019 for en -
gaging learning activities, coaching sessions 
with UF communications experts and profes -
sional networking. Participants who successful -
ly complete the series will be awarded a certifi -
cate of completion.
Applicants must be UF faculty mem-
bers or exempt staff members. The fee 
to participate is $1,590, which includes 
all materials, facilitation fees and meals.  
To learn  more, visit the program website 
(http://leadership.hr.ufl.edu/programs/sca/ ) 
and complete the online application form, due 
Jan. 18.Strategic Communications Academy  
applications due Jan. 18
Strategic Communications Academy 
Graduates!  
QUESTIONS ABOUT GRADUATION CEREMONIES?
Visit 
commencement.ufl.edu  
for all details.
SHARE WITH FRIENDS AND FAMILY  
WHO PLAN TO ATTEND.The following is a paid advertisement4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018est floating sheet of ice. 
Then, they unpack the materials and get 
to work. 
Brent Christner, a UF microbiology and 
cell science associate professor, said they will 
initially go to McMurdo Station, a research 
center, before flying 600 miles out to the mid-
dle of nowhere. At the station, they’ll get their 
samples and cargo ready. 
Once they arrive, it will be just a few 
dozen researchers and their equipment. The 
next phase of the trip will be eight days of just 
sampling nonstop. They will do these intense 
24-hour sampling operations for a little over a week, Christner said.
The U.S. is leading the way in researching 
more than 400 lakes that lie underneath Ant-
arctica, Christner said. Five years ago, Christ-
ner was involved in the first effort to drill into 
the subglacial lakes. 
Hundreds of pounds of material will be 
shipped by boat to Florida by the end of the 
trip, he said. The National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration is interested in learning 
about frozen environments on other planets 
based on this kind of research. 
“There are about a dozen places in our 
solar system that have an ocean,” Christner 
said. “Earth is not the only (planet) with an 
ocean. It doesn’t even have the biggest one.”
Christner and Davis met in 2016 at UF. Da-
vis already knew many of the techniques she 
would need to use in the field. She was the 
perfect choice, Christner said. 
Davis, an Iowa-native, said she’s used 
to the cold. It will be summer in Antarc-
tica, which she said is comparable to winter 
weather in Iowa.
The temperature will be around 10 to 20 
degrees while Davis is there, but she said it 
can get much worse. 
Davis has studied abroad in Spain, attend-
ed a conference in Australia and will now add 
her Antarctica trip to her resume. Traveling 
allows her to interact with scholars who ask new questions and share unique methods, 
she said.
“Definitely going to Antarctica, there’s 
going to be a lot of people from everywhere,” 
Davis said. “And it’s kind of a captive audi-ence, being there on the ice.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgANTARCTIC,  from pg 1She left for Antarctica on Sunday to research for two months.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Christina Davis, a 26-year-old UF microbiology and cell science doctoral student, will 
spend the next two months researching underwater microbes in Antarctica. She will 
be experimenting and collecting samples from underneath 1.2 kilometers of ice.
make each card slightly differ-
ent. 
“This process is so unique 
in that each card is special-
ly made for that person,” 
Bridgewater-Alford said. 
Yannakopoulos, a UF 
graphic design and advertis-
ing junior, said she was in dis-
belief when she found out her 
design won after being picked 
from five semi-finalists. The 
project was an assignment in 
her typography class. 
Initially, all 23 students 
in the class submitted a de-
sign, said Jarred Elrod, a co-
instructor for the course. The 
five semi-finalists presented 
their designs in front of Fuchs 
and his wife. 
Fuchs said he chose Yan-
nakopoulos’ design because of its warmth and sense of 
community. He said he be-
lieves that UF is the only uni-
versity to have its students 
and faculty design an official 
holiday card.
“It’s not created by some 
professional designer who 
doesn’t have a connection to 
the university,” Fuchs said. 
The School of Art + Art 
History received a $1,000 do-
nation from Fuchs as thank 
you, Fuchs said. 
Elrod said the project is a 
great opportunity for typogra-
phy students to work with a 
client.  
“It’s a great experience to 
give the students real-world 
experience, but for the out-
put to be uniquely UF,” Elrod 
said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgThe cards cost $1,800.POLICIES COULD BE 
ENACTED AS SOON AS 
FEBRUARY 2019.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Broken appliances and missing 
smoke detectors in Gainesville 
rental homes may become a thing 
of the past in 2019. 
The Alachua County Labor 
Coalition held a two-hour-long Renters’ Rights city subcommit-
tee meeting at the Gainesville Re-
gional Utilities building to discuss 
subpar safety standards in rental 
homes Tuesday afternoon, said 
Jeremiah Tattersall, the lead co-
alition organizer.
The goal is to make sure every 
rental unit in Alachua County has 
a minimum efficiency standard, 
such as proper air conditioning 
and appliances that aren’t “200 
years old,” Tattersall said. 
When renting a property, it is vital for citizens to be aware of 
their rights, City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos said. 
Energy efficiency in rental 
units falls under a similar conver-
sation to the 2040 waste-free ini-
tiative in Gainesville, City Com-
missioner David Arreola said in 
September. Improving utilities in 
homes allows a decrease in en-
ergy usage and bills.
“The goal is to look at ensuring 
that every rental unit in the city 
is up to health safety standards and looking for different ways to 
achieve that,” Hayes-Santos said.
In order to ensure every rental 
unit would be up to a certain stan-
dard, Tattersall said the county 
should offer a universal landlord 
license for homes that aren’t in 
single-family neighborhoods to be 
licensed as well.
On Dec. 18, the subcommittee 
will meet to discuss energy-effi-
cient standards and security de-
posits, Tattersall said. Prohibiting 
discrimination against those with different national origins, income 
levels and citizenship statuses are 
also topics on the table. 
Subcommittee members hope 
to see strong ordinances passed 
by February 2019, Tattersall said.
“I certainly believe we’re go-
ing to get strong ordinances in 
places to increase not just the 
number but quality of affordable 
rental units,” Tattersall said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgAlachua Labor coalition works toward renters’ rights ordinance
Courtesy to The Alligator
The holiday card of UF President Kent Fuchs and his wife, Linda, was designed by Eleni Yannakopoulos, a  
21-year-old UF graphic design and advertising junior, who won a design contest.
Christina Davis’ Top 5 things 
to pack to Antarctica:
1) Skippy Creamy Peanut Butter
2) Ultraviolet light resistant sunglasses
3) Dry shampoo 
4) Thermal socks
5) Books
CARD,  from pg. 1WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
THE STUDENT 
ALSO FOUND A 
RARE LIZARD. 
By J. Cameron Davidson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jesse Borden spent his sum-
mer 8,000 miles away from 
Gainesville climbing trees and 
scouring for lizards.
Borden, a 31-year-old UF 
School of Natural Resources 
and Environment doctoral stu-
dent, said he traveled with a 
team of researchers to the Ara-
buko Sokoke Forest in Kenya. 
For about 10 weeks, they re-
searched the decline in native 
reptiles and amphibians.
During the trip, the team 
found two species of geckos, 
one of which Borden said he 
believes is a new species. Both 
were taken to the National Mu-
seums of Kenya for further ex-
amination.
It was natural for Borden to 
take the next step to further his 
research on reptiles in Alachua 
County woodland canopies by 
going to Kenya. Borden lived there as a child for 11 years.
“My upbringing there in-
fused and inspired my love of 
nature and the natural world,” 
Borden said.
The Mohamed bin Zayed 
Species Conservation Fund said 
the reptiles don’t have enough 
recorded data to plan future 
conservation efforts. 
The research cost $8,000. 
The conservation fund spon-
sored $5,000. Additional sup-
port was provided by the UF 
Center for African Studies, the 
Scheffers Lab and the Flory Lab, 
he said. 
On the trip, Borden said his 
goal was to collect data on two 
reptiles, the Tana River Gecko 
and the Green Keel-Bellied Liz-
ard. 
Starting from the perimeter 
of the about 420-kilometer for-
est, Boren said he and his team 
ventured into dense trees to 
look for specimens. 
“It was kind of like looking 
for a needle in a haystack,” he 
said. 
The team climbed more than 
ﬁ  ve trees per day and spent 30 
minutes before a climb inspect-ing each tree. Borden said he 
used tree-climbing techniques 
to ascend for an hour. The team 
inspected 72 trees and made 
144 climbs during the trip.
Borden said he and his team 
were unable to locate the Tana 
River Gecko, which hasn’t been 
seen in 30 years. However, they 
did locate a similar species. 
During a night exploration, 
Borden said he and his team 
found two Green Kneel-Bellied 
Lizards. Finding this rare spe-
cies was a fun challenge for 
Borden. 
Joe Henry, a 31-year-old UF 
School of Forest Resources and 
Conservation doctoral student 
and one of Borden’s research 
assistants, said the forest was 
so thick with foliage that he had 
to yell directions to Borden from 
the ground until they made eye 
contact again.
The forest was loud at night 
from all the birds and insects, 
Henry said. 
“The amount of diversity 
in what we would consider a 
small forest was incredible,” 
Henry said.   UF Ph.D. possibly discovers geckoTHEY VOTED ON 
CHANGING THE 
ELECTION DATES. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
After debating for 30 minutes, 
the Student Government Senate de-
cided a runoff election won’t hap-
pen during Spring Break.
Senators challenged a bill to change the dates of the SG Spring 
elections at a meeting Tuesday 
night. Despite the debate, the Sen-
ate ultimately approved the bill that 
would change the election dates 
from Feb. 26 and 27 to Feb. 19 and 
20 in a vote of 60 to 17, Senate Pres-
ident Michael Murphy (Impact, Dis-
trict A) said at the meeting. 
The change is necessary to en-
sure a runoff election would not oc-
cur over Spring Break, said Super-
visor of Elections Henry Fair, who wrote the bill. A runoff would occur 
one week after the general election 
if an individual doesn’t receive a 
majority of the vote needed to win.  
“I thought this was the best, 
most responsible decision for me to 
make on behalf of the students, the 
candidates, my election staff and 
myself as well,” Fair said. 
A runoff election may not even 
be necessary, Senator Felipe Gatos 
(Inspire, District D) said.
SG’s legislative branch is respon-sible for upholding the SG constitu-
tion, which outlines the rules for the 
way the governing body works, Ga-
tos said. The bill is not in line with 
the constitution because it changes 
the date of the election that is man-
dated to take place on the last Tues-
day and Wednesday of February. 
“We believe this is a problem,” 
Gatos said. “We think the legisla-
tive branch has a duty to uphold the 
constitution.”
A change in the dates for SG elections has happened in past 
years, Senator Matthew Diaz (In-
spire, District D) said. It may make 
more sense to create a permanent 
solution to the problem in the fu-
ture, he said.
“As senators, I think it’s never a 
bad idea to dust off our old consti-
tutions and make sure that every-
thing’s in order,” Diaz said.   
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org SG passes election changes, debates constitutionality
Christopher King / Alligator Staff 
UF President Kent Fuchs and UF’s Chief Diversity Ofﬁ  cer, Antonio Farias, 
speak at an annual town hall meeting Monday put on by the Black Student 
Affairs T ask Force and Ofﬁ  ce of Black Affairs. The pair discussed the 
changes in the commencement ceremonies as well as diversity on campus. 
About 40 people attended the meeting and audience members were given 
an opportunity to ask Fuchs and Farias questions about the university.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Dare to chase a dream
From the moment I ﬁ  rst stepped 
onto UF’s campus, I had my 
sights set on The Alligator. I 
visited Gainesville for preview 
and made the trip out to the 
Gainesville Sun building. I carried a 
tote bag full of mangos from a tree in 
my backyard and a cheesy, excited 
smile. I planned to bribe my way on to 
the paper with fruit, charm and brute-
force initiative. As I sat awkwardly in 
the newsroom waiting for ﬁ  ve min-
utes with the editor-in-chief, the scent of day-old tropical fruit 
wafted powerfully around the room. I took a look around at 
the walls of the newsroom, amazed by The Alligator alumni 
and the history baked into the old yellowing pages tacked up 
in every corner. All I wanted to do was work here. It took me 
longer than expected, but I ﬁ  nally made it. 
As you may have gathered, my mango bribery fell ﬂ  at. All of 
the columnist positions had been ﬁ  lled. Just a few weeks into 
my freshman year, I got, as the young folks say, further “lost 
in the sauce.” Classes moved faster than I thought they would, 
and working at The Alligator became a dream I saved for later. 
Whenever that was.
Throughout panic and heartbreak, changes of motivation and 
interests, ﬂ  uctuations in vision and outlook, working at The Al-
ligator remained a lofty but distant point on the horizon.
But college has a funny way of reminding you of who you are 
and what you want. I kept taking classes in the J-school despite 
not actually being in the J-school and eventually found myself in 
class with a man whose dry wit was exceeded only by his raw 
knowledge of sports journalism — editor of the Sports section of 
The Alligator, Morgan McMullen. We were lumped into the same 
group for a project by the grace of the news gods. A few short 
months after I mentioned casually that I aspired to be an opinions 
columnist, I was contributing biweekly from the sweltering Mi-
ami heat. I wrote about the meme economy, decaf drinkers and 
the elaborate charade of pretending we all do eight-hours-worth 
of work while we’re at work.
Two years after preview, I found myself sitting in that same 
newsroom again as the opinions editor, sans mangos. I was sur-
rounded by people who loved writing and journalism as much 
as I did. I had summited Mount Olympus and conquered the al-
mighty beast.
But the feeling of victory never lasts long. Even keeping my 
head above water was challenging with submissions, keeping an 
eye on local and national news and ﬁ  elding questions from col-
umnists, on top of holding down another job and schoolwork. 
Halfway through the semester I found myself in the library, frus-
trated, minutes before an exam, writing a sternly worded Alliga-
tor-related email, annoyed for having caught up with my dream. 
How foolish of me.
  This semester I have known ﬁ  rsthand the level of responsi-
bility that comes with writing, condensing and correcting editori-
als. I know what it’s like to endorse political candidates and shine 
a light on local Gainesville issues which escape the wandering 
attention of most UF students. The longer I work at this paper, 
the more my respect grows for the editors who came before me 
and the editors I work under. With every passing issue, I appreci-
ate more deeply the razor-thin line between fact and ﬁ  ction. With 
every heartfelt note or letter from readers, I am inspired by how 
many people are watching and reading our coverage.
The Alligator is the largest independently owned student 
newspaper in America by circulation. It has been my distinct 
honor to steward its opinion section and help write our editorial 
rebuking President Donald Trump’s so-called war of words with 
the news media. As I look back on my semester here, I am ﬁ  lled 
with pride for my columnists and everyone who works to make 
this paper happen. Most of all, I am grateful for the freshman in 
me who is hungry for new opportunities, who is now hopefully 
off to study for the LSAT, become a media lawyer and defend 
papers like ours from the likes of Trump.
As long as I bring my mangos, I know I’ll reach that dream 
eventually, too.
The politics of a photographed poncho party 
You may have seen the Instagram photo 
of the former Florida State University Pi 
Kappa Phi brothers dressed in “Mexi-
can” ponchos and sombreros. Caption? 
“We don’t pay cover or taxes.” Twitter 
and Facebook didn’t take kindly to it.
Now it is to my current understanding that 
there is no cultural monopoly on Mexicans with 
ponchos (perhaps more so for sombreros), so 
I’m really going off what is implied by the photo. 
Anyhow, my guess is that the ﬁ  ner nuances of 
Central- and South American dress was lost upon 
these young lads, and their deepest cultural experience in-
volving Mexico is a nice, cold Dos Equis.
First off, that’s pretty nasty and unbecoming of one’s self, 
but I think everyone already knows that or doesn’t believe 
so. I just have to say it though.
Second, poking through the tweets and the Facebook 
comments, I noticed there was a lot of snide aimed at FSU. 
You know, the usual “you can’t expect much from FSU” sort 
of things. Some of those came from random folks on the in-
ternet, while some of those came from people at UF. Immedi-
ately, my mind jumped to another image: It’s a similar photo 
of a festive gathering that was posted in 2016: mustaches, 
ponchos and sombreros, but this time, at UF. Other than the 
difference in fraternity, school and the fact that it was a Face-
book cover photo (even worse!), the photos seem pretty darn 
similar. I just don’t remember any particular outrage when 
this photo was posted in 2016.
A lot of it can be attributed to the crude caption accompa-
nying the FSU photo and also lingering anger at the former 
brothers since their chapter was the one involved with the 
recent death of a pledge in 2017. The UF photo may have 
never taken off since the one who posted it may not have had 
a wide circle of friends at the time. But still, both are bad and 
eerily similar to each other.
But Zach, you might say, “Why are you writing about 
this? Don’t you do your whining about Student Govern-
ment?” “True!” I say to you; here’s where it gets interesting.You see, the person who posted the FSU 
photo is a member of their Student Government 
Senate. The guy who posted the UF version was 
a senator and now serves as an agency head; in 
fact, he is the one who runs SG’s social media 
agency (Action SG) so that is some really great 
irony right there.
But wait, there’s more! There’s been no short-
age of organizations out there condemning the 
photo. One of them is the Florida Latinx Hispanic 
American Student Union. The president, Dylan 
Santalo, is also a former UF senator and current 
Chomp the Vote agency head. He actually voted for the Ac-
tion SG head’s conﬁ  rmation back in April. I wonder if he 
knew about the photo when he voted (I mean, it was a cover 
photo, after all). I wonder if it would have made a differ-
ence (the objection to the candidate was instead due to the 
perception of the candidate’s lack of relevant qualiﬁ  cations, 
but that doesn’t really bother people in the majority party).
So let me get this straight: A senator at FSU posts a dis-
graceful photo and gets criticized by someone who also hap-
pens to be an SG ofﬁ  cial at UF who, earlier this year, voted to 
promote another UF senator who posted a just-as-disgraceful 
photo. Weird stuff. I’m not making any charges of hypocrisy 
right here, just irony, since who really could have seen any of 
this happening? Hindsight is 20/20 and there’s a lot of “hind” 
to go around at UF SG.
So yeah, I don’t really think UF has any sort of moral 
superiority in this case while we’re roasting FSU. I am re-
minded of the credits of the popular movie “Dear White 
People,” which featured different schools that had blackface 
incidents. UF was the second school to pop up with a photo 
of an incident from 2012 (and we wonder why black people 
don’t feel welcome at UF).
So yeah, happy holidays, everyone! See y’all next year!
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Mur-
phree Area Senator. His column normally appears on Fridays.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
I  did not want to be in Library 
West at 1:30 a.m.
As I pushed past the revolv-
ing door into the sad building, I 
thought about going back home 
to sleep. But my ﬁ  lm studies home-
work had to get done.
I resigned myself to a seat near 
the front counter, opened my laptop 
and faced the common complication 
of trying to study in the library: I 
began people watching. I noticed a 
posse of people dressed for Midtown come up 
the escalator and shufﬂ  e to the bathroom. 
I watched people studying around me, their 
tired faces buried in their screens. No one was 
paying attention to who was coming up the 
escalator — Midtown crowd or otherwise. I 
thought of who could be next to appear at the 
top, and my mind went to a dark place. A place 
all our minds have wandered to before. 
What if there was a school shooter?
Although I had thought about it before, this 
time I tried pushing the mental image away, be-
cause 1:30 a.m. is not the time to think about 
that. I tried looking back at the assignment on 
my screen, but it was too late. My eyes darted 
around for an exit sign. I’ve played this game 
before: I was working in a newsroom during the 
Capital Gazette shooting.
From my self-appointed seat in Library West, 
there was no place to run or hide. I was smack-
dab in the vantage point of anyone entering the 
library. I stuffed my laptop into my backpack 
and got up to move.
While I may be receiving a bachelor’s degree 
in journalism come Spring, my UF education 
has prepared me for escaping active shooters 
and mourning victims of gun violence. But it 
wasn’t a total loss. I also learned hope. One of my assignments at The 
Alligator was to embed myself on 
a bus trip to Washington, D.C. for 
March For Our Lives. The group of 
UF students, who were mostly from 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School and neighboring schools, 
drove 13 hours there and back with 
catchy signs and determination. 
They were resolute as they stood 
among thousands on Pennsylvania 
Avenue, cheering the young lead-
ers of the #NeverAgain movement. I listened to 
Emma González tell the masses that they would 
be tasked with holding their elected ofﬁ  cials ac-
countable, and the marchers roared.
Passionate and conscientious, the next 
graduates of UF and other universities will 
lead. From my classmates to my coworkers and 
friends, the people I get to meet are ambitious 
and want better. For all the articles claiming this 
generation is lazy and riddled with psychologi-
cal problems, I have never felt more conﬁ  dent 
that I know someone who will someday cure a 
disease or help broker peace. 
Students don’t want to think about a shoot-
ing in their study spaces or mandatory active 
shooter training. We’ve come to a point when 
this issue will get young people to vote.
Gun reform may be one of the foremost is-
sues this generation is vocal about, but there 
will be more. Today’s problems may seem in-
surmountable, but those who are graduating 
will make positive change. Mark my words: 
They will better their respective ﬁ  elds and the 
world. Class of 2019, I am honored to throw my 
cap with you. 
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld is a UF journalism senior 
and was The Alligator’s editor-in-chief.Class of 2019, I am honored to 
throw my cap with youColumn
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
opinions@alligator.orgAnyone who writes 
knows the feeling of 
reﬂ  ecting on stories 
you’ve written in the 
past. For me, read-
ing through old articles I once 
thought were actually the Great 
American Novel (and discover-
ing how much I’ve grown since 
then) is the equivalent of ﬁ  nd-
ing a tagged Facebook picture of myself 
from 2009, except a little less cringewor-
thy (but only marginally).   
My writing process has changed. I used 
to overthink everything I wrote. Even 
though I put my heart and soul into the 
words, I labored over each pitch, hesitat-
ing more than when I took my driving test 
at age 16 and made arguably the most lei-
surely left turns ever. 
As I’ve had the opportunity to develop 
my weekly stories, though, I let go of fear. 
Once I stopped worrying about being the 
“perfect” columnist (which really isn’t 
even a thing, anyway) and told the sto-
ries I believed were telling of the here and 
now — like why we should care about our 
grammar on social media — I found my 
voice somewhere at the corner of pages 
6 and 7. 
So, what does this mean for you as 
readers? Well, for one thing, when em-
barking on something new (in writing or 
beyond), even though it’s easy to spend 
more time wrapped up in everything that 
could potentially go wrong, don’t lose 
sight of the good parts — and the reason 
why you started in the ﬁ  rst place. 
For me, that starting point was more 
than a decade ago, when I spent my free time dreaming up a made-up 
publication, which I called 
Fabulous Magazine. I did all 
the writing, art and production 
(Scotch-taping my ﬁ  nished pa-
pers together). 
The point is, for as long as 
I can remember, I’ve valued 
writing and having (or creating) 
a platform to share stories of all 
sorts. And even though my skills and tools 
have evolved since the days of printer pa-
per and Crayola markers, at the heart of it, 
that’s still what I’m doing now. 
Even in this era where the industry I 
still very much believe in is constantly 
under ﬁ  re — via verbal attacks by govern-
ment ofﬁ  cials or constant claims of “fake 
news” — the same love for writing and 
storytelling that guided my ideas for my 
childhood made-up magazine is the same 
passion that’s guided me through my time 
at UF and I know will carry me into a ca-
reer I love.
With that, I can’t help but be thankful 
for this 600-word space that’s become a 
home for my thoughts on everything from 
comment culture, rom-coms and bad In-
stagrammers, to navigating the predica-
ments and conﬂ  icts inherent with college 
life. Within these margins, I’ve come into 
my own as a writer.
I hope each of you has the opportunity 
to ﬁ  nd and embrace your voice, whatever 
that means to you. After all, in this era, 
we have our voice, our dreams and each 
other — and we really can’t afford to lose 
any of those.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. 
Her column appeared on Wednesdays.Hold on to your dreams and each other Column
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
See you later, Alligator.
Avenue Editor says fairwell.Holiday drink recipes
Flip over to page 9 for out spiced Mexican hot chocolate, 
rumchatta eggnog, winter sangria and more!
We’re IDEA Public Schools, and we’re hiring people just like you. People who are driven to innovate and collaborate to change education for the better. People who don’t settle for the status quo. 
People who have high expectations for themselves and thrive in a high-growth, high-reward environment. And most importantly, people who are united in the belief that every child has the potential 
to succeed in college and in life. By 2022, we’ll serve 100,000 students at 173 schools across five regions. As we grow, you grow – at IDEA, your professional potential is limitless.
Explore your future at ideapublicshools.org/careers.
Join our community at fb.com/IDEACareers.TEACHERS CO-TEACHERS OPERATIONS LEADERS CHANGEMAKERSWE WANT TO MAKE
A DIFFERENCE IN yours .
difference
difference
   YOU WANT TO MAKE A 
IN PEOPLE’S LIVES.By Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Staff Writer
Any music fans in 
Gainesville should set their 
sights on The Wooly tonight. 
The downtown venue is 
hosting a celebration for the 
end of the semester with art-
ists from Swamp Records, 
including DJ Rodzilla, Hugo 
Sanchez, The Forum, Savants 
of Soul and ﬂ  ipturn. 
Matt Fowler, the 22-year-
old president of Swamp Re-
cords, said typically the la-
bel’s end-of-fall event has 
been a smaller event with 
just DJs. But not this year. 
Fowler said the label is proud 
of their artists, and it wants to share their music with 
the Gainesville community. 
Fowler expects between 400 
and 450 people at tonight’s 
show. 
Doors open at 6 p.m. DJ 
Rodzilla will start the night 
off with an hour-long set. 
Then, he will perform as the 
backup for Hugo Sanchez, a 
rapper Fowler said he abso-
lutely loves. 
The Forum, Swamp Re-
cords’ most recent addition, 
will follow this rapper/DJ 
duo. Anyone who enjoys The 
Hails or ﬂ  ipturn will want to 
see this band, Fowler said.
Savants of Soul takes over 
at about 9:45 p.m. Fowler 
said this nine-piece band has 
become a Gainesville sym-bol. He’s sure the Savants’ 
soulful set will turn the bar 
into a swinging dance party.
“To close out the night 
we’re going to have Flipturn 
playing, which is always re-
ally exciting,” Fowler said. 
“It’s been amazing to watch 
a band on our label just ex-
plode this past year.”
Local indie-rock band ﬂ  ip-
turn will play an hour-long 
set, which will include two 
new songs that have not yet 
been released. Fans of the 
EP will love the new music, 
which has some synthetic 
pop vibes, Fowler said. 
You can buy a presale 
ticket by sending @Swam-
pRecords $12 on Venmo 
before noon today or at the door while supplies last. 
Fowler said the label has 
many exciting things com-
ing in the Spring semester. 
He urges anyone interested 
in being involved to join the 
Swamp Records staff by vol-
unteering at music festivals.  
“We’re also going to be 
releasing Swamp Sessions 
again, which is like live mu-
sic video sessions with our 
bands. We’ll be doing that 
with The Forum, which is re-
ally exciting.” Fowler said. 
“That will probably be in 
February. Another cool new 
thing in February will be a 
Valentine’s Day event, which 
will be a charity event. So 
people can look forward to 
that as well.”  Swamp Records’ Fall Fest returns
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Swamp Records’ Fall Fest begins today 
at 6 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Emma McAvoy 
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s that time of year again — for those who 
are legal — to break out the Kahlua, rum and 
eggnog, and drink away the pain and sorrows 
of Fall 2018...or to celebrate whatever holiday 
gathering is in store. 
This semester has been particularly difﬁ  -
cult, grueling, painful and just about any nega-
tive word one can think of. Fear not, Gators. 
Listed below are some fun concoctions that 
will persuade everyone’s crush to share a kiss 
under the mistletoe. Here are some holiday 
cocktail recipes that will bring some joy to the 
world! 
Spiced Mexican Hot Chocolate  
Spice up this winter and cozy up with 
friends and family with a twist on a holiday fa-
vorite. Everyone loves to sit in front of the tele-
vision with their mugs ﬁ  lled to the brim with 
hot chocolate dappled with marshmallows and 
whipped cream. 
Ingredients: 
4 cups whole milk 
2 cups half-and-half 
½ cup dulce de leche 
2 cinnamon sticks 
10 oz. 70% dark chocolate   
2 tsp. pure vanilla extract 
¼ tsp. kosher salt  
½ cup bourbon  
Directions: 
Whisk milk, half-and-half, dulce de leche 
and the cinnamon sticks in a big saucepan. 
Place saucepan over medium heat stovetop, 
bring to a simmer and stir occasionally. Re-
move from heat, cover and let stand for 10 
minutes. Place saucepan with mixture over medium 
heat again to mix in chopped dark chocolate. 
Whisk until smooth.  
Remove the mixture from heat and stir in 
pure vanilla extract, kosher salt and bourbon. 
Throw out the cinnamon sticks. Serve warm. 
Rumchata eggnog 
Sweet, creamy and a little naughty...or nice. 
Ingredients:  
5 egg yolks 
1/3 cup sugar 
2 cups milk 
½ tsp. Cinnamon 
¼ tsp. Vanilla 
¾ cup heavy cream 
1 cup Rumchata 
Cinnamon sticks for garnish  
Directions: 
Whisk together egg yolks and sugar in a 
large saucepan. Gradually add in milk, nut-
meg, cinnamon and vanilla, and turn on heat 
to medium-low. Cook for approximately 10 
minutes until mixture is thick. 
Remove mixture from heat and stir in 
heavy cream and Rumchata. Refrigerate until 
it is chilled. 
Pour the drink into cups and sprinkle with 
cinnamon nutmeg. Garnish with cinnamon 
sticks.
Apple Cider Old Fashioned 
This is a holiday twist on a classic! The 
Apple Cider Old Fashioned will leave people 
feeling warm, cozy and a little boozy. 
Ingredients: 
½ cup ice 
2/3  cup apple cider 
2 oz. whiskey 
2 dashes Angostura bitters Apple slices for garnish 
Cinnamon sticks for garnish 
Directions: 
Mix all ingredients in a glass and 
stir to serve. 
North Pole Cocktail   
This is a drink of pure decadence 
and danger. Chocolate? Check. Li-
quor? Check. Well, that’s pretty much 
it. What more could one need this 
winter? 
Ingredients: 
4 oz. vodka 
2 oz. Kahlua or more to taste 
4 tbsp. chocolate syrup 
1 tsp. vanilla extract 
3 tsp. molasses 
Pinch of powdered ginger 
½ cup heavy cream or whole milk 
Whipped cream 
Candy canes to garnish  
Directions: 
Combine the vodka, Kahlua, 
chocolate syrup, vanilla, molasses and 
ginger in a cocktail shaker. Shake until 
ingredients are well combined. 
Add some ice and shake again. 
Strain into 4 glasses. Top off each 
glass with heavy cream and whipped 
cream.   
Winter Sangria   
Calling all wine moms! ‘Tis the season to be 
merry with a little warm feeling in the tummy 
from some fruit sangria. It’s easy, accessible 
and pairs well with a hearty Italian dinner. 
Ingredients: 
1 bottle sweet red wine  
1 bottle cranberry-apple cider  2 cans of sparkling San Pellegrino
2 clementines peeled and sliced 
2 granny smith apples, cored and diced 
½ cup pomegranate grils 
1 cup cranberries sliced in half 
Rosemary to garnish 
Directions: 
Pour fruit into a large pitcher then pour 
wine, cider and San Pellegrino to mix. Garnish 
with rosemary.    Mixers For Your Holiday Mixer
FOOD & DRINK
Emma McAvoy
Winter Sangria is a festive take on this 
classic cocktail.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. Top 
it off with our famous sour orange 
pie. Now that is a meal any FL Gator 
can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. 
Only here can you see the legendary 
bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” 
Green, playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm.  
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.orgSPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 years 
as an alternative to alcohol used 
for ceremonial, political, medicinal, 
and social purposes. Come try our 
Kava, Kratom, Mate, and other teas 
in Downtown Gainesville. Open 
weekdays 12pm-12am, weekends 
12pm-1am and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave. maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian dishes, 
espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine 
inside the historic Gulf Oil building or 
outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 
11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 
NW 39th Ave. Drive-thru available 
Open everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, 
senior discount, wholesale prices 
available.
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you Lunch: Mon-Sun 
11a m - 3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pm 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482By Emma Witmer 
Avenue Editor 
It’s a weird time to be a journalist. 
As a student of journalism, I have been re-
lentlessly warned not to become a part of the 
story that I set out to tell. I suppose that, as I 
say my goodbyes to our crowded basement of-
ﬁ  ce, it’s time to break the rules. 
After years of writing about others, though, 
I’m not sure I remember how to write about 
myself. 
Each time I have tried to write about my 
last two-and-a-half years working at The Alli-
gator — the late nights in the ofﬁ  ce, the tearful 
interviews, the festival press-passes, the peo-
ple I have met — there was a new ﬁ  re to ﬁ  ght. 
Sometimes, putting out that ﬁ  re meant run-
ning to the Plaza of the Americas with wet 
hair to plop down in the grass with local band 
ﬂ  ipturn. Other times, it has meant speeding 
across town when one of my writers acciden-
tally locked her laptop in her apartment right 
before a deadline. 
Each time I have sat down to type this fare-
well, something has gotten in my way. But, that’s kind of the point. Journalism is full of 
rules and deadlines and inconveniences, and 
if that’s how you choose to see it, that is all it 
will ever be. 
To those going into the ﬁ  eld of journalism, 
I’ve got a little advice. Remember why you de-
cided to do this in the ﬁ  rst place. The rules are 
important. They keep us honest. Still, don’t get 
so bogged down in the fear of getting it wrong 
that you forget why you did this to begin with. 
I became an arts and culture journalist 
to tell the stories of the kind of people that I 
wanted to be: creative, brave, resilient and 
passionate. The Alligator has given me the 
chance to do just that. I’ve had the privilege to 
tell the stories of painters, musicians, actors, 
writers, directors, conductors and more.
To those who have trusted me with their 
stories, I am forever grateful. Talking and 
laughing and crying with these men and wom-
en goes far beyond the next concert on the cal-
endar. Art really is a reﬂ  ection of life, and I 
have been so lucky to peek into that mirror.
To the people who gave me a chance, thank 
you Alligator staff. 
I promise to do you proud.  See you later, Alligator
OPINION
Alligator Staff
Retiring Avenue Editor Emma Witmer (center), stands with Avenue Staff 
Writers Tranelle Maner (left) and Lindsey Breneman (right).
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Centrally located on bus route. This is a nice 
investment opportunity for parents looking 
for student housing. New Home, no main -
tenance, no yard work, pool included with 
HOA,3 bed/2 bath, luxury master bath. Low 
utility bills. Must see! Call Lou Thurmond- 
Broker/Owner: 352-213-2413
1-7-19-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10Live & Online Public Auction
Monday, December 17th, 2018 at 10:00 A.M.
Global Tech LED, LLC.
8901 Quality Road
Bonita Springs, Florida 34135
Large Inventory consisting of LED lighting 
products, retrofit kits, warehouse equipment, 
forklift, tools, office furniture, office equip -
ment, testing equipment, electronics, com -
puters and so much more.
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: Day of sale 9-10AM.
15%-18% BP. Assignment for the Benefit of 
Creditors Case #18-CA-004785
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS
info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     12-5-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or 
investing money.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-13
FREON R12 WANTED:
CERTIFIED BUYER will PAY CA$Hfor R12 
cylinders or cases of cans. (312)291-9169;      
www.refrigerantfinders.com        12-5-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Hiring PT and FT associates. Must have 
consistent availability including either Sat or 
Sun. each week. Only energetic, positive, 
team minded people please. Apply in person 
only to 1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St.      1-9-19-5-14
NEED SOME CHRISTMAS CASH? 
Get paid to test our apps on your phone. 
It's easy! It's fun! It pays! 
>>> www.CollegeCash.online <<      1-7-19-
3-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-7-19-
3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.1For Rent
furnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $575/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      12-5-1-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Get your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)LOSE ONE DRESS SIZE
IN 7 DAYS.
GO TO WEBSITE NOW-
https://1644089.site123.me/      12-5-18-5-20
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: December 17, 2018 at 5:00 
p.m.
PLACE: John R. “Jack” Durrance Auditorium,
County Administration Building, Gainesville, 
Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
Metropolitan Transportation
Planning Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website at
www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning), or appearing in 
person, during regular business hours, at 
2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida. 
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
12-5-1-20Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
By Mark McClain
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/05/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/05/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, December 5, 2018
ACROSS
1 Insurance 
submission
6 Spars on the 
briny
11 Spanish I verb
14 Vital body vessel
15 Choristers who 
are usually 
women
16 Young bloke
17 Get increasingly 
steamed
19 “Diary of a Wimpy 
__”: Jeff Kinney 
book series
20 Home of the 
NHL’s Blues
21 Scrape off
22 Radio hobbyists
23 Rickie Fowler’s 
org.
24 One way to travel
26 Provocative 
social media 
tactic
32 Old Italian bread?
34 Jai __
35 Forearm-related
36 Wee hr.
38 Approves
39 Disciple’s query
40 “Am not!” retort
41 Spa treatment
43 Bullet __: list 
highlight
44 Battlefield order
47 __ Mode, 
designer voiced 
by Brad Bird in 
“Incredibles 2”
48 Strive
49 Skinny
51 Sleeping bag 
closer
55 Getting stuff 
done, initially
58 “Who, me?”
59 Striking white 
stripe between a 
horse’s eyes
61 From A to Z
62 Venue with 
skyboxes
63 Expected
64 Animation frame
65 Venomous snake
66 Hindu spiritual 
writing
DOWN
1 Despicable 
dudes
2 Ransack3 Depleted sea
4 “__ Quiet 
Uptown”: 
“Hamilton” song
5 Spanish dessert 
wine
6 Bryn __ College
7 Goya’s “Duchess 
of __”
8 It may be ear-
piercing
9 Bullfight figure
10 ID gradually 
being omitted 
from Medicare 
cards
11 Water’s 
capability to 
neutralize acid
12 Injure badly
13 Track ratios
18 President who 
appointed two 
women to the 
Supreme Court
22 Sledding spot
23 “Yes, fine by me”
25 Pierre’s “his”
26 Second cup at a 
diner, e.g.
27 Unite on the sly
28 Spoken for
29 Stairway 
element30 Statistician Silver
31 Dire
32 Bakery unit
33 Cross inscription
37 Like harvested 
hay
42 Video game 
stage
45 Black ice, e.g.
46 Boeing rival
49 All-in-one Apple
50 Florida State 
player, familiarly52 Secured, as a 
win
53 Source of cones
54 Early late-night 
TV host
55 Lacking slack
56 Business 
magnate
57 Olympics coach 
Karolyi
59 Tower authority: 
Abbr.
60 The SEC’s Tigers
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/04/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/04/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, December 4, 2018
ACROSS
1 Fights (for)
5 “Whip It” rock 
band
9 __-slapper: funny 
joke
13 On the road
14 Biblical paradise
15 Dr. Hahn on 
“Grey’s Anatomy”
16 Hesitation from 
Sylvester?
18 Center of activity
19 Fireplace 
receptacle
20 Accomplishment 
by Porky?
22 Former Fox TV 
series set in 
Newport Beach
23 Curly cabbage
24 Minor flap
25 Ringing organ, at 
times
26 Detergent brand
28 ’60s hallucinogen
30 Pierre’s negative
31 Near-failing mark
33 Reach its 
destination, as 
a trip
35 Slim candle
37 Affirmative from 
Tony?
40 Royal crown
42 Slim fish
43 Tech sch. near 
Albany, N.Y.
46 Win, place or 
show
47 Seasonal shelf 
sitter
49 __ moment’s 
notice
51 Curved shape
53 “Frozen” sister
55 Charged 
particles
57 One of Crayola’s 
hundreds
59 Story from 
Remy?
61 Greek goddess of 
wisdom
62 “Don’t Cry for 
Me Argentina” 
musical
63 Water source for 
Simba?
65 Fainthearted
66 Fairy tale heavy
67 Out of the wind
68 “Frozen” reindeer
69 “That was close!”
70 Scottish 
monster’s lochDOWN
1 Obey an eviction 
notice
2 “He scammed 
me!”
3 Neon diner sign
4 Food service 
giant
5 College faculty 
head
6 End of a 
professor’s URL
7 Italian scooter
8 Playwright 
Eugene
9 Emmy winner 
Steve of “60 
Minutes”
10 “Good shot!”
11 Quito’s country
12 Crayola 
Factory’s 
Pennsylvania 
home
15 Trains over the 
street
17 Running rate
21 Unified whole, in 
psychology
23 Film title 
“Citizen”
27 Trappings of 
royalty
29 One of a 
calendar septet32 Incoming flight 
info
34 “The Chronic” 
rapper, familiarly
36 Each
38 Rage
39 Red and Yellow
40 Israeli port on the 
Mediterranean
41 “The hour has 
arrived”
44 Brewpub draft
45 Unexpected 
turns of events46 Special Forces 
headgear
48 Abide by
50 Plays a part
52 Construction site 
sights
54 “The Lord of the 
Rings” actor Sean
56 Horse’s 
mouthful?
58 “Not again!”
60 Smidgen
61 From the top
64 Portland’s st.
1.  Appear
1.  Captivate5.  Number
2.  Etch6.  Withstand
3.  Receiving 7.  Account book
4.  Profession GEREEM
ARENDEIGTDI
DEBAI
NVEAERG
NTGIGETGLDERE
ERCAREANSWERS: 1A-Emerge  5A-Digit  6A-Abide  7A-Ledger
1D-Endear  2D-Engrave  3D-Getting  4D-Career  B-Reindeer12-5-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ are native to cold regions
of the Northern Hemisphere.
BONUS15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
UF cross country runner Elisabeth 
Bergh faced multiple layers of 
adversity in her quest to become 
an All-SEC athlete. Read her story, 
pg. 14Former UF coach Urban Meyer announces retirement
Ohio State head coach Urban Meyer retired at a press conference hosted 
at the university Tuesday. Meyer cited health concerns prompting him to 
reconsider his future at OSU. He will coach Ohio State in the Rose Bowl 
against Washington.By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
It isn’t always pretty.
The Gators’ 66-56 win over West Virginia on Tues-
day night was everything but. The two teams com-
bined for 36 turnovers and 52 fouls. The Madison 
Square Garden crowd was treated to brick after brick 
for most of the game.
UF (5-3) didn’t need a sublime performance as a 
team. It just needed KeVaughn Allen.
The senior was only averaging 8.7 points per con-
test heading into the game. But Allen had the hot hand 
against the Mountaineers, scoring 19 points on 5-of-13 
shooting.
The Gators had a bleak shooting night outside of 
Allen, only hitting 33 percent from the ﬁ  eld. The team 
shot 46 total free throws, largely a result of the foul-
happy WVU defense committing 30 team fouls. But UF 
only converted 28 of those tries.
Florida led by 12 late in the ﬁ  rst period, but a scor-
ing drought that lasted over 10 minutes let West Vir-
ginia (5-3) back into the game. The Mountaineers only 
trailed 30-27 at halftime, and UF’s scoreless streak 
lasted nearly ﬁ  ve minutes into the second period. Four 
quick points from Allen put an end to the drought and 
energized the squad, leading to an 18-2 run to take 
back control. 
WVU pushed UF in the ﬁ  nal minutes despite be-
ing held off the scoreboard for over ﬁ  ve minutes. The 
Mountaineers brought the game within single digits 
with under a minute to play, but it was too little, too 
late. 
Credit for the victory should mostly go to Florida’s 
defense. WVU turned it over 21 times with only nine 
Morgan Meets the Eye / Column
Keep your head down. Go 
to classes and go home. 
Play trivia every once in 
a while.
That was my plan 
when I moved to Gainesville in 
summer 2016. I’d started college 
at Auburn University eight years 
prior and didn’t follow that for-
mula. I dropped out four years 
later. 
Stick to the plan. The plan is salvation. 
For my ﬁ  rst semester at UF, it worked. I 
aced my summer classes. I felt like I was suc-
ceeding at something for the ﬁ  rst time in my 
life.
Then I grabbed a copy of The Alligator. I 
ﬁ  gured it’d do well to be informed of local poli-
tics, campus news and, of course, sports. 
I ﬂ  ipped the paper open to the sports sec-
tion. I can’t remember which article I read. All 
I remember thinking is, “Yeah, I can write bet-
ter than that.”You arrogant S.O.B. You 
aren’t here to one-up anybody. 
Focus on the plan. The plan is 
salvation.
I applied for a spot on the 
sports staff. Ethan Bauer and 
Matt Brannon offered me a po-
sition as the women’s golf beat 
writer. I was kinda dejected. 
Where in my application did it 
say I wanted to waste my time 
and effort on something nobody seems to care 
about? 
Last chance, my dude. You can still revert 
to the plan. The plan is salvation.
I accepted. I’m not sure if it was out of a 
misplaced sense of “I’ll show you,” or eager 
naivety. Either way, when it came time to re-
port on my ﬁ  rst assignment (the team’s open-
ing tournament in Lecanto, Florida), I had a 
couple of options.
Option 1: Stay in Gainesville, hit refresh ev-Ignore your plan. You owe it to yourself.
Morgan McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMufﬁ  n
SEE MORGAN,  PAGE 15O’B-Wan Kenobi / Column
Wow. It almost feels 
weird writing this col-
umn. I’ve dedicated 
at least one day (and 
usually more) to this 
newspaper every single week 
this past calendar year.
Even summer. The brutal, 
tough, grueling, hot summer it 
is in Gainesville saw me at my 
highest production at the Alliga-
tor.
And I wouldn’t give it back for anything. 
Not a single minute.
You see, I want to be an anchor on TV 
one day. Preferably ABC or ESPN, but I 
know that’s a tremendous dream. Because of 
that, I have to leave the Alligator, but it’s not 
without a ton of nostalgia.
When I came in here as the women’s golf 
writer, I told myself, “It’s got to be sports. 
I’d rather write sports than report just regular 
news for the rest of my life.”After about six weeks, my 
tune changed. Writing for a 
newspaper sucks. Like it serious-
ly sucks. It’s draining and taxing 
and censoring, and you feel like 
your true voice is never heard.
Your bosses ask you to be 
more creative then shoot you 
down when you become too cre-
ative, athletes and sources are 
sometimes damn near impossible 
to get access to and, honestly, it just eats a lot 
of your time.
Being an on-air presence for news is 
clearly where my role is carved, even if it is 
just regular old news and not sports.
That’s why I commend those of you out 
there who work at a newspaper. You have 
an iron will, a burning passion and a work 
ethic that would make Dwight Schrute envi-
ous. I tip my cap to you.
I tip my cap to all my coworkers - without When it’s right for you, you’ll know
Chris O'Brien
twitter: @THEChrisOB
SEE CHRIS,  PAGE 15Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Guard KeVaughn Allen posted 19 points on 5-of-13 shooting in Florida's 66-56 win over West Virginia on Tuesday night. 
He also contributed three steals, four rebounds and three assists in his 34 minutes. 
BASKETBALL
 Florida pulls away from West Virginia in low-scoring aﬀ  air
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in 
everything we do. For our employees, that means 
industry-leading wages, a great work environment 
and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to 
generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  
5 year salary structure  (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
352-505-5304
prestigepetresort.com
one convenient location  •  3717 NW 13th Street Providing the best care in Gainesville 
for your best friend since 1974. 
352-372-8387
shoresanhosp.com
Your pet’s vacation destination! You do 
not have to stress about your furry family 
member while traveling. Prestige Pet 
Resort is their home away from home!
– Deluxe Boarding Themed Suites
– Half Pint Harbor for Small Dogs
– Cat Cove with Spacious Condos
– Doggy Day Care
– Spa Grooming Services with 
Hydrosurge Massage Baths
PET RESORT     & SPA
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
 Visit us at Bo Diddley Plaza  
Farmers Market  Wed. 4-7 pm
954-882-2879
@Emma Jeens Pies
CROSS COUNTRY
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Running seems simple, doesn’t it? The ac-
tivity comes as naturally as breathing for some. 
You put one foot in front of the other, push 
your arms back and forth, and before you 
know it, you’re off.
But then you’re a mile or two in, and you’re 
feeling woozy. You wish you had a more in-
grained sense of how to manage.
Elisabeth Bergh has that quality. At least, 
that’s what Chris Solinsky, her cross country 
coach at UF, believes.
“She has very good race instincts,” he said. 
“Whenever she steps to the starting line, I 
know that she will make good decisions and 
run her heart out for the University of Florida, 
her team and herself.”
What exactly makes for good “race in-
stincts?” Whether it’s Bergh’s strength, cour-
age or determination is up for debate. 
These are just a few of the qualities she has 
utilized in recent years to remain successful, 
whether that be on the track, on the course or 
in the classroom.
Growing up in Haugesund, Norway, the 
redshirt junior’s ﬁ  rst sport wasn’t cross coun-
try, and it wasn’t track and ﬁ  eld either. She’d played soccer for 10 years leading up to a deci-
sion she had to make in her mid-teens.
“It was tough to leave the game behind to 
focus on running… but after realizing I was a 
better runner, I knew I 
had made the right de-
cision.”
And did she ever.
Bergh excelled as 
a track athlete in high 
school, competing in 
some of the more pres-
tigious running events 
in Norway. In 2014, 
Bergh ﬁ  nished 12th in 
the 1,500-meter run 
at the World Junior Championships. She also 
claimed personal bests at both the 2014 IAAF 
Diamond League Lausanne U20 and the 2014 
Tallinn European Team Championships.
Bergh kept busy once she began running, 
competing in cross country in the fall, while 
focusing on track and ﬁ  eld during the spring 
and summer. The grind of the running season 
created opportunities for Bergh she admittedly 
didn’t picture herself having when she started.
Bergh’s talents presented her with the 
chance to compete collegiately while get-ting a quality education. Still, she had second 
thoughts about packing up and moving across 
the pond.
“I was a little skeptical because of how far 
away from home it was,” she said. “But I real-
ized it was a unique opportunity to come to 
America.”
The more Bergh thought about it, the more 
she understood the beneﬁ  ts she’d receive by 
making the jump from Norway to the United 
States.
“They put a lot more into sports (in Ameri-
ca) than in Norway,” Bergh said. “There’s fan-
tastic staff, way better facilities. They just put 
way more money into everything.”
Bergh’s move was made easier thanks to 
the companionship of her boyfriend, Magnus 
Pettersen. The Drammen, Norway, native had 
aspirations of moving to the United States back 
when he was a high schooler in his native 
country.
When it came to making the right decision 
on which school to attend, the couple had 
plenty of options. Bergh said she talked to a 
lot of schools, but only one made the biggest 
impression.
“We looked into coming here, and we 
thought Florida was a good academic school 
and had a very good track team,” she said. “We loved all the coaches we talked to, so we 
were pretty sure UF was the right place for us.”
Bergh jokingly brought up the climate in 
this part of the country being a bit nicer than 
at home. 
“It felt like the dream coming from Norway 
to this warm weather,” she laughed.
Not everything felt like a tropical paradise 
to Bergh when she transitioned from Norway 
to America. Among many other things, the lan-
guage barrier was a major issue for her. 
“It was deﬁ  nitely a challenge in the begin-
ning,” she admitted. “I wasn’t very good at 
English at all.”
Pettersen mentioned that the couple’s drive 
to Gainesville from the airport in Orlando was 
an uneasy one. 
“During the two-hour ride back, I don’t 
think Elisabeth said more than a complete sen-
tence,” Pettersen said. “After a while though, 
she learned not to care about speaking perfect-
ly, but rather focusing on getting understood.”
The next challenge that dared Bergh’s 
peace of mind was academics. According to 
Pettersen, Bergh’s freshman year was ﬁ  lled 
with plenty of tribulation.Elisabeth Bergh learned to run through changes, adversity
Read the rest of this story online at 
alligator.org /sportsBergh
•   •   •WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
ery five minutes on the scoring website and do a 
quick write-up. 
Option 2: Ignore the plan. 
You don’t have the time. It’s nearly a two-hour 
drive there and back. Stick to the plan. The plan 
is salva-
I had no idea what to do when I arrived at the 
Black Diamond Ranch golf course. I raced up to 
the first tee around 8 a.m. and chatted with the 
assistant coach. That’s how I wanted it to appear, 
at least. I may have been shivering too much in the 
frigid January weather to let out any comprehen-
sible thoughts. 
I followed the team through the first 18 holes. 
I took a nap in my car between rounds. I mapped 
out the article in my head on the way back to 
Gainesville and turned it in late. The lede Matt, 
Ethan and I came up with hardly mentioned golf.
“Obscenities and a folding chair with a smiley 
face on it tossed to the ground pierced the other-
wise serene mood of the 17th hole at the Florida 
Challenge on Monday.”
Seeing that sentence makes me cringe now. It’s 
too long. It’s clunky. It has too much information 
and too many clauses. 
But it’s enticing. It wouldn’t have been if I’d 
stuck to the plan. 
Nearly two years have passed since that frost-
bitten morning in suburban purgatory. Since then, 
I’ve covered men’s and women’s basketball, base-
ball, soccer and football. I’ve been the online sports 
editor, editor-in-chief and sports editor. Through 
tearful, sleepless nights, missed classwork and 
postponed deadlines, I found the original plan was 
silly all along. 
This is a call to action. This is a plea to others. 
This is a manifesto. 
Don’t listen to this voice. This is the siren song 
of smug satisfaction. This is the compelling con-
tract of complacency.
The real world operates on an hour-by-hour ba-
sis. Adapt to it or be at its mercy. Ignore the plan. 
The plan is not salvation. 
Morgan McMullen was the sports editor at 
The Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @Mor-
ganMcMuffinMORGAN,  from pg. 13
you, I’d have never stayed as long as I did. There were 
times where my patience was pushed to the edge.
Around April of 2018, some of our top editors at the 
paper told me I was a bad reporter because I wanted to 
publish a longform feature with an anonymous source (a 
source, I might add, that was vital to the story).
I felt so humiliated and disrespected. Those two edi-
tors are going to be extremely successful in their lives. 
But there should be no pride taken in stepping on others 
to get where you are.
I nearly quit on the spot. Oh, I was so close. The only 
reason I didn’t was because my sports editors stuck up 
for me in a way I’d never been defended before. With-
out them, there was never a chance of me staying. And 
without my coworkers keeping me up, I’d definitely have 
been out the door.
But the story doesn’t end there.
I stayed over summer and had a blast as an assistant 
sports editor with my boss Mark Stine and the summer 
staff. I got another feature story about a soccer player’s 
battle with cancer and absolutely crushed it.
And, finally, I stayed on one final semester to cover 
men’s basketball.
Physically and emotionally drained, it is my time to 
leave. I’m going to miss this place a lot. A whooooole lot. 
But this is the right time for me.
And for you, dear reader, you’ll know when the right 
time is. When the right time to leave a place or join a 
place or take a leap of faith.
You see, you have to find your place in this life. Don’t 
let it come to you. Go find it. Go adventure and seek thrill 
and experience new emotions that put you out of your 
comfort zone. And when you find what’s right for you, 
you’ll know.
I promise you.
You’ll know.
To everyone that’s followed along my brief year here, 
thank you.
Thank you alligatorSports. Thank you sports staff. 
Thank you for teaching me what it really takes to be a 
writer. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I can’t say it 
enough. Thank you.
The next step of my journey awaits.
Chris O’Brien was a sports writer at the Alligator. Fol-
low all of his wacky adventures on Twitter @THEChrisOBCHRIS,  from pg. 13total assists and shot 30 percent from the field.
SEC Freshman of the Week Andrew Nemb-
hard scored seven points with four rebounds 
and six assists. But he also turned it over twice 
after not having a turnover in his last two games.
Jalen Hudson’s struggles continued on Tues-
day. He was heralded as a team leader during 
the offseason, but it hasn’t materialized on the 
court this season. The senior considered leaving 
early for the NBA last offseason, but now finds 
himself backing up a true freshman in Noah 
Locke. He only played six minutes against the 
Mountaineers, going 0-for-4, all from three. He 
also missed both of his free throw attempts.
Sophomore guard Deaundrae Ballard was a 
non-factor. The Gators’ leading scorer this sea-
son had three points, all of which came at the 
line.
It was an ugly game, but it also marked the 
best win of the season thus far. The beginning of 
the season hasn’t been ideal for UF, but Tuesday 
night’s game was likely a must-win for Florida. 
The Gators have dropped all of their key games 
up until this point, and a win over West Virginia 
ensures that Florida will remain at least a fringe 
tournament team moving forward. Now No. 10 
Michigan State will come to town Saturday, and 
coach Mike White will have the chance to earn 
one of his biggest victories in Gainesville.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 15Allen nets 19
Chris O'Brien / Alligator Staff
Guard Andrew Nembhard finished with seven points on 1-of-6 shooting from the field in Florida's 66-56 win over West 
Virginia on Tuesday. Nembhard also led the team with six assists and added a pair of steals. 
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK
By River Wells
@riverhwells16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
2 - 4 - 1 
Poke Bowls 
(Ahi Tuna, Asian Chicken & Filet)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail  
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week7pm – 12am
2 - 4 - 1  
Appetizers 
2 - 4 - 1  
Craft Cocktails
2 - 4 - 1 
Top Shelf  
LIT’s & Margarita’s
Trivia 7:30pm 
Free pool @ 10pm
7pm – 12am
$6.99 Chicken 
Tenders w/ Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Budlight Bottles
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ Cheese
(Regular, Taco or  
Buffalo Chicken )
$5 Mules 
(Moscow & Specialty)
$5 Select Craft 
Pints
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Cocktail  
on Tap
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseAll Day
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Magnitude 
DraftsSUNDAY
FUNDAY SUNDAY
FUNDAYBLOWOUT
MONDAYS2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
$5
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm
