We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
Gators head to Omaha
UF got a boost from Austin Langworthy to keep 
its season alive in the College World Series, pg. 
14UF student opens up about suicide awareness
Valeria Hernandez spoke about her experience with mental 
health and the need for open dialogue on the subject, pg. 4
Rape Crisis Center faces shortage of workers
A local sexual assault outreach center is looking for volunteers,
pg. 4FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF LGBTQ members honor Pulse nightclub victims on anniversary  
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff
From now until July 12, the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs ofﬁ  ce will display the faces and names of the 49 victims of the Orlando Pulse nightclub shooting and have a 
“Commitment to Action” board for the campus community to participate in.
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff
A display board posted at the front entrance of the Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs ofﬁ  ce asks students to place notes in honor of the 49 
victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Myles Lopez, 19, divulged how 
LGBTQ people — speciﬁ  cally trans-
gender and queer people of color 
— endure a constant fear of never 
knowing what to expect from the 
world. Lopez said despite the dia-
logue that tragedies like the Pulse 
shooting creates, it is still difﬁ  cult to 
combat the violence and oppression 
they face.
“Pulse created awareness, and 
that’s great that people opened their 
eyes,” Lopez said. “But I feel like in 
the community and as a society, we 
need to be paying attention to our 
LGBTQ brothers, sisters and siblings 
and making sure they’re OK, or it’s 
really easy for something like Pulse 
to happen again.”
Tuesday marked two years since 
49 people were shot and killed dur-
ing a terrorist attack at Pulse, an 
Orlando nightclub. UF Multicultural 
and Diversity Affairs is honoring 
their lives with a call-to-action event 
on campus.
MCDA and UF LGBTQ Affairs are 
displaying the pictures and names 
of the lives lost and have a large 
dry-erase board with the question, 
“What will you do to honor these 49 
lives?” The event will continue in the Reitz Union in MCDA suite, Room 
2203 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every 
day until July 12.
Diana Moreno, assistant direc-
tor of MCDA, said the board is ﬁ  lled 
with colorful Post-it notes from stu-
dents who have made a commitment 
to spark action from this tragedy.
“It was an event that hit close to 
home,” Moreno said. “Many of our 
students knew someone who passed 
or who was at the club that night.”
Lopez, a student ambassador for 
UF LGBTQ Affairs, designed the dis-
play for the event. Lopez feels that 
little has changed with gun violence 
since the Pulse shooting.
The second year women’s studies 
and psychology major said the best 
way for people to honor the lives lost 
is to learn about the LGBTQ commu-
nity.
Lopez said it can sometimes be 
overwhelming for LGBTQ people to 
feel they have the sole responsibil-
ity of educating others about what 
it means to identify as an LGBTQ 
person of color and to be affected by 
racist and homophobic societies at 
the same time.
Moreno said this remembrance 
event is important for UF and 
Gainesville because it allows LGBTQ 
individuals who face violence daily 
to reﬂ  ect on the people lost. It also 
commits to building a more inclusive campus and community.
Since the shooting, Moreno has 
seen MCDA evolve to be more inclu-
sive on campus. 
She said the logo of MCDA re-
cently changed to include the brown 
and black stripes that are a part of 
the More Color More Pride campaign 
in order to better represent queer and 
transgender students of color at UF.
Despite the large number of col-
lege students leaving Gainesville in 
the summer, Moreno said, there are 
still small actions and events like this 
occurring throughout the communi-
ty for Pride Awareness Month. 
Committing to vote, becoming 
civically engaged and participating 
in student organizations to create 
a more LGBTQ-inclusive space are 
a few of the actions taken to honor 
the queer and transgender lives lost, 
Moreno said. 
“We want to make sure that we 
not just reﬂ  ect on folks who we lost, 
but we also commit to building a 
more inclusive campus and a more 
inclusive society for those who are 
still with us,” Moreno said. “We also 
want to highlight the positive aspects 
and the joy and the beauty of the 
community.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 95
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaT oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 95
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
HIGH  91° LOW  72°
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarVOLUME 112 ISSUE 95
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:GATORFeed
Check Out Our New PodcastMeme of the Week Tweet of the Week
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
The Associated Press
A police officer is in a coma 
and has a long road to recovery 
after being shot in the head ear-
lier in the week by a Florida felon 
who eventually killed four chil-
dren during a standoff, a trauma 
surgeon said Wednesday.
Orlando Police Officer Kevin 
Valencia was in critical condition 
but has shown signs of respon-
siveness, the doctor said.
“He has a long road ahead for recovery,” said Dr. Chadwick 
Smith at Orlando Regional Medi-
cal Center.
Valencia’s wife, Meghan, said 
her husband is a fighter. Sobbing 
as she talked about her husband, 
Meghan said they are childhood 
sweethearts and have two sons.
“We were each other’s first 
boyfriend and girlfriend when 
we were 12,” she said. “You can 
imagine this person is literally ev-
erything to me.”
Meghan expressed sorrow for the killing of the four children by 
Gary Lindsey, who holed up with 
the children in a 21-hour stand-
off that ended late Monday. The 
children, ranging in age from 1 to 
11, belonged to Lindsey and his 
girlfriend.
Sunday night’s standoff began 
when Lindsey’s girlfriend left the 
apartment and told police she 
had been battered. Lindsey fired 
at responding officers, seriously 
wounding Valencia. One officer 
was able to return fire.Lindsey, 35, was found dead in 
a closet when officers entered the 
apartment Monday night. Two of 
the children were found in one 
bedroom, and the other two were 
found in another bedroom. The 
medical examiner Wednesday re-
ported that children were killed 
from bullets from Lindsey’s hand-
gun and not from the exchange of 
fire from officers, Orlando Police 
Chief John Mina said.
Mina defended the decision 
not to storm the apartment soon-er, saying such actions might 
have provoked Lindsey and put 
the children in harm’s way.
Meanwhile, Meghan asked for 
prayers from the public.
“He needs all the support he 
can get,” Meghan Valencia said. 
“So that he can wake up. So that 
he can live because my boys need 
a daddy and I need my husband 
and this community needs a real 
hero.”Doctor says Florida officer shot in standoff is in coma4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
By T ori Chin
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s been awhile since Heavan Papendick 
became a sexual assault survivor. She found a 
way to use her experiences to help others when 
she started volunteering for the Alachua County 
Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center in 2016.
“It felt really good to know that I was able 
to take something so horrible that happened to 
me and turn it into something so good for some-
body else,” Papendick said.
The Alachua County Victim Services and 
Rape Crisis Center is seeking volunteers to an-
swer calls on the center’s 24-hour helpline and 
assist with outreach events, said Ashley Flat-
tery, a victim advocate counselor.
A volunteer’s responsibilities can range from 
just listening to sexual assault survivors to re-
ferring them to community resources, Flattery 
said.
Volunteers take calls from the helpline when 
the ofﬁ  ce is closed. This includes weekends and 
holidays, said Jessie Lazarchik, the sexual as-
sault program manager. These calls are taken 
on a county cell phone which is given to the 
volunteers, according to their website.
“I think the most important thing for our 
folks on the helpline, more important than any 
kind of educational background or certiﬁ  cation 
… is that the person is kind, compassionate, 
wants to be supportive of survivors in our com-
munity and is up for that kind of task,” Lazar-
chik said.
The center is looking for volunteers of all 
backgrounds but is especially encouraging bi-
lingual, Spanish speakers to join, Flattery said.
To start training at the center, an online ap-plication should be turned in by June 22, Lazar-
chik said. Applicants will then attend a one-on-
one meeting before the training, which begins 
June 27.
The training includes 30 to 40 hours of on-
line coursework through the Florida Council 
Against Sexual Violence and in-person training 
where volunteers practice answering calls on 
the helpline through role-play and presenta-
tions, Flattery said. Volunteers also learn about 
community resources they can refer callers to.
The center requires volunteers to commit at 
least nine months to the helpline. Volunteers 
also have a monthly requirement to either work 
a weekend shift, where they are on call from 
5 p.m. Friday to 8:30 a.m. Monday, or four 
weekday shifts from 5 p.m. to 8:30 a.m., Flat-
tery said.
“The really cool thing about our helpline is 
a lot of times people get worried that they’re 
going to be pressured to report or that we won’t 
help them if they’re not into the idea of talking 
to police, but we offer services whether a per-
son wants to report or not,” Flattery said.
The helpline is not a high-volume hotline, 
Flattery said. All volunteers will have a backup 
staff member from the center on duty to serve 
as a consultant and relief for volunteers.
In the wake of the #MeToo movement, peo-
ple feel passionate about wanting to help sexual 
violence victims but may not know how, Flat-
tery said.
“This is an outlet where if you want to help, 
if it’s something that you’re passionate about, 
this is a concrete, actionable thing that you can 
do to help survivors in our community,” Flat-
tery said.Crisis center short-staﬀ  ed 
By Jacob Kovach
Alligator Contributing Writer
Valeria Hernandez sank into her bath on 
Dec. 2, 2015. She’d considered killing herself 
for months and decided this was the night. 
During her attempt, she had a realization.
She did not want to die.
“Even though my brain was convincing 
me I wanted to die, my body was ﬁ  ghting 
tooth and nail to stay alive,” Hernandez said 
in an email.
A week in the hospital following her at-
tempt bridged two periods of her life: one of 
despair and one of progress.
“After I got hospitalized, I felt like I was in 
a different world,” she said. “Whatever diag-
noses the psychiatrist would write up on my 
record, that wasn’t a sentence condemning 
me to failure or a life of unhappiness.”
Hernandez, a 22-year-old UF psychology 
and family, youth and community sciences 
senior, said she hopes her story develops a 
discussion of mental health and suicide pre-
vention.
“You can’t save the people you can’t 
reach,” Hernandez said.
In an effort to reach more students, the 
Counseling & Wellness Center at UF ap-
proved hiring 12 faculty members over the 
next four years. According to its website, the 
center saw 5,008 clients in 2017.
Rosa West, the suicide prevention coordi-
nator at the CWC, said the recent deaths of 
Kate Spade and Anthony Bourdain have shift-
ed national dialogue toward mental health.
Suicide is the second-leading cause of 
death among college students, West said. Warning signs may include severe, lasting 
mood changes, disinterest in normal activi-
ties and slipping grades.
The CWC provides a 24/7 suicide hotline 
for emergencies, counseling and suicide pre-
vention techniques to assist distressed stu-
dents.
“One of the things we communicate to 
students is that while there may be a wait for 
counseling, there is never a wait for a crisis or 
an emergency,” West said. 
Hernandez hopes to work with students 
struggling with mental health.  She helped 
coordinate UF’s mental health taskforce and 
has been involved in the Yellow Ribbon Sui-
cide Prevention Program.
“Once a university admits a student, it’s 
(the university’s) responsibility to do every-
thing in (its) power to keep them there and 
help them graduate,” Hernandez said. 
Before counseling, Hernandez thought 
it was “overrated,” which she identiﬁ  ed as 
a prevalent stigma. She stressed the impor-
tance of being present for friends who may 
have mental health issues.
“I want to reach as many people as I pos-
sibly can, and maybe those people will reach 
even more people …” she said. “So they have 
that thought one second before it’s too late, 
so they can ﬁ  nd that bit of strength to say 
‘We are not dying here tonight, either.’”
The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 
is 1-800-273-8255 and is available 24/7. The 
organization also offers a 24/7 chat with a 
counselor at suicidepreventionlifeline.org/. 
The CWC offers 24/7 emergency services at 
352-392-1575.Student recalls suicide attemptTHURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.
By Anais Roache
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recent survey found that 
LGBTQ student loan borrow-
ers in the U.S. are dispropor-
tionately affected by student 
loan debt and 60 percent regret 
taking out loans.
The survey by Student Loan 
Hero, a company that gives 
loan advice, polled 11,184 U.S. 
adults. Most were between the 
ages of 26 and 33 years old and 
identiﬁ  ed as white females. 
Job discrimination, home-
lessness, denial of ﬁ  nancial 
services and lack of family 
support cause ﬁ  nancial strain to the LGBTQ community, ac-
cording to Student Loan Hero.
The results showed that 53 
percent of LGBTQ borrowers 
make less than $50,000 a year, 
said Miranda Marquit, senior 
writer at Student Loan Hero. 
That ﬁ  gure is 43 percent for 
the general population.
Yet, LGBTQ borrowers re-
ported about $16,000 more 
in student loan debt than the 
general population.
Marquit said the company 
decided to create the survey 
after ﬁ  nding there was no data 
on how student loans affect 
the LGBTQ community.
“If people who have natu-ral advantages in our society 
are struggling with student 
loan debt, we wanted to take 
a step back and ask how has 
it affected other communities 
who don’t have the same ad-
vantages,” Marquit said.
Myles Lopez, a 19-year-old 
UF women’s studies sopho-
more and ambassador for 
LGBTQ Affairs at UF, said the 
debt problem is part of an op-
pressive system.
“Activism is a huge thing,” 
Lopez said. “But ultimately it’s 
the responsibility of the insti-
tution and people who actually 
have power over this to make 
a change.”LGBTQ student loan borrowers 
disproportionately aﬀ  ected by debt
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man Tues-
day night for beating a man with a milk 
crate.
Raymond Gullion was parked at Digni-
ty Campgrounds, located at 3035 NE 28th 
Drive, in his pick-up truck when the vic-
tim walked by him. An argument started 
around 7 p.m., during which Gullion got 
out of his car, according to the report.
Gullion, 62, allegedly picked up a milk 
crate and hit the victim over the head with 
it. Witnesses said he struck the victim 
with the crate multiple times, one witness 
said he struck the victim around 10 times. 
Another witness stated the argument be-
gan because Gullion called the victim a 
racial slur.
The victim reportedly suffered from a head injury and blood loss and was taken 
to UF Health Shands Hospital. He also 
hurt his hand on the pavement.
The victim stated he didn’t do anything 
and that Gullion hit him on the head with 
the crate. According to the report, Gullion 
admitted to hitting the victim on the head 
with the crate one time, but he said the 
victim threw the crate at him when he got 
out of his car. Gullion said he acted in self-
defense.
There have allegedly been problems 
between Gullion and the victim in the 
past.
According to Alachua County Jail re-
cords, Gullion was charged with battery. 
His bond is set at $15,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMan allegedly assaults 
victim using milk crate
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
man Monday night for threatening 
to throw a large rock at an ofﬁ  cer 
and later threatening a nurse.
Joshua Gillen, 24, was walking 
down the middle of South Main 
Street at about 9 p.m. He was al-
legedly jumping on the hood of 
several cars that were driving in 
trafﬁ  c and tossing a large rock 
up in the air. Many cars stopped and drove away from him as he 
walked toward them.
According to the GPD report, 
the arresting ofﬁ  cer approached 
Gillen in his patrol car, activating 
the overhead lights. The ofﬁ  cer 
stopped the car and started to get 
out.
When the ofﬁ  cer told him to 
stop, Gillen quickly turned around 
and allegedly lifted the rock over 
and behind his head like he was 
going to throw it at the ofﬁ  cer.
The ofﬁ  cer took cover behind the open door. Gillen was report-
edly about 15 feet away from him, 
which caused the ofﬁ  cer to worry 
if Gillen was close enough to hurt 
him with the rock.
While behind the door of his 
patrol car, the ofﬁ  cer pulled out 
his Taser. He then approached Gil-
len and told him to stop and get 
on the ground. Gillen threw the 
rock about 20 feet to his right. Ac-
cording to the report, the rock was 
about 4 to 5 inches in diameter.
Gillen was taken to North Florida Regional Medical Center 
Freestanding Emergency Room 
Millhopper to be medically cleared 
before going to jail. While the 
nurse was working, Gillen became 
angry and started yelling profani-
ties.
Gillen allegedly said he was go-
ing to return to the hospital the 
next morning to put his hands on 
the nurse. He then said he was go-
ing to follow the nurse home to 
ﬁ  nd out where he lived. 
According to the report, the nurse was afraid of the threat. 
Witnesses also heard the state-
ments Gillen made to the nurse.
GPD charged Gillen with ag-
gravated assault on a law enforce-
ment ofﬁ  cer and assault on a med-
ical provider. Gillen is currently 
being held at Alachua County Jail. 
His bond is set at $25,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGPD: Man allegedly threatened oﬃ   cer with large rockEditorial
ColumnYou ﬁ  nd yourself in an unfamiliar restaurant with an unfa-
miliar name. You look at the menu, ﬁ  lled with unfamiliar fare 
and unfamiliar terms. It’s clear this restaurant wants to be hip 
and current, but the branding is just… off. 
Your waiter comes to take your order. You wanna fall back 
on your usual breakfast cuisine, but you know the stakes have 
changed. This restaurant doesn’t want to serve you eggs or 
bacon anymore. It only wants to serve…
Uber conspiracies for smarties
OK, so the other political science columnist 
went and wrote an “Uber tips for dum-
mies” column last week. I somehow feel 
like it’s my place to also write about Uber, 
given Student Government’s involvement 
with the company.
Basically, I’m going to talk about how Uber 
Safe Rides came to be at UF. Uber Safe Rides of-
fers you a 50 percent discount every Wednesday 
through Saturday from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. on and 
around campus. Ignoring all the edgy, nasty stuff 
we’ve been hearing about Uber, I ﬁ  nd it pretty rockin’ if you 
live in the nearby vicinity of campus. Your promo code can 
be found at student.uﬂ  .edu/saferides.
The whole story (mostly what I can piece together from 
what I Google) starts back in December 2014 with a 90-day 
pilot program during the administration of Student Body 
President Cory Yeffet. Over the course of Student Body Presi-
dent Joselin Padron-Rasines’ administration, we saw pilot 
programs done in April, Summer B and then from September 
through December. The project was shut down at the end of 
the semester because it did not comply with the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, according to The Alligator archives.
As they say, third try’s the charm. With Susan Webster’s 
administration we saw the return of the program alongside 
Transportation and Parking Services hiring a new driver to 
use an ADA accessible van.
Here comes the weird stuff. Remember back in the day, 
earlier this year, when Student Body President Smith Meyers 
had to deny involvement with Turning Point USA after his 
grinning mug (no, not the mug shot) appeared in a Turn-
ing Point USA pamphlet talking about how they funnel in 
outside money to surreptitiously fund SG elections around 
the country?
Well in all honesty, his smiling face appeared on a page 
about how Turning Point USA claimed to run popular Greek 
candidates that also happened to be conservative, pro-Israel 
and pro-free market as well.
I’m sure none of those ﬁ  ve criteria really could be used to 
describe Meyers, and this was all a sad coincidence for him.But the point of this is about Uber Safe Rides, 
right? Well here is the link: Uber is a great exam-
ple of the free market! Gig economy workers with 
limited protection, limited beneﬁ  ts and limited 
background checks? Checkmate, socialists! While 
I was researching Turning Point USA, I stumbled 
across an article that pointed out something inter-
esting:
“Yet there is one policy proposal that almost 
always shows up with Turning Point’s candidates: 
promoting Uber.”
The ride-sharing service has long been touted by conser-
vative politicians as an example of free-market innovation. 
SG can push for Uber in two important ways: lobbying local 
municipalities to allow Uber service on campus and setting 
aside SG funds for late-night “safe ride” programs that pro-
vide free or discounted Uber service to students.
“In Mr. Kirk’s book, a group of ‘Turning Point USA ac-
tivists’ are credited with helping the University of Southern 
California’s student government reach its free-ride arrange-
ment with Uber. Mr. Kirk’s book mentions Uber 42 times.”
Now of course, all of this happened before Meyers came 
into ofﬁ  ce, so I’m sure all the naysayers can easily dismiss 
my conspiracies. In fact, I’m conﬁ  dent Meyers is the ﬁ  rst 
popular Greek Student Body president that also happened to 
be conservative, pro-Israel and pro-free market, so we can 
easily rule out anyone prior to him.
This also came through the term of a minority party presi-
dent, and we very well could have just seen another school 
doing this and thought it was a good idea so… *shrug*
Disclaimer: None of this is meant to criticize any of the 
identities attributed to Turning Point USA candidates and/
or/a.k.a. Smith Meyers and totally not anyone before him… 
except maybe the pro-free market people because I believe 
people really need to treat their employees better and am 
personally lacking conﬁ  dence in the free market to drive that 
behavior.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
DARTS AND LAURELS
Quite arguably the biggest story on Twitter this week 
was the re-branding of IHOP to IHOb, or the Inter-
national House of Burgers.  The move was extremely 
unusual for the company, but ridiculously transparent 
in motive.  
The entire scheme is reminiscent of a high school ploy to 
“get popular” by which the nerd ditches his friends and adopts 
a persona to rise in social stature. As such, we throw a dart at 
IHOb for sacriﬁ  cing its long-standing “mildly cool” reputation 
for a cheap social media scheme.
“IHOb” received a plethora of witty retorts, avatar changes 
and the like from virtually the entire fast food community. 
These responses, albeit entertaining for a moment, gave IHOb 
exactly what it wanted: cheap press. 
These corporations might have made a ﬁ  nancially wise de-
cision to ignore the initial buzz and let IHOb be overshadowed 
by President Donald Trump’s latest tweet. Instead, the name 
change became a Twitter trend and shares of IHOb’s parent 
stock, Dine Brands Global, rose 2.6 percent. 
This pithy analysis doesn’t mean we don’t delight in the 
occasional fast food ﬁ  stﬁ  ght. We’ll give Burger King a laurel 
for keeping IHOb in check with its snappy avatar switch to 
“Pancake King.” The response was easily the best of the back-
lash, and quite possibly the account that inspired IHOb’s new 
branding voice. Maybe that’s why the bite was so deep. 
Perhaps the most insulting facet of the entire situation was 
the subject of IHOb’s diss: breakfast. 
The brand supposedly wanted to dissociate with break-
fast as “interest in carbs is waning.” Now that just isn’t true. 
Breakfast is tied to sacred things, like ﬁ  rst days of school or 
catching up with friends on weekends. 
Gainesville itself is home to many a kitschy eatery, and 
most are packed with college students and families every 
weekend. We award a laurel to the wait staff and propri-
etors that handle our eggs and families with great care. We 
could do it without you, but we wouldn’t want to. 
We also award a laurel to Bon Appetit for its in-depth 
look at beloved local restaurants across the U.S. However, we 
might be a tad biased in our bestowal. The series includes a 
sweet love song entitled “The Weird, Wonderful Restaurant 
Where I Always Wanted to Work” for a Gainesville staple, 
The Top. UF journalism school alumnae and former Alligator 
contributing writer Zoe Sessums wrote the article. 
The piece is nostalgic, but in a Marina-Keegan-soulful kind 
of way. Sessums tells the story of the establishment in a way 
that only she can, from weekend visits growing up to the res-
taurant to ﬁ  nally working there for nearly six years. 
Sessums details her favorite dishes and captures the special 
quality of the The Top in articulate one-liners. She reminds us 
it’s the places that nourish us that are the hardest to leave, but 
every experience and haunt has a timestamp. Sessums tried 
bringing magic back to eating at beloved restaurants while es-
tablishments are working their hardest to take it all away.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORZachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
The front page of the Miami Herald 
on Wednesday read, “Family pleads 
for help after deadly hit-and-run.” 
Pick up a copy of any national pa-
per and you’ll be bombarded with 
similarly sad news. Our allies are impos-
ing tariffs on us. The #MeToo allegations 
continue to surface daily. There is a rogue 
tangerine with a 100-word vocabulary in 
the federal wheelhouse. The sky is falling. 
But every day, little by little, progress 
is being made in increments small enough 
to slip under the radar. Despite the nega-
tive press and bearing in mind there is still 
work to be done, we are progressing. These 
are a few of the headlines we should see. 
Deaths per billion vehicle miles traveled 
have fallen from about 100,000 in 1945 to 
nearly 1,000 in 2017. The world is getting 
safer through regulation.
Serious crime has dropped every year since 1994, except for a few 
small blips, despite yearly Gallup 
polling data taken which showed 
Americans believed crime was 
up. Violence is on the decline.
Cholera, one of humanity’s 
greatest common enemies, will 
soon disappear from the Earth. 
Six months ago, it was met with 
a cheap and effective vaccine. 
Medicine and science are saving 
millions of lives daily.
Half of all people with HIV are receiv-
ing treatment for the ﬁ  rst time in history. 
Deaths from AIDS have been cut in half 
since 2005. A horrible disease that we once 
thought was a permanent and insurmount-
able obstacle will soon be a rarity.
Today, 107,632 people were lifted out of 
poverty. That’s substantially more people 
than we can ﬁ  t in The Swamp. It happens daily. Since 1990, 1.1 billion peo-
ple have risen out of that lowest 
socioeconomic bracket. That’s 
three-quarters of a million people 
per week. Quietly, over the past 
30 years, extreme poverty has 
been cut in half. 
But unfortunately, you did 
not read that headline yesterday. 
What you might have seen was 
“Democrats urge Congress to 
take action on ‘appalling rates of 
poverty,’” published in The Guardian.
I’m not denying that U.S. poverty rates 
are inexcusable for a developed country or 
downplaying that one in ﬁ  ve homeless in-
dividuals are children. What I’m saying is 
the situation used to be a lot worse, and 
every day we’re moving to ﬁ  x it. 
I’m not arguing that we shouldn’t pub-
lish negative headlines — we need them to help draw our attention to the dark spots 
that still exist in our society. But most im-
portantly, and simultaneously, we need to 
keep our heads up. My argument is for op-
timism despite red ﬂ  ags on the front page.
We have every reason to believe that the 
future can be a bright and healthy place if 
we keep our eye on the ball.
In the words of Steven Pinker, John-
stone Family Professor in the department of 
psychology at Harvard University, “‘Better’ 
does not mean ‘perfect’ … We will never 
have a perfect world, but it’s not romantic 
or naïve to work toward a better one.”
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political 
science junior. His column comes out Tues-
day and Thursday. 
In my home, the perfect Sunday con-
sists of three things: good food, being 
unapologetically lazy and the newest 
episode of “Anthony Bourdain: Parts 
Unknown.” The show was such a sta-
ple in our home; we often fought over the 
remote around 9 p.m. every Sunday. My 
mom and I, loyal “Parts Unknown” fans, 
are always eager to tune in and feast our 
eyes on foods we’d probably never eat. Oc-
casionally, a daring sibling would work up 
the courage to request a different Sunday 
evening programing — to no avail. This 
family civil war always ended one way — 
with us all laughing and discussing what 
obscure part of this enigmatic world Bour-
dain had to show us that week. 
Bourdain was like a distant uncle who 
visited our home from time to time, tak-
ing a break from his adventures to tell us stories of clams in Vietnam or 
his dinner with former President 
Barack Obama. He peppered 
our thoughts with wonder. He 
brought us to a place we’d visit 
only in our daydreams. Or, he 
peeled back the layers of dull-
ness to reveal that every place 
has a story — even the tattered 
coal towns of West Virginia. He 
was a philosophical tour guide who took 
us to different parts of our mind — the cu-
rious parts that crave to understand those 
different from us. He was a chef, and he 
knew we were hungry. 
As a Palestinian, no textbook had ever 
taught me anything about my culture. But 
Bourdain’s episode in Israel closed that 
gap. He would take us in his pocket, to a 
place where a Visa could not. In a world that paints so many Muslims 
with the same stroke, he brought 
a sense of open-minded human-
ity to my people and to cultures 
all over the world. His trip to 
Gaza led to him winning an 
award from the Muslim Public 
Affairs Council. He said “I was 
enormously grateful for the re-
sponse from Palestinians in par-
ticular for doing what seemed to me an or-
dinary task — show regular people doing 
regular things.” 
His ability to tell stories is unmatched. 
Watching him explain the importance of 
Wafﬂ  e House in American culture gives 
me goosebumps. Bourdain made the point 
that beauty can truly be found in the most 
unexpected places, and he proved this epi-
sode after episode. You don’t have to look far and wide to ﬁ  nd adventure — but you 
should. “If you’re 22, physically ﬁ  t, hungry 
to learn and be better, I urge you to travel 
— as far and as widely as possible. Sleep 
on ﬂ  oors if you have to. Find out how oth-
er people live and eat and cook. Learn from 
them — wherever you go,” he said. 
He was a man whose job anyone would 
want but whose mind no one truly under-
stood. He battled a heroin addiction in his 
younger years and spoke freely about it. 
Food fed his body but ultimately, adven-
ture was not able to satiate his soul. With 
his skin covered in ink souvenirs of his life, 
he set off to tell his last story. He will be 
missed. 
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday and Thurs-
day.With bad news so prevalent in the media, we should remember the good
How Anthony Bourdain changed the world one story at a timeColumn
Column
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Review of Netﬂ  ix’s “The Hollow”
Read more about this binge-worthy cartoon on page 
10.We made a podcast!: 
Check out page 9 to read more about The Avenue’s new podcast.By Gregory Florez
Avenue Staff Writer
Local pop-punk group You Van-
dal will perform live with Sports 
Reference, The Handsome Scoun-
drels and Kid You Not at Loosey’s 
on Friday.
The event starts at 9 p.m. Ad-
mission for the show costs $5 and 
will be available at the door.
You Vandal is a power-pop quar-
tet from the swamps of Gainesville. 
We spoke to Eric Cannon, the 
band’s bassist and vocalist, to talk 
about the band, the local commu-
nity and the meaning of punk rock.
Question: How and when did 
the band meet?
Eric: Alex (guitar) and I met 
through an old message board, 
GainesvilleBands, sometime 
around 2009. We met Gooch (gui-
tar and vocals) not long after that, 
when he was still playing in his old 
Vero Beach band Away With You. 
Millsaps (drums) was introduced to 
us around 2013 when YV was be-
coming more active, as opposed to 
just a home-studio project.
Q: Where does the name “You 
Vandal” come from?
E: We named the band after the 
title of an old song by Saves The 
Day. They were a heavy inﬂ  uence 
on us when we ﬁ  rst started, and 
that song is pretty iconic in a lot of 
emo-inspired, pop-punk circles.
Q: How would you describe 
yourself?
E: I think the phrase I just used, 
“emo-inspired, pop-punk,” is prob-
ably a decent description. We’ve 
also gotten “power-pop,” and “pop-
punk without the cringe.”
Q: What are some themes the band explored in its sophomore re-
cord, “I Just Want to Go Back to 
Hell?”
E: There are a handful of songs 
about working through problems 
in romantic relationships and a 
handful more about broken friend-
ships. But there are also a couple 
songs that touch on death, and the 
last track, “Still the Same,” is more 
about a general feeling of hopeless-
ness than it is about a speciﬁ  c per-
son or event.
Q: When you think back to your 
entire discography, what songs 
stick out to you the most?
E: Right now, I think “Hang 
up the Phone” from “I Just Want 
to Go Back to Hell” stands out the 
most to me. It’s one of the rare oc-
casions where a song turned out 
exactly how I ﬁ  rst imagined it. It’s 
fairly short, sweet and simple, but 
we accomplished everything we set out to with it, and I’m proud of the 
ﬁ  nal result.
Q: How have you changed since 
debuting your ﬁ  rst album?
E: As a band, I think our mu-
sical tastes have matured signiﬁ  -
cantly. There’s a lot of hokey and 
cheesy instrumental work on our 
early recordings that now makes 
me want to either laugh or bury my 
face in my hands. As an individual, 
I’ve grown up a lot. I think I’ve lyri-
cally become more thoughtful and 
honest over the years, and hope-
fully the songs reﬂ  ect that.
Q: If you could perform with 
or open for any band or musician, 
alive or dead, who would it be?
E: Right now, I’d have to say 
Third Eye Blind. They’re a band 
that made a strong impression on 
me at that age where you’re ﬁ  rst 
starting to make your own choices 
about what you want to listen to in-stead of just whatever your parents 
like. But unlike a lot of other music 
I liked as a kid, Third Eye Blind still 
has a sizable presence and inﬂ  u-
ence in my life today. Also, they 
seem like they’d be the most laid-
back people ever, which would 
relieve the pressure and nerves of 
having to open for a huge band.
Q: What does it mean to be 
punk?
E: What I personally consider 
punk is a general sense of not giv-
ing a f---. Not in an insensitive-to-
others kind of way, but doing your 
own thing without caring or being 
held down by what other people 
think or say. That being said, 
I’m not sure anyone adamantly 
concerned with the deﬁ  nition of 
punk cares to hear You Vandal’s 
thoughts on it.
Q: What do you love the most about Gainesville?
E: I’ve always enjoyed how 
Gainesville has all the comfort of 
a small town while still having a 
lot of the conveniences that a lot 
of small towns don’t have. It’s this 
beautiful, laid-back oasis of hippies 
and hipsters in a part of the state 
that is otherwise fairly podunk.
Q: How did a life in Gainesville 
inﬂ  uence your music?
E: I’ve lived in Gainesville since 
2005. Some of the biggest name 
bands from here have been major 
inﬂ  uences on me over the years. 
I’ve formed most of my closest 
friendships with people while liv-
ing here. I probably wouldn’t be 
the person I am today if I’d nev-
er moved here, and You Vandal 
deﬁ  nitely wouldn’t exist without 
Gainesville.Q&A: Eric Cannon of You Vandal talks Gainesville and punk rock
By Natu Tweh
Avenue Contributor
Staged Reading Potluck and ‘Smooth, 
Smooth Jazz’
The Continuum is having its ﬁ  rst Staged 
Reading Potluck of the summer Thursday 
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Guests are invited to 
bring food, and a staged reading of the play 
“Smooth, Smooth Jazz” will begin at 7 p.m.
Mike Llerena & The Nerve album release 
show with NOMORE and The Reinhards
On Thursday at The Atlantic, from 9 p.m. 
to midnight, local band Mike Llerena & The Nerve will be having an album release show 
for their debut LP titled “Old Haunts & New 
Horizons.” Guest performers are NOMORE 
and The Reinhards. Admission is $5.
McFarland, Kaleb Stewart, Blake Trent 
and Champagne Jerry at the Hardback Cafe
At the Hardback Cafe on Thursday, indie 
band McFarland from Los Angeles will play 
alongside other bands. McFarland is current-
ly on their ﬁ  rst full U.S. tour. Admission is 
not listed, and the show starts at 9 p.m.
Gillian Carter, Thunderclap and To Forget 
at the Hardback Cafe
These bands will be performing at the Hardback Cafe on Friday from 9 p.m. to 1 
a.m. Admission is $5.
Saturday night block party at The Atlantic 
and Arcade Bar
The Atlantic will be having a block party 
with Arcade Bar with three DJs on stage at 
The Atlantic and more in the alley and in Ar-
cade Bar. The show is Saturday from 10 p.m. 
to 1:45 a.m., and it is open to those 21 and 
up.
Timothy Eerie, The Mermers and South-
paw in The Backyard
These bands will be playing at The Back-
yard (located between Palomino Pool Hall and Boca Fiesta) Saturday from 10 p.m. to 
1 a.m. Timothy Eerie is a band from Austin, 
Texas. The Mermers and Southpaw are local 
bands who will also be performing at The 
Fest. Doors open at 9 p.m., and admission 
is $5.
Boyfriend Material, Boston Marriage, Just 
Neighbors and Jenarchy at the Hardback Cafe
These bands will be playing at the Hard-
back Cafe on Sunday from 8 p.m. to mid-
night. This show will be local band Boyfriend 
Material’s last show because one of their 
members is moving to Nashville, Tennessee. 
Admission is $5.This week in music: Where to catch a live show in town
MUSICMatthew Zagorski
You Vandal’s Eric Cannon performs live. Cannon and band 
member Alex formed the band in 2009.
Jeff Roach 
Since releasing their ﬁ  rst record in 2010, You Vandal has 
released two additional albums.
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Attentio/n.end Alligator 
Advertiser/s.end!
CLASSIFIED 
373-FIND
DISPLAY 
376-4482The Alligator will not 
publish from Mon., June 
19th through Fri., June 23rd
The deadline for 
Tuesday, July 3rd is 
Fri., June 28th by 4:00 p.m. 
for Display & Classiﬁed AdvertisingBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
The Avenue is giving a voice to 
entertainment, literally. Today, the 
Avenue is launching its ﬁ  rst ever 
podcast: “The Avenue: Roundup.”
Copy editor Stefano Ferreyros and 
Avenue editor Emma Witmer are giv-
ing listeners a weekly peek behind 
the curtain of local entertainment. 
“The Avenue: Roundup” gives Fer-
reyros and Witmer the chance to 
sit down for off-the-cuff chats with 
touring musicians, local celebrities 
and the men and women behind the 
scenes who provide insights into the 
events of the day.
The podcast will air every Thurs-
day and will be available across all 
platforms, including Spotify and iTunes. Each episode of “The Ave-
nue: Roundup” will be about 20 min-
utes long and feature a personal tone.
The ﬁ  rst episode will be available 
Thursday by noon. Ferreyros and 
Witmer sat down with the Raelyn 
Nelson Band to talk music and tour-
ing as well as share personal stories, 
celebrity crushes and guilty plea-
sures. Raelyn Nelson, granddaughter 
of country music legend Willie Nel-
son, talked about growing up idol-
izing her musical family and forging 
her own path in the country music 
scene.
The dynamic between Nelson and 
her bandmates seems more like sib-
lings than anything else, and the ban-
ter between them is enough to keep 
you giggling from start to ﬁ  nish.We made a podcast!
The Raelyn Nelson band sat down to record the ﬁ  rst episode of “The Avenue: Roundup. ”
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
The Harn Museum of Art is welcoming Lee 
Anne Hurt Chesterﬁ  eld as the new museum 
director.
Chesterﬁ  eld will begin at the Harn on July 
1 after years of working her way up the ladder 
at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. Current-
ly, she is serving as the senior adviser for Mu-
seum Planning and Board Relations at VMFA.
Chesterﬁ  eld, whose educational back-
ground is rooted in marketing and art, said 
she is excited to bring her skills in strategic 
planning to the Harn and increase accessibil-
ity to the community. Chesterﬁ  eld believes 
the best way to engage the community is by 
engaging its interests through exhibits and 
events.
“The biggest thing is doing research into 
the community,” Chesterﬁ  eld said. “There’s a 
big music scene in Gainesville, so maybe do 
even more with music.”
Chesterﬁ  eld will be taking the position as 
current Director Rebecca Nagy retires after 16 
years with the museum. She said Nagy called 
her when she was offered the job to congratu-
late her. Chesterﬁ  eld hopes to sit down with 
Nagy when she comes to Florida to pick the 
brain of her predecessor.
“These are big shoes to ﬁ  ll,” Chesterﬁ  eld 
said. “She has quite a legacy with the Harn.”The Harn Museum of Art has a new director
Randy Batista
Lee Anne Hurt Chesterﬁ  eld takes over as Director of the Harn on July 1.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
It’s a kid a show, right?
That question could be all the assurance 
one needs to not watch the new Netﬂ  ix origi-
nal series “The Hollow,” but then you would 
be missing out on a crime series almost as 
great and timeless as “Scooby-Doo.”
“The Hollow” offers a slightly more high-
brow suspenseful kids show that is perfect for 
a quick watch in your free time. When Netﬂ  ix 
released the show Friday, the company listed 
it as TV-Y7 for children. As seen with other 
popular shows like “Naruto” and “Pokemon,” 
TV rating isn’t necessarily equal to how in-
teresting or engaging the content may be for 
people.
Despite being geared toward children, 
“The Hollow” is an animated mystery drama 
that ﬁ  nds three teens mysteriously placed in 
a new realm without any knowledge of their 
past or how they got there.
The teens are forced to come together to 
try and ﬁ  nd a way home, wherever home is 
for them. Throughout the series they encoun-
ter magic portals, fantasy creatures and beasts 
as well as life-threatening challenges that they 
must complete to make it to the end.
What makes the show so much more than 
a simple children’s program is the fact that 
it explores some more complex topics as the 
main characters are trying to better under-
stand and survive this world and ﬁ  gure out 
why they are there in the ﬁ  rst place.
For example, when the teens ﬁ  rst wake up 
in this world they discuss being kidnapped 
and drugged due to their lack of memory. As 
the story progresses, they further talk about 
the idea of parallel universes and world con-
struction.
The most interesting plot twist of the series 
comes about midway through when the main 
cast learns they aren’t the only teens in this 
world. Speculation then turns to manipulation and questions of them being in a competitive 
game that is beginning to self-destruct.
While the answers to these questions are 
given in the ﬁ  nal three minutes of the last 
episode of the series, it is a bit of a reach for 
children under the age of seven to understand 
the progression of this show.
Overall, this show gives me a 2010 
“Scooby-Doo! Mystery, Inc.” reboot vibe. 
When “Scooby-Doo” came back to television 
screens after its hiatus, it was still geared to-
ward children on Cartoon Network, but it was 
quite obvious to longtime fans that the char-
acter dialogue and story progression had been 
elevated slightly.Although there are comedic moments that 
may make a more advanced audience roll 
their eyes, most of the show’s progression is 
mature enough for animated show lovers well 
over the age of seven to watch.
Without giving away spoilers, all the ques-
tions of the series were wrapped up in the ﬁ  -
nal episode with no cliffhangers. Without any 
plot holes or reason for continuation, it’s hard 
to say if the show needs or will get another 
season after this one.
Due to the fact the show has only been out 
for less than a week, further audience recep-
tion will have to be gauged to see if anything 
else will come from the show.Review: Neﬂ  ix’s ‘The Hollow’
TELEVISION
Netﬂ  ix
“The Hollow” features three teens trying to ﬁ  nd their way home under 
mysterious circumstances.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
June marks the ofﬁ  cial start of the 
all-too-familiar hurricane season here in 
Florida. 
Hurricane season runs from June 1 
through Nov. 30, according to the Na-
tional Hurricane Center. Recently, Flo-
ridians were hit with their ﬁ  rst taste of 
the stormy season with the landing of 
Subtropical Storm Alberto.
Florida citizens are used to the cha-
otic and unpredictable storm weather 
pattern. Unlike the rest of the world, 
Floridians seem to fall into an autopi-
lot preparedness mode. The shock has 
completely left our systems, and we 
plan accordingly. 
What part of that plan is constant-
ly talked about, especially here in 
Gainesville? The hurricane party.
You know, the huge party you have 
with all the snacks, games and other en-
tertainment you and your friends may 
need in case the power goes out and the 
storm keeps you inside.
Every good hurricane party needs a 
playlist to keep your energy and spirits 
up in a very gray, gloomy time. As a 
hurricane is an extreme storm, it only 
seems appropriate to have your songs 
be rain, storm, shelter and high-spirited 
in theme.
“Umbrella” by Rihanna featuring Jay-Z
“Hot in Herre” by Nelly
“Everyday We Lit” by YFN Lucci featur-
ing PnB Rock
“Be OK” by Ingrid Michaelson
“Just Fine” by Mary J. Blige
“God’s Plan” by Drake 
“Calm Down” by Skip Marley
“Jumpman” by Drake and Future
“No Tears Left to Cry” by Ariana Grande
“You Can Find Me” by Jess Glynne
“7/11” by Beyoncé
“Chill Bill” by Rob $tone featuring J. 
Davi$ and Spooks
“Pound The Alarm” by Nicki Minaj
“Purple Rain” by Prince
“Swimming Pools (Drank)” by Kendrick 
LamarHurricane 
Party playlist 
for the start 
of the season
MUSICBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers 
only. Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ 
walk to UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. 
CAC/heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 
352-215-4990,  tomdepot@gmail.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
Blue Ridge Mtns Log cabin on 1.7 ac in 
WNC. Panoramic views from ridgetop set -
ting, 1,232 sf w/half basement and easy ac -
cess. Only $179,900 (828) 286-2981    6-14-
1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 
Ext.300N    6-14-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
2000 BMW 528i silver 4 dr sedan, 1 owner, 
58K mi. manual 5 spd, 6 cyl, cruise, all pow -
er options, sunroof, premium leather int, cd/
cass/radio. Mint cond, no accidents/modi -
fications, reg serviced, garaged, excellent 
tires /spare.$6,000, Call/text 352-214-2512    
6-21-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
131For Rent
furnished 3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches. Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$2000/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-3-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to http://collegeopportunity. fun         6-19-
18-5-14
RETAIL SALES PERSON needed Part time.
Inquire within at
The Floor Store of Gainesville Inc.    
6-21-18-4-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    6-14-
1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Learn how to make a 6 figure income easy! 
Gain the knowledge to financial freedom and 
a life of opportunity! Come join the club right 
here: http://sidemoneyonline.club     7-3-18-
5-14
College Students.  Learn how to make ex -
tra money daily by completing surveys go to 
www.legitimatextraincome.club      7-3-18-5-
14
Astonishing Little-known opportunities 
for students to earn an extra income.
Go To www.ExtraStudentIncome.com    6-19-
18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.    6-14-1-15
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which nation’s 
tallest mountain is called Fan Si Pan?
2. ASTRONOMY: About how many 
miles across is Jupiter’s Great Red Spot?
3. HISTORY: When did apartheid 
become the official policy of South 
Africa?
4. MYTHOLOGY: Who was the 
Greek goddess of the underworld?
5. RELIGION: Sankara was an 
important theologian of which religion?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the name of the famous sculp-
ture that sits atop the U.S. Capitol 
Building?
7. INVENTIONS: In what century 
was the printing press invented?
8. PRESIDENTS: What was the first 
name of Harry Truman’s wife?
9. MUSIC: What is the meaning of 
the musical term “tenuto”?
10. LITERATURE: When did 
George Bernard Shaw win the Nobel 
Prize for Literature?
Answers
1. Vietnam
2. 19,000 miles
3. 1948
4. Persephone
5. Hinduism
6. “Armed Freedom”
7. 15th century
8. Bess
9. Sustained
10. 1925
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 11, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestWhen you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
18
Learn how to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student.
Go to: http://collegeopportunities.club/     
6-19-18-5-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
20
Do You need Real Residual income....
Month after Month? 
Earn $20 to $1,000 commissions. 
http://internetlifestyle4u.com/     7-5-18-5-20NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized
Area announces a public meeting to which 
all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: June 25, 2018 at 5:00 p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352.955.2200, visiting our website at
www.ncfrpc.org (click Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning), or appearing in person, during regu -
lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67 th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida. 
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis -
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser -
vices (free of charge) should contact Mike 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
6-14-1-20 
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-7367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Common
borrowing result
5 Add one’s two
cents, with “in”
10 “So that’s what
that means!”
13 Novelist 
John le ___
15 Resort near Vail
16 “Hansel and
Gretel” figure
17 Pigmented eye
parts
18 Devour, with
“down”
19 Outback bird
20 Longtime
network symbol
22 Historical display
24 Lucy’s co-star
25 Sandal features
26 Hardly helpless
28 Solemn oath
30 Subj. that may
include a lab
31 Potting need
32 Skater who lit the
Olympic cauldron
in Nagano
33 Responses from
a sycophant
36 Refine
37 House of __
39 Student stressor
41 Cut even shorter,
as a green
43 Loophole
44 Times in
classifieds
45 “Bambi” doe
46 A
47 Small deer
48 Not a good fit
51 Heavy hammer
53 They’re run in
taverns
54 Standoffish
57 Cracker lacking
pop
58 Producer Scott
with Emmy,
Grammy, Oscar
and Tony wins
60 Tsar’s decree
61 Mimic
62 Poker declaration
63 Private student
64 Strong desire
65 Spot __
66 ScorchDOWN
1 Bra spec
2 Holiday lights
may be under
one
3 Depression Era
sight
4 Cobalt in the
human body, e.g.
5 Wine container
6 TV buying
channel
7 Apple Store buys
8 Promotion criteria
9 Carry out, as
laws
10 Lots
11 Actor Jon and
others
12 Rio contents
14 Those, in Tijuana
21 Certain 19th-
century history
specialist
23 Cause
commotion ... or
what the circled
letters do?
25 Smallish, as an
apartment
26 Tapped-off
remnant
27 Uncouth sort29 Oklahoma people
34 Use a micro-
dermabrasion
agent, say
35 Make fully
content
38 Hound for
payment
40 Submissions to
eds.
42 Quebec neighbor
48 Brownish gray49 Elizabeth of
beauty products
50 FAA overseer
52 Été month
53 Gift-giving
occasion, for
short
54 Shave-haircut
link
55 No longer in port
56 Not a good look
59 Land in la mer
By Joe Kidd
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/14/1806/14/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 14, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Keebler cracker
6 Shoots the
breeze
11 E, in Morse code
14 Parts of plots
15 Kama __
16 Bruin great
Bobby
17 *Sports bookie’s
figure
19 Action film gun
20 Caspian Sea
feeder
21 Where work may
pile up
23 Criticized unfairly,
in slang
27 Stand in a studio
29 Get away from
30 Inoffensive
33 “Tell It Like It Is”
crooner __
Neville
34 Suffix with billion
35 Fashionable way
to arrive?
36 “What a pity”
37 *R&D setting
40 Meadow
41 Four-stringed
instruments,
typically
43 Weighty volume
44 Buck the system
46 Passé street
corner
convenience
48 As __: generally
49 Location
50 Online player,
briefly
52 Taj __
54 Foundry waste
55 Good Grips
gadget brand
56 End of a close
race ... and what
the last part of
the answers to
starred clues can
literally be
63 “Don’t Bring Me
Down” rock gp.
64 Singer Cyrus
65 Finnish tech
giant
66 Hanoi holiday
67 Green vehicles,
for short
68 Belgian treaty
cityDOWN
1 Cook quickly
2 Prefix with logical
3 __ Lanka
4 Top songs set
5 Stellar scholar
6 D.C. network
7 Sling
8 Gobbled up
9 Carol syllable
10 Extreme cruelty
11 *Dylan’s “Blonde
on Blonde,” e.g.
12 Rice-shaped
pasta
13 Froot Loops
shelfmate
18 B’way sellout sign
22 Jodie Foster title
role
23 Intensify
24 “Seward’s Folly”
purchase
25 *Marksmanship
match
26 Tokyo, long ago
27 “Copperhead
Road” singer
Steve
28 Nevada’s __ 51
30 Blackjack request
31 Remington played
by Brosnan32 Driveway coating
34 In unison
38 English school
since 1440
39 Big talk
42 Animal welfare gp.
45 Pitching stat
47 “I need a hand”
50 Tricks
51 Half-__: coffee
compromise
52 Bubbly brand53 Wheel connector
54 Ending for young
and old alike?
57 Hyphenated
Minute Maid
brand
58 Schnozz
extension?
59 Japanese drama
60 ’50s prez
61 Sermon subject
62 Boater or bowler
By Robert E. Lee Morris
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/13/1806/13/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, June 13, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  ____ sweater
1.  ____ alligator 5.  Take along
2.  Meat ____6.  June 11 and June 12
3.  Type of boat race7.  Gloomy
4.  PlayfulGRAAON
LIAONBNIBGR
STADE
RGERDIN
GTAATERARRDYE
SKRYFIANSWERS: 1A-Angora  5A-Bring  6A-Dates  7A-Dreary
1D-Albino  2D-Grinder  3D-Regatta  4D-Frisky  B-Baking soda6-14-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: Use of this expanded greatly 
in the late 1920s. BONUS
18 Personals 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 21 EntertainmentUF pitcher Brady Singer won 
D1Baseball's National Player of 
the Year Award on Wednesday.118th U.S. OPEN BEGINS TODAY
First tee times set for 6:45 a.m. at Shinecock Hills Golf Club in Southhamp-
ton, New York. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
 
He dashed to second before ca-
reening over and falling to the ground.
Media members were puzzled, and 
fans throughout the stadium let out a 
collective groan.
That is, until his teammate crossed 
home plate to score a run for the Flor-
ida Gators.
UF beat Auburn late Monday night 
to advance to the College World Series 
in Omaha, Nebraska, for the fourth-
straight season. A bold play call from 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan helped Florida 
sneak past the Tigers 3-2 in 11 in-
nings.
In the bottom of the fourth inning, 
center fielder Nick Horvath appeared 
to be stealing second when he fell over 
in the basepath. His act caught the at-
tention of pitcher Andrew Mitchell, 
who promptly stepped off the mound 
to go tag Horvath for the final out of 
the inning.
However, Mitchell failed to realize 
that there was a runner on third as the 
event unfolded.
By the time he did, Florida second 
baseman Blake Reese had crossed the 
plate to give his team a run it desper-
ately needed.
“It was a big situation,” Reese said. 
“Tip your cap to Nick on the other 
side and just glad the timing worked 
out and gave us a chance.”
It wasn’t the first time O’Sullivan 
pulled a stunt like it, though.
Back in 2015, against rival FSU in a 
one-run game, former UF players Josh 
Tobias and Richie Martin executed the 
exact same play with the same degree 
of success.
Against Auburn on Monday, it 
gave Florida a 2-1 lead, and it was a 
necessary run because the Gators had 
to use extra innings to beat the Tigers.
The steal home wasn’t the only reason the Gators won on Monday, 
though. Two gutsy freshmen pitchers 
helped carry UF.
First, it was Jack Leftwich. Then, it 
was Tommy Mace.
After Game 1 and Game 2 start-
ers Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar 
tossed gems in their respective con-
tests, Leftwich got the call for Game 3.
He pitched admirably for a kid who 
was still in high school just a year ago.
The Orlando, Florida, native tossed 
five innings and gave up one run on 
four hits with three strikeouts.
He was relieved in the sixth inning 
by Mace. The Tampa, Florida, native 
from Sunlake High School bridged the 
gap between Leftwich and closer Mi-
chael Byrne.
Mace went two innings and gave 
up one run on one hit with one strike-
out, another solid statline from a 
freshman.
Byrne praised the two young play-
ers.
“Jack and Tommy did well,” he 
said. “Just shows the work we put 
in, the quality of pitches we have to 
make and if we execute our pitches, 
we feel like we’re good enough to get 
them out.”
Byrne wasn’t the only one giving 
his freshmen love though. O’Sullivan 
made the point that in a moment that 
big, there’s a lot of pressure on any 
player, and he said he was proud of 
his young players for coming through.
“If they don’t pitch well, we’re not 
sitting here, winning this ballgame,” 
he said.
Florida opens the College World 
Series with a game against Texas Tech 
Sunday night at 7.
 
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgSteal home, stellar play by freshmen carries UF to CWS
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff
Florida second baseman Blake Reese stole home on a double-steal call from coach Kevin 
O'Sullivan. The Gators executed a similar play on March 17, 2015, against rival  FSU.
TRACK
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Taylor Manson and Cory Poole’s debut 
outdoor seasons are still alive.
The pair of freshmen will compete in 
Bloomington, Indiana, on June 15-17 for the 
USATF Junior Championships. They’ll try to 
advance to the IAAF World Junior Champi-
onships in Tampere, Finland, beginning July 
10.
In her first season as a Gator, Manson 
cracked the program’s Outdoor All-Time Top 10 list with her 400-meter time of 51.84 (tied 
for ninth) set at the NCAA East Preliminary 
on May 25.  
The East Lansing, Michigan, native also 
ran on Florida’s 4x400 team – including ju-
nior Sharrika Barnett, freshman Nikki Ste-
phens and senior Taylor Sharpe – that ran 
the second-fastest time in program history 
(3:27.30) at the SEC Outdoor Championships 
on May 13.
At this weekend’s USATF Juniors, Man-
son will compete in the 400-meter race.
Poole was a silver medalist at last year’s Outdoor Junior Championships in the 
400-meter hurdles. He’ll return in that event 
and in the 110-meter hurdles at this year’s 
competition.
Poole landed on the Gators’ Outdoor All-
Time Top 10 list twice in his first outdoor 
season. In the 400-meter hurdles, he clocked 
a time of 50.09 for the No.-10 spot, and he 
recorded a time of 13.68 for the 10th spot 
in the 110-meter hurdles. Both entries were 
made at the SEC Outdoor Championships.
Manson, along with 20 other Gators, were 
named USTFCCCA Division I First-Team All-Americans following the men’s and women’s 
respective second and fifth-place finishes 
at the NCAA Outdoor Championships last 
week.
Among those on the list are sophomore 
Grant Holloway, who was one of seven Divi-
sion I athletes to earn three First-Team All-
America honors.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgGators to compete in USATF Outdoor Junior Championships
SEE TRACK INFO,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL BRACKET,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
It’s the most spectacular 
event in sports, and it’s ﬁ  -
nally back. 
Argentina and champi-
on Germany clashed 1,432 
days ago at the Maracanã in 
Rio de Janeiro to conclude the 
2014 World Cup. 
When Russia and Saudi Ara-
bia kick off in Moscow today at 
11 a.m. EST, the hiatus will be over, and 
the World Cup will make its ofﬁ  cial return. 
Here’s why this sporting tournament is 
the world’s greatest, and why Russia 2018 
will be a World Cup to remember. 
The massive, yet deep, ﬁ  eld.  
Out of 211 eligible nations, 208 partici-
pated in the qualifying process for Russia 
2018 (Russia automatically qualiﬁ  ed as 
host). Each of the six regional FIFA confed-
erations held tournaments to narrow the 
ﬁ  eld to 32 teams.
Some big names were also eliminated in 
the qualifying process. The United States, 
Netherlands, Italy and Chile will have to 
wait at least four more years to compete. 
However, their absences make room for 
smaller countries. Both Iceland and Pana-
ma will make their World Cup debuts in 
Russia. 
The 32 qualiﬁ  ers have also been divided 
into eight groups. Two from each group 
will advance to the knockout stage of the 
tournament. 
Usually there’s a “Group of Death,” 
one of the eight with three or four qual-
ity nations, all which are unluckily paired 
against one another. However, this year’s 
bracket seems to have two obvious front-
runners in each group. While it may seem 
a predictable setup, nothing is assured in 
the World Cup. 
All the best players are here.  
Germany, Spain, France and Brazil are 
all among the favorites for total victory, 
and they’re loaded with talent at every po-
sition. 
Yet, you can’t count out Portugal or Ar-
gentina simply because they’re led by the 
two best players in the world, Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi, re-
spectively. 
However, the frontrunner 
for the Ballon d’Or, the award 
given to the season’s most out-
standing player, is Mohamed 
Salah of Egypt. He scored 32 
goals in 36 Premier League 
matches for Liverpool in 2017-
18. He also scored 10 goals as 
Liverpool navigated to the UEFA Champi-
ons League Final, where he was injured 
during the ﬁ  rst half in the loss to Ronaldo’s 
Real Madrid. Salah’s performance in Russia 
will likely determine if he wins the award. 
However, the ﬁ  eld is stacked with world-
class talent. Look out for other superstars 
like Brazil’s Neymar, Poland’s Robert Le-
wandowski, France’s Antoine Griezmann, 
Uruguay’s Luis Suarez and Belgium’s Eden 
Hazard and Kevin De Bruyne. 
Some dark horse countries with a mix 
of quality, experience and youth are Den-
mark, Croatia, Mexico and Iceland.
Every nation cares.
There were 3,429,873 attendees at the 
64 matches in Brazil 2014. While that total 
may not be met or exceeded in Russia, all 
of the world’s eyes turn toward the largest 
geographical country.  
The only sporting event that rivals the 
World Cup as an international event are 
the Winter and Summer Olympics.
However, while the Olympics are only 
based in one city, the World Cup is nation-
wide. And while the Olympic ﬂ  ame burns 
in the host city for two weeks, Russia 2018 
will last a full month. The ﬁ  rst two weeks 
of the World Cup are actually the best. 
There will be three to four games a day for 
two weeks beginning Friday. 
However, what makes the World Cup 
truly great is that everyone comes together 
just to play soccer. Many countries com-
pletely shut down for a day just to watch 
their team play. 
This month, the world will stop to share 
its one common love.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgThe World’s greatest sporting event Mark My Words / Opinion
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mstinejrWorld Cup 2018 Groups
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Egypt
Uruguay
France
Australia
Peru 
Denmark
Brazil
Switzerland
Costa Rica
Serbia
Belgium
Panama
Tunisia
EnglandPoland 
Senegal
Colombia
JapanGermany
Mexico
Sweden
South KoreaArgentina
Iceland
Croatia
NigeriaPortugal
Spain
Morocco
IranGroup A
Group C
Group E
Group G Group HGroup FGroup DGroup B16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
 WOMEN
Avione Allgood (Senior)  - Javelin
Sharrika Barnett (Junior) - 400 Meters, 4×400 Relay
Lloydricia Cameron (Senior)  - Shot Put
Yanis David (Junior)  - Long Jump, Triple Jump
Amanda Froeynes (Freshman)  - Heptathlon
Taylor Manson  - (Freshman) - 4×400 Relay
Darrielle McQueen (Senior)  - Long Jump, Triple Jump
Taylor Sharpe (Senior)  - 4×400 Relay
Nikki Stephens (Freshman)  - 400 Meter Hurdles, 4×400 Relay
Florida is the only program this outdoor season to bring home double-digit 
First-Team All-America awards for both its men and women.    MEN
KeAndre Bates (Senior) - Long Jump, Triple Jump
Clayton Brown (Sophomore) - Triple Jump
Ryan Clark (Junior) - 4×100 Relay
Anders Eriksson (Junior) - Hammer Throw
Kunle Fasasi (Junior) - 4×400 Relay
Grant Holloway (Sophomore) - 110 Meter Hurdles, 4×100 Relay, 4×400 Relay
Benjamin Lobo Vedel (Freshman) - 4×400 Relay
Thomas Mardal (Freshman) - Hammer Throw
AJ McFarland (Redshirt Junior) - Hammer Throw
Chantz Sawyers (Freshman) - 4×100 Relay, 4×400 Relay
Michael Timpson Jr. (Junior) - 4×100 Relay
Jhonny Victor (Redshirt Junior) - High Jump
  3  Oregon St.
  6  N. Carolina
OSU/UNC Winner
Wash/MSU Winner
Winner of 2 p.m. June 18
Loser of 7 p.m. June 18 
  OSU/UNC Loser
  Wash/MSU LoserArk/T exas Loser
UF/TTU Loser  Washington
  Mississippi St.June 16 - 3:00 PM ET
June  18 - 7:00 PM ET
June  20 - 7:00 PM ET
June  18 - 2:00 PM ET June  19 - 2:00 PM ETJune  22 - 3:00 PM ET June  22 - 8:00 PM ET
June  23 June  23
June 16 - 8:00 PM ET  5  Arkansas  
  13  T exas
Ark/T exas Winner
UF/TTU Winner
Winner of 2 p.m. June 19
Loser of 7 p.m. June 19  1  Florida  
9  T exas T echJune 17 - 2:00 PM ET
June 19 - 7:00 PM ET
June 21 - 8:00 PM ETJune 17 - 7:00 PM ET
If Necessary If Necessary
Elimination Bracket Elimination BracketUF TRACK AND FIELD FIRST-TEAM ALL-AMERICANS 
2018 COLLEGE WORLD SERIES