We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
GATORS COMPLETE SWEEP OF SAINTS 
ON SUNDAY
Florida’s baseball team crushed Siena 19-2 at McKethan Stadium to increase its record to 3-0, pg. 13Read about SG candidate executive tickets 
Read about all nine candidates, pg. 8 and 9
Candidates answer questions in ﬁ  nal SG debate
They answered audience questions, pg. 4By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
In the midst of political parties campaigning and 
students rushing to class, 17 white balloons hovered 
over it all on Turlington Plaza on Friday afternoon.
One for each of the lives lost in the shooting at 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland 
on Wednesday.
What started as a small crowd grew to about 50 
people as passersby stopped to join in the vigil orga-
nized by the Challenge Party. UF students who had graduated from Stoneman Douglas spoke about the strength of their community in Parkland and some of the lives lost. Counselors from the Counseling & Wellness Center, located at 3190 Radio Road, were available at the event for students who needed to 
talk.
“I thought that something like this needed to hap-
pen, but when you come here and you see how dev-
astated people are, you realize that people need it so much more than you think,” said Anthony Rojas, the Challenge president.
Although the organizers had originally planned 
for Century Tower to chime 17 times to remember the victims, Rojas received an email Friday denying 
the request, stating the bells would be rung at a UF-
sponsored vigil Wednesday, he said.
“I was very upset by it,” he said. “I think if these 
bells have to ring four or ﬁ  ve times, 17 times, I think it’s for a great cause just to remember those victims.”
After pre-planned speakers, Rojas opened the 
ﬂ  oor to anyone who felt compelled to speak. Some students begged for political action, others for the spread of kindness. As alumni of the high school re-
called the familiar halls they used to walk, attendees 
dressed in Stoneman Douglas apparel fought back tears. 
UF President Kent Fuchs has previously said 283 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 60
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
REMEMBERING STONEMAN DOUGLAS 
Matan Ozery, a 22-year-old UF alumnus and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School graduate, speaks about his experience at 
Stoneman Douglas High at the UF Remembers Douglas Vigil held on the Plaza of the Americas, which 40 people attended. “You’re not alone in that school. You’re not alone in that community, ” he said.
Students gather to remember victims of Parkland school shooting
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 5
THE UNION CELEBRATED A 
VICTORY THURSDAY NIGHT.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Graduate Assistants United celebrated 
new stipend increases, raises and other 
new employee beneﬁ  ts during its contract 
ratiﬁ  cation party Thursday night in Ustler 
Hall.
The new contract includes a $1,000 sti-
pend increase for graduate assistants who 
work part time as well as $550 raises and 
no cuts in the health care insurance plan. The beneﬁ  ts were tentatively approved by the UF Board of Trustees on Dec. 15, ac-cording to Alligator archives. The deadline 
for the contract was surpassed after June 
30, according to Alligator archives.
Bobby Mermer, GAU’s bargaining chair, 
said graduate assistants will also have gen-der identity protection, an improved anti-
discrimination policy and stronger protec-
tions over intellectual property.
“We won a lot in this contract,” Merm-
er said. “The bargaining team fought very 
hard.”
Although the Board of Trustees approved 
the agreement in December, the contract 
was not ofﬁ  cially in effect until ratiﬁ  ed by GAU themselves, which took time, Mermer 
said. They needed to wait while school of-
ﬁ  cials drafted a ﬁ  nalized contract and sent the information on the contract change to union members.
Voting took place Wednesday and 
Thursday, and the contract was ratiﬁ  ed unanimously, with about 4 percent — or 176 graduate assistant employees — voting on it, Mermer said.
While GAU is satisﬁ  ed with the current 
provisions, Mermer said they plan to go GAU accepts beneﬁ  ts contract
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The Reitz Union hotel desk is the ﬁ  rst 
24/7 on-campus location to offer free 
menstrual products to UF students with a Gator 1 Card.
Pads or tampons, packaged in small 
bags, became available Thursday at the hotel desk, which is always staffed, Stu-dent Government Senator Branden Pear-son (Independent, Lakeside) said. The project is funded by the student health fee.
“It’s the ﬁ  rst step to really making sure 
that students have permanent access to menstrual hygiene products across cam-pus,” Pearson said. 
Pearson said he collaborated on the 
project with Gators Matter, Period., a coalition advocating accessible men-strual products on campus led by Chase Werther, the vice president candidate for Challenge Party, but Werther said Pear-son ﬁ  nalized the hotel desk project on his own, without the approval of Gators Mat-ter, Period. 
After an SG budgeting committee de-
clined to fund menstrual products in Jan-uary, a wave of student backlash led to UF buildings offering pads and tampons. Currently, free menstrual products are available in the Reitz Union GatorWell of-ﬁ  ce, Inﬁ  rmary and Field and Fork Pantry, according to Alligator archives. 
Pearson organized a Jan. 26 meeting 
with Reitz Union Senior Director Myra Morgan, Senator Zachariah Chou (In-spire, Murphree), Senator Ali Gardezi Free menstrual products 
available 24/7 at Reitz Union
SEE GAU,  PAGE 5 SEE TAMPON,  PAGE 5
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
HIGH  84° LOW  62°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Spring SG Elections Feb. 20 to 
Feb. 21
Spring SG Elections will be 
held 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Tuesday and Wednesday at lo-cations across campus. These elections include the Student 
Body president, Student Body 
vice president and Student 
Body treasurer as well as 50 
Student Senate seats repre-
senting the various colleges and classifications at UF. For more information, please visit sg.ufl.edu/elections.
Y-Not Theatre Trivia 
FundraiserY-Not will hold the theatre’s 
First Anniversary Theatre 
Trivia Fundraiser. Categories and clues are available on Y-Not Theatre’s Facebook page. Refreshments from Sababa, vegan options and 
birthday cake will be avail-
able. Y-Not is focused on pro-moting, developing, presenting and producing new American plays in North Central Florida. 
Proceeds from the evening will 
help support Y-Not’s efforts for this upcoming year. It will be $25 per person to play, and 
cash and cards will be taken at 
the door. The fundraiser will be 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Saturday in the Hippodrome State Theatre basement.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWords on Canvas is a poetry 
and prose writing competition 
at the Harn Museum of Art, lo-cated at 3259 Hull Road, for UF 
and Santa Fe College students 
inspired by art. The selection of artwork features a variety of media, including pieces from Asian and modern collections. 
Winning contestants will be 
awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncan-vas. The deadline is Sunday.
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights WorkshopsThe Alachua County Library District is partnering with the 
Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar 
Association to present Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. March 22, at Cone Park Library Branch, 
located at 2801 E. University Ave., and 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road Library 
Branch, located at 3020 SW 
75th St. Attorneys from Josiah T. Walls Bar Association and law students from the Levin College of Law will provide 
one-on-one assistance to per-
sons who have been convicted of a felony and want to ap-ply to have their civil rights 
restored. Event is open to the 
public, and registration is not required. For more informa-tion, visit aclib.us/law, or call 352-334-3900.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open 
to all. For more information, 
visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org.
Tango classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? The UF Argentine Tango Club will hold free classes for all UF students. No dance experi-
ence is necessary. Join them 
from 6:15 p.m. to 8:15 p.m. Sundays at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A.
Free citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship class-es from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. ev-
ery Thursday until March 29 at 
the Millhopper Library Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawo-
mensleague.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Japan public grade school un-
der fire over Armani uni-form
 A Tokyo public school has adopted Giorgio Armani uni-forms for students, triggering criticism in a country where 
hefty school fees are already 
burdening young parents. Taimei Elementary School in Tokyo's upscale Ginza shop-ping district has announced 
plans to introduce the new 
uniform option, which costs more than 80,000 yen ($730) for a full set. A minimum set 
would be more than twice the 
price of the current uniforms.
Kosovo celebrates 10 years of 
independence, Serbs boycott
 The Kosovo Assembly, or Parliament, convened in a special session Sunday to cel-ebrate the country's 10 years 
of independence — a ceremo-
ny boycotted by the country's ethnic Serb lawmakers.
Iran says 65 killed in airplane 
crash
 Iran's leaders have expressed 
their condolences over the pas-senger plane crash that killed 
59 passengers and six crew 
members. The plane crashed near the remote mountain town of Semirom, which is south of the capital, Tehran. 
President Hassan Rouhani said 
he has assigned officials to in-vestigate the case and apply measures to avoid similar inci-
dents in the future.
Venezuela to reopen Miami 
consulate ahead of election
 Venezuelan leader Nicolas 
Maduro says he's reopen-
ing the country's consulate in Miami, citing requests from fellow citizens who want to 
vote in the upcoming presi-
dential election.  The presiden-tial election is set for April 22. Maduro is the only candidate so far to announce he's run-
ning.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 60
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Dan Basalone, Alain Harb, Jill Chabot,
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
DISPLA Y: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463Attention Alligator 
Advertisers!
SPRING BREAK  2018
We will not be publishing 3/5-3/9, 
we will have these advanced deadlines.
The DEADLINE  for :
Monday, March 12th is 
Thursday, March 1st at 4 p.m.
These deadlines apply to both Display and Classified 
advertising. Copy and payment due by 4pmShelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
A saxophone quartet, comprised of Brendan Catalano, Alexander 
Sinnott, Mason Anthony and Paul Lessard, performs “Peixinhos Do Mar” at the 90th Anniversary Collage Concert for the UF School of Music on Saturday evening at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
CELEBRATING 90 YEARS OF MUSIC 
Steven Thomas directs the Graduate Chamber Ensemble in their performance of “Pal-So-Seong” by Hyo-Won Woo. The whimsical piece caught the attention of the audience at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Saturday evening, causing laughter and engagement throughout the piece.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Managing Editor/Print
and
Managing Editor/Online
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Friday, March 2.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
March 13 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
April 6 at 9 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the summer semester:
By Hannah Maggiore
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 100 children and 
family members ran around the 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium bleachers 
Saturday help siblings and parents 
of those with autism.
About 400 attendees and spon-
sors raised more than $10,000 
at the 10th annual “Stomp the 
Swamp” event. The event fun-raised for safety devices used to track kids with autism and pro-grams. Impact Autism, a non-proﬁ  t 
organization under UF’s Center for 
Autism and Related Disabilities, helped organize the event, said Ziqi Wang, the vice president of 
Impact Autism.
“I’m doing this for my little 
brother, who was diagnosed with 
autism spectrum disorder when he was 4,” the 20-year-old UF junior 
said. “It’s certainly been one of the most meaningful experiences I’ve 
had here.”
Scott Stricklin, the UF athletic 
director, spoke brieﬂ  y about the awareness of autism, Wang said. He addressed how important it was for the community to come out to-
gether to support such causes.
Attendees participated in a 
Zumba warm-up and cooldown be-
fore and after they ran. At the end 
of the event, silent auction prizes 
were awarded, including a basket-ball signed by Mike White, UF’s basketball coach, and a signed Tim Tebow football jersey, which sold 
for $100.
Tina Vo, a UF psychology ju-
nior, took part in the run because 
of her interest in neuroscience and 
autism.
“I love to get to know the kids,” 
the 22-year-old said. “Some of 
them are so bright, and you can’t even tell, but it affects them.”‘Stomp the Swamp’ event 
raises more than $10,000UF group hosts ﬁ  nal SG debate 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF College Democrats, a stu-
dent organization, hosted the ﬁ  nal 
Student Government debate before elections take place Tuesday and Wednesday.
Moderators from the political 
group asked the presidential and vice presidential candidates ques-tions. Then, all nine executive can-didates answered questions from audience members Friday night in Little Hall. Here are some of the questions and what each candidate said:
Q - “In light of the recent 
school shooting in Parkland, what will you do to ensure the safety of students on campus?”
All three presidential candi-
dates emphasized a need for gun reform. Impact Party candidate Ian Green, Inspire Party’s Revel Lubin and Janae Moodie from Challenge Party said they would lobby in Tal-lahassee and Washington, D.C., for students.
Lubin said law enforcement on campus, such as Gainesville Police and University Police, makes him feel safer.
“I’ve never felt unsafe on cam-
pus as it relates to gun or any other type of violence,” he said.
Q - “What distinguishes you 
as a candidate from the others?”
Green said he loves UF and has 
done “tangible work,” including increasing student jobs and mak-ing student codes understandable.
Moodie said she is a woman 
and an ally to those who need it. She said she keeps herself educat-ed on diversity.
“I know what it’s like to want 
an ally in a situation where I felt oppressed, or I didn’t feel respect-ed because of one of my speciﬁ  c identities,” she said. 
Lubin said his story is unique. 
He was orphaned at a young age, and his sister took care of him, he said.
“I could have gone down such 
a dark path, but there was people who came into my life,” he said.
Q - “All three parties throw 
around “sexual assault” as a buzzword, but what is your party’s plan for dealing with this issue?”
Moodie, Green and Inspire 
treasurer candidate Alyssa Bethen-court said their parties support an online program called Callisto, which would improve the process of reporting a sexual assault and identify repeat offenders. 
Q - “Would you give up your 
salary if you won?”
Green said David Enriquez and 
Stefan Sanguyo wouldn’t give up their salaries. He said he would use the money deposited into his bank 
account for a youth program in his 
hometown, Marietta, Georgia.
Shayli Patel would give up 50 
percent of her salary, while Mood-ie and Werther are still looking into it, Werther said. 
Lubin said his ticket hasn’t dis-
cussed giving up their salaries, but he wouldn’t be able to afford to 
lose his salary.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Camille Graham
Alligator Contributing Writer
Crowds of people poured in Sat-
urday morning to the newly reno-
vated Tower Road Library, greeted 
by large windows that welcomed in 
natural reading light and the smell of fresh paint. 
The Tower Road branch of the 
Alachua County Library district re-opened after nearly a year of reno-
vations. About 200 people came to 
the ribbon-cutting grand opening 
at the facility located on Southwest 75th Street. 
The renovation had a budget 
of $2.68 million, which the county allocated over many years, but $87,000 wasn’t used, said Shaney Livingston, the Alachua County li-brary director. The Florida Depart-ment of State’s division of library 
services had granted $500,000. 
The Friends of the Library do-
nated $32,000 for the creation of 
the Quiet Reading room and a small bronze statue, Livingston said. The 
Alachua County Library District 
Foundation funded the Teen Spaces and Snuggle Up rooms by donating $60,000. 
About 8,500 square feet was added to the library for a total of 
23,500 square feet, said the Alachua 
County Library District spokesper-
son Nickie Kortus. Other renova-tions include three study rooms and a new space for kitchen demonstra-
tions. 
The library opened in 1992, and 
this renovation served to better ﬁ  t 
the changing needs of the diverse surrounding community, she said.“Tower Road serves a very di-
verse population both in economic 
and educational backgrounds,” she 
said. “It’s really important for the li-brary to ﬁ  gure out those needs.”
Mary Searle, 71, of Gainesville, 
said she was so excited for the re-opening that she couldn’t sleep. 
“I’ve been keeping tabs on the 
construction for awhile now, but I’m just thrilled to see it,” she said. Alachua County library reopens after nearly $2 million renovation 
UF students graduated from Stoneman 
Douglas.
Janae Moodie, a candidate for Student 
Body president, closed the vigil with a prayer.
“I pray for the families that will never 
get to say ‘I love you’ physically one more time,” she said.
On Saturday, Gainesville residents 
held a vigil on the steps of City Hall at 7:30 p.m., and there will be a UF-spon-sored vigil on Plaza of the Americas at 7 p.m. Wednesday.
Abigail Shank, a UF political science 
sophomore, attended Friday’s vigil to show her support for the Parkland com-munity. One of her close friends is a Stoneman Douglas alumna, and she has seen the importance of reaching out in the aftermath of tragedy.
“I think if I can be there and be a sup-
porter and just show solidarity with ev-eryone affected, I think that’s the least that I can do,” the 19-year-old said.
Shank didn’t realize just how much 
the tragedy had affected the UF commu-
nity until she watched the crowd grow at 
the vigil.
“It’s crazy how widespread the effect 
is,” she said, “and that this one person can cause so many people — that he doesn’t even know and won’t ever prob-ably be able to fathom — so much pain and hurt.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgVIGIL,  from pg. 1More vigils will be held
UPCOMING EVENTS
Fundraiser
Date: Noon Monday to noon 
Thursday
Where: UF Levin College of 
Law courtyard
Who: Hosted by UF law stu-
dents 
What: Fundraising for victims 
of the shooting by collecting or-ders for Krispy Kreme Doughnuts. 
They will also make cards to send to the hospitals treating victims. 
One doughnut is $1, and a dozen 
is $8.
Vigil Date: Tuesday at 5:30 p.m.Where: Turlington Plaza
Who: UF students
What: Stoneman Douglas 
alumni will wear white and speak 
at the event. The students are col-
lecting donations, and 75 percent will be sent to the high school and 25 percent will be donated to 
a mental health non-proﬁ  t in the 
names of the 17 students killed.
Vigil Date: Wednesday at 7 p.m.Where: Plaza of the Americas
Who: UF 
What: A UF-sponsored candle-
light vigil will be hosted at 7 p.m. 
Wednesday on the Plaza of the 
Americas. back to the bargaining table 
with UF administration soon because it is an ongoing effort 
for them to monitor where UF 
is allocating funding. 
UF Chief Negotiator Bill 
Connellan said he thinks the 
current agreement is satisfac-
tory but knows future negotia-tions with GAU will occur.
As UF aims to become a 
top-ﬁ  ve public university, money goes where the market demands it, Connellan said.
“We need to be competitive 
in a national marketplace,” he said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgGAU,  from pg. 1Members will see stipend increase
Members will see stipend increase
NEW PARTS OF THE CONTRACT
• A $1,000 stipend increase for graduate 
assistants who work part time
• $550 raises • No cuts in the health care insurance plan• Gender identity protection• An improved anti-discrimination policy
Stronger protections over intellectual property
(Impact, Engineering) and 
Women’s Student Association president Rebecca Kravitz, who represented Gators Mat-
ter, Period., to discuss piloting 
free menstrual products at the 
Reitz Union. 
During the meeting, Kravitz 
said the coalition hoped to of-
fer menstrual products in gen-
der-neutral bathrooms for stu-
dents to access them discreetly. 
Morgan said the Reitz Union 
wouldn’t offer the products in 
public bathrooms because non-
students, who don’t pay the 
health fee, would be able to ac-cess them. She said there was no data to prove a critical need of accessible menstrual prod-ucts on campus. 
“We’re trying to see what’s 
the need,” Morgan said. “It’s a question of how many people are asking for this program.”
She said about 30,000 peo-
ple visit the Reitz daily, and regulating who uses bathroom products would be difﬁ  cult.
Pearson met with Morgan 
again Feb. 7, without a Gators Matter, Period. member pres-ent to conﬁ  rm the deal.
Werther and Kravitz said 
they disagreed with the propos-al because students might be uncomfortable asking a hotel staffer for pads and tampons. Werther said the coalition is continuing conversations with Newell Hall and the libraries to make menstrual products more accessible on campus.
“I felt that the proposal 
was a little invalidating, and I didn’t think it was something that was promoting a culture of care on this campus,” Werther said. 
Kravitz said she wouldn’t 
feel comfortable asking for a tampon at the Reitz.
“I would maybe even say I 
would go home before I ask a stranger at a hotel desk to hand me menstrual products,” she said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
REITZ,  from pg. 1Some did not agree with the ideaThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
I’m addicted to Spotify. Barely a minute goes 
by in my waking weekday life that Spoti-
fy isn’t at least playing softly in the back-ground, if not loudly through my earbuds on a run or through the speakers in my 
car. At some point, though, I started yearning for more, something in addition to music, that would expand my worldview. Enter: podcasts.
Podcasts have been around for a while, but 
it’s taken me years to really get into them, and I think I have ﬁ  nally ﬁ  gured out the reason why. We live in an age of information overload, when it’s not that knowl-edge isn’t available to us, but there is too much knowledge to sift through to get to the “good” parts. It’s not a dysto-pian, George Orwellian “1984” world we’re living in. No, what we’re experiencing is much closer to Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New World” of overstimulation.
With this data dump, though, there is a silver lining. Ed-
ucators, pop culture experts, historians, professionals and novices alike have gotten way better at the whole podcast game. Better yet, our limited attention spans can actually accommodate them, if we at least have the time to ﬁ  nd the right ones. In the last two or three years, podcasts have not only increased in popularity but also blown up in sheer quantities and varieties of genre. I argue there is now truly at least one out there for each of us.
The purpose of this column is to convince you to listen 
to more podcasts, to go outside your comfort zone and hear a different perspective each day, to understand the educa-tional and social beneﬁ  ts of these magical audio clips in all areas of your life. I’ll take you through a few of my personal favorites and ﬁ  ll you in on some of the beneﬁ  ts of listening on the way.
One of the huge advantages to podcasts as opposed 
to other information outlets like newspapers (sorry) and television shows is a balance of quick response to current events provided by multiple perspectives. What do I mean by that?
Well, take one of my favorite podcasts, “Pod 
Save America.” It’s a podcast built on progres-sive political commentary and interviews put out every Monday and Thursday by Crooked Media. Because it airs twice weekly, listeners don’t have to wait long to hear from the hosts, who were aides to former President Barack Obama. That said, because it isn’t distributed every day, the commentary is more composed, sounds thought-out and hits straight to the heart 
of the political topics at hand rather than discussing every news bit that happened that day.
Podcasts also afford you the opportunity to educate 
yourself on issues in bite-sized chunks, whether you’re looking to learn more about history and crime or technol-ogy and philosophy. The educational beneﬁ  ts of podcasts aren’t limited to more standard topics and ﬁ  elds, either.
For example, just look at another one of my favorites, 
“Still Processing.” This podcast, run by Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham of The New York Times, takes an in-depth look at popular culture in the U.S. in order to address issues of race, class, gender and everything in between. When you’ve got two cultured writers teamed up on one podcast like this, the content goes beyond surface-level celebrity gossip; Morris and Wortham will make you think critically and question the world around you — a true podcast edu-cation.
If you can, take advantage of podcast libraries, student-
discounted Spotify accounts to gain your own little educa-tion on-the-go. Broaden your horizons as you drive your morning commute, walk to class or hit the gym. And if you’ve got any good podcast suggestions, I fully expect you to tweet me your recommendations.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column focuses on education.
A world within your headphones: Listen to podcastsThe Alligator’s SG 
endorsement
Student Government at UF has always been laden with 
scandal, greed and self-interest. Although that didn’t change this semester, other factors did.
 We saw the emergence of Challenge Party, after Ja-
nae Moodie resigned from Senate and left Impact Party. 
We saw Inspire Party grow and, unfortunately, we saw Impact remain the same. After considering the platforms, candidates and functionality of each party, we concluded the best choice for the Student Body is not one party, but two.  
Getting voices from two parties to work in tandem, serving as 
a check and balance on each others’ goals and promises, will best serve students. It is for this reason we’re endorsing Challenge’s executive ticket and Inspire’s Senate ticket.  
Janae Moodie, Shayli Patel and Chase Werther are competent 
women who demonstrate an obvious devotion to improving stu-dents’ lives. Their platform offers important ideas like a telemedi-cine option to serve students’ medical needs and the implementa-tion of a waitlist system for full classes. 
Sadly, we have reservations. We’re concerned about Moodie’s 
ability to remain professional in a tense political scenario and her vindictive attitude against Impact. However, she is the only presi-dential candidate with the boldness needed to revolutionize SG. We endorse Challenge’s executive ticket, but we do not endorse 
the party. While we respect and admire its radical approaches 
and its allegiance to veering away from the system that has been in place, Challenge lacks the structure and organization needed to effectively operate in Senate.
We could not commit to endorsing Inspire’s executive ticket 
because none of its candidates showed up to meet with The Al-ligator, sending a spokesperson in their place. Inspire’s platform aligns well with Challenge’s. Both draw attention to prevalent issues like creating a better environment for LGBTQ+ students 
and offering more services for undocumented students. 
While we felt the executive ticket was weak, we were im-
pressed by the party’s method of completing goals. For each point 
on its platform, Inspire forms a small committee to ensure each goal is met. They further exhibit an adherence to transparency, especially when it comes to ensuring senators will share progress on each point with students.
We also feel a need to explain why Impact was left out of 
our bipartisan endorsement. Impact’s platform focuses on lux-
ury rather than necessity. It boasts efforts to supply campus re-
strooms with 2-ply toilet paper and to offer subsidized pricing for Uber Eats, but has no plans to implement online voting. The party wants bars in Midtown to stay open until later, but neglects the need for gender-inclusive residence halls or to improve com-pliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act on campus.
While it is true Impact’s platform does also mention some 
key demands like increasing access to mental health services and sexual assault prevention, we didn’t see anything unique. Every  
idea that was exclusively on its platform lacked substance.
In terms of Impact’s leadership, we were further let down. 
We found Ian Green does not come off as a leader and appears to 
speak only when spoken to. Moreover, he has a presence that is, to be frank, unimpressive and lackluster.
This is why we feel the strong leadership provided by the 
Challenge executive ticket and the structural supremacy we see in Inspire is the most effective combination to advocate for stu-dents. It’s a decision The Alligator’s editorial board went back 
and forth on, and while we don’t believe any candidate or party 
is perfect, we think this is the best option for students. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgEditor’s note: The Alligator’s editorial board met with repre-
sentatives from the three parties Sunday morning. We spoke about platform points and candidates’ goals. Our endorsements stem from these meetings.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
UF’s upcoming Student Government 
elections present the most diverse lineup in its history. All three can-didates for Student Body president are African American. Ian Green 
represents the Impact Party, Revel Lubin runs on behalf of Inspire Party and Janae Moodie heads the newly introduced Chal-lenge Party. 
When former President Barack Obama 
was elected in 2008, it was a turning point in political — moreover — American history. Having a Student Body president of color can have the same effect on a college as it can a country. When either Green, Moodie or Lu-bin take the podium, that will be the launch point for UF’s path toward fundamental change and diversity. 
College serves as an imitation of the real 
world, with its own government system and social scheme and prepares young adults for their lives after completing their educa-tion. Electing a president of color reﬂ  ects the increased diversity in leadership the school has em-braced. 
Black students are especially 
excited for this year’s elections. Many think it’s about time. The black community represents about six percent of the UF population compared to the about thirteen percent nationwide. Although UF’s black population remains a minority, their call for change speaks for the major-ity. Students are encouraging one another to get informed and read up on the candidates’ platforms. The political parties have taken over social media with candidate statements and promotional videos in order to reach stu-dents on their own turf. To add, the Black Student Union hosted a debate between the three students and provided a platform for students to educate themselves. The debate was held in the Reitz Union and allowed candidates to speak di-rectly with the people they wish to serve, unﬁ  ltered and unedited. Po-litical transparency is fundamental in building trust with the commu-nity and maintaining a well-func-tioning government body.
Looking back on the 2016 U.S. 
presidential election, UF’s campus was split between not only the 
political parties but also racist bigots. The politics broke up friend groups. The election allowed students to show their true colors, and this unveiled a population of ignorance and prejudice. However, the school has been making progress toward unity with many student-led initiatives. Having three black presidential candidates symbolizes the head-way the community has been making toward social harmony and progress.
The Student Body as a whole is the ﬁ  rst priority of SG, yet this year’s candidate roster will also run SG with a new sense of cultural competency. Black students at UF are being given an immense opportunity to elect one of their own and have this person represent themselves as well as The Gator Nation. 
It has been about 60 years since UF start-
ed admitting black students, and it’s only right this year’s Black History month hosts this historical election. The black community wins no matter what the outcome of the elec-tion. UF’s new class of 2022 will be chris-tened with a black Student Body president, and the situation will impact student culture signiﬁ  cantly. Although there are many spec-ulators criticizing the political parties them-selves, they forget the bottom line of the situ-ation: Change is coming.
Madisyn Jones is a UF accounting sopho-
more. Her column focuses on black culture.
We talk a lot about breaking records. We try to break records for fun-draising or athletics. Last week, however, we broke a record that should never have been broken: 
deadliest high school shooting in American history.
I’ve recently come across the phrase, 
“This is a mental health problem,” far too of-ten. More often than not, this phrase comes from politicians who aggressively support the Second Amendment. I agree mental health is likely a signiﬁ  cant part of this problem. Men-tal health has freshly become the scapegoat for acts of violence. But there is little evi-dence those making decisions about access to help seem to think it is worth the attention.
At UF, we are incredibly fortunate to have 
the Counseling & Wellness Center, located at 3190 Radio Road, available to us, free of charge. However, the demand is far higher than the supply at the CWC. Students may have to wait months to see a mental health professional. Some students choose to seek treatment off-campus but as soon as we cross the campus boundary, we begin to encounter a massive issue.
Mental health care is expensive. 
It’s often expensive even if you have health insurance and, thanks to the lack of a suitable replace-ment for the Affordable Care Act, a lot of people do not have it. Even if you have insurance, you may have a managed care plan or a health maintenance organization. You may not have a choice in who your health professional is. Not all doctors are a good ﬁ  t for all patients. But if the psychiatric profes-sional you really should be seeing is out of your network, too bad.
I have a couple questions for our political 
representatives. At what point will people’s lives be worth more than support for the Second Amendment? If it’s not a gun prob-lem but a mental health problem, will you ﬁ  x the system that offers mental health ser-vices? How will you get people the mental health care they need? As one of the student survivors at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School said: You are the adults. These are just kids. You’re sup-posed to protect them. What are you doing?
Children should not have to 
know what to do in an active shooter situation. Children should not have to run for their lives in a place that is supposed to be about learning, growth and self-discov-ery.
While the mental health of the shooter is 
a point of contention, we should also focus on the mental health of the students at Stone-man Douglas. Countless videos have been posted online detailing various aspects of the shooting, from text conversations between students and their parents to survivors being interviewed by the media. The real lives that were impacted by this are everywhere.
The shooter needed help — there is really 
no disputing that. But what about the survi-vors? What about the friends and families of the victims? They have lived through, pre-sumably, the worst day of their lives. They will never be the same again, even though our representatives seem to be waiting for this to blow over and for things to get back to normal. Their lives will never go back to normal and certainly not if they are given a quick “sorry for your loss,” and then are shoved aside for more important things.
Continuing to support relaxed gun regu-
lations and pushing aside legislation to im-prove accessibility to mental health services emphasizes that those in power care more about who is lining their pockets than about those who are suffering.
My heart goes out to the victims, their 
families and friends and everyone who calls Parkland their home. I am so sorry this is the world we live in. Keep your people close. While we do have senseless acts of violence and a lack of responsive action, we have love. We have friendship and unity and humanity. Don’t let go of that, dear readers.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focuses on mental health.
UF presents an all-black roster for Student Body presidential candidates
At what point will people's lives be worth more than support for guns?Column
ColumnMadisyn Jones
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
Janae Moodie learned to count her blessings in kin-
dergarten when her dad survived the World Trade Center attacks on 9/11.
Her father, Henry Moodie, worked in the basement 
of the south World Trade Center Tower doing electri-
cal work. As the towers came crumbling, he managed to run 
out but left behind his phone so his family waited anxiously 
to hear he was safe.
After that day, Moodie’s parents constantly reminded her 
the importance of being grateful, she said.
“I could’ve lost him on that day,” the UF psychology se-
nior said. “It taught me about the fragility of life and ﬁ  nding purpose in the day-to-day things we get to do because really none of it is promised.” 
If she were to win the presidency, Moodie would become 
the ﬁ  rst black female Student Body president in 32 years. 
“It feels weird that it has taken that long, but it also feels 
humbling that the opportunity has come again and that I might be the one to fulﬁ  ll that honor,” the 21-year-old said. 
In January, Moodie resigned as the SG Senate President 
Pro Tempore and disafﬁ  liated with Impact Party. Three weeks later, she created Challenge Party. She has had previ-ous leadership roles in SG. Moodie was also a Florida Ci-cerone and the vice chair of The Big Event, a community 
service event, in its inaugural year. 
When she was a senior in high school in West Palm 
Beach, Florida, she was diagnosed with Lupus, an autoim-
mune disease through which the body’s immune system at-tacks tissues and organs. She became sick the spring before coming into college. Through her diagnosis and treatment, her mom gave her hope. 
“One of the things she always says is ‘Make your mess 
your message,’ and so even when the world is crumbling 
around me, she’s always been able to recenter my life,” 
Moodie said.
Moodie said Lupus is an invisible illness, which taught 
her to be less judgmental. 
“It’s taught me that you never know what people are 
going through because you can’t always see it,” she said. “At the end of the day, you don’t know what’s going on underneath all those layers.” 
Katelynd Todd, 23, was diagnosed with rheumatoid ar-
thritis in Spring 2015. Moodie gave Todd advice and com-passion when they became roommates in Summer 2015. 
“Janae is so willing to understand what’s important to 
anyone, and she’s so willing to understand what people are going through,”  Todd, a 2016 UF health education alumna, said. When Ian Green was 14 years old, he wanted a 
new PlayStation console.
To get one, he had to present the case to his 
mom, Val Green. The now 22-year-old presiden-
tial candidate with Impact Party gave his mom 
statistics and argued his grades were high enough to justify 
the new gaming console, Val Green said.
His mother said it was just one of many times her son 
showed his persistence for what he cared about.
“When he sets his mind to something, he really does go 
with it,” the 55-year-old said.
Val Green, a 1984 UF microbiology and cell science gradu-
ate, said she and her husband, another UF graduate, never imagined their son would run for Student Body president.
“Ian has helped to inform and shape our thoughts and 
opinions around how much things have changed on cam-
pus,” Val Green said. “It’s always wonderful when you can learn from your kids.”
In Fall 2017, Ian Green, a UF business management and 
economics senior, became the third black Student Senate president in UF history. His involvement also includes Florida Cicerones, Black Student Union and his fraternity, Phi Delta 
Theta.
He found his home at the Zion Baptist Church and started 
the Sons of Zion mentoring program with his dad.
“God always gives each person a purpose,” Ian Green 
said. “I discovered mine at Zion.”
He said he found his value in mentoring and still continues 
it in his work at UF.
“If I can just have the smallest impact on someone, that 
means I made somewhat of a difference, and that means the world to me,” he said. “By being intentional with your 
change and your mentoring, that’s how you foster a sense of community.”
Ian Green said his dad’s dedication to service inspired him 
to be a leader and serve others.
“We’re always willing to give the shirt off our backs,” he 
said.
In the sixth grade, Ian Green began volunteering by put-
ting on a church service at a nursing home once a month. His 
dad preached to the guests while Ian Green sang in Marietta, 
Georgia, where he grew up.
Though Ian Green did it each month, he said he never saw 
the value in it until he was in seventh grade and his grandfa-ther died. Then, he said he realized not everyone is fortunate enough to have family around them in their time of need.
“A lot of times people really talk about making a big, mon-
umental change, but it’s the small things,” Ian Green said.Revel Lubin grew up admiring thugs, killers and drug 
dealers.
The now 22-year-old grew up in Orlando with his 
mom until she died from a brain aneurysm when he was 11. His sister, Maude, adopted him and his three 
younger siblings when she was 24.
In high school, one of his classmates, Alexandria, lost her 
mother, and she began to cut herself. She was depressed and didn’t want to live anymore, Lubin said. He advised her on 
how to cope with loss, and she came back to school the next 
day and thanked him. She told him because of his advice, she didn’t kill herself.
Lubin, a UF criminology and African American studies ju-
nior, said two deans at his middle school changed his mindset by encouraging him to yell, scream, rant and pound the table 
instead of jumping to discipline him.
“I was considered the ‘troubled child,’” Lubin said. “My 
primary classroom became the administration’s ofﬁ  ce be-cause my teachers didn’t want to deal with me.”
As he matured, he began to ﬁ  nd purpose in his life. During 
his freshman year in high school, he served as class president.
Lubin said he has tried to emulate his freshman adviser, 
Mr. Mark Noel, ever since. Noel constantly made Lubin ques-
tion what more he could do for the Student Body. Further 
than that, he showed him what leadership looked like ﬁ  rst-
hand.
Every morning, Noel would pick Lubin up for school and 
drop him off in the afternoon. Sometimes, they went out to eat at restaurants like Chili’s Grill & Bar, where they would share chips and salsa. Lubin said he couldn’t thank him enough 
because he would oftentimes go home to an empty fridge.
“He showed me in his position in how to lead and what 
leadership looks like,” Lubin said. “He’d ask, ‘How can I serve you?’ Or ‘What can I do to best help you?’”
Revel currently serves as the SG treasurer. In January, he 
disafﬁ  liated from Impact Party and decided to run for Stu-dent Body president with Inspire Party. In the past, Lubin has 
served as a Florida Cicerone and was the cabinet director of Leadership, Development and Involvement on campus.
Jessilyn Boakye-Donkor, 20, met Lubin in their “First Year 
Florida” class. They’ve been friends ever since.
The UF business management junior said Lubin is like a 
spiritual brother to her. In Fall 2017, they prayed together while she was going through some hard times.
“Being able to pray with me in that moment just showed 
how great of a friend he is,” she said. “With him, I’m not led astray. His advice is deﬁ  nitely Godly advice.”STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff WriterMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
After her parents took refuge in the U.S. from Uganda 
in the 1980s, Shayli Patel has worked every day to make them proud.
“They’ve always taught me to do the best I can,” 
Patel said. “My mom and dad taught me — whatever 
I wanted to do, do it with 110 percent.”
The first time Patel heard about SG was through her older 
sister, Ishani. By the time Shayli Patel came to UF, she knew she wanted to get involved.
“She told me UF was an amazing place 
and I had to put myself out there to find a community,” said Patel, who is running for vice president with Challenge Party. 
The UF economics junior ran with Ac-
cess Party in Spring 2016 for a sophomore Senate seat and lost. In Summer 2016, she served in a replacement seat for Summer C and became the Minority Party Leader.
Patel has been involved with the Indian 
Student Association, Gatorship, the Office of Asian Pacific Is-lander American Affairs and has been a resident assistant.
The first time Patel remembers standing up for something 
she believed in, it cost her a close friend. She was shocked to 
see her best friend making Islamophobic comments on Face-
book the summer after her freshman year in high school, but she argued back.
“I take risks in putting myself out there and fighting for 
what I believe in,” Patel said.
Former Access Party President Praveen Varanasi met her  
in 2016 when the two were campaigning.
He said he remembers seeing Patel drenched from rain but 
still standing outside trying to talk to students, walking them 
to class with her umbrella.
Varanasi said Patel taught him how to be a better leader.
“I think that Shayli leads through compassion, she leads 
through love, she leads because she wants the best in people, not because she wants people to view her as the best,” he said.David Enriquez went from living in a shack in Buena Vista, Cuba, to meeting former President Barack Obama in the White House when he was about 17.
“My American Dream was becoming true,” the 
UF philosophy junior said. 
The Cuban immigrant said he’d never forget when his 
mother told him they’d won the Cuban lottery to go to America. It was a bittersweet adventure for him when he hopped on the plane. He remembers looking out, only 6 years old, feeling his stomach sink.
“I was struggling with the very diffi-
cult truth that no immigrant really wants to leave their shores,” he said. 
On July 4, 2003, he landed on Ameri-
can soil.
“I proudly call it my independence 
day,” Enriquez said. “I thought the fire-works were for me.”
Enriquez has served as the chief of 
staff to current Student Body Vice Presi-
dent Mario Agosto and is the vice president of program-ming in the Hispanic Student Association. He’s now run-ning for vice president with Impact Party. 
With the political oppression Enriquez and his family 
experienced in Cuba, he said he learned about the respon-sibility to help others.
“For me, public service is not a pastime, it’s my career 
choice,” Enriquez said.
Enriquez’s mentor, Stephen Sessums, said Enriquez’s 
interests in religion, politics and philosophy grew since the moment they met, about seven years ago when he volun-teered to be his mentor through the Hillsborough Educa-
tion Foundation.
“He was quite ambitious to make his mark and con-
tribute to make the world a better place,” the 83-year-old 
said. “Even though he was a leader, he was shy. But if you were to describe David, you wouldn’t describe him as shy today.”At 7 years old, Bijal Desai was held at gunpoint, 
forced to watch his father and uncle get assaulted.
Desai was sitting in his grandfather’s Indian spice 
shop, Fargo Trading, in Cape Town, South Africa, 
around closing time. Then, about six men walked 
in pretending to buy an item, drew their guns and demanded money. His uncle and father were beaten, he said. 
Earlier in 2003, his cousin and dad were held hostage in 
his cousin’s soda factory, Double O, where they were de-manded of anything of value. 
The two attacks inspired Desai’s family 
to move to the U.S. in the summer of 2004. 
Desai said he had a difficult time adjust-
ing. On his first day in the third grade, he 
asked for a rubber and was given a deten-tion. In Cape Town, a rubber meant an 
eraser. 
In 2012, Desai received protected status 
through Deferred Action for Childhood Ar-
rivals, or DACA. 
“One of the reasons I’m running is because I’m publicly 
able to express that I’m a DACA student because I have that much confidence that I’ll be safe,” he said. “But I want to use any power I have to make sure I can be an advocate for people in the same situation that I am.”
Desai founded the Gator Civitan Club, a service organiza-
tion. He was also president for Volunteers for International Student Affairs at UF. He is now running as Inspire Party’s Student Body vice presidential candidate. 
Desai’s roommate, Nihir Patel, 21, met Desai in the Indian 
Student Association’s freshman leadership experience. 
“He’s been so welcoming, kind and caring,” Patel said. Patel said he’s learned a lot about dedication and plan-
ning from Desai. Patel, a UF computer science junior, said last 
spring when Desai was studying for the LSAT, he’d get up at 
4 a.m. to study for his exam. 
“He’s always got his eyes two weeks, a month, two 
months ahead,” he said.
When Chase Werther started at UF, she knew she wanted to be in SG.
“It’s always been a dream of mine to come 
here and really experience every single part of my hometown,” said Werther, who was born and 
raised in Gainesville. 
Werther, a UF philosophy and political science junior, 
first experienced politics when she became president of her sixth grade class at Fort Clarke Middle School. The position allowed her to look outside of herself, she said. 
“I learned that the students mattered 
more than the teachers,” the 21-year-old said. “It really changed my perspective. It taught me that I’m a student leader and a 
student advocate first.” 
Werther, who is running for Student 
Body treasurer with Challenge Party, has been involved in the SG Women’s Affairs Cabinet, Access Party, Women’s Student Association, Gatorship, the PACE Center 
for Girls and Gators Matter, Period., a movement that helped bring free menstrual products in different locations on cam-pus. 
Brooke Henderson, who’s served alongside Werther 
through the Gators Matter, Period. movement, said Werther takes action for anything she believes in. 
“It’s the little things that Chase does that are huge things,” 
Henderson, 21, said. 
Werther said she sees herself as an agent of change.“It’s important to make people feel uncomfortable because 
they need to question why,” she said. 
Werther said she owes her current approach to political 
thought to her friend Mariam Mohamed, who she met at 16 at a sleepover. They became best friends overnight. Mohamed said she wasn’t surprised when Werther decided to run for Student Body treasurer.
“She’s always been a supernatural born leader, and she re-
ally cares about changing this school for the better,” she said.While Stefan Sanguyo’s friends were focused on 
prom and graduation, he stayed up worrying 
about his parents’ health.
Sanguyo’s father had a heart attack, and his 
mom was diagnosed with breast cancer during 
his senior year of high school. The difficult time increased 
his desire to make his parents proud, he said.
“My mom has always given back to me and my broth-
ers and supporting our family, Sanguyo, 20, said. “This is why I wanted to go to college — to make my family proud.” 
As a freshman at UF, Sanguyo want-
ed to retreat into his room as he dealt with his mom’s illness. He said he nev-
er imagined he’d run for UF’s Student 
Body treasurer.
“I just knew I wanted to get involved 
and help other people, but I didn’t know 
the magnitude of how far I would go,” the UF criminology junior said.
Sanguyo is currently a College of Lib-
eral Arts and Sciences senator with Impact Party. He’s served multiple roles with the Asian American Student 
Union and ROTC, and has served as the treasurer for UF’s 
Pi Delta Psi chapter. 
Growing up, he struggled with confidence as an Asian 
American. He said in high school, people assumed he was the smartest in the room and would ask for help on group projects. Others would make fun of his eyes. 
Woowon Choi, 23, said his best moment with Sanguyo 
was when he decided he wanted to run for treasurer for Pi Delta Psi. Choi, a UF applied physiology and kinesiology 
senior, said Sanguyo has “changed the game” in the way 
the fraternity handles its finances.
“It was kind of heartwarming to see how he stepped 
up to that challenge of taking responsibility at a younger age when most people shy away from it,” he said.Alyssa Bethencourt’s heart rate was only 33 beats per minute when she was 15 years old.
For her age, around 70 to 100 beats per minute 
would be considered normal. At 14, she was diag-nosed with anorexia. 
Food was Bethencourt’s way to cope with her sister 
Christine heart condition. At first she decided to eat less but became obsessed with counting her calories. 
“With everything, you experience some hardships in life, 
and those are also experiences I’m very thankful for because they made me who I am today,” the 20-year-old said.
Bethencourt’s sister, 34-year-old Mi-
chelle Sanchez said she started to notice her sister’s anorexia when they went 
on Bethencourt’s quinceañera cruise. 
At breakfast, Sanchez said she noticed 
Bethencourt was barely eating.
“It was a huge struggle, and the whole 
family had to walk on eggshells because it’s hard to identify with something 
you’ve never dealt with,” Sanchez said. 
The way her younger sister handled her disorder shows her 
true character, she added.
Bethencourt said the most important thing she learned 
from her disorder was to have a positive outlook on things.
“Nothing is going to be easy, and that’s with everything 
you commit yourself to,” Bethencourt said.
It took two years for Bethencourt, a UF Innovation Acad-
emy telecommunications junior, to overcome her disorder, 
she said. At UF, she became a part of the Freshman Leader-
ship Council and directed the group’s SG Outreach Com-mittee. She sat in the sophomore seat of the Student Senate 
and was on the Allocations and Judiciary committees with 
Impact Party. She was also involved in the Black Student Union. She is running for treasurer with Inspire Party.
“I’ve been trying to be well-versed all over campus and 
multifaceted in all my involvement,” Bethencourt said. STUDENT BODY VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
STUDENT BODY TREASURER CANDIDATESCHALLENGE IMPACT INSPIRE
CHALLENGE IMPACT INSPIRE
Werther
Sanguyo
 Bethencourt
Desai
 Enriquez
Patel
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles 
from UF campus. Owner is looking for the 
right person or persons to take over practice. 
Area features opportunity to experience the 
benefits of an abundance of out door life with 
the benefits of nearby cultural activities in 
and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA 
Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-
18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
2003 Honda Element
silver, 157,000 miles, excellent condition, 
runs great, one owner, $4,500.
amorvillar77@gmail.com    2-26-18-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. 
Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, W/D, bike to UFNo pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier$1500/mo. 352-256-8370,352-246-86452-19-18-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or VisaThe Alligator Office2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classified@alligator.orgBy Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FINDPayment by major credit card ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.
Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!
Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORING
PhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-
gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. 
Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-12-21-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Designated drivers are the greatestCOPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!
- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
Now Hiring PT & FT
Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1 m N of UF on 13 St. Gainesville's local leader in running and hiking gear for over 42 years. Applications 
available in store. Serious applicants with 
consistent availability only. Must work 1 day 
on weekends.     2-26-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.CASH FOR GATORSWe are buying: Coins, Currency, Stamp Collections, Gold Jewelry, Silver, Antiques & Collectibles. Raise Cash easily and quickly.Call: 352-213-3802         2-23-3-13
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
My name is Jason. I am 39 years old and 
looking for a female companion between 28-38 yrs old for a weekend getaway to Disney. I would like a person that is sweet, kind, & has 
great goals for her life & that is outgoing. I am 
not looking for any "exchanges" or "hookups".
Please call or text me@ 352 225-6429    2-21-18-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/19- 2/22 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     2-19-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Android
downloads
5 Array around a
surge protector
10 Words after deal
or count
14 Bridges of
Hollywood
15 Part of a sports
complex
16 Enveloping glow
17 “NBA Friday”
channel
18 Peachy19 Dental exam
image
20 Inquiry meant to
entrap
23 Right-angled
shape
24 Per __: daily
25 Freebies with a
bowl of soup
30 Mud __: type of
wasp
34 Sharp-eyed flier
35 Nonfluctuating
method of doingthings
37 Org. supporting
flossing
38 Freelancer’s
encl.
39 QB scores
40 Impressionist
once labeled
“The Man of aThousandVoices”
45 Pedometer unit46 “Already?”47 First-stringers49 Honorary legal
degs.
51 Ipanema’s city52 Wealthy, and a
hint to the firstword of 20-, 35-and 40-Across
59 Pop music’s
“hottest spotnorth of Havana”
60 Shut down61 Three, in
Germany
62 Baking chamber63 Makes docile64 Folklore brute65 Remain up in the
air
66 Sport with clay
disks
67 Can’t live withoutDOWN
1 Brother of Cain
2 Cuban currency3 Respected Smurf4 Basking locale on
a cruise ship
5 Walks like a duck6 Baghdad’s country
7 Eye care solution
brand
8 Pulled the plug on
9 Ties the knot
10 Largest amount11 Money in Malta
12 Mideast nation in
a 2015 nuclear
deal
13 Vote against21 Lodge logo
animal
22 Hazmat suit
hazard
25 Seals in the
juices of
26 Traffic report
source
27 Spy plane
acronym
28 Sit for a bit29 ERA and RBI, e.g.31 Montana city32 Tribal leader33 Talks hoarsely
36 Stetson hat
material41 The Netherlands,
informally
42 Lounge around43 Formally
accuses of, with
“for”
44 Heart-to-heart
45 Used to change
a ceiling lightbulb, as a chair
48 Relieved (of)
50 Move on tiptoe,
say52 Wander53 Take the lid off
54 It usually has a
set of rules
55 “That makes
sense”
56 Hard-to-resist
feeling
57 Actor Richard58 Moved 
quickly, old-style
59 Squad car driver
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/19/1802/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, February 19, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Borrows without
returning
5 Intestinal
10 Apple that’s
inedible
14 1966 N.L. 
batting champ
Matty
15 Drag-racing fuel,
briefly
16 Very serious17 Costner role18 What tots might
go after?
19 Many an RPI
grad
20 Grasp
23 Atmo- kin
24 He served the
fewest 20th-
century days (83)
as U.S. VP
25 Some drips
34 Somali-born
model
35 Things for one to
do
36 Blücher’s title in
“YoungFrankenstein”
37 Swing
improvisation?
38 Move like Miley39 “__ it up and spit
it out”: “My Way”lyric
40 Learning ctr.41 “Peg Woffington”
novelist
42 Covered, in a
way
43 Charter
acquisition
46 Tailor’s concern47 H.S. hurdle48 Markings on
gridirons
57 Assorted mixture58 __ Bruni-
Sarkozy, formerFrench first lady
59 “Chocolat”
actress
60 Title derived from
“Caesar”
61 Early seal hunter
62 It’s off-limits63 Cease64 Member of a
1969 MLBexpansion team
65 Difficult situationDOWN
1 Value for your
money,
idiomatically
2 Film apiarist
3 A majority4 Unrelenting
attempt
5 Usury protection
6 He played Oskar
in “Schindler’s
List”
7 Diminutive suffix8 Realtor’s measure
9 Land of Lincoln?
10 Airport agents
see a lot of them
11 Flash Gordon foe
12 Mythical vessel13 Random House
co-founder
21 Layer
22 Tour finish?
25 Occupy, as a
table
26 Firenze friends
27 2016 NFL
returnee
28 Planter
29 City in
southwesternNew York
30 2013 Grammy
winner for “Royals”31 Sonicare rival
32 South African
provinceKwaZulu-__
33 Kid stuff?44 __ Chess: video
game
45 Train part
48 Clothes
consumer?
49 Victor Laszlo’s
wife, in a classic
film50 Retro calling aid51 Like a fantasy
land?
52 Historic plaintiff
Scott
53 Musical
connector
54 One may be
hatched
55 Strauss’ “__
Alpensinfonie”
56 Buffalo feature,
often?
By Bruce Venzke©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/17/1802/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, February 17, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Arrange troops
1.  Fife was one5.  Danger
2.  ____ bottle6.  Impelled
3.  Duty-bound7.  Provide, furnish 
4.  Bird of preyPEDYOL
PUEDYTLIPRE
UGEDR
EMEUFPR
BDEGIOLNERDRE
OCRONDANSWERS: 1A-Deploy  5A-Peril  6A-Urged  7A-Render
1D-Deputy  2D-Perfume  3D-Obliged  4D-Condor  B-Porcupine2-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The third-largest species of rodent.
BONUS1. Who was the last St. Louis Car -
dinals player before Jedd Gyorko in 
2016 to hit 30-plus home runs in a season?
2. New York Yankees catcher Yogi 
Berra caught three no-hitters — two by one pitcher. Name that pitcher.
3. In 2015, Saquon Barkley broke the 
Penn State freshman record for rushing yards (1,076). Who had held it?
4. When was the last time that the 
Houston Rockets swept a playoff 
series 4-0?
5. Name the last team before the 
Pittsburgh Penguins (2016, 2017) to 
win consecutive Stanley Cups, each 
time in six games.
6. When was the last time the U.S. 
men’s team lost an individual back-stroke final at the Olympics?
7. In 2017, golfer Cristie Kerr set 
a record for most career points for a U.S. team member at the Solheim Cup (21 points). Who had held the mark?
Answers
1. Carlos Beltran had 32 home runs 
in 2012.
2. Allie Reynolds tossed both in 
1951.
3. D.J. Dozier rushed for 1,002 yards 
as a freshman in 1983.
4. The Rockets swept Orlando in the 
1995 NBA Finals.
5. The Philadelphia Flyers, in 1974 
and 1975.
6. It was 1992.7. Juli Inkster had 18.5 points in her 
Solheim Cup career. Paula Creamer (19.5 points) also passed Inkster in 
2017.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
February 19, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFlorida pitcher Aleshia Ocasio 
gave up a walkoff home run in 11th inning of Sunday's matchup with Louisiana, ending UF's eight-game winning streak, pg. 14UF women's golf team in ﬁ  rst place at Allstate Sugar Bowl
Florida shot 5 under after Day 1 of the event held in New Orleans. Sopho-
more Sierra Brooks led the team with a score of 3 under, followed by sopho-
more Marta Perez at 2 under. Michigan State is one stroke behind Florida 
for second place. Round 2 of the competition starts this morning. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer 
Sophomore pitcher Tyler Dyson spiked his 
pitch into the dirt. The ball skipped between 
the legs of catcher Cal Greenﬁ  eld and rolled to 
his right, allowing Siena’s Brendan Conley to 
advance to third.
Conley had initially reached base because 
of another erratic throw from Dyson — a ﬁ  rst 
pitch to Conley that grazed his elbow.
Dyson needed help. The encouragement 
started from the crowd, circling the bleachers. 
“Let’s go, Tyler!”
It spread to the inﬁ  eld. From second base-
man Blake Reese and ﬁ  rst baseman JJ Schwarz, the cheer made its way to right ﬁ  elder Nelson Maldonado. 
“Come on, Dye!”
Needing just one strike to get out of the jam, 
Dyson let a 2-2 pitch ﬂ  y.
The ball struck aluminum and came right 
back through the middle of the inﬁ  eld to score 
the run.
While Dyson struggled with command of his 
fastball, the Gators’ offense let loose on its way to a 19-2 win in the ﬁ  nale of its series with the Saints on Sunday afternoon at McKethan 
Stadium.
Dyson ended his afternoon after six innings 
pitched, allowing one earned run on ﬁ  ve hits 
while compiling three strikeouts.
He also hit Siena shortstop Marcos Campos 
in the head with the ﬁ  rst pitch of his at-bat,  Gators demolish Siena to cap oﬀ   opening weekend sweep
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
A hand in her face didn’t stop Dy-
andria Anderson. From the left wing of the three-point line, the senior guard 
shot over her defender, ﬁ  nding nothing 
but the bottom of the net and giving Florida a 16-point lead midway through the third quarter.
It was one of Anderson’s two 
three-pointers on Sunday afternoon, as she and her fellow seniors enjoyed their second-to-last home game at the O’Connell Center with an 88-71 victory 
over Vanderbilt.
The contest belonged to the Gators’ 
veterans, as they stole the show from 
start to ﬁ  nish. Before tip-off, Anderson, 
forwards Haley Lorenzen and Paulina Hersler and guard Gabby Seiler were 
honored at half court as their team-mates and spectators joined together to 
thank them for their contributions.
“(It’s) exciting for our seniors to be 
able to go out like this,” coach Cameron 
Newbauer said after the game. “They 
deserve it. They’re special young ladies 
that have done so much for Florida in a number of areas.”
After the honors, the Gators (11-
16, 3-11 SEC) took the ﬂ  oor, dominat-
ing Vanderbilt (6-22, 2-12 SEC) on the 
offensive end of the ﬂ  oor. The team’s scoring attack was led by its starting lineup, with four of the ﬁ  ve Gators 
starters notching double-digit points.
Redshirt junior Funda Nakkasoglu 
led all scorers with 25 points on 8-of- UF cruises past Vanderbilt for 
home victory on Senior DayAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF pitcher Tyler Dyson struggled with his command early in Florida's 19-2 victory over Siena in the series ﬁ  nale. "I got kind 
of out of sync and was pushing the ball a little bit, " he said.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
Show the draft!
That’s how I feel about 
the new NBA All-Star 
Game format. I like that 
the league is trying to 
shake things up. 
The All-Star Game is a whole 
bunch of dunks, threes and not a lick of defense. People want to see a more competitive game than last season’s 192-182 circus act win for the Western Conference, its third in 
a row and seventh victory in the last nine 
years.
So how did NBA commissioner Adam Sil-
ver solve the competitive-balance discrep-
ancy?
He took the game’s top vote-getters, LeB-
ron James and Stephen Curry, and had them 
take turns picking the remaining All-Star se-lectees, regardless of what conference they 
play in.
The prize money for the winning team was also increased to $100,00 
per roster member, incentivizing a more competitive game.
For all that, I give NBA com-
missioner Adam Silver a solid ‘A’ for his effort to create a more entertaining All-Star Weekend. 
There’s just one problem.
The draft with LeBron and 
Steph was never televised!
And for that, I have to adjust 
his ﬁ  nal grade to a ‘C’, and that’s being gen-erous.
Some people have argued that the draft 
shouldn’t be shown so that the players who 
get picked last will have their identities pro-
tected. Seriously?
I’ll say it again. Seriously?!
It’s not like the actual draft order won’t 
come out eventually.
In fact, there are reports that big men Al 
Horford and LaMarcus Aldridge, who have a Dear Adam Silver: Show the All-Star draft, pleaseHuang Story Short / Opinion
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE W-BBALL  PAGE 15
Andrew Huang
twitter: @AndrewJHuang 14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
As Vanderbilt guard Riley LaChance’s second 
free-throw attempt bounced off the rim, guard Joe 
Toye sprinted into position, jumped up and brought 
down the rebound. With 2:04 left in the game and down by only one point, the Commodores had an-
other chance to take the lead.
Nearly 11 seconds later, that second chance 
turned into an easy layup from the top of the key, as LaChance blew by UF guard Chris Chiozza and 
drove to the basket uncontested.
In the ﬁ  nal 10 minutes of Florida’s 71-68 loss 
Saturday against Vanderbilt (11-16, 5-9 SEC), the Gators looked like a different team than at the be-ginning of the game.
“First half, I thought we guarded at a really high 
level,” UF coach Mike White said. “We were in a position to potentially steal one.”
It’s something White has been trying to ﬁ  x all 
season — maintaining intensity throughout the game.
For the most part this season, the Gators have 
looked good in the ﬁ  rst half, doing what their coach expects of them. But as the second half of those 
games approached the midway point, the other 
team typically creeps back into the game.
And it usually starts with the Gators’ defense.
On Saturday, LaChance, who was limited to just 
six points in the ﬁ  rst half, continuously found a way 
to get by Chiozza in the second, amassing 15 points 
in the frame.In the last seven minutes, LaChance made two 
three-pointers, 3-of-4 free throws and a crucial layup 
with just under two minutes left, leaving White and 
the Gators with no answer for the senior guard.
“He’s really good, and we can’t allow those 
backoff threes that he shoots,” White said. “We were trying to make him bounce the basketball.”
The next thing to go is Florida’s offense. Down 
the stretch, the Gators struggle to record a basket when needed. 
In the last seven minutes against the Commo-
dores, UF shot 4 of 12 from the ﬁ  eld, missing two last-second three-pointers in the process.
Narrowing it down, after LaChance took the 
lead, Florida missed four shots that would’ve either taken the lead or tied the game, like guard Egor Kou-
lechov’s missed jump shot or guard Jalen Hudson’s layup that bounced off the rim. 
“If you’re gonna steal one on the road,” White 
said, “you got to make a layup.”
Florida’s inconsistency has plagued it this sea-
son, something it will need to sort out before the season ends. In the ﬁ  nal 10 minutes, the Gators play like a different team.
With tough matchups against Tennessee, Au-
burn, Alabama and Kentucky coming up, they’ll need to ﬁ  gure out how to close out games.
“It’s not puzzling because it’s who we are,” 
White said. “The only thing consistent about this team is our inconsistency.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgWhite: Only thing consistent about UF is inconsistency 
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
In what was supposed to be a series 
of perfect back handsprings, senior Alex 
McMurtry dropped to the ﬂ  oor off the 
balance beam. It was the ﬁ  rst time since the 2017 season that she had competed in every event, a thought that didn’t escape her mind even as she wrapped up her last 
event of the night. The fall resulted in a 
9.325, one point higher than her season-
low score of 9.225 against Auburn on Feb. 
2. 
In their 196.950-196.125 win over Geor-gia on Friday night in Athens, the No. 5 Gators (6-1, 4-1 SEC) continued their ﬁ  ve-meet winning streak. Despite taking three 
of the meet’s four events, Florida’s balance 
beam rotation stood out as it featured both an individual achievement and misstep. 
“I feel we are still moving in the right 
direction,” coach Jenny Rowland said in a release. “We had to count a fall, but on the other events, we showed big strides.”
Though McMurtry didn’t post a top 
score, two other Gators were able to ﬁ  nd success against the No. 14 Bulldogs (3-4, 
3-3 SEC). Sophomore Amelia Hundley took 
second with a score of 9.875, and fresh-man Alyssa Baumann’s 9.900 was good for her second career win. Baumann’s routine proved to be more difﬁ  cult than usual, as the duration of her performance was over-
shadowed by the sound of a home Georgia 
crowd celebrating Sydney Snead’s 10.0 on ﬂ  oor.
“I couldn’t hear myself think,” Bau-
mann said. “I just tried to tell myself (the cheering) was for me and to stay calm and conﬁ  dent.”
Baumann’s ﬁ  rst career title came on 
Jan. 5 in Florida’s season opener against West Virginia. Similar to her most recent 
competition, her score of 9.900 last month 
on beam helped her tie for ﬁ  rst alongside sophomore Rachel Gowey and junior Alicia Boren. One person who is not surprised by the SEC Freshman of the Week’s ability to adapt is Rowland. 
“I know she heard it,” Rowland said. 
“She didn’t let anything get to her – really proud of her.”
As UF heads back home to face No. 8 
Arkansas on Feb. 23, Rowland remains conﬁ  dent in the team’s ability to make im-provements in its routines. 
“Beam is an event we are very solid 
on,” Rowland said.” And we will work out those little bumps.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org
 Balance beam bringing both highs and lows for Gators gymnasts
SOFTBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Pitcher Aleshia Ocasio bent over and picked 
up some clay on the mound with her right hand.
She ran it through her ﬁ  ngers moments before 
her last pitch of the game, trying to keep herself 
composed 11 innings into the Gators’ matchup 
against Louisiana. However, that calm demeanor 
on the mound changed to one of disappointment as Ocasio watched Ragin’ Cajuns outﬁ  elder Casi-dy Chaumont blast a home run toward left center ﬁ  eld, securing two runs and a win for Louisiana.
No. 16 Louisiana (7-2) defeated No. 2 Florida 
(8-1) in the third and ﬁ  nal game of the series on Sunday afternoon in Lafayette, handing UF its ﬁ  rst loss of the season, 4-3.
Starting pitcher Kelly Barnhill was taken out of 
the game after three innings, ﬁ  nishing with one hit and two runs allowed — one unearned.Three innings into the game, the Gators and 
the Ragin’ Cajuns were tied 2-2, but both teams remained scoreless for the next seven innings.
Ocasio, who took control of the circle in the 
fourth inning, ﬁ  nished the game with six hits and two earned runs. It took ﬁ  ve innings for the Gators to get a hit after they recorded two hits in the top of the third.  
In the top of the ninth, utility player and catch-
er Danielle Romanello hit a line-drive single up the middle, but it wasn’t enough for the Gators to get back on the scoreboard by the end of the inning. 
One of the highlights of Sunday’s game was in 
the bottom of the 10th when Ragin’ Cajuns short-stop Alissa Dalton hit a ball over Ocasio’s head right in front of second base.
The ball bounced once before it was ﬁ  elded by 
shortstop Sophia Reynoso, who threw it to ﬁ  rst to retire Dalton. First baseman Kayli Kvistad then slung the ball across the diamond to third base-man Nicole DeWitt who outed Brittany Rodriguez as she slid through the base.
The 6-3-5 double play ended the inning and 
gave Florida enough momentum to score another 
run in the top of the 11th with the help of second 
baseman Hannah Adams.
With Ocasio already on second base, Adams 
drove a pitch to center ﬁ  eld, giving Ocasio enough time to run home and put the Gators up 3-2.
Chaumont’s two-run bomb in the bottom of 
the 11th, however, ended the game on a walk-off.
Despite Sunday’s loss, Florida ﬁ  nished the 
series 2-1 overall, dominating Saturday’s double-
header with shutout scores of 4-0 and 9-0.
Up next for the Gators is another double-
header against the Oakland Golden Grizzlies at 
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium on Wednesday at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org  Walk-oﬀ   home run seals Louisiana’s upset win over FloridaWill Clewis / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza allowed Vanderbilt guard Riley LaChance to drive past him for a 
go-ahead layup with less than two minutes remaining in Saturday’s 71-68 loss.
 Walk-oﬀ   home run seals Louisiana’s upset win over Florida
FLORIDA’S 
TOP PERFORMERS
OF Amanda Lorenz 
2-for-6, 2 RBIs
OF/P Aleshia Ocasio 
2-for-4, 2 Runs; 7.1 IP , 6 Ks, 2 ER
C Janell Wheaton 
1-for-4, 1 Runsending his batting helmet spinning to the 
dirt in the top of the third.
The hit batter preempted ﬁ  rst baseman 
JJ Schwarz jogging to the mound for some quick encouragement from the senior cap-tain.
“There’s some things that I need to 
tweak a little bit,” Dyson said. “A couple of times today, I got kind of out of sync and was pushing the ball a little bit.”While he may not have brought his best 
stuff to the mound, Dyson still threw his fastball at a consistent 92-93 mph while sparingly using his 82-mph changeup.
“He was a little off, to be honest,” 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “I would bet that you’re gonna see a much better Dyson next weekend.”
Florida started off the scoring in the 
ﬁ  rst inning with a bases-loaded double from designated hitter Keenan Bell that 
scored two runs. The sophomore ﬁ  nished the game 2-of-3 from the plate with four 
RBIs, hammering a home run into Siena's bullpen in right center ﬁ  eld in the ﬁ  fth in-ning.
“Keenan’s a legitimate power bat in the 
middle of the order,” O’Sullivan said.
Heading into the bottom of the sixth 
with a 7-1 lead, the Gators' offense wasn’t content with cruising to the ﬁ  nish line.
UF sent nine men to the plate before the 
Saints recorded their ﬁ  rst out of the inning. 
The frame featured a bases-loaded wild 
pitch, a balk and three extra-base hits.
Reese's bases-clearing double to right-
center ﬁ  eld drove in three of the Gators' 
nine runs in the sixth. He ended the game 
going 2-for-4 from the plate with four RBIs, a walk and two runs scored. 
By the time Siena ﬁ  nally recorded its 
third out, the game had morphed into a 
16-1 dismantling of the Saints. 
“I think it’s a testament to a long offsea-
son and a lot of hard work,” Reese said. 
“I was really impressed with our offense, 
obviously. I don’t remember putting up 19 
runs, I think, since I’ve been here.”  
Florida closed out the game with fresh-
man right-handers Tommy Mace and Hunter McMullen in the eighth and ninth, 
respectively. The two combined for four 
strikeouts and allowed just one hit.
The Gators have Monday off before re-
turning to McKethan Stadium to face Flori-
da Atlantic on Tuesday night at 6.
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
BASEBALL,  from pg 13Dyson allowed one run through six innings
Florida’s Top Opening Weekend Performers
P Brady Singer
P Jackson Kowar
C/1B JJ Schwarz
2B Blake Reese7 IP , 8 Ks, 0 ER7 IP , 10 Ks, 2 ER
5-for-12, 1 HR, 3 RBIs
7-for-12, 4 Doubles, 5 RBIs16 shooting. She was lights out 
from behind the arc on Sunday, draining 7-of-13 shots from deep. 
When asked about her recent suc-
cess (21.8 points per game in the last four contests), she deﬂ  ected credit to the rest of her teammates 
and coaches.
“They gave me so much con-
ﬁ  dence today,” Nakkasoglu said. 
“They were on my back through thick and thin.”
The seniors who saw the court 
— Anderson, Lorenzen and Her-sler — combined for 50 points and four triples on Sunday. Lorenzen 
also collected 11 rebounds, good 
enough for her 12th double-dou-ble of the year, while Anderson shot 6-of-9 from the ﬁ  eld.
“We shot the ball really, re-
ally well,” Lorenzen said. “And I think that’s what helped open up the inside a lot. We’ve gotten real-ly good at passing the ball inside, 
and my teammates just delivered 
the ball in great spots in the right moments.”
Sophomore guard Delicia 
Washington didn’t reach the dou-
ble-digit point plateau, but ﬂ  irted 
with a triple-double while battling an ankle sprain. She scored nine points, collected nine rebounds 
and dished out eight assists in 
the contest, despite doubt linger-ing over her readiness prior to the 
game.
Newbauer said the decision to 
play her was made about 20 min-utes before the opening tip.
“I thought she was terriﬁ  c,” 
Newbauer said. “I did not think she was gonna play. But that’s 
just the mind over matter that 
she’s grown to have. That matu-rity level from her this year has been fantastic for us.”
Florida also controlled the bat-
tle on the boards, out-rebounding Vanderbilt 48-29 and grabbing 12 offensive rebounds in the process.
The Gators might have cel-
ebrated their seniors on Sunday, but there is still one more home game on the schedule. This Thursday, they will welcome an-
other top-25 team when No. 11 
Tennessee comes to Gainesville for the two teams’ ﬁ  rst and only meeting of the year.
Despite having one ﬁ  nal 
home game, Florida’s seniors en-joyed the day, grabbed a victory, snapped a six-game losing streak and were sent off in style.
“I couldn’t be more grateful 
than to be battling with these girls every single day,” Lorenzen said. “I’m very grateful and very blessed to be a Gator.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgW-BBALL,  from pg 13Anderson, Lorenzen, Hersler combine for 50 points vs. Vandy
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Dyandria Anderson scored 16 points and added four assists in UF's 88-71 win over 
Vanderbilt on Sunday.
total of 11 All-Star appearances between 
them, were the last two picks in this year’s pickup-style draft.
“I’m not a ﬂ  ashy player,” Aldridge 
said. “That’s OK.”
See? That’s OK.It’s alright to be the last of 22 All-Star 
picks (26 if you count the four players who were replaced due to injuries af-ter the initial list was released) because there are 400-plus other NBA players — all of whom are among the world’s best 
at the game of basketball — that didn’t 
make the cut.
Honestly, are these guys’ egos so 
fragile that they can’t handle the general 
public knowing that they weren’t a top 
pick?
To me, this is where the “prove ‘em” 
mindset comes in handy.
Get picked ﬁ  rst? Prove ‘em right. Get 
picked last? Prove ‘em wrong.
Aside from that, I want to see the 
players’ reactions as it happens.
I want to see Kyrie Irving’s face as he 
is selected by former teammate LeBron James.
I want to see how Russell Westbrook 
and Kevin Durant react when James picks the two former OKC teammates.
Please, oh please, I just want to see 
the draft.
Let me know, Mr. Silver.
Andrew Huang is a sports writer. Contact 
him at ahuang@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2018
SPORTS  ISSUES2018
RUN 5 OUT OF 14 DATES AND SAVE 15%
Contact your sales rep at 
352-376-4482FRIDAY, JANUARY 12
Gymnastics vs. LSU
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26
Gymnastics, Tennis
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Gymnastics, Softball vs. Michigan
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Baseball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Men’s Basketball, Gymnastics, SoftballFRIDAY, MARCH 2
Men’s Basketball vs. Kentucky, Baseball
MONDAY, MARCH 12
Men’s NCAA Basketball Tournament
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
Baseball, Softball, Tennis
FRIDAY, MARCH 30
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Lacrosse
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Baseball, Track & Field, Softball, Tennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25
Softball, Baseball
Take the winning shot 
Advertise with the Alligator
Reach 50,000+ sports  
fans by featuring your  
ad on the NCAA Tournament  
Bracket! This special bracket  will be a pull out section that Gator 
fans can use for the whole three  
weeks of March Madness to track  
their favorite teams.
This is your chance to be a part of the first bracket available to the public!
• Publishes the day after bracket announcements are made •
Starting at
$241.79
includes full colorRESERVE YOUR SPACE 
TODAY!
376.4482
Run Date
Mon, March 12thDeadline
Thurs March 8th
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
After 36 holes on Saturday, the No. 8 
Florida men’s golf team was just one stroke 
behind No. 3 Vanderbilt for the lead in the SunTrust Gator Invitational, its ﬁ  rst competi-tive event of the spring season.  
Entering the ﬁ  nal round Sunday, the 
Gators had a realistic opportunity to win their home event — held annually at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville — 
for the ﬁ  rst time since 2011.
Instead, Vanderbilt (-18) pulled away, ﬁ  n-
ishing nine strokes ahead of the Gators (-9) for an easy victory. Florida was able to sal-vage second by shooting 2 under on the day, with South Florida, North Florida and UCF rounding out the top ﬁ  ve.
Despite his team ﬁ  nishing second out of 
16, Florida coach J.C. Deacon wasn’t happy with his team’s performance.
“We just didn’t have our best stuff this 
week,” Deacon said. “Just didn’t have it. We weren’t good enough, and we gotta be better 
if we’re gonna beat teams like Vanderbilt.”
Florida’s best performer this weekend 
was junior Gordon Neale, who shot 4 under 
and ﬁ  nished the tournament tied for eighth place. He was the only Gator in the top 10. Despite Neale’s ﬁ  nish, Deacon believes his junior still has room for improvement.
“He made some pretty big mistakes today 
that cost him some bogeys, down the stretch 
especially,” Deacon said. “If we’re gonna be 
great, he’s gotta be great.”Senior Alejandro Tosti was the only other 
Florida golfer to shoot under par, ﬁ  nishing 2 under.
“It was OK,” Tosti said of his own perfor-
mance. “Could have been better.”
It was a solid weekend for freshman John 
Axelsen, who shot an even par. Sophomore 
Andy Zhang recovered after a poor perfor-
mance on Saturday, shooting 2 under to ﬁ  n-ish the event at 1 over. It was not a good Sunday, however, for redshirt sophomore Blake Dyer, who ﬁ  nished the event at 5 over after shooting an even par on Saturday.
Florida freshmen Chris Nido and Won 
Jun Lee entered the event as individuals and did not factor into UF’s overall score. They 
ﬁ  nished at 4 over and 6 over, respectively.
Vanderbilt played the role of the domi-nant leaders Sunday, shooting 10 under in 
the ﬁ  nal round. For the weekend, the Com-modores had three players place in the top 10. Junior Will Gordon and sophomore John Augenstein both shot 6 under, putting them in a tie for fourth place in the event. Senior Theo Humphrey ﬁ  nished tied for eighth after 
shooting 4 under.
Missouri senior Hayden Buckley was the 
event’s individual champion, shooting 6 un-
der in the ﬁ  nal round to ﬁ  nish the weekend at 8 under par.
Florida’s next competitive action will take 
place at the Southern Highlands Collegiate, which begins on March 5 in Las Vegas.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org  Florida notches second-place ﬁ  nish at SunTrust Gator InvitationalSWIMMING & DIVING
By Jacob McManamon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and women’s swimming 
and diving teams completed the ﬁ  nal day of the SEC Championships Sunday night at Texas A&M University.
The men’s team clinched its sixth straight 
SEC championship in dominant fashion, win-ning by over 200 points. The men scored a to-tal of 1,237 points, while second-place Georgia had 975.5 points.
The team ﬁ  nished the ﬁ  ve-day competition 
with three more victories on Sunday. The ﬁ  rst was by senior Caeleb Dressel in the 100-yard freestyle event, whose time of 41.01 seconds set a new SEC record. His performance comes 
on the heels of setting a new American record 
in the 100 breast with a time of 50.03. 
“I think I’m in a good spot right now,” Dres-
sel said. “I think we’re in a good spot as a team.”
Another victory on Sunday came in the 
men’s 200-yard breaststroke when senior Mark Szaranek won with a time of 1:51:86.
“I swam faster than I thought I would ever 
go,” Szaranek said. “It’s been four years that I’ve wanted to win one of these SEC champion-ships. I’m glad to get it done in my last event.”
The men also won the 400-yard freestyle 
relay, which was the ﬁ  nal event of the cham-
pionships. Dressel, Szaranek and sophomores 
Khader Baqlah and Maxime Rooney combined for the victory.
The women ﬁ  nished in seventh place with 
619 points. Freshman Taylor Ault had a strong performance in the 1,650-yard freestyle, where she placed second place behind freshman Courtney Harnish of Georgia.
The Gators come home for the Florida In-
vitational Last Chance meet starting on Friday at the O’Connell Center. The NCAA Champion-ships start on March 21 in Minnesota.
A TV broadcast contributed to this report.
 
@jmcmanamon97
jmcmanamon@alligator.org  SEC CHAMPS:  UF men’s team wins sixth straight conference title
Emma Green / Alligator Sports
Florida’s men’s swimming and diving team won its sixth consecutive SEC 
Championship on Sunday, outscoring second-place Georgia by over 200 points.
MEN’S GOLF