We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Yoga class for Tallahassee victims held
The class is a way to practice nonviolence, the instructor said, 
pg. 5
Analyzing the midterm elections 
A UF political science professor looks at what happened, pg. 3The Gators ﬁ  nd themselves at a fork in the road
Saturday’s matchup with South Carolina could be a pivotal game 
early in coach Dan Mullen’s career, pg. 16FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 34
U.S. SENATE, GOVERNOR, 
AGRICULTURAL COMMIS-
SIONER RACES NARROW 
THURSDAY EVENING. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
At least three of Florida’s key political races may see a recount 
following the midterm elections.
Not all ballots cast have been 
counted yet, according to the Mi-
ami Herald. 
The races that are within the 
margin of error to trigger a recount 
include the U.S. Senate between 
Democrat Bill Nelson and Repub-
lican Rick Scott, the Florida gov-ernor race between Democrat An-
drew Gillum and Republican Ron 
DeSantis and the Florida agricul-
tural commissioner race between 
Democrat Nikki Fried and Repub-
lican Matt Caldwell.
As of 11 p.m. Thursday, the 
closest race was for agricultural 
commissioner, with Fried leading 
Caldwell by 2,915 votes, according to the Herald. 
The Senate race showed Scott 
leading Nelson by 15,071 votes as 
of 11 p.m. Thursday, according to 
The New York Times. The gover-
nor’s race showed DeSantis leading 
Gillum by about 30,000 votes. 
Scott is suing South Florida 
election ofﬁ  cials, according to the 
Tampa Bay Times. Scott ﬁ  led suit against Broward County Elections 
Supervisor and Palm Beach County 
Elections Supervisor.
Scott sued not as governor of 
Florida, but as a candidate for the 
U.S. Senate. 
The recounting process cannot 
begin until the unofﬁ  cial results Three key Florida races may see recount after election 
Brianna Monroe / Alligator Staff
Running for the cops
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book participates in the Fourth Annual “Run With The Cops” walk at the Santa Fe track. He is joined by fellow 
ofﬁ  cers, Gainesville locals, students, organizations and many more. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Forty-four tweets, three grande 
iced coffees and one terrible playl-
ist called “24 hours, 24 bops” later, 
I emerged tired from the revolving 
door of Library West.
I set out to understand the pur-
pose of a 24-hour library.  
The walls of the six-story com-
pound housed me from 10:30 a.m. 
Oct. 29 until 10:30 a.m. on Oct. 30. 
Students and staff questioned my 
motives as I questioned them for 
my story.
I can’t say I have ever stayed 
awake for 24 hours prior to my ex-
periment. I never had a reason to.
The ﬁ  rst six hours were some-
what productive. I ﬁ  nished home-
work, a group project and my 
lunch of vegetable dumplings. 
Every hour, I found myself pac-
ing around book and DVD shelves. 
I would look for a different student 
to talk to. Some spoke to me out 
of pity. Others talked because they 
needed a distraction from work. 
My mind worked well until 
about 5 a.m. I found myself on the 
second ﬂ  oor blasting “Mr. Bright-
side” through my headphones 
while pedaling on a desk bike like 
I was a suburbanite in spin class.  
My thoughts wandered: What 
is the purpose of an escalator in a 
library anyway?  
Read more about the people I 
met along the way each hour of my 
overnight stay.
See more on pages 8-9I spent 
24 hours 
in Library 
West
HE DOVE INTO GOVERNMENT 
DURING HIS FOUR YEARS AT 
GAINESVILLE HIGH SCHOOL.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
The stomp of teenage feet sounded like stam-
peding elephants to Linda Awbrey. 
It was the 1997 Florida Association of Stu-
dent Councils conference in Jacksonville, Aw-
brey said. She remembers a school superinten-dent shouting that the commotion must have 
been a ﬁ  ght among the hundreds of high school-
ers there.
When Awbrey looked down from the top of 
the boat in the St. Johns River, she didn’t see 
a ﬁ  ght. 
She saw a conga line and 17-year-old An-
drew Gillum leading it with at least 800 people 
behind him on the deck.
Awbrey, Gillum’s former student govern-
ment adviser, wasn’t surprised he decided to 
run for governor. She said that the same per-
son she met in 1994 was the man running to be Florida’s ﬁ  rst black governor. 
Tallahassee Mayor Gillum conceded to Ron 
DeSantis Tuesday night in the midterm election. 
DeSantis won with 49.6 percent of the votes 
while Gillum had 49.2, according to The New 
York Times.
But as of Thursday, a vote recount will hap-
pen. 
Gillum lost by fewer than 36,000 votes, or 
.44 percentage points, which automatically trig-
gers a recount, the Orlando Sentinel reported. Where he cut his teeth: Gillum in GainesvilleSEE RECOUNT,  PAGE 4
SEE GILLUM,  PAGE 4FEATURE FRIDAYT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
UPCOMING EVENTS: 
TODAY
Art Bash
The School of Art + Art 
History is hosting studio class-
es and activities in drawing, 
painting, ceramics, sculpture, 
graphic design, printmaking, 
photography, art and technol-
ogy, art history, art educa-
tion, museum studies and vi-
sual arts studies. Activities will 
take place at 6-9 p.m. at the UF 
School of Art + Art History, at 
400 SW 13th St. The bash will 
also feature DJ Brady Bauer, 
Humble Wood Fire Pizza, a 
pop-up museum, exhibitions 
of student work, sticker and 
button giveaways, raffles and 
more. 
Public Night at the Campus 
Teaching Observatory
UF’s Department of Astronomy 
is having a public night at 8-10 
p.m. at the Campus Teaching 
Observatory, which is on UF's 
campus south of the Reitz 
Union parking lot and west 
of the aerospace engineering 
building off of Museum Road. 
Observe the moon, planets, 
double stars, star clusters, 
nebulae and other astronomi-
cal objects through 8-inch, 12-
inch and 14-inch Cassegrain 
telescopes and a historic 8-inch 
Alvan Clark refractor tele-
scope. This event is subject to 
change pending the weather. 
Call 352-294-1870 after 8 p.m. 
to get the latest weather up-
dates or email public@astro.
ufl.edu. For more information, 
visit astro.ufl.edu/outreach/
Public_Nights.html. 
SATURDAY
Wine tasting at Uppercrust
Uppercrust, an artisan bakery 
at 4116 NW 16th Blvd., is hav-
ing its weekly wine and cheese 
tasting at 1-4 p.m. Tickets are 
$15 and work as a credit to-
ward everything in the store, 
including wine and cheese. 
The tasting will include hand-
selected products from small 
vineyards and cheesemakers. 
Wine and cheese is served in 
an “approachable, convivial 
way that is rare in too-often 
stuffy wine and cheese-dom.”
Candlelight Community Class 
with music for Hot Yoga 
Tallahassee
Liz Getman, Mind & Body 
Guide and YogaLoka are rais-
ing money for those affected 
by the recent shooting at Hot 
Yoga Tallahassee. Live music will be provided by Maggie 
Clifford. The class will begin 
at 5:30 p.m.  at the Thelma 
A. Boltin Center in downtown 
Gainesville, at 516 NE Second 
Ave. The class is $1 for those 
above 50 years old, $3 for stu-
dents and $5 for all other yo-
gis. They accept cash or check 
only. An additional $10-20 do-
nation is suggested to support 
Hot Yoga Tallahassee’s costs 
associated with healing from 
this tragedy.
Dancing Under the Stars
Dance lessons, lights and mu-
sic will be held at Depot Park, 
at 874 SE Fourth St., starting 
with beginner lessons at 6-7 
p.m. Previous dancing expe-
rience is not required. Social 
dancing will be at 7-9 p.m. 
Lessons cost $5 per person and 
a dance ticket is also $5 per 
person. A discount is offered to 
those who come with a friend, 
$15 together, and save $5 for 
the lessons and the dance. 
3rd Annual Hoggetowne 
Burlesque & Drag Alliance 
Showcase
This community celebration 
showcase brings together as 
many local burlesque and 
drag performers as possible 
for a show at the High Dive, 
at 210 SW Second Ave. Doors 
open at 9 p.m. and the show 
starts at 10 p.m. Tickets are 
$10 if bought in advance on 
TicketFly or $15 at the door. 
The show will feature mem-
bers from the Mischievous 
Madams Burlesque Troupe, 
Breakaway Burlesque and 
Downtown Drag. 
SUNDAY
‘Ask a Scientist: Peoples of the 
Pacific Northwest’ at the 
Florida Museum
Florida Museum of Natural 
History visitors can find an-
swers during an afternoon of 
discovery and learning at 1-4 
p.m. Sunday. Participants for 
“Ask a Scientist: Peoples of the 
Pacific Northwest” may talk 
one-on-one with museum reg-
istrar Elise LeCompte and see 
material from the museum’s 
ethnography research collec-
tion. For more information, 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/ask-a-scientist or call 
352-273-2061.
TUESDAY
Florida Museum invites artists, 
designers to ‘SciArt Meetup: 
Indigenous Peoples’
Artists and designers are invit-ed to visit the Florida Museum 
of Natural History after hours 
for SciArt Meetups to explore 
exhibits and create art inspired 
by Florida nature and culture. 
The organization is partern-
ing with Santa Fe College Art 
Gallery and people can visit 
the museum from 6-9 p.m. 
Tuesday for a brief art or sci-
ence presentation on indig-
enous peoples. Pre-registration 
is requested as space is limit-
ed. Access includes a working 
studio space and after-hours 
entry to all permanent exhib-
its, excluding the “Butterfly 
Rainforest.” Artists must bring 
their own supplies. For infor-
mation or to register, visit flor-
idamuseum.ufl.edu/calendar/
tag/sciart or call 352-273-2062.
WEDNESDAY 
Fulbright Luncheon with 
Swapna Kumar
UF Fulbright Programs and the 
UF International Center will 
host the Fulbright Luncheon 
with Swapna Kumar, a 2016-
2017 Fulbright Scholar and 
faculty member of the UF 
College of Education, from 
noon to 1:30 p.m. in Reitz 
Union Room 2365. Students 
can learn about Kumar’s ex-
periences working with di-
verse faculty and students on 
the design of blended learning 
environments in Hungary, as 
well as her research on online 
and blended learning in higher 
education. This event is part of 
International Education Week 
2018. Lunch will be provided. 
The event is free and open to 
the public. To RSVP, email 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com. 
For more information, email 
mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.HIGH  84° LOW  64°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 34
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
JOB RECRUITMENT 
EVENT
NOV . 13, 9am - 5pm
Best Western Gateway Grand
4200 NW 97th Blvd.  
Gainesville, FL 32606Managers will be on site to 
conduct on the spot interviews
NOW HIRING
• Nurses
    -CNA, LPN, CMA
• Financial Services  
Representatives
• Patient Advocates
• Finance Clerks
• Marketing & Outreach  
Positions
• Medical Providers
• Dental Assistants
• Pharmacy T echniciansQuestions? Contact:
Jessica Bongiavonni HR Recruiter
HR@palmsmg.org
For these positions and others, save time by
applying in advance at www.palmsmg.org
Click on the “Careers” tab and “Apply Online” .Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe cuts a ribbon at a ceremony commemorating 
the completion of improvements to Southwest Sixth Street. He is joined by city 
commissioners and members of the planning team.
A RIBBON-CUTTING 
CEREMONY WAS HELD 
THURSDAY.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Southwest Sixth Street de-
buted its makeover Thursday 
afternoon after a year of con-
struction.  
The $3.3 million project 
updated drainage, improved 
landscaping and added new 
trafﬁ  c signals, a pedestrian 
bridge and a roundabout on 
Southwest Fourth Avenue, 
said city of Gainesville spokes-
person Chip Skinner. 
“The roadway was in need 
of rehabilitation,” Skinner said.The project began last No-
vember because the pavement 
on the road was cracking and 
in need of improved concrete 
and drainage. 
Road redevelopments came 
from a public-private part-
nership between the city of 
Gainesville and Trimark Prop-
erties. The project adheres 
to the Complete Streets and 
Vision Zero concepts, which 
strive for increased safety for 
pedestrians, bicyclists, motor-
ists and any sort of transit rid-
ers, Skinner said.
The road remodel is a 
positive addition to the com-
munity, said Adam Husein, a 
19-year-old UF aerospace engi-
neering sophomore. Although he does not own a car, all his 
friends complain about the 
badly timed trafﬁ  c lights and 
how the roads are poorly taken 
care of.
“The city is growing pretty 
rapidly, but the infrastructure 
has been a bit behind,” Husein 
said. “I think they’re making a 
good effort to catch that up.”
People don’t realize the 
amount of work that goes into 
a project such as this one, said 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe.
“This is just another 
great example of how much 
Gainesville is changing, grow-
ing and improving,” he said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgCity of Gainesville ﬁ  nishes redevelopment of Southwest Sixth Street
HIS BOND IS SET AT $1,350,000.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities charged a second man with at-
tempted murder Tuesday in connection to the 
shooting of a 14-year-old girl.
Nathaniel Williams III, 26, of Gainesville, 
was accused of shooting the girl Oct. 20 at 
Southwest 69th Terrace, according to an 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce sworn com-
plaint. She was taken to UF Health Shands 
Pediatric ER with three gunshot wounds and 
survived her injuries. 
Deputies charged Patrick Laverne Marks, 47, of Gainesville, 
with attempted murder two days after the shooting. A warrant 
for Williams’ arrest was ﬁ  led the same day, according to court 
records. 
Neighbors broke up a ﬁ  ght between the girl, Marks and an 
unnamed boy at the intersection of Southwest 19th Court and 
Southwest 69th Terrace, deputies said. The boy and Marks left 
in a red Mustang.
About 15 minutes later, Williams and Marks got out of the 
car on Southwest 19th Court when they saw the girl and two 
others. A boy was in the car at the time, deputies said. 
Williams and Marks pointed guns at the group, deputies 
said. Williams yelled, “If you run, I’ll shoot you.” 
He shot the girl twice in the left arm and once in the abdo-
men, deputies said. 
Williams was charged with attempted murder, possessing a 
weapon as a felon and aggravated assault. He is being held in 
jail in lieu of a $1,350,000 bond.
@LysKRamosSecond man charged 
for shooting girl
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
UF political science professor Beth 
Rosenson analyzed the results of the 
2018 midterm election, including the 
odds for possible recounts. Editor’s note: 
This Q&A has been edited for length and 
clarity. 
Q: What were your predictions for 
the gubernatorial and Senate races? 
Did you expect them to be this close?
A: I was a little bit surprised. I 
thought Andrew Gillum would win, al-
though it is worth noting that all of the 
polls put him ahead within the margin 
of error. It seemed like Gillum had tre-
mendous momentum and DeSantis was 
sort of chugging along more silently. 
Based on what I saw in the media, like 
a lot of people, (we) had a false sense 
of where the momentum was. Like ev-
eryone else, I’m trying to understand 
why DeSantis won when a lot of people 
thought Gillum was gonna win. I didn’t 
look extensively at all the data, but I did 
note that Polk County, which is a white 
county that largely votes Republican, 
voter turnout was, I believe, 70 percent. 
It’s tremendously high. As far as the 
Senate race, that one didn’t have any 
clear prediction. 
Q: What are the odds that Nelson 
can beat Scott?
A: It’s certainly possible. If you’re talking about 10, 20, 30 thousand votes, 
anything is possible. If you’re talking 
about a county like Broward County 
that leans Democratic, I think it’s cer-
tainly possible.
Q: Why were so many of the races 
on the ballot so close this year?
A: We have a very polarized coun-
try in terms of partisanship and Florida 
reﬂ  ects that. You have a pretty stark 
choice. You had a very progressive 
Democratic candidate, you had a con-
servative Republican candidate who 
was tied very closely to Trump. And in 
some ways, it was deﬁ  nitely a referen-
dum on Trump. He did win the state of 
Florida, but it was fairly close. 
Q: Gillum conceded, but that’s not 
legally binding. So if there’s a gov-
ernor recount, what would happen?
A: If there’s a recount, and he can 
ask for a recount, I don’t think by virtue 
of giving a concession speech does he 
give up his right to a recount.
Q: What does a Democratic House 
and Republican Senate mean for the 
future of politics? 
A: At the most simple level it means 
more gridlock. It’s going to be harder to 
get things done. They may try to work 
together over party lines, but obviously, 
it’s gonna be hard to get things done. 
I’d say that a lot of policies are gonna 
crawl, and it just means the status quo. 
Even with a uniﬁ  ed government, the president may pass an executive order 
as a way to get around Congress. As far 
as the implications of the Democratic 
House, it’s likely that they’re gonna do 
more investigations on the president. 
Q: Incumbents Ted Yoho, Keith 
Perry and Chuck Clemons were re-
elected. What does this mean?
A: You have to keep in mind, if you 
look on a map, Gainesville is a little 
blue island within a much redder sea. 
Ted Yoho’s district includes districts 
that are reliably Republican. It’s not re-
ally surprising that he won reelection in 
the overall congressional district. That 
being said, Keith Perry, who also rep-
resents a conservative district, he did 
face a tough challenge. It shows that’s 
it’s possible for Democrats — it’s a little 
more effort, and maybe in the future, 
they could win the state. 
Q: What does this midterm elec-
tion tell us about the future of Flori-
da politics?
A: Florida is in ﬂ  ux and it’s up for 
grabs. You can’t take anything for grant-
ed. If you look at how close the Senate 
and the House races were, it could have 
gone either way and it can still go ei-
ther way. It shows how important voter 
turnout is. Whether you’re a Democrat 
or Republican, it shows your vote mat-
ters. If it’s so close, everybody’s vote 
can tip the scale one way or another. 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgThe election is over. Now what? 
Williams 
A UF professor breaks the results down.4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
HOW THE RECOUNTING PROCESS WORKS: 
1. The unofﬁ  cial results from each county are due to the state 
elections ofﬁ  ce by noon Saturday.
2. Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner must order a machine 
recount of a race with a margin of less than 0.5 percent. 
3. If the recount is ordered, the second round of unofﬁ  cial results 
from each county are due to the state elections ofﬁ  ce by 3 p.m. 
Thursday.
4. County canvassing boards are in charge of testing the voting 
machines and reporting any technical problems to the Department 
of State within 11 days. 
5. The vote is accurate if the numbers match. The results are ofﬁ  cial 
if the margin is larger than 0.25 percent. 
6. The state certiﬁ  es ofﬁ  cial results from the counties on Nov. 20.
Information according to the Miami Herald.A statement from Gillum for Gov-
ernor communications director Jo-
hanna Cervone said there are more 
uncounted ballots than originally 
reported.
Awbrey drove to Tallahassee to 
watch the live election results with 
her former student. The next day, 
she felt disappointed as she drove 
back to Gainesville, the city where 
she ﬁ  rst met Gillum.
They met in the parking lot of 
Gainesville High School in 1994, 
she said. He had moved from Miami 
only two years before.
He spoke with the energy of a 
14-year-old. But he had the vision 
of a person much older, she said. 
Awbrey, 64, overheard Gillum 
talking to other freshmen at orienta-
tion. He expressed his excitement to 
work with all types of people. 
“I thought, ‘Wow. This kid is 14, 15 years old and he’s talking like 
this,” she said. 
Awbrey watched Gillum’s enthu-
siasm become contagious among 
the freshmen, she said. If she didn’t 
overhear them, Awbrey may have 
never encouraged him to run for 
student senate. 
Gillum’s high school friend De-
jeon Cain, 34, said Gillum and best 
friend Christopher Chestnut were 
“ﬁ  reballs” at their school. When 
Gillum’s name appeared under the 
yearbook’s homecoming pageant, 
student government and 10th-grade 
club photos, Chestnut’s followed.
Cain learned more than 20 years 
ago that Gillum had a charismatic 
way with words. 
“We always knew that he was 
going to take us all somewhere,” 
Cain said. “He just would come up 
with stuff that no one else would.”
Awbrey remembered one of 
these feats — he worked tirelessly to provide free tickets to the junior 
prom.
“His four years in student gov-
ernment at Gainesville High School 
and the opportunity given him, he 
took it and ran with it,” Awbrey 
said. “I don’t know that would’ve 
happened at a school that’s four 
times as big, say, in Miami.” 
Cynthia Chestnut, a former 
member of the House of Represen-
tatives District 23, said Gillum and 
her son would share ideas about 
student government and Advanced 
Placement classes while eating pep-
peroni pizza, their favorite food.
“The two of them were not in-
volved in sports at all,” Cynthia 
Chestnut said, “and the other stu-
dents sort of looked up to them and 
respected them for being in student 
government.”
Gillum and Christopher Chestnut 
were the only two African Ameri-
cans in AP classes then, Cynthia Chestnut said. Christopher Chestnut 
served as the student body presi-
dent while Gillum was the senior 
class president. 
Cynthia Chestnut said she 
doesn’t consider herself a mentor of 
Gillum because he was already at-
tuned to politics.  
“I was just a mother talking to 
one of her son’s best friends,” she 
said. 
The two later ran Chestnut’s un-
successful senate campaign where 
Chestnut said her son and Gillum 
were able to cut their teeth on poli-
tics. 
Cynthia Chestnut said she was 
surprised by Tuesday night’s initial 
outcome, but after spending all day 
Wednesday preparing provisional 
ballots, she has not lost any faith. 
“I know people voted, and they 
voted for Andrew Gillum,” Cynthia 
Chestnut said. “And we just have to 
prove it.”
On Oct. 26, Gillum returned to 
Gainesville one last time before 
Election Day. With megaphone in hand, he looked out at more than 
200 students and Gainesville resi-
dents chanting “Bring it home.”
As a high schooler, Gillum and 
his friends bowled in the Reitz, he 
said in an interview in October. 
They spent Saturdays at the Oaks 
Mall food court, even though he 
said he didn’t have money to shop.
He said he hopes he inspires 
young people who come from a 
humble background like his.
“My very political career to this 
moment was launched by young 
people getting involved and being 
engaged in a process when people 
counted us out,” Gillum said.
Tuesday morning, Awbrey real-
ized that Gillum is now 39, the age 
she was when they met. 
When Awbrey looks at him, 
she sees the Tallahassee mayor, 
a Florida A&M University student 
government president and the same 
14-year old from the parking lot, all 
at once.
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.orgGILLUM,  from pg. 1He was voted best personality by peers.
from each county are submitted to 
the state elections ofﬁ  ce, according 
to the Miami Herald. These unof-
ﬁ  cial results are due by noon Sat-
urday. 
Florida Secretary of State Ken 
Detzner is required to order a ma-
chine recount if the margin in a 
statewide race is less than 0.5 per-
cent, according to the Herald. If 
the recount is ordered, the second 
round of unofﬁ  cial results must be 
submitted to the state elections of-
ﬁ  ce by 3 p.m. Thursday. 
“Every vote must be counted - and, counted accurately,” tweeted 
the Bill Nelson campaign. 
In the meantime, those who 
want to help the volunteers re-
counting ballots can send pizza, 
said Megan Newsome, a 22-year-
old co-plaintiff on the lawsuit to 
allow early voting on college cam-
puses in Florida.
Newsome, who is on the mail-
ing list for the Alachua County Su-
pervisor of Elections, received an 
email asking for volunteers to help 
with the recount effort Thursday, 
she said. 
But Newsome cannot volunteer 
for the 12-hour shift, she said.  “I think it’s really understated 
how important this is,” Newsome 
said. “We don’t really take into ac-
count how strenuous this is for ev-
ery local supervisor of elections.” 
The people who do volunteer 
will be under strict scrutiny when 
deciding what is considered a ﬁ  lled 
in bubble or a matching signature, 
Newsome said. She suggested for 
people who cannot volunteer to 
send a pizza to those working to 
check ballots. 
“Just the little things can really 
add to morale,” Newsome said. 
 
@gilliangsweeneyRECOUNT,  from pg. 1Gov. Rick Scott iled two lawsuits.Courtesy to The Alligator
Gillum’s peers voted him “best personality” for the senior class superlatives. His high school friend Dejeon 
Cain said Gillum was known around the school as a “go-getter. ”
Courtesy to The Alligator
Andrew Gillum attended Gainesville High School from 1994 to 
1998. Some of his roles included sophomore class president, 
senior class president and student body vice president. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
WANTEDAdvertising 
Interns
Must be currently enrolled at the  
University of Florida or Santa Fe College5. Hands On Training1. Internship Credit Hours Earn
3. Ability to become a Sales Representative2. Valuable T eam work and client relations learned
4. Build Your Resume
Contact the intern coordinator at intern@alligator.org
DONATIONS CAN BE 
CASH OR CHECK.
By Gabrielle Seminara
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dozens of candles will light up a yoga 
class tonight as a local organization raises 
money for Tallahassee shooting victims.
Yogaloka, a nonproﬁ  t that offers classes 
to marginalized communities, is hosting a community yoga class from 5:30-6:30 p.m. 
at the Thelma A. Boltin Center, at 516 NE 
Second Ave., said Liz Getman, the program 
director. 
The class comes a week after a man 
shot six people in the Hot Yoga Tallahassee 
studio, killing two and himself, according 
to the New York Times. 
The candles are more than just a light 
source, Getman said. 
“They are a gesture of offering light and being light in a time when we feel really 
dark and really heavy,” she said.
Entrance is $3 for students, $1 for adults 
older than 50, free for city employees and 
$5 for anyone else, Getman said. 
The organization is accepting donations 
for Hot Yoga Tallahassee, which will either 
be sent to the studio by check or through 
its GoFundMe campaign, Getman said. 
Getman said the class is an opportunity 
for the community to practice “ahimsa,” or nonviolence.
“This is a way for people to feel con-
nected and remember there’s still hope out 
there,” she said.
Taelor Hartley, a 21-year-old UF ele-
mentary education senior, said she started 
practicing yoga last summer. She plans to 
attend the class to honor the shooting vic-
tims. 
“I feel like it’s the opposite of violence,” 
she said. Candlelit yoga class to raise money for Tallahassee shooting victims
Brianna Monroe / Alligator Staff
24-year-old Billy Moody gives a Gator Chomp during his walk at the  Fourth 
Annual “Run With The Cops” walk located at the Santa Fe track. This was 
Moody’s second time attending the walk, and he was accompanied by 
fellow members of the “Life Transition Skills” organization. 
Brianna Monroe / Alligator Staff
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book participates in the Fourth Annual “Run With The Cops” walk 
at the Santa Fe track. He is joined by fellow ofﬁ  cers, Gainesville locals, students and various 
organization members.
Students run with Santa Fe copsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Standing in a Walmart aisle, two walls of brightly colored con-
fections ﬁ  ll your peripheral vision and stretch into the horizon. 
They tower on either immediate side of you, but narrow as they 
converge and disappear at a point in the center of your vision. It 
was as if a sea of snack food had been divinely parted, allowing 
you to walk into the promised land. Paradise. Rold Gold; Chee-
tos, both Flamin’ Hot and regular; Smartfood popcorn; and all 
ﬂ  avors of Lays leap out at you as you wheel your cart down the 
middle of the path, suspended magnetically between either side 
like a Japanese bullet train. After only a few minutes, you have 
picked a rainbow of colors and your cart looks like a junk food 
bouquet.
But wait, aren’t you going home in a few weeks to have an 
actual Thanksgiving meal? You compromise with a small bag of 
baby carrots and head for checkout.
Something still feels off. Looking at your cart, you have a 
change of heart. You remove the bag of carrots and chuck it hap-
hazardly among the beef jerky in the checkout line. You can’t 
wait to get home and rip into a big bag of…
Darts & Laurels
An initial dart to temptation.
We all do things that are unhealthy for us, but we often make 
the right moral choices too. On Tuesday, Florida voters approved 
Amendment 4, which restored voting rights to more than 1.2 
million people. Overnight. That number is large enough to sway 
Florida’s characteristically close elections. In this governor’s race, 
the current margin between the winner, Ron DeSantis, and the 
loser, Andrew Gillum, was a mere 36,000 votes as of Thursday 
night. That is less than half a percent of all votes cast. The race for 
U.S. Senate between Bill Nelson and Rick Scott, with votes still 
being counted, is even closer — just 15,000 votes determine the 
winner. That’s close enough to trigger a mandatory vote recount, 
which will likely happen given the number of election mishaps, 
including a ballot design in Broward County that almost caused 
voters to miss the selection for the Senate race.
A laurel to voters all across the state, who supported Amend-
ment 4’s passage by a large margin. A special laurel to voters in 
Miami, Orlando and Tampa where margins in favor of Amend-
ment 4 were nearly two to one, according to the Tampa Bay 
Times.
Amendment 4’s passing was a long time coming. Florida 
started disenfranchising felons as far back as the 1868 election, 
when black Floridians ﬁ  rst exercised their right to vote. The ﬁ  rst 
anti-felon voting laws were racially targeted. The legislature acted 
in an undoubtedly morally wrong direction — an ultimate, life-
altering, cruel, inhumane form of chucking the baby carrots. A 
dart to the systematic disenfranchisement of the Reconstruction-
era South.
Martin Luther King said, “The arc of the moral universe is 
long, but it bends towards justice.” We hope it bends further and 
faster. And when it does not bend fast enough, we must hammer 
it into a curve beﬁ  tting our own moral character through vote 
and protest.
Speaking of protest, thousands of them are taking place all 
over the country in response to President Donald Trump’s oust-
ing of U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Trump, after months 
of belittling, insulting and criticizing Sessions, ﬁ  nally worked up 
the political courage to ask him to resign. His replacement, Mat-
thew Whitaker, has publicly praised Trump and vocally criticized 
the investigation of special counsel Robert Mueller. He is widely 
believed to be a Trump ally and some fear he may defund Muel-
ler’s investigation into the Russia scandal — the same scandal 
that Sessions recused himself of and immediately thereafter lost 
the trust of the president. Trump has indicated that he wants his 
chief legal ofﬁ  cers to protect him politically.
If this upsets you, don’t just vote. It’s too late for that. The 
next national election isn’t for another two years. Go out and 
practice corporeal politics. Protest. It’s the one way you can show 
we are not a nation that indulges in junk food decisions forever. 
SG stole the credit for on campus early voting
While we’re still ﬁ  guring out who actu-
ally won some of the recent elections, 
let’s talk about some less-than-honest 
Student Government politicians who 
tried to claim credit for making early 
voting on campus happen.
Back in 2014, Florida’s Secretary of State Ken 
Detzner barred college campuses from being used 
as early voting sites. His opinion was speciﬁ  c to 
the Reitz Union but further excluded all campus 
options across the state. This meant the choices 
were to either pass a law explicitly allowing col-
lege campuses as early voting sites or to challenge the ruling.
Time to meet the players: There’s Chomp the Vote, SG’s 
voting-related agency; and External Affairs, SG’s lobbying 
agency. 
Outside of SG, there’s the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service, which, among other awesome things, supports sev-
eral student groups such as the UF chapter of the Andrew 
Goodman Foundation’s Vote Everywhere Ambassadors. 
So here’s what I know, based off emails, public records 
requested and a pre-owned ouija board I bought off Craig-
slist: To my knowledge, SG had been trying for several years 
to enact change in the state legislature to little avail. 
This year, they just went ahead and tried to set up an 
early voting site at the University Women’s Club clubhouse 
on Woodlawn Drive. Honestly, I had no idea what the Wom-
en’s Club was and where it was located until I Googled it, so 
perhaps it wasn’t the best location for an early voting site. 
Chomp the Vote started the effort around the end of May and 
was shot down by the University Athletic Association (which 
owns the building) on June 13.
Around the same time, External Affairs was talking to lo-
cal entities about the possibility of having an early voting 
location at UF. I think its perspective on the matter can be 
summed up by a single line I cherry-picked from one of its 
emails that read, “I do not believe an early voting location on 
UF for this election cycle will be possible.”
While all this was going on, a lawsuit against the secre-
tary of state was in progress to challenge the state’s interpre-tation of the law. The plaintiffs were the League 
of Women Voters of Florida, the Andrew Good-
man Foundation, several UF students (including 
two Vote Everywhere Ambassadors) and one 
FSU student.
We all know how the lawsuit turned out, but 
was SG involved? One email by Chomp the Vote 
mentions “a lawsuit against the state of Florida 
from the League of Women Voters,” but adds 
that “(we are not a part of that).”
Chomp the Vote moved on, trying (and fail-
ing) to get SNAP vans to shuttle students to the 
polls. As I mentioned last week, they also tried and failed 
to change RTS bus routes to help students get to the polls. 
“Huge accomplishment to helping Gators have their voices 
heard during Early Voting by rerouting a RTS bus” wrote the 
Student Body president, unaware that the motion before the 
city commission that passed was simply to consider the idea.
So, were there shuttles or RTS buses to help students get 
to the polls during the primary? Nah. What about during 
election day? Nope. Real good lobbying there, SG.
When the day came that the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections Facebook page posted a graphic denoting the 
Reitz Union as an early voting site, out came the partisan 
credit-gobbling. The Student Body president credited SG. The 
heads of Chomp the Vote and External Affairs were tagged in 
congratulatory Facebook posts, raising a lot of eyebrows by 
those who knew what actually happened. I don’t think SG 
did anything to deserve the slightest bit of credit for making 
the Reitz an early voting location.
So was the credit-claiming dishonesty or simply incom-
petence? Maybe somewhere in between. Members of SG are 
generally clueless as to what’s going on, so maybe they just 
thought, “Wow, this good thing happened, so it was prob-
ably us.” Those who were in the know probably weren’t 
principled enough to make note that early voting at the Reitz 
really wasn’t thanks to SG, and I think that’s a crying shame.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Mur-
phree Area Senator. His column appears on Fridays.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7 It came to my attention not too long ago 
that social media was changing who I 
was, distorting my personality and al-
tering the nucleus of my values. It has 
been discussed in detail how social me-
dia places a focus on trivial validation and 
lavishes trivial accomplishments and tasks 
with unearned praise. However, this is not 
the danger that I’m writing about. These 
problems are well-documented, if not well 
dealt with. But the reliance on nostalgia that 
certain social media platforms like Snapchat 
and Facebook induce upon their users is 
much more subtle. In my opinion, it is much 
more dangerous. 
Two weeks ago, I was scrolling through 
Facebook, the holy land of cat pictures and 
stale memes that your mom and friends’ 
parents are just now discovering. I was di-
rected to a vacation of mine from three years 
ago. The next day, a field trip I attended four 
years ago popped up. The day after, on Snap-
chat, a birthday party I went to last year hit 
me. These memories resurface daily, even 
up to the time I wrote this article. I suspect 
that it will continue indefinitely now that 
I am aware of the phenomenon. I realized 
that my attention was being diverted from the distractions of today with 
the distractions of years past, 
which is like forgetting to take 
out the trash from this week be-
cause the trash from last week 
smells bad. I understand that 
I am more or less lampooning 
nostalgia, which I believe there 
is good reason for, but that does 
not mean that reminiscing is in-
herently destructive. In modera-
tion, looking back on the good times can lead 
you to greener pastures and reflecting on 
your past failures can be a strong preventa-
tive measure against future blunders. Cough 
syrup is great in moderation, but if you in-
gest too much of that stuff, you’ll die.
Nostalgia in the form of social media 
memories is dangerous because the social 
media platforms are designed to make par-
ticipants feel as if they are doing something 
of value, even when they are usually doing 
nothing of the sort. Social interaction from 
behind an iPhone screen is already painfully 
diluted, and yet these apps take this a step 
further and remove the interpersonal aspect 
by simply forcing a person to communicate 
with themselves from a year or two or three years ago. The worst part is that 
we fall for it. The focus shifts, 
and in a lot of cases we allow 
ourselves to be enveloped by 
the funny costume we wore two 
Halloweens ago or the wonder-
ful partner we spent Thanksgiv-
ing with last year who won’t be 
at the table this time around. 
Instead of moving forward and 
allotting our precious mental 
capital toward our goals, our dreams, even 
our immediate needs, we instead dwell on 
old stories or chapters in our lives that are 
long since resolved. 
The other danger of social media in this 
case is the obvious addiction it is associated 
with. It is not a well-kept secret that social 
media operates like the online version of 
cheap crack that you can download from the 
App Store, and the incorporation of nostalgia 
into their platforms has mutated into an ad-
dictive substance. This phenomenon is not 
surprising, but it is extremely dangerous as 
all of the negative effects of focusing on the 
past begin to take a stronger hold over a per-
son’s life the more time that nostalgia eats 
out of their day. At this point in the process, Snapchat memories date back about three 
years and Facebook much longer. It is be-
coming the case for many people, including 
myself, that every single day a new flood 
of nostalgia from a different period of life 
comes rolling in. It is like an unconquerable 
hurricane that grows the longer it exists.
Now, as mentioned, I do feel like there is 
a place in life for looking back as long as it 
can be achieved in a healthy way. The key 
is not letting your memories inhibit your ac-
tion, and because of this, I think the way 
Instagram and Twitter are organized seems 
to be a better format. On these platforms, 
as opposed to Facebook and Snapchat, your 
memories are there when you wish to see 
them and aren’t annually force-fed to you 
like a fruitcake that your weird aunt made 
“with love” on Thanksgiving. As the holiday 
season now takes hold and the amount of 
posts to look back on begins to rise with our 
weights, it is important to remember to be 
responsible with your nostalgia for your own 
sake, even if Snapchat or Facebook would 
have it differently.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English and his-
tory freshman. His column appears on Fridays.Nostalgia in the digital age will keep us addicted to the pastColumn
Finsta. Translation: 
fake Instagram, a 
recent invention 
brought to you by 
none other than mil-
lennials.  If you haven’t 
heard of it, you are probably 
too mature to worry yourself 
with such trivial endeavors. 
Its purpose is to show a side 
of the user that would never 
be acceptable on “real” Instagram. 
Finsta accounts are a place where us-
ers cry over their woes and blab about 
all the crazy things in their lives, a vir-
tual diary so to speak, with about 40 of 
someone’s closest friends in on it. This 
computer-generated safe space acts as 
an escape from trying to post a perfect, 
iconic, never-been-done-before picture. 
Only people the user trusts are allowed 
access to it and “snakes” are either not 
granted access or blocked completely. 
This concept of online self-expres-
sion keeps us sane. Followers get an 
inside ride through whatever hardships 
or exciting events are going on and ac-
count holders receive some sort of en-
dorphin release from sharing their daily 
secrets. The stress release effects of fin-
sta make it a useful tool in one’s self-
care toolbox, but it does make me won-
der if there is something problematic in 
hiding ourselves from the masses. 
There are two sides to people: The 
one they show on Instagram and the 
one they show on their finsta. This 
dual identity may seem like a nonis-
sue, but there is something to be said 
about holding back self-expression for 
the sake of avoiding judgment. 
People often won’t post a certain picture they like because 
“it's not good enough for 
Instagram.” A large gap ex-
ists between what people 
are comfortable posting on 
their finsta and what they 
will post for their other In-
stagram. When it comes to 
“real” Instagram, users limit 
themselves to the small in-
stances when their lives 
look picture perfect. 
Someone’s “real” Instagram account 
arguably isn’t even real. Most of the 
time the pictures fit a formula in an 
attempt to make the algorithm favor 
them. The caption doesn’t usually re-
veal the same amount of authenticity as 
finsta's do, and there is rarely any great 
revelation of self-expression. There’s 
nothing wrong with trying to get a lot 
of likes — as long as it’s not at an emo-
tional cost. If you’re stressing about the 
aesthetic of your feed and feel like your 
finsta is the only place you can be your-
self, it may be time to reevaluate how 
social media affects you. 
Maybe it is time to forget the likes 
and the algorithm and post what we are 
feeling. Try posting a picture you tradi-
tionally wouldn’t post because it wasn’t 
good enough. If you post so often that 
your brain waves have basically con-
nected to the Instagram main server, 
try not posting as often and see how it 
makes you feel.
Who knows, maybe deviating from 
our “real” Instagram is the road to more 
likes. 
Jackie De Freitas is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Fridays.Rise of finsta: Why do we hide 
our true selves on social media?Column
The gender wage gap that ex-
ists in the United States is 
not a secret. It has become 
common knowledge that 
women don’t make as much 
money as men do, even when they 
are doing the same work. Women 
earn, on average, only 80.5 cents 
for every dollar their male counter-
parts earn, according to Business 
Insider. The median annual income 
for women is also $10,086 less than the aver-
age for men. 
As if these numbers aren’t upsetting 
enough, let’s not forget that these disparities 
exist more than 50 years after the Equal Pay 
Act was passed. You know, the piece of legis-
lation that was supposed to prohibit discrimi-
nation on account of sex?
Unfortunately, sex discrimination against 
women in the workforce doesn’t stop there. 
Society’s patriarchal impulse to pay women 
less money than men goes beyond just un-
equal paychecks for the same job. This phe-
nomenon has actually started to impact the 
salaries of entire industries.
Research has shown that when women 
take over fields once dominated by men, the 
pay for that entire field declines. In fact, the 
difference between the pay offered in indus-
tries dominated by men and the pay in those 
led by women has become the single largest 
cause of the gender pay gap. This phenom-
enon can be cited as the reason for more than 
half of the instances of wage inequality be-
tween genders.
Since women started entering the work-
force in high numbers, pay has declined in 
the industries they flocked to. According to 
research from Stanford University and the 
University of Pennsylvania, between the 
years 1950 and 2000 drastic changes in medi-
an pay were seen in occupations that became dominated by women. During this 
time, the pay for designers dropped 
by 34 percent. Pay for recreational 
workers decreased by 57 percent. 
Housekeepers saw their wages fall 
by 21 percent and pay for biologists 
dropped a whopping 118 percent. 
All of these fields saw a shift from 
male to female domination. These 
declines are each taking into ac-
count the change in the value of the 
dollar.
This imbalance also often exists between 
jobs that are virtually the same, save for the 
majority gender of those who hold positions 
in the field. For example, janitors, a job usu-
ally held by men, make about 22 percent 
more than maids or house cleaners, which 
are jobs typically held by women.
The reason for this gross imbalance isn’t 
that women are less educated — in fact, 
women are actually now more educated 
than men on average. The problem isn’t that 
women are less skilled than men or that they 
have a poor work ethic. The issue isn’t that 
women are too concerned with raising a fam-
ily or unwilling to demand the wages they 
deserve. The obstacle facing women is a lack 
of respect.
Women and their work are not respect-
ed. The idea that the feminization of jobs is 
linked to a decrease in pay for that entire field 
is proof of this sexist practice. When a job is 
viewed as something that even a woman can 
do, it loses value and respect in the profes-
sional world. This is a societal construct we 
need to defeat, and it is something that must 
change if America ever wants to see an equal 
society.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism and 
political science senior. Her column appears 
on Fridays.The sexism diaries: Feminization of jobs 
means lower pay for the entire fieldColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
24 hours inside UF’s only 24-hour library: 
Live-tweeting 
the experience Library WestStory by Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Hour 1 
Katherine Davis
Home-
town:  
St.Cloud, Flor-
ida
Katherine 
Davis sat in 
Library West 
full from the 
chocolate pudding cookies. She 
was still celebrating her birth-
day.
In Davis’ 23 years, she said 
she learned about hard work 
from when she swam competi-
tively in high school. The long 
hours in the pool prepared her 
for the time she commits to 
studying.
“Don’t just be focused on 
something that’s happening to-
morrow or the next day,” Da-
vis, a UF chemical engineering 
senior, said. “Focus on what’s 
going to be happening in the fu-
ture.” 
Hour 2 
Teddy Steelman
Hometown: Kansas City, 
Missouri 
The scariest part of Teddy 
Steelman’s week was already 
over. 
Steelman, a 19-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance sophomore, said his 
Monday evening management 
exam should be a breeze com-
pared to his weekend, because 
he jumped out of a plane Satur-
day morning.
Steelman said he questioned 
his safety on the plane because 
its doors were surrounded by 
industrial tape. Steelman looked 
down at the ﬁ  eld the Gator foot-
ball team would play on for the 
Florida-Georgia game when he 
ﬂ  ew over Jacksonville. 
Steelman dangled his feet in 
terror. Then he jumped. 
“I’m never going to do that 
again,” Steelman said. “That’s 
what I learned.”
Hour 3 
Joel Mathias
Home-
town: Mum-
bai, India
Joel Math-
ias rarely gets 
to watch all of 
the DVDs he 
rents.
But he said he still stops by 
the library to rent movies about 
every three weeks.
“I used to like literature,” 
Mathias. A 30-year-old UF sec-ond year electrical engineering 
Ph.D. student said. “While do-
ing engineering, I didn’t have 
time to go through big novels.”   
Mathias said his favorite 
ﬁ  lms are “Seventh Samurai” and 
“Red Beard” — both from Japa-
nese Director Akira Kurosawa.
“He’s got some deep insights 
into the human psyche,” Math-
ias said. “He’s got a very bril-
liant sense of movement of peo-
ple and cinematography.”  
Hour 4
Marian Mikhael
Hometown: Redington 
Beach, Florida
Marian Mikhael wants to be 
a doctor, but ﬁ  rst, she has to 
study. 
She ﬂ  ipped through the red 
pages of her Smokin’ Notes 
packet, studying for the Biology 
1 exam she would sit through 
Oct. 31. 
Her mother is a doctor in un-
derserved clinics, Mickhael said. 
She’s inspired her mom because 
she helps people who can’t al-
ways afford to take care of them-
selves.   
“This is going to sound too 
cheesy, but I really love help-
ing people and medicine is so 
interesting to me,” Mikhael, an 
18-year-old UF microbiology 
freshman said. 
Hour 5
Claisha  
Pruitt
Home-
town: Lake-
land, Florida
Claisha  
Pruitt wants 
to use nutri-
tion to teach 
others to thrive mentally, spiri-
tually and physically.
“I’ve seen in my own family 
how if they simply change their 
diet they can get rid of a lot of 
diseases and health complica-
tions,” Pruitt said.
Pruitt, an 18-year-old UF nu-
tritional science freshman, said 
her mother has high blood pres-
sure and anemia and she wants 
to work in health care to help 
people like her mother. 
“I’ve seen in my own family 
how if they simply change their 
diet they can get rid of a lot of 
diseases and health complica-
tions,” Pruitt said.
Hour 6
Group project time - Preview 
in Urban and Regional Planning
Gillian Sweeney - Alligator 
Staff WriterWaking up early on the 
morning of Oct. 28 was no ac-
cident. The plan was entirely 
premeditated. 
I had slept off the Florida-
Georgia Gator loss, only to book 
a study room for my unsuspect-
ing group project members to 
share. 
Then, I waited for Monday.  
I hiked the stairs from ﬂ  oor 
two to ﬂ  oor four to meet with 
my ﬁ  ve-member group. We had 
been working on a presentation 
on downtown Gainesville.
They had no idea that I was 
on the sixth hour of my 24-hour 
stay in Library West.
When I told them, they just 
stared. 
“But why?” said Eduardo Vil-
lamor, a 19-year-old UF architec-
ture sophomore.
Me: *shrug*.
Hour 7 
Kendal  
Bottini
Home-
town: Tampa, 
Florida
Kendal  
Bottini spent 
the afternoon 
transforming a red sweatshirt 
and blue pants from the Good-
Will into a Spiderman costume. 
“It’s a really dorky looking 
one,” Bottini said laughing. 
Bottini’s inspiration for the 
Halloween costume came from 
his interest in the Marvel Uni-
verse, he said. He began watch-
ing Marvel movies since he ﬁ  rst 
saw “Iron Man” in 2008. 
“It’s pretty much a part of 
popular culture now,” Bottini, 
an 18-year-old UF linguistics and 
sociology freshman said. “It’s 
easy common ground to ﬁ  nd be-
cause it’s so popular.”  
Hour 8 
Caroline Zapert 
Hometown: Tallahassee, 
Florida
Stone Posley
Hometown: Sanford, Florida
Stone Posley walked into the 
library with a bag of Chick-Fil-A.
He said he looked for an open 
seat and someone with open 
ears. Caroline Zapert was sitting 
at a table for four when Posley 
decided to sit across from her. 
“I’m approachable,” Zap-
ert, a 19-year-old UF psychol-
ogy and Portuguese sophomore 
said. “I don’t think of myself as 
an intimidating person by any 
means.” Posley, a UF 18-year-old 
health science freshman, held 
nothing back and the two talked 
about responsibility. 
“Raise your children right,” 
Posley said. “If you have a girl, 
no matter gay, straight or bi, 
raise her to be tasteful, calm cool 
and collected.”
Hour 9 
Brianna  
Steidle 
Home-
town: Jupiter, 
Florida
Hours be-
fore walking 
into Library 
West, Brianna Steidle was shoul-
der-to-shoulder with other mem-
bers of the Jewish community 
on Turlington Plaza.  
She reﬂ  ected in the wake of 
the mass shooting in the Tree 
of Life Synagogue, Steidle, a 
19-year-old UF psychology and 
English sophomore, said.
“People just like me aren’t 
aspiring for a future; they’re not 
thinking ahead,” Steidle said. 
“They’re frozen in this moment 
of terror, and 11 people didn’t 
ever leave that moment.” 
Steidel said it was a relief to 
come together. 
“Every time something like 
this happens I feel that our soci-
ety, or at least individuals with-
in it, inch closer to progress, or 
inch closer to a day where this 
wouldn’t happen,” Steidle said.  
“After this shooting, it felt like it 
is my time to make that step.”  
Hour 10
Adam Pimentel 
Hometown: Miami, Florida
Adam Pimentel was building 
a computer.
He stood at a second-ﬂ  oor 
desktop computer, clicking 
away as he designed a case on 
a program to hold his computer, 
he said. 
Pimentel, an 18-year-old UF 
computer engineering freshman, 
said he plans to 3D print the 
case at Marston Science Library. 
The case will be like a ﬁ  sh tank 
that holds the computer parts. 
Pimentel also built a comput-
er over the summer but left it for 
for his younger brother.
“It’s cheaper,” Pimentel said. 
Hour 11 
Cara Panarisi
Hometown: Boynton Beach, 
Florida
Cara Panarisi became a psy-
cology major because she ﬁ  nds The Alligator sent a reporter into Library W est for a whole 24 hours to ask: 
“Why are you here?” Here’s what 24 people had to say.
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Happy Monday! The time 
now is 10:30 a.m. I am pass-
ing through the revolving 
door of Library West. I will 
be staying in the building for 
the next 24 hours. Wild. Fol-
low along as I live tweet my 
adventure and write about it 
for @TheAlligator
Yes, I brought a toothbrush.
I have convinced the mem-
bers of my group project to 
meet in Library West. They 
have no idea what I am up to. 
Let it be known that I am 
here on my own free will. My 
group project mates ques-
tioned this a few moments 
ago. 
I am also thriving and about 
to go get my ﬁ  rst cup of cof-
fee for the day!
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeneyDavis
Mathias
Pruitt
Bottini
Steidle
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
people fascinat-
ing.
The 18-year-
old UF psychol-
ogy freshman 
hopes to study 
abnormal psy-
chology, which 
focuses on 
mental illness. 
The name illustrates the stigma 
individuals with mental health 
problems face, Panarisi said. Peo-
ple may be more inclined to help 
if they took the time to learn about 
mental illness.
“People are afraid of the things 
they don’t understand,” Panarisi 
said. 
Hour 12
Dakota Holder
Hometown: Tallahassee, Flor-
ida
A sunﬂ  ower tattoo was healing 
below a peeling layer of skin that 
on Dakota Holder’s forearm.
It’s the third tattoo in Holders’ 
collection. The 18-year-old UF ex-
ploratory freshman said she added 
it Oct. 20. 
The decision to get another 
tattoo was somewhat impulsive, 
Holder said. She chose the design 
to remind her of the overwhelm-
ing happiness she felt in her ﬁ  rst 
semester of college.
“For me, each tattoo has their 
own independent story,” she said.
Hour 13
Stephen Fitzmeyer 
Hometown: Boston, Massachu-
setts 
Biking through Boston is what 
Beantown native Stephen Fitz-
meyer misses about home.
Fitzmeyer, a 20-year-old UF 
electrical engineering junior, 
said he purchased a bike when 
he ﬁ  rst got to Gainesville. It was 
the cheapest one he could ﬁ  nd at 
Walmart. 
In a year, the bike became en-
crusted with rust, Fitzmeyer said. 
It’s no longer useful, so he got rid 
of it. 
Today, Fitzmeyer wants UF to 
have a better bike share program. 
He said he has tried Gainesville’s 
program, but the locations are 
not convenient for his commute 
around campus. 
“Programs remove the barrier 
to entry,” he said. “It removes the 
responsibility of taking care of a 
bike.” 
Hour 14
Karolyn Hernandez
Hometown: Miami, Florida
Gabriela Perez
Hometown: Toa Alta, Puerto 
Rico
Valaria Delahoz
Hometown: Davie, Florida
Gabriela Perez went to the li-
brary to study, but her friends had 
other plans. 
Valaria Delehoz and Karolyn 
Hernandez sat across from Perez, 
an 18-year-old UF international 
studies freshman, at the table they 
shared.Delehoz, a 21-year-old UF psy-
chology and criminology senior, 
was deciding on a Halloween cos-
tume, ultimately settling on the 
“Sweatshirt Ear Kid” from Vine. 
All she needed was a pair of shorts 
and a hoodie. 
Hernandez, a 19-year-old UF 
psychology senior, said she had 
homework and played fetch with 
her four month old yorkie and bi-
chon frise mix, Dale, before leav-
ing for the library.
“He can do no wrong,” Her-
nandez said. “He is the love of my 
life.” 
Hour 15
Alexander  
Chain
Hometown: 
Fort Myers, 
Florida
Alexander 
Chain found a 
passion in law 
when his childhood friend went to 
prison for a crime he didn’t com-
mit four months ago. 
Since then, Chain said he be-
came fascinated with the structur-
al inequities that exist the U.S. He 
aspires to become an academic or 
lawyer after he graduates. 
But for now, he spends late 
nights in the library studying for 
his Mass Media Law class. Study-
ing isn’t a chore, Chain, a 21-year-
old UF political science senior, 
said. It’s how he will afﬁ  rm his 
future.
If Chain becomes a lawyer, his 
friend’s story will affect his prac-
tice.
“I think it’s a way I can effectu-
ate change,” Chain said.
 
Hour 16
Jamila Cooper
Hometown: Miami Gardens, 
Florida 
Jamila Cooper was ready to 
leave Gainesville for the sake of 
her stomach.
“I want food, real food. I want 
ethnic food,” Cooper, a 19-year-
old UF nursing freshman, said. 
“I want seafood. I want Haitian 
food.”
Cooper took an over eight hour 
long Greyhound ride Nov. 1 just to 
get eat her father’s Hatian cooking.
“I need a break from the 
Gainesville,” Cooper said. 
Hour 17
Molly Con-
way 
Hometown: 
Lakeland, Flor-
ida
Molly Con-
way started rid-
ing a skateboard 
two weeks ago when her bike got 
stolen. 
Conway, a 19-year-old UF biol-
ogy and anthropology sophomore, 
said her dad sent her a new skate-
board in the mail. 
“I’m not really the most coordi-
nated person in the world,” Con-
way said. 
Since getting her new board, 
gravity has been her teacher.
So far, she has knocked into “nature, buildings and people.” 
“The body count has gone up,” 
she said. 
Hour 18
Saúl Correa 
Hometown: Boynton Beach, 
Florida
Saúl Correa likes to make jew-
elery when he isn’t working the 
night shift at Starbucks. 
He stocks the shelves and 
cleans the counters of Starbucks 
when business is slow, Correa, a 
24-year-old Starbucks supervisor 
and UF linguistics alumnus, said. 
The job also allows him to make 
drinks. 
“I’ve always liked making 
stuff,” Correa said. “That was part 
of the appeal of this job.”
Correa said he recently ﬁ  nished 
making a silver banded ring with 
a rainbow moonstone as part of 
a seven session leisure course in 
jewelry making at the Arts & Crafts 
Center in the Reitz Union.
“I’m kind of a perfectionist,” 
Correa said. 
Hour 19
Oscar Gonzales
Hometown: Orlando, Florida
Aldrin Gaffud
Hometown: Coral Springs, 
Florida
Aldrin Gaffud is still washing 
puke out of his denim shirt. 
He ﬁ  nally found time to go out 
dancing with his friends over the 
weekend when he felt liquid ﬂ  ow 
down his back, Gaffud said. He 
realized it was a stranger’s vomit 
who had just bumped into him 
when he took a whiff. 
“I was like ‘Hey, call an 
Uber ‘cause I’m done,’” Gaffud, 
20-year-old UF civil engineering 
junior, said.
Gaffud’s friend Oscar Gonza-
les, an 18-year-old UF marketing 
freshman, laughed at his friend’s 
misfortune from across the library 
table.
“Eww,” Gonzales said.
Hour 20 
Beth Osbaldeston
Hometown: Defuniak Springs, 
Florida
Beth Osbaldeston is not one for 
dancing, but she spent her Satur-
day dancing in silence. 
Osbaldeston and three of her 
friends participated in a silent dis-
co in Jacksonville, Florida, during 
the Florida-Georgia game. 
Osbaldeston, a 22-year-old li-
brary desk circulation assistant 
and UF anthropology alumna, said 
she danced the night away with 
headphones on. 
“People were in the zone lis-
tening to music,” Osbaldeston 
said. “I felt like people were a lot 
more open dancing with the head-
phones.” 
Hour 21
Audrey Long
Hometown: Dallas, Texas
Audrey Long returned to the li-
brary at 6:15 a.m. after she left at 
midnight.Long, a 19-year-old UF biology 
sophomore, studied for her exam 
in behavioral neuroscience. 
Her schedule is packed with 
labs and classes from 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m. on Mondays, so it is difﬁ  cult 
to ﬁ  nd time to study.
“One thing I hate about college 
is there is never an ending point,” 
Long said. “In high school I would 
never be in the library at 6 a.m.”
Hour 22
Liliam Clavijm
Hometown: Tampa, Florida
Liliam Clavijm wants more stu-
dents to vote. 
“You don’t have to be a politi-
cal science major, you don’t have 
to keep up with politics,” the 
20-year-old UF political science 
sophomore said. “You just really 
should vote.” 
Clavijm said if more young 
people were to vote, then there 
would be more representatives in 
government discussing the issues 
they care about.
“You can’t complain about 
the current political system if you 
don’t have a stake in it,” she said.
Hour 23
Kendra Blandon
Hometown: Weston, Florida
Kendra  
Blandon spent 
her weekend 
with old friends. 
Blandon, a 
20-year-old UF 
religion and 
international 
studies junior, 
said she returned to her high 
school’s Florida Blue Key debate 
tournament to see old teachers 
and to cheer on students from her 
high school. 
“I teared up a couple times 
because I remember being on the 
stage myself,” Blandon said.
Blandon said she developed 
conﬁ  dence in competing.
“It was really beautiful to see 
so many high school students 
giving performances and talking 
about important issues,” Blandon 
said. 
Hour 24
April Hines
Hometown: Naples, Florida
April Hines is a librarian who 
often ﬁ  nds herself working outside 
of the library.
“Fake news has been re-
ally good for business,” Hines, a 
36-year-old UF journalism almuna  
and UF Journalism and Mass Com-
munications librarian said. 
Hines said librarians have al-
ways been aware unreliable sourc-
es exist, which is why they teach 
students to choose high-quality 
sources.
“With Facebook and the elec-
tions, the rest of the world realized 
that there is a problem,” Hines 
said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Time to eat
The chattering noise of ice in 
my thermos is enough to both-
er people on the fourth ﬂ  oor
Second mug of iced coffee. 
Why drink hot bean juice 
when the cold version is far 
more refreshing?
While on this adventure, I 
have written all my notes 
with scented pens. My favor-
ite scent is sparkly raspberry. 
Runner up: purple doughnut 
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
Gillian Sweeney
@gilliangsweeney
I left
T o read the rest 
of Gillian’s tweets 
from her 24 hours 
in Library West, go 
to twitter.com/gil-
liangsweeney.Blandon
Conway
Panarisi
Chain
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
RESEARCHERS LOOKED AT 
MORE THAN 4,000 PAPERS 
ON PERFECTIONISM.
By Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers found perfec-
tionism in the workplace can be 
dangerous.
After about two years, 10,000 hours of staring at a computer 
screen and many gallons of coffee, 
Brian Swider, an assistant professor 
in the UF management department 
within the Warrington College of 
Business, and his team completed 
their research on perfectionism in 
October.
Swider worked with researchers 
from Miami University in Ohio and 
doctoral students from the Georgia Institute of Technology.
They read through about 4,000 
papers that talked about perfec-
tionism and then narrowed them 
down to 95 studies that discussed 
conscientiousness, emotional sta-
bility and motivation, Swider said.
“We have robust evidence that 
levels of perfectionism are increas-
ing,” he said. “Perfectionism is 
thought to be helpful in the work-place, but we don’t see results of 
that at all.”
The results of the study sug-
gested that while perfectionism is 
related to higher levels of motiva-
tion and engagement, its negative 
connection to mental well-being is 
more serious, Swider said.
Researchers were shocked to 
learn perfectionism has no effect 
on a person’s success in the work-force but is a detriment to an em-
ployee’s mental health, said Dana 
Harari, a doctoral student from the 
Georgia Institute of Technology.
The results from this research 
can help managers promote healthy 
work habits, Harari said.
“Perfectionists don’t enjoy their 
achievements but focus on what 
they haven’t achieved, and this is 
problematic,” she said.Are you a perfectionist? It turns out it could harm you
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents can 
buy YETI cups, Patagonia 
jackets and southern-themed 
clothes in one spot for the 
ﬁ  rst time starting this month. 
Palmetto Moon, a South-
ern retail chain, will host 
a pop-up shop during the 
Chomp the Block party at 
Celebration Pointe, at 3528 
SW 45th St., outside the 
store’s location, from 4-10 
p.m. today leading up to its 
grand opening next Friday. 
It is meant to give every 
one a preview of the store, which will sell clothing from 
brands like Southern Marsh 
and Vineyard Vines, said 
spokesperson Cori Kallen-
bach. Shoppers can buy Ga-
tor-themed clothes and enter 
to win giveaways at the pop-
up shop.
“Palmetto Moon is re-
ally excited to open a store in 
Gainesville because they felt 
a really strong sense of com-
munity here and knew the 
store would ﬁ  t right in,” Kal-
lenbach said.
The store will have a soft 
opening from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Thursday during the Gator 
Talk radio show event at Celebration Pointe. The ﬁ  rst 
250 customers to spend $25 
or more will get a free 20 oz. 
YETI tumbler. 
Michelle Blake, who has 
lived in Gainesville the ma-
jority of her life, has never 
been to a Palmetto Moon. 
The 29-year-old said she is 
dying to get a fuzzy ﬂ  eece 
from the Columbia section.
Blake and her best friend 
are going to the pop-up and 
grand opening. 
“Now me and my friends 
can go as much as we want,” 
she said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgPalmetto Moon store opens
HE WAS LAST SEEN 
RUNNING TOWARD 
CHECKERS.
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police are 
looking for a man suspected 
of stealing a backpack near 
campus Thursday evening.
A man was walking out-
side of Flashbacks Recycled 
Fashions, at 818 W. Universi-
ty Ave., when a man walked 
up to him and grabbed his 
backpack, said GPD Lt. Steve 
Bradford.The contents of the back-
pack are unknown, Bradford 
said. 
The suspect is a 6-foot-tall 
man wearing a tank top and 
light blue or teal shoes, ac-
cording to a UF Alert emailed 
to students at about 6:40 p.m. 
He was last seen running 
west toward Checkers.
Police dogs struggled to 
track the man’s scent because 
it was raining, Bradford said.
Roi Coward, a Flashbacks 
employee, said the robbery 
did not happen inside the 
store, but he did see police 
cars nearby.
The investigation is on-going and police will check 
cameras to help identify the 
suspect, Bradford said.
The last time UF Public 
Safety alerted students about 
a nearby crime was when a 
man in a Spider-Man cos-
tume burglarized a home on 
Halloween, according to a UF 
Public Safety email. The sus-
pect was never found.
Police are asking anyone 
with information about the 
robbery to call UPD at 352-
392-1111 or the GPD at 352-
393-7500.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgGainesville Police looking for man BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $804/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Better Grades in Half the Time!
www.makethegrade.xyz
11-19-18-4-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N      11-9-1-10
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church 
need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, 
windows? Big Sales on new cushioned pews 
and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.
pews1.com      11-9-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
1/1 in 2/2 duplex. Pool, gym, on 3 bus routes. 
2 miles to Shands or Butler Pl. Grad stud. 
pref. M/F. All inclusive. $600 per month & 
$300 security. Avail 08/20. eaglimo@gmail.     
11-14-2-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
Walk to The Swamp! Beautifully updated 
5 bedroom/ 2 bath home, located 7 blocks 
from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Huge floor -
plan, central A/C, wood floors, ceiling fans, 
washer and dryer, dishwasher, microwave. 
Private backyard. 1815 NW 7th Ave. $2350. 
Shown by appointment only. (352) 256-2574    
11-14-4-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from 
contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who re -
sponds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or 
investing money.Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
Chef/Cook – To begin 11/12/18
1 person kitchen/ you must be able to order 
food in quantities needed, plan menus, pre -
pare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch 
for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen 
from A to Z. Need to have positive attitude, 
imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flex -
ible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and 
test is needed. Background check, alcohol, 
drug, health checks will be run. Email re -
sume or letter as to experience with salary 
history. No salary history = no call back. NO 
PHONE CALLS. fratmgmt@gmail.com    11-
9-18-4-14
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
Apply Within
11-16-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-1413 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      11-9-1-15
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Bonnie L. Gentry and Victor Fleming
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/09/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/09/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 9, 2018
ACROSS
1 Bad cut
5 And
9 __ Ababa
14 Natural skin 
soother
15 Good earth
16 Datum in a 
forensic database
17 Impediment
19 Neighborhood 
gathering
20 Outcasts
21 Boiling point?
22 “No seats” sign
23 Score after deuce
25 Beach application
28 Billion-dollar 
pharmaceuticals
34 More than 
suspect
36 Early 
20th-century 
touring cars
37 Part of a joke
38 Lingering effect
39 Not as dotty
41 Colorado tributary
42 Massey of old 
films
44 Thoroughbred’s 
dad
45 “Git!”
46 One with a lot to 
learn, perhaps
49 Obstruction
50 Pushed the 
doorbell
51 Night school subj.
53 Scandinavian bar 
exchange
57 Corrode
61 Local anesthesia 
effect
62 Device with 
pulleys
64 Words in some 
English resort 
town names
65 Major fit
66 First name in 
homespun humor
67 Word aptly 
represented 
by four black 
squares in this 
puzzle
68 Watched carefully
69 Exchange jabs
DOWN
1 [You can’t mean 
that!]
2 Wasatch 
Mountains resort3 __ grapes
4 Some Chrysler 
engines
5 Around-the-clock
6 Half a Daily 
Planet byline
7 __ Antonio
8 Texting 
interjection
9 Tacks on
10 “Phooey!”
11 __-cheap
12 Like some JFK 
flights
13 Lid issue
18 Verbal jab
21 Cassis apéritif
23 Penitent
24 Mirage site
25 Knitter’s coil
26 Family reunion 
attendee
27 At all
29 A pass may 
cover one
30 Brief rules?
31 City in New 
York’s Mohawk 
Valley
32 Stalin-era prison
33 Dramatic 
outpouring
35 Policy __
40 Readied, as 
leftovers43 Puncture 
consequence
47 Court figures, for 
short
48 Ensenada 
pronoun
52 Velcro 
alternative
53 Nose-in-the-air 
sort
54 __ Ration
55 Guesstimate 
phrase56 With, on le menu
57 Do landscaping 
work
58 Dr. Johnny 
Fever’s fictional 
station
59 Soprano Gluck
60 Sommelier’s 
concern
62 “__ you out of 
your mind?”
63 “All opposed” 
reply
1.  On the water
1.  ____ wool5.  Board ____
2.  Hobbling 6.  Arctic abode
3.  Vindicate7.  Concurred 
4.  ____ milkFAATOL
ROAANGMSGAE
OLOIG
INGIPLM
VSOLEBAGEDEAR
OLAMDNANSWERS: 1A-Afloat  5A-Games  6A-Igloo  7A-Agreed
1D-Angora  2D-Limping  3D-Absolve  4D-Almond  B-Mongolia11-7-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is the second-largest landlocked 
country in the world.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida set for second exhibition game
The Gators' baseball team will square off against Santa Fe College today at 
3:30 p.m. at McKethan Stadium. The teams will play two seperate seven-
inning games with a 15-minute break in between each. Admission is free to 
the public. Senior Caitlin McQuilkin-Bell will 
lead the Gators' men's and women's 
cross country teams into competition 
today during the NCAA South Region 
Championships. FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
It’ll take some adjustments.
Few things have gone right for the No. 15 
Florida Gators the past two weeks, but little 
hope has been lost as they prepare to host Will 
Muschamp and the South Carolina Gamecocks 
Saturday at noon. 
It seemed the possibility of competing for an 
SEC East title was within the Gators’ grasp early 
this season, but a two-game collapse has all but 
eliminated them from contention.
The road forward in Dan Mullen’s ﬁ  rst sea-
son as head coach should get easier from here, 
though. Florida is favored in each of its ﬁ  nal 
three matchups, including a home game against 
Idaho and a regular-season ﬁ  nale against an er-
ratic Florida State program. 
But that success will take some adjustments.
They’ll need to adjust their mentality.
Redshirt senior R.J. Raymond was tired of 
fading into the background and silently hoping 
others would follow his example.
So he stood in front of his defeated team-
mates after their loss to Missouri and challenged 
them to play with a renewed mindset. 
“You gotta play for that Gator logo on your 
chest and not just going out there after we’ve 
been eliminated from SEC Championship race,” 
Raymond said. “You gotta play for so much 
more. You gotta play for yourself, you gotta 
play to win the game, you gotta play for every-
body else that’s been on this team before…play 
with pride.”
The Gamecocks sure will. Their hopes of 
making it to Atlanta to compete for the league title are long gone as they have the same 4-3 
conference record as the Gators.
But South Carolina will do everything in its 
power to avoid being knocked out of bowl eligi-
bility by a conference rival and its head coach’s 
former team.
“Y’all know (Coach Will Muschamp), you 
know (Muschamp’s) defense,” Gators center 
Nick Buchanan said. “They’re always good. He’s going to try to come after us.”
So Florida will need to adjust its offensive 
approach.
Two things have followed Muschamp 
through his coaching career: his defenses and 
his intensity.
The Muschamp blitz could doom a Feleipe Gators at crossroads near end of season
Jake’s on a Plane / Column
It wouldn’t take a genius to 
ﬁ  gure out what the ﬁ  rst question 
any Florida football beat reporter 
would ask head coach Dan Mullen 
throughout the week.
What’s the plan at quarterback 
going forward? Does Kyle Trask 
have a legitimate shot at getting 
his ﬁ  rst ever start this week?
Mullen, in his usual style, made 
a face then gave the most generic 
answer that solved absolutely 
nothing and deﬂ  ected blame on 
the team as a whole.
“I said we weren’t moving 
the ball well as a whole offense,” 
Mullen said. “There were a lot of 
problems beside the quarterback.”
Anyone with two eyes could 
see that the Gators needed a 
change at quarterback. Florida is 
well out of contention for the Col-
lege Football Playoff, let alone the 
SEC Championship. So a change would have been a 
nice way to salvage 
fan support for the 
season, at least for 
those who have al-
ready given up on 
incumbent Feleipe 
Franks. 
So the media, my-
self included, tried to 
play the situation as 
another battle with four games 
left on the schedule. Heck, I even 
asked center Nick Buchanan what 
both Franks’ and Trask’s strengths 
were. 
In the end, though, we were 
trying to alter reality like Thanos 
does with the reality stone.
We were trying to make some-
thing out of nothing.
I’ll be blunt. Trask was never 
going to start over Franks this sea-
son.Mullen implied 
that from the begin-
ning of the week. 
“Same as it’s been 
all year. We’ll see,” 
he said. “We’ll see 
how they perform this 
week. If there’s a dras-
tic change, we’ll make 
a change. If not, we’ll 
play with who’s going 
to give us the best chance to win.”
Trask then got hurt at practice 
on Wednesday, solidifying Franks 
as the starter for the remainder of 
the season.
I feel for the guy. He could 
have ended up seeing substantial 
playing time this year if Franks 
continued his downward spiral 
into mediocrity. Trask would have 
had a huge opportunity to prove 
he could be the guy next year if he 
played well in practice. We’ll never know. 
It’s almost as if destiny wants 
Trask to remain a backup. He was 
one at Manvel High School, play-
ing behind current Houston quar-
terback D’Eriq King. And he’s still 
one at UF. 
I have a feeling he will remain 
that way as well.
Like I said, we will never 
know.
But it doesn’t matter. 
Franks would have been the 
guy anyway, and now without 
any competition, he will remain 
Mullen’s quarterback going for-
ward. 
Jake Dreilinger is the assistant 
sports editor at the Alligator. Fol-
low him on Twitter @Dreilinger-
Jake and contact him at jdreil-
inger@alligator.org.Trask’s injury is sad, but he was never going to start
Jake 
Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJakeSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16Picks Column 
Week 11
Staff Report
Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.
Yes, it’s the equivalent of Alabama 
playing anybody this week here at The 
Alligator: a slow death pocked with 
pain and embarrassment. Writers are 
falling asleep in their chairs. Editors 
are whining about late games. Every-
thing is awful. 
Fortunately for us and Gator Nation, 
a noon kickoff against South Carolina 
means we all get to go home to our 
warm cans of beer and take sad-naps. 
Before we meet our bedraggled 
competitors, we’ve got an all-editor 
debate between the hotly contested 
matchup between Appalachian State 
and Texas State. Sports editor Morgan 
McMullen and assistant sports editor 
Jake Dreilinger take sides in this… we 
guess it’s a game?
Texas State (+21.5) will win be-
cause…
Let me start by saying Texas State 
will not win this football game. So the 
previous statement is misleading.
Instead, I will say without a doubt 
that the Bobcats will easily cover the 
spread. I mean, how can they not.
TSU is hot off a two-game winning 
streak, signaling the end of it’s losing 
ways. Especially with quarterback Wil-
lie Jones III at the helm, replacing Ty-
ler Vitt under center.
Jones has been about as hot as they 
come. Against Georgia State, he com-
pleted 21 of his 26 passes, good for 325 
yards and two touchdowns. The week 
before against New Mexico State, he 
threw for two touchdowns. 
Jones is also a dual-threat quar-
terback, leading the team in rushing 
yards at 391 with three touchdowns.
Clearly, I’m on the Willie Jones III 
hype-train, and the Bobcats will ride 
that train while covering the spread 
against the much better Appalachian 
State.PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 12 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN/ 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Tight end R.J. Raymond said he eschewed his usual quiet tendencies after Saturday's 
38-17 loss to Missouri. "You gotta play for so much more, " he said. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
MEN’S BASKETBALL
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Some things are best left in 
the past.
Florida’s 81-60 loss to in-
state rival FSU Tuesday night 
is no exception. The 21-point 
margin of victory made the 
game look more competitive 
than it actually was, as UF 
trailed by as much as 30 late 
in the second half.
But the rigorous nature of 
the Gators’ non-conference 
schedule leaves the team little 
time to dwell on the embar-
rassment brought on at the 
hands of the Seminoles. Flor-
ida has two tune-up games 
against mid-major opponents 
before traveling to Paradise 
Island, Bahamas, for the Bat-
tle 4 Atlantis over Thanksgiv-
ing week, where it could po-
tentially face No. 5 Virginia.
Here are a few key areas 
to keep an eye on when the 
Gators take on Charleston 
Southern at the O’Connell 
Center tonight at 7.Ball movement
Florida (0-1) struggled to 
create space against FSU. The 
Gators only had nine assists 
as a team. Four of those came 
from true freshman point 
guard Andrew Nembhard, 
who got the starting nod over 
sophomore Mike Okauru. 
Only one other UF player, se-
nior guard KeVaughn Allen, 
recorded multiple assists (2). 
“I’d like to see much bet-
ter shot selection,” he said. “I 
would like to see much bet-
ter connectivity amongst our 
players.”
Allen has shown moments 
of greatness while wearing 
a Gators uniform but has 
a tendency to fade into the 
background. This was on full 
display against FSU when he 
was held scoreless. 
That wasn’t entirely on 
him, though, and coach Mike 
White said as much.
“He didn’t get many open 
looks, and we’ve got to try to What to watch for in the Gators’ home opener against CSU
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Freshman guard Andrew Nembhard shot 50 percent from the field (4-of-8) in Tuesday’s 81-60 loss to FSU. 
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
The Gators’ recent quarterback con-
troversy might have been solved prema-
turely. 
Redshirt sophomore Kyle Trask went 
down in practice Wednesday with a non-
contact injury, according to a report by 
247Sports. The report said Trask was 
carted off the practice field with an in-
jury to his lower body. 
Trask injured himself while practic-
ing a trick play, according to a Facebook 
post from his father, Michael. The post 
said Kyle “felt a pop” when he planted 
his foot trying to catch a pass from a run-ning back.
Trask became the center of a recent 
quarterback controversy after relieving 
starter Feleipe Franks with five min-
utes remaining in the third quarter of 
Florida’s 38-17 loss to Missouri on Sat-
urday. Trask ended the day 10-of-18 for 
126 yards and a touchdown pass to Josh 
Hammond. Franks finished the game 
9-of-22 for 84 yards and a rushing touch-
down. 
The team has yet to issue a statement 
on the alleged injury. Team officials 
have not yet responded to requests for 
comment from The Alligator.
The team released its official depth 
chart ahead of Saturday’s matchup with South Carolina with Franks in as the No. 
1 quarterback. 
Coach Dan Mullen was noncommit-
tal on a starter moving forward as of 
Monday, though he seemed to lean in 
Franks’ favor.
“Honestly, I think they graded within 
one point of each other,” Mullen said at 
his Monday press conference. “…Feleipe 
probably has a little stronger arm, prob-
ably a little more athletic. Trask might 
be a little more physical when he runs 
the ball.”
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgReport: Trask out with non-contact injuryTENNIS
By Brendan Farrell and Kyle Wood
Sports Writers
Ida Jarlskog was outgunned on paper en-
tering the match. She was taking on the sin-
gles draw’s top-seeded player in Vanderbilt’s 
Fernanda Contreras. The Swede immediately 
looked out of sorts after losing the first set 
1-6. 
Jarlskog, however, turned the match 
from a potential blowout to a chess match. 
Contreras took Jarlskog’s queen in the very 
beginning; Jarlskog would do the same with 
her 6-0 sweep of the second set.
The stalemate was finally decided in Con-
treras’ favor as she won three of the last 
four games to move on to the round of 16 
in a hard-fought, back-and-forth 6-1, 0-6, 6-4 
match. McCartney Kessler also lost on Thursday, 
and the Gators were eliminated from the 
singles draw of the 2018 ITA Fall National 
Championships in Surprise, Arizona.
Kessler met No. 18 Kate Fahey of Michi-
gan in the round of 16. Fahey dominated the 
match from the very beginning, sweeping 
the first set and winning the second set 6-3 
to put Kessler away.
The other half of the Gators’ women’s 
tennis team will be competing in the Florida 
State All-Conference Showdown this week-
end.
“We were playing catch-up for too long in 
those matches and it’s super difficult to beat 
players of that caliber that way,” coach Ro-
land Thornqvist said in a release. “Clearly, 
both players have the talent required to com-
pete for titles like this and with a little more experience, I think we have a chance to play 
on the last day.”
Men’s doubles team advances
Brian Berdusco and Johannes Ingildsen 
are heading to the quarterfinals in the dou-
bles main draw at the National Fall Cham-
pionships in Surprise, Arizona. The Gators 
duo defeated Florida State’s Alex Knaff and 
Sebastian Arcila in three sets 6-1, 3-6, 1-0 in 
the second round.
Brian Berdusco and Johannes Ingildsen 
took down South Alabama’s Loic Cloes and 
Clement Marzol in the first round of the dou-
bles draw in three sets 7-6, 3-6, 10-6.
Andy Andrade fell in the second round of 
the singles main draw to bring his week to 
an end. The sophomore was defeated by the 
top overall seed Petros Chrysochos (Wake Forest) in three sets (2-6, 7-5, 3-6). 
Ingildsen came out on top in the first 
round of the consolation bracket, taking 
down Alabama’s Patrick Kaukovalta 6-2, 
7-5. Ingildsen’s next match will be against 
Tanner Smith of USC at 11:30 a.m. today. 
Vale won his first round consolation match 
against Oklahoma’s Van Emburgh by walk-
over and will face Majed Kilani (Tulsa) at 
11:30 a.m. 
“Joe [Johannes Ingildsen] did a nice job 
finishing his singles match today in straight 
sets,” coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. 
“Overall, we are learning with every match.” 
@Bfarrell727 / @Kkylewood
bfarrell@alligator.org / kwood@alligator.orgJarlskog, Kessler both eliminated from ITA Fall NationalsSEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 17
Meme of the Week / River Wells16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Franks-led offense that seemed to disappear with the bye week.
The Gators only converted three of 15 third-down attempts 
last week against the Tigers and four of 12 against Georgia. 
Those woes may not be solved against a Gamecocks defense 
that’s only allowing its opponents to convert on 33% of third 
downs.
They’ll need to adjust their physicality.
Florida’s defense has lost some of the edge that headlined its 
ﬁ  ve-game win streak earlier in the season.
The Gators will face a South Carolina team that hasn’t made 
much noise in the SEC, but if the Gamecocks win the physicality 
battle, they may have just enough pieces to stage an upset on 
Saturday afternoon. 
South Carolina has plenty of experience in skill position play-
ers like redshirt senior Deebo Samuel, who’s No. 4 in the SEC in 
all-purpose yards (855). 
And given they’ll face a veteran quarterback in Jake Bentley, 
who’s sixth in the SEC in total offense, Buchanan knows just 
what the Gators need to do to win.
“Compete,” he said. “Simple as that.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Kickof set for noon
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
"It will be a great challenge for us this week, " coach Dan Mullen said of Saturday's upcoming South Carolina game.
Appalachian State (-21.5) will 
win because...
App State has two losses this sea-
son. One of them was the opening 
weekend against Penn State, where 
the Mountaineers took the Nittany 
Lions to overtime. The other was a 
beating they took when their starting 
quarterback got a concussion on the 
second drive of the game. That quar-
terback, Zac Thomas, will be starting 
against the Bobcats tomorrow. 
Let’s look at common opponents. 
Both App State and Texas State 
have played Louisiana Lafayette and 
Georgia Southern. They both lost to 
GSU, but the big discrepency is in 
their performances against ULL. App 
State mopped up the Ragin’ Cajuns 
by 10. The Bobcats fell by 15. 
Thomas’ return should play a 
huge role in this barnburner, but 
the big hitter for the Mountaineers is 
running back Darrynton Evans, who 
leads the second-best rushing attack 
in the Sun Belt. Two runners — Ev-
ans and senior Jalin Moore — are averaging over six yards per rush. 
Look for them to run all over a hap-
less Texas State team.
Now onto the picks...
In ﬁ  rst place at 42-38 is Alanis 
“Door assassin” Thames, who 
reeeeeeally likes slamming peoples’ 
doors after they give her rides. Ala-
nis, we see two options here. Option 
one: Get your own car so we don’t 
have to drive you out to your seclud-
ed hideout. Option two: Just quit it 
already. Seriously, either works, but 
we assume the cost of the shattered 
windows of your victims will far out-
weigh the cost of a lease.
In a tie for second at 41-39 is 
Gator Country’s Nick “Why do I do 
this” de la Torre. Nick was asked 
by a commenter on Twitter why he 
does halftime Q&A if he only gives 
smart-ass answers. Don’t listen to 
him. Embrace your sarcasm. You’re 
making us all look better. 
Also in second is the Gainesville 
Sun’s Graham “The face of bad 
puns” Hall, who just can’t help 
himself. Graham, you’re a walking source of head-shaking dad jokes. 
We see why your Twitter proﬁ  le pic-
ture is so signiﬁ  cant to you. It’s the 
only time your girlfriend has unironi-
cally laughed at something you said. 
Sitting in fourth with an even 
40-40 record is Morgan “Sleep 
deprived” McMullen, who regu-
larly pulls all-nighters every Tues-
day night working on a paper. It’s 
OK Morgan, we’ve all been there. 
Maybe next week, you’ll be a good 
student for once and actually ﬁ  nish 
the paper before you have to head to 
the library at 3 a.m. Even oldies need 
their beauty sleep.
Coming in at 39-41 and in ﬁ  fth 
place is Jake “What do I tran-
scribe?” Dreilinger, who, much to 
Mark Long’s discontent, can never 
seem to remember what section of 
Mullen’s press conference to tran-
scribe. Jake, it’s clear you’re doing 
this just to piss Mark off, and all we 
can do is applaud you for it. 
In a tie for sixth at 38-42 is Mark 
“What time is class again?” Stine, 
who missed yet another Sports Infor-
mation Management class on Thurs-day. Esterline kept asking about you 
man. We can’t keep telling him it’s 
because you overslept from your 
nights hanging out at the Arcade Bar. 
Eventually, he’ll start thinking it’s 
because of him, and we don’t want 
that now, do we?
Tied with Mark is the Orlando 
Sentinel’s Edgar “Two Bits pur-
ist” Thompson, who was outraged 
that a volleyball made its way into 
the honorary Ms. Two Bits’ routine 
on Saturday. “You’re supposed to 
be paying homage to the original, 
man!” he shouted at nobody in par-ticular when he saw it. The passage 
of time is meaningless to Edgar, 
which is good since he’s deﬁ  nitely 
not getting any younger. 
And ﬁ  nally in dead last at 36-44 
is the AP’s Mark “Podcasts are stu-
pid” Long, who said since everyone 
runs a podcast that they’re below 
him. That’s a nice excuse, Mark. 
But it’s obvious that you just want 
to someone to invite you on their 
podcast. Come on the alligatorSports 
podcast! We can talk about your 
last-place record.PICKS,  from pg. 14
 Alanis (42-38)   Nick (41-39)        Graham (41-39) Morgan (40-40)
SCAR vs. UF (-7)  UF  SCAR  UF  UF
OKST @ OU (-18)  OKST  OU  OU  OU
UM @ GT (-4.5)  GT  UM  UM  GT
TEX @ TTU (+1)  TEX  TEX  TEX  TEX
ORE @ UTAH (-4.5)  UTAH  ORE  ORE  UTAH
VT @ PITT (-4)  PITT  PITT  PITT  VT
OSU @ MSU (+3.5)  OSU  OSU  MSU  OSU
APPST @ TXST (+21.5)  APPST  APPST  APPST  APPST
 Jake (39-41) Mark S. (38-42)        Edgar (38-42) Mark L (36-44)
SCAR vs. UF (-7)  SCAR  UF  SCAR  SCAR
OKST @ OU (-18)  OU  OKST  OU  OKST
UM @ GT (-4.5)  GT  UM  GT  GT
TEX @ TTU (+1)  TTU  TEX  TTU  TTU
ORE @ UTAH (-4.5)  UTAH  UTAH  UTAH  UTAH
VT @ PITT (-4)  VT  VT  VT  PITT
OSU @ MSU (+3.5)  OSU  OSU  OSU  OSU
APPST @ TXST (+21.5)  TXST  TXST  APPST  APPSTFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   
offensive line — present an 
opportunity for the junior 
standout, especially if he 
wants to add to his already 
impressive NFL Draft tape. 
Either decision Polite 
elects to make — whether 
if it’s to shorten his col-
lege career and declare for 
the draft or to stay for his 
senior season — will be an 
understandable choice. 
The scary thing is there’s 
still much room for im-
provement. He’s got the 
ability to beat the oppos-
ing offensive tackle on any 
given play, but his coaches 
think if he can put on more 
muscle, he’ll become more 
durable and able to terror-ize offensive tackles over 
greater stretches. 
But he’s close. And an 
offseason preparing for an-
other SEC gauntlet or the 
NFL Combine should help 
him reach that benchmark. 
“I think one of the big 
steps for him moving for-
ward that we constantly 
talk about is being a three-
down player, not a one-
down player,” Mullen said. 
“I think he’s starting to un-
derstand that. You see him 
work, and I think he takes 
pride in that.” 
 @mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgDan Mullen: ‘You see him work, and I think he takes pride in that.’
FLORIDA offense vs. SOUTH CAROLINA defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
Jordan 
ScarlettRBMartez
IveyLTTyler
JordanLG
Josh
HammondWRFred 
JohnsonRG
Jawaan
T aylorRTC’yontai
LewisTE
Tyrie
ClevelandWR
Van
JeffersonWRT.J.
BrunsonMIKE
Keir
ThomasDT
Javon
KinlawDTAaron
SterlingDE
Keisean
NixonCB
D.J.
WonnumBUCK
Rashad
FentonCBBryson
Allen-WilliamsOLB
Sherrod
GreeneOLBJ.T.
IbeS
Steven
MontacS
FLORIDA defense vs. SOUTH CAROLINA offense
Donell StanleyCJake BentleyQB
Shi SmithWRRico DowdleRB
Kyree
CampbellNT
Trey
Dean IIICB
C.J.
HendersonCB
Jabari
ZunigaDE
Adam
ShulerDT
Chauncey
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR
David
Reese IIMLB
Vosean
JosephMLBJachai 
PoliteBUCK
Donovan
StinerS
Brad 
StewartSZack
BaileyLGDennis
DaleyLTDeebo
SamuelWR
Sadarius
HutchersonRGBlake 
CamperRTKevin
CrosbyTE
Bryan
EdwardsWRhelp him with that,” he said.
No one stood out on the stat sheet for 
Florida. Deaundrae Ballard led the team 
in scoring, coming off the bench with 13 
points.
The Gators never ﬁ  gured out how to get 
open against Florida State’s quick and ag-
gressive defense. UF is extremely reliant on sharpshooting, and getting the ball to 
its playmakers with high-percentage looks 
will be a primary focus as the Gators try to 
bounce back.
Defending CSU’s talented forwards
The Buccaneers (1-0) may be coming off 
a 15-16 season in the generally one-bid Big 
South, but a couple members of the CSU 
frontcourt impressed in the 100-68 season-
opening win against NAIA Columbia Inter-national. 
Forwards Duncan LeXander and Travis 
McConico led Charleston Southern in scor-
ing, notching 17 points each. Both shot on 
the right side of 50 percent, and McConico 
was ﬁ  ve of nine behind the three-point 
line.
Granted, their opponent was picked 
during the preseason to ﬁ  nish second to 
last in the non-NCAA Appalachian Athletic 
Conference. Against FSU on Tuesday, the Seminoles’ 
P.J. Savoy and Trent Forrest scored at 
will against the Gators, combining for 33 
points.
If UF allows similar performances from 
LeXander and McConico, the Bucs could 
hang around longer than the Gainesville 
crowd might hope.
Freshmen Frenzy
White made it very clear in the FSU 
game that he believes his freshmen can be 
difference-makers. Former ﬁ  ve-star recruit 
Nembhard scored 12 points and played 
the most minutes of any Florida player 
(34), while guard Noah Locke and forward 
Keyontae Johnson played 13 minutes and 
15 minutes, respectively.
Disappointing performances from se-
niors like Allen and Kevarrius Hayes could 
boost those minutes, especially in a game 
UF expects to win handily.
White said on Thursday that, outside of 
Hayes, no one stepped up as a leader on 
the court against FSU. He didn’t rule out 
any of the freshmen from taking that role.
“I think it’s possible and probably need-
ed,” he said.
The Gators’ entire starting ﬁ  ve is com-
prised of upperclassmen other than Nemb-
hard, but with Chris Chiozza and Egor Kou-
lechov on the team last year, they weren’t 
needed as leaders. Allen and forward Keith 
Stone have made strides in that role but are 
notoriously quiet.
White said that he doesn’t want to put 
too much on the young players’ plates too 
early. But if those veterans don’t ﬁ  nd their 
voices soon, he may look to the rookies for 
leadership intangibles.
“I think a couple of our freshmen have 
that in them,” White said. “At some point, 
I might come to a decision where we en-
courage that more and more as a staff.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
BASKETBALL,  from pg. 15White on freshman leadership: ‘I think it’s... probably needed.’
Alligator File Photo
Forward Kevarrius Hayes (13) made the only two shots he took in Tuesday night’s loss against FSU. He ﬁ  nished with four points 
and six rebounds in 18 minutes. Coach Mike White said Hayes was one of the only players who led the team that night.
INSIDE
Florida defensive end Jachai Polite has a singular goal in his life. It’s all in 
his Twitter handle.   
ONLINE
Follow along with our weekly picks column and find out who done 
goofed over the past week. 
JACHAI’S THE LIMIT
He’ s soaring up NFL Draft boards. What’ s his ceiling?KICK OFF
Editor: Morgan McMullen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Alligator File Photo
Alligator, Friday, November 9, 2018
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The buzz around Florida football is that 
a first-round pick lives on its defensive 
front, and he wears No. 99. 
Sophomore defensive lineman T.J. Sla-
ton said without a doubt Jachai Polite is 
a first rounder, and sophomore linebacker 
Rayshad Jackson said the Ormond Beach, 
Florida, native is having a “first-round sea-
son.”
He has sacked opposing quarterbacks 
seven times, tied for the nation’s 17th-
largest collection, and he has forced four 
fumbles. Polite registered all of his sacks 
in the five games sandwiched between 
defeats from No. 11 Kentucky and No. 5 
Georgia. He helped propel the Gators to 
wins in those contests, including one over 
then-No. 9 LSU.  
While the motivation to take the head 
off the other team’s quarterback may be 
all a tenacious pass rusher needs, Polite’s 
got much more fueling him. His dream is 
to sign an NFL contract lucrative enough 
so his mother won’t have to work another 
day in her life. 
***Katrina Simmons, 38, works as the 
supervisor of housekeepers at a hotel in 
Daytona Beach. She’s also a licensed hair-
dresser when she’s not working at the 
beachside tourist stay. She styles hair from 
her house, where loyal customers come 
and go almost every night according to her 
younger brother, Lawrence Martin IV, who 
lives in Tampa. He’s Jachai’s uncle, but 
they’re more like brothers. He was 7 years 
old when Katrina had Jachai, the oldest of 
her five children. He also played two sea-
sons at South Florida and a little bit of pro 
ball in the Canadian Football League and 
Arena Football League.
“It’s kind of frustrating for me,” Martin 
said. “When I come home and want to see 
her she’s like, ‘You can come over,’ but 
she’s got people sitting in her house.” 
Simmons is known around the Florida 
football program as the mother of Jachai 
Polite and a soon-to-be retiree. She fre-
quents his games, and it’s safe to say she 
has passed a great work ethic onto Jachai. 
His Twitter handle is @RetireMoms. And 
even though she’s the type of woman who 
loves and wants to work, her son wants to 
make sure she never has to.
“My mom, she’s believed in me since I 
came out of her,” he said.
The 6-foot-2 Polite fills out his mus-
cular frame with a listed weight of 
242 pounds. Some might say 
he’s a little on the lighter 
side for a defensive end. 
But Polite had a produc-
tive offseason consid-
ering he entered UF 
weighing 271 pounds 
and tipped the scales 
at 260 last season. 
That’s a pretty im-
pressive fat-shed for 
a guy who didn’t 
carry around much 
of the squishy 
molecules to be-
gin with.
The junior 
hasn’t just 
shown hard work in the weight room. 
He has translated it to the practice field.
The “Juice Guy” during UF’s first fall 
camp under coach Dan Mullen was award-
ed each day to the player who brought the 
most energy to practice and was unrelent-
ing in his charged-up attitude. Polite won 
this award the most.
Slaton remembered one instance in 
practice where the edge rusher’s always-play-to-the-whistle spirit was exemplified. 
“We was on the far hash, and he was 
on the outside,” Slaton said. “(It was) one 
of the pass plays (where) the quarterback 
rolled all the way out. He chased him all 
the way from the other side of the field and 
made the sack.”
Plays like these are what Polite has be-
come famous for. One in particular against 
Tennessee in 2017 got him national no-
toriety. He caught UT running back John 
Kelly 25 yards up the field after tracking 
him down the sideline. Polite was fooled 
in the backfield by a screen pass, but he 
didn’t let the mistake stop him from mak-
ing the tackle. 
Martin posted a video of the play on 
Twitter with the caption “plays like this is 
why 99 will be playing on Sundays.” Mar-
tin shot the video with his phone while 
watching the game at home. It currently 
has 2.37 million views, and it ruined Twit-
ter for him. 
“I just posted it for, just I was happy he 
was hustling to the ball,” Martin said. “It 
went crazy. I had to cut the notifications 
off my phone.”
First-and-10, 28 yards from the end 
zone. LSU had the ball with a 7-0 lead over 
Florida in The Swamp, and it was driving 
down the field with a boatload of momen-
tum and the opportunity to go up by two 
possessions in the first quarter. 
Florida cornerback CJ Henderson came 
off his position in the secondary to rush Ti-
gers quarterback Joe Burrow as he dropped 
back to pass. Henderson, one of the fastest 
players on the team, blew past the LSU left 
tackle and lifted his head to look at what 
he thought would be a vulnerable Burrow. 
But the quarterback was already smoth-
ered, and the ball was knocked out of his 
grasp.
It only took a couple of steps for Polite 
to beat left guard Adrian Magee. The of-
fensive lineman hopelessly tried to put off 
the quarterback-hungry pass rusher with a 
sideways shove, but the balance and for-
ward momentum of Polite allowed him to 
remain fixed on his trajectory. He left his 
feet, wrapped himself around Burrow like 
a boa constrictor and jarred the ball loose. 
Florida recovered it, and LSU never fully 
regained its confidence. 
Polite did to Henderson something that 
happens a lot on UF defensive plays: he 
beat blitzing defensive backs and lineback-
ers to the quarterback. 
“If you want to get to a sack, you better 
get there faster than him,” safety Donovan 
Stiner said.
Henderson admitted that was the result 
on the sack-fumble against LSU. 
“It could have been my sack,” he said, 
“but I’m not stingy, not selfish. I’m hap-
py.”
Hard work is one quality, but combine 
it with Polite’s insane athletic ability and 
you have something special. It’s hard to 
compare another player to him as a ref-
erence point. He was a basketball player 
before starring on Mainland High School’s football team — the same program that 
produced Pro Bowl defensive lineman 
Leonard Williams. 
He started playing football at 9 years old 
for the Ormond Beach Sandcrabs, a Pop 
Warner team, but he didn’t take football 
all too seriously. He took a couple of years 
off before returning to the sport in eighth 
grade.
Basketball was his first love. He played 
at Mainland with an aggressive style, driv-
ing straight to the hoop and drawing con-
tact rather than settling for jumpers. His 
physical football-self showed up on the 
court.
Polite’s family calls him J.D., stand-
ing for his first and middle name, Jachai 
Da’quan, but he liked to think of it as a ref-
erence to Kevin Durant. He kept his work 
ethic focused on basketball until his junior 
year of high school when he was playing 
anywhere from defensive line to punter to 
quarterback on trick plays. He heaved a 
reverse pass on one for a 15-yard touch-
down.
“It looked like a duck to me in the 
stands,” Martin said, “but he said it was 
a spiral.”
Polite was recruited to Florida by Jim 
McElwain. He had the luxury of surround-
ing himself with top-end talent like Caleb 
Brantley and Taven Bryan, especially be-
cause he started out as an interior defen-
sive lineman. Bryan taught him workouts 
and drills to help his ankle flexibility, and 
Polite credits those exercises for his ability 
to bend underneath and around pass pro-
tectors. 
He’s called a first-round talent because 
of his bend and quickness, and he has 
played with talent of equal caliber. But the 
names some have compared him to are the 
cream of the crop of pass rushers. 
Junior defensive back Chauncey Gard-
ner-Johnson said he has traits similar to 
Von Miller and Khalil Mack. Martin said he 
plays more like Jaguars outside linebacker 
Telvin Smith, though he struggled to find a 
comparable player with the speed and get-
off relative to Polite. When Martin thought 
all the way back to his time as a graduate 
assistant at Syracuse, a freshman player by 
the name of Dwight Freeney came to mind. 
And Mullen knows all about the speed of 
Freeney. He played offensive tackle against 
him during practice drills. 
But if you ask Polite who he compares 
himself to, he’d tell you there’s nobody liv-
ing or dead he can think of. What’s so dif-
ferent about your game, Jachai? 
 “That I’m Jachai,” he said. “And 
just... I don’t know, I think I’m different. I 
know I’m different.”
The future for Polite is unclear but 
bright. His potential is a supernova, daz-
zling scouts yet unpredictable.
Three games and a bowl invitation 
await Polite and his teammates. Who’s to 
say what the ceiling is for his contributions 
over the remainder of the season? Oppo-
nents like Idaho and Florida State — which 
arguably possesses college football’s worst Jachai Polite wants to give his mother an early retirement
•   •   ••   •   •
