We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Welcome to my crib
Greek life gets new multi-million dollar homes, pg. 4
W.W.K.F.D? (What would Kent Fuchs do?)
Fuchs sets off social media frenzy with new ﬁ  rst week challenge,
pg. 5UF FOOTBALL TEAM SHAPES UP AHEAD OF SEASON
Several developments in the past few months — on and off the 
ﬁ  eld — have deﬁ  ned the Gators. Our alligatorSports staff report 
ﬁ  lls you in on what you may have missed over summer., pg 13VOLUME 113 ISSUE 2
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Elizabeth Stout will pick a seat 
away from the door when she 
walks into her ﬁ  rst UF class. 
Unlike her yellow thermos that 
still sits on the desk second from 
the door in her Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School AP Psychol-
ogy class. 
Stout left the cup in Room 1213 
of Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School’s freshman building 
on Valentine’s Day. It has now 
found its place in the background 
of the ongoing investigation  —  
along with forgotten chocolates 
and roses — since that classroom 
door window shattered and one 
of Stout’s classmates became one 
of 17 who died.  
She left other things behind. 
Her mental health, her friends 
and her hobbies — no more 
cheerleading, no more yearbook. 
And she almost left her dream of 
UF behind, a school she’s wanted 
to attend since she was 5, because 
she feared leaving her family. 
“I think about the shooting ev-
ery day.” 
But she realized she needed an 
escape from the town still griev-
ing. 
Stout, 18, is one of 48 now-
UF students who graduated from 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School in June, UF Dean of Stu-
dents Heather White wrote in an 
email. 
She still has four months to 
choose a seat as she eases back 
into the routine with online class-
es for her ﬁ  rst semester in Inno-
vation Academy. 
Two weeks after the shooting, she went back to Stoneman Doug-
las for about a month until she 
decided to ﬁ  nish her classes on-
line. In her bedroom, she doesn’t 
have to worry about the door, but 
she knows she can’t stay conﬁ  ned 
to her comfort zone for her whole college life. 
“I can’t anticipate it. I don’t 
know. I just know I’m not going 
to be near the classroom door.”
Though the idea of returning 
to school scares her, she still has 
a piece of home down the street in Gainesville. Her sister Catherine 
Stout, a UF sustainability studies 
junior, lives nearby and said the 
two have only gotten closer since 
the shooting. 
Catherine Stout said she will 
never forget what it felt like to hug her sister after the shooting, 
both in tears.
“I couldn’t stop telling my 
friends how excited I was to hug 
her and feel her like so many oth-
er families couldn’t,” Catherine 
Stout, 20, said.
Though Elizabeth Stout knows 
things could have been worse for 
her, she’s suffered endlessly as 
a survivor. She left high school 
April 2, shortly before being diag-
nosed with post-traumatic stress 
disorder.
“I couldn’t go back,” Stout 
said. “The school just became 
nothing at all to me. It was not 
my home.”
For a month after the shooting, 
her mother Debby would squeeze 
into her full-sized bed to try and 
calm her. Still, she’d toss and 
turn.
Knowing the survivors would 
likely be struggling, the Counsel-
ing & Wellness Center, Housing 
and Residence Education and the 
Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce discussed 
how to support the survivors, 
White said.
Stout plans to see a counselor 
at the center and will get help 
from the Disability Resource Cen-
ter for her anxiety. 
Before she started at UF, Stout 
sought treatment that induced 
ﬂ  ashbacks. They felt like she was 
back in that orange classroom, 
hearing the gunshots and seeing 
her friends bleeding. She yelled 
for people to help her friends, like 
Carmen Schentrup, one of the 14 
students killed. 
Stout’s boyfriend Garrett 
pleaded with her to look into his 
eyes and touch his curtains to Surviving: An MSD victim works toward recovery at UF  
Mackenzie Behm / Alligator Staff
Elizabeth Stout, a Parkland survivor and UF political science freshman, shows the cap she made for 
her graduation from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Stout says she wants it to honor the 
four seniors who were unable to graduate due to the tragedy: Carmen Schentrup, Nicholas Dworet, 
Meadow Pollack and Joaquin Oliver. 
MORE THAN 200 STUDENTS AT-
TENDED THE REOPENING. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The Reitz Union was ﬂ  ooded with 233 
students practicing ﬁ  rm handshakes and mock interviews Thursday morning.
What might have seemed like a rave be-
tween the upbeat music and free food was 
actually the grand reopening of the Career 
Connections Center, formerly known as 
the Career Resource Center. 
The newly named center threw a “block 
party” to celebrate its $9.6 million facility and 65th anniversary, said Ja’net Glover, 
the senior director for career services at the 
Career Connections Center. 
“We want to make the university com-
munity proud,” she said, “and so we were 
just really excited to be here and celebrate 
today.”
The new space is two stories and double the size of the last location, Glover said. 
It has seven multipurpose rooms for em-
ployment and career opportunities, six 
different collaboration spaces for students 
to interact with their peers and classroom 
technology, such as computers and projec-
tors, for students and faculty to use.Career Resource Center changes name, renovates space
SEE CCC,  PAGE 948 Class of 2018 Marjory Stoneman Douglas graduates now go to UF
SEE PARKLAND,  PAGE 8VOLUME 113 ISSUE 2
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-24232   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarLocal Events / News in Brief
PMNOONAM
HIGH 89°  LOW 73°NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org 
 Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin,  
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editors  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org,   
  Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org ,     
  Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org 
 Sports Editor Morgan McMullen,
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
  Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Wimer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti, gvalenti2@alligator.org
                                                                                        Alain Harb, aharb@alligator.org
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich,   
                                                                                                  Mayla Garcia Herrera, Natasha Colon   
  Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Nordic Miniatures: Now and Then’ 
Roberta Swedien will perform solo 
piano and spoken word tonight at 7 
p.m. at the Thomas Center. The per-
formance is a journey to Norway, 
Sweden, Denmark, Finland and 
Iceland. Five commissioned compos-
ers’ works will also be featured. A 
reception will follow. Tickets can be 
purchased at the door: $15 for adults 
and $10 for kids aged 7-17. Cash, 
credit card or check are all accepted 
payments. 
One Sweet Party GatorNights
Come out and have a sweet night at 
the first GatorNights of Fall with a live performance by comedy hypnotist CJ 
Johnson in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom at 9:30 p.m today. Satisfy 
your sweet tooth with the chocolate 
fountain and candy bar as you make 
your way to ride the Ballistic Swing 
carnival ride and V4 Bungee tram-
poline. Make and take home your 
own do-it-yourself gumball machine, 
donut pillow and sugar scrub to start 
your semester off on a sweet note. 
“Avengers: Infinity War” is playing in 
the Reitz Union Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Card at 
the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” 
in the subject line to pfry@alligator.
org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” submissions 
may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 2
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience 
with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, August 31, from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Contributing Writers, 
Photographers, Videographers, 
Copy Editors, and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetCAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground 
floor, take hallway with 
single door all the way 
down to G207 on the left.Bring your resume, clips and 
questions for staff members!
T oday’s WeatherFRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Laundry?
Solved.
From Tide to Febreze,  
save and shop close to campus.
UF Campus T arget
Just north of campus on 
University and 13th St
4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
Alejandra Nunez thinks of herself 
as a library connoisseur. 
The UF psychology sophomore 
spends her free time hunting for over-
looked libraries with plentiful outlets, 
window seats and an inviting ambi-
ance, she said. Until recently, the UF 
Education Library ranked nearly dead 
last on her list. 
“It was just really outdated,” the 
19-year-old said. “It really felt like you 
were stepping back in time.” 
Now, after a $3 million renovation, 
Nunez said she may reconsider. 
After eight months of construc-
tion, the Education Library in Norman 
Hall reopened Monday. It hadn’t been 
renovated since it opened in January 
1980 and was beginning to show signs 
of wear and tear, Rachael Elrod, head 
of the library, wrote in an email. The 
new space boasts additional study 
rooms, a computer lab, more outlets, 
new furniture, a lactation room and 
other additions. 
Elrod said more students will be 
able to beneﬁ  t from the space, thanks 
to the updates. 
“I really like that we are able to provide more access to students with 
disabilities with the ADA restrooms 
and ADA service desk,” she wrote. 
Along with updated carpet, light-
ing, furniture and a production lab, 
Makerspace, was also added. Educa-
tors can make die cuts — shapes cut 
out of thin material, like paper or 
cloth — and use other resources the 
library hopes to bring. 
Most of the project’s budget was 
funded by the state. About $60,000 
came from the UF Americans with 
Disabilities Act compliance ofﬁ  ce, and 
about $80,000 came from the George 
A. Smathers Libraries operating ex-
pense budget, Frank Javaheri, a proj-
ect manager for UF Planning, Design 
and Construction Division, wrote in 
an email. 
Nunez barely recognized the li-
brary when she saw photos of the up-
dates on Facebook. She’s looking for-
ward to enjoying the new booths and 
other long-overdue improvements, 
she said. 
“It really needed that upgrade, es-
pecially because Norman is always 
left behind,” she said.
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgUF Education Library reopens 
with a $3 million upgrade
THE TWO HOUSES COMBINED COST 
MORE THAN $16 MILLION. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Members of Pi Kappa Phi said they’re happy to 
be shooting hoops in their own backyard again. 
House residents are back in the newly rebuilt 
$6 million home on Fraternity Row after the pre-
vious building was demolished in August 2017, 
President Matt Farah said.
The new house has room for 46 of 130 active 
members, Farah said. The space is Americans 
with Disabilities Act compliant and has a basket-
ball court in the backyard. 
“Just the feeling of being back in house and 
eating meals together is, I think, the best thing so 
far,” Farah said.
Alumni of the fraternity contributed $1.5 mil-
lion to the project, which was combined with 
$4.5 million secured from the fraternity’s national 
headquarters, Farah said.
The front path leading up to the house is made 
of bricks engraved with the names of people who 
donated money to the fraternity, said Ryan Em-
ery, a UF ﬁ  nance senior and Pi Kappa Phi brother. 
The pathway is reminiscent of the “Gator Walk” 
at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, he said.
Emery is thankful for the alumni who made the 
house possible, saying the new house has brought 
the members closer.
“When you live at a fraternity house with 45 
guys there’s always something to do,” he said.
Pi Kappa Phi isn’t the only Greek organization with a new home.
Gamma Phi Beta also has a new $10.5 million 
building opening this Fall, wrote Maureen Walker, 
managing director of marketing and communica-
tions for Gamma Phi Beta International Sorority, 
in an email.
The 24,000-square-foot house has been in the 
works for the past year and a half. The house will 
hold 71 of the chapter’s 176 women, along with 
a study space, 24-hour student kitchen and a cov-
ered patio, Walker wrote.
“Our members are excited to move into their 
new facility and have new opportunities to bond 
with sisters,” she wrote.  
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgHousing Boom: Pi Kappa Phi and 
Gamma Phi Beta unveil new homes
Greek construction dates
— Fall 2016 : Forest land near Hume Residence Hall was 
cleared for Greek housing. Three acres of land were set to be 
cleared to accommodate the addition of three Greek chapter 
houses. The plot has not been purchased or leased yet. Greek 
Aﬀ  airs is having conversations with Greek organizations about 
the space.
— August 2017 : Pi Kappa Phi house was demolished.
— Fall 2017: Gamma Phi Beta house began its construction 
on its ﬁ  rst house. The building features several study lounges, TV 
rooms and a three-room suite for the facility director. Members 
also have scooter and bike parking available, and the building 
will be accessible to people with disabilities.
— Fall 2018 : The new Pi Kappa Phi house opened. The 
Gamma Phi Beta house is expected to open in the 2018-19 
school year.FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Michael Bailey started competing in the Prez 
Book challenge because of a rivalry with his room-
mate.
The industrial engineering freshman and Chris 
Heydolph are competing to see who can get the 
most free shirts, and they are tied with ﬁ  ve shirts 
each. When Bailey saw the Prez Book challenge 
on social media, he thought it might give him an 
edge.
“I thought this would be a special shirt that 
he wouldn’t get,” Bailey said. “He started it, but I 
don’t think he’s up for the challenge.”
UF President Kent Fuchs launched the Prez 
Book challenge on his Twitter and Instagram on 
Monday. A different photo challenge would be 
revealed each day until today, a UF social media 
specialist, Ryan Morejon, said. The ﬁ  rst 500 UF 
students to complete all ﬁ  ve challenges and email 
them to prezbook@uﬂ  .edu will get a free shirt.
“It’s kind of an homage to the F Book,” More-
jon said, referring to a book full of traditions stu-
dents should do before graduating.On Monday, participants took a photo of them-
selves at that moment. The challenge the next day 
was to do a small act of kindness and post a pic-
ture or video to social media. For the following 
two days, Fuchs invited students to take a photo 
with a professor and take a video of themselves 
dancing somewhere on campus. The last chal-
lenge has not been revealed yet.
“It’s been a great way to go out and meet 
people. I don’t think I would’ve met my calculus 
teacher otherwise,” Bailey said.
Morejon said Fuchs created all of the chal-
lenges. The goal is to engage more with students 
beyond the “welcome back” video the UF social 
media team and Fuchs issue at the beginning of 
every semester.
The response from students has been good, 
Morejon said. Some students have even switched 
their private social media accounts to public to 
participate in the challenge using #PrezBook.
“It’s really awesome people are participating,” 
Morejon said. “It’s an opportunity to get more con-
nected to the campus and president.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgPrez Book challenge captures attention of the Gator Nation  
Courtesy of Michael Bailey
Michael Bailey (left) and Chris Heydolph (right) posing for social media 
posts as part of the  Prez Book challenge. The challenge will end today.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Supreme Court will decide if a pro-
posed constitutional amendment about who controls 
charter schools will make it onto the November bal-
lot. 
A Leon County judge ordered Amendment 8, 
which would let the state of Florida oversee charter 
schools, to be cut from the ballot Monday because of 
misleading wording. 
The League of Women Voters, a voting rights ad-
vocacy group, sued the state in July and won. But the 
state appealed, and the Florida Supreme Court picked 
up the case Wednesday, according to court records.
Charter schools, which are publicly funded schools 
run by private organizations, answer to local school 
districts. Amendment 8 would allow school boards 
to only control public schools created by the district. 
However, the proposed amendment does not men-
tion the word “charter” and combines three unrelated 
education issues about civics classes and school board 
member term limits, the advocacy group argues. 
In his summary, Circuit Judge John Cooper said 
the amendment’s ballot title and summary “are en-
tirely unclear as to which schools will be affected by 
the revision” and might confuse voters. 
Erika Donalds, the Constitution Revision Com-
mittee member who proposed the amendment, said 
“charter” was excluded because the way people refer 
to charter schools might change in the future. 
Alachua County School Board member April Grif-ﬁ  n said the judge’s decision was a win for public 
schools.
“We didn’t think three things should be bundled 
together that don’t have anything to do with each 
other,” she said.
Although the Alachua County School Board has 
not taken an ofﬁ  cial stand on Amendment 8, school 
board members have expressed concern about state-
run charter schools, said school district spokesperson 
Jackie Johnson.
“As a district, we do have concerns about the state 
further removing local control from the local school 
board,” Johnson said.
Kay Abbitt, the director of Boulware Springs Char-
ter Schools, said Amendment 8 would be good for 
charter schools but agrees the amendment’s wording 
is misleading.
“I think that when you’re writing an amendment 
that people are going to vote on, it should be very 
transparent,” she said.
Abbitt, who founded Boulware Springs ﬁ  ve years 
ago, said she doesn’t feel the local school board has 
her charter’s best interest at heart, especially since it 
ﬁ  led a lawsuit against an education bill that provided 
more funding for charter schools in 2017.
Abbitt said she wouldn’t have to jump through 
hoops when working with the state.
“If I were dealing with the state, I wouldn’t have 
to ﬁ  gure out what questions to ask to get answers,” 
she said.
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgFlorida Supreme Court to hear case 
on struck education amendment
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
One of three white nationalist 
supporters involved in a shooting 
after Richard Spencer’s speech in 
Gainesville reached a plea deal with 
state prosecutors Monday. 
Colton Fears, 29, of Pasadena, 
Texas, pleaded guilty to three counts 
of accessory to attempted ﬁ  rst-de-
gree murder during a pre-trial hear-
ing, according to court records. He 
waived his right to a trial. 
He faces a maximum 15-year sen-
tence and ﬁ  ne of up to $10,000, the 
records said. Fears’ attorney, Lucas 
Taylor, could not be immediately 
reached for comment. 
His arrest came after Fears trav-
eled from Texas to Gainesville on 
Oct. 19 with his brother William 
Fears, 31, and Tyler Tenbrink, 29, 
to attend Spencer’s speech. Colton 
Fears wore a Nazi-era pin, according 
to Alligator archives.
About an hour after the event 
ended, the brothers and Tenbrink 
drove to the corner of Southwest 34th Street and Southwest Archer 
Road where they argued with pro-
testers at a bus stop, according to the 
arrest report. They shouted chants at 
the protesters like “Heil Hitler,” wit-
nesses told police. 
Tenbrink is accused of exiting the 
car and shooting at the group after 
one of the protesters hit the car with 
a baton. No one was injured. 
Tenbrink later told ofﬁ  cers he 
ﬁ  red the gun, police said. He was 
charged with attempted ﬁ  rst-degree 
murder and possession of a weapon 
as a felon. 
Colton Fears agreed to work with 
state prosecutors to testify against 
the accused trigger man Tenbrink, 
according to court records. 
He is in Alachua County Jail 
where he is awaiting sentencing on 
Nov. 21. Tenbrink is in jail awaiting 
trial.   
William Fears’ charge of aiding 
in an act that could cause death was 
dropped in April. 
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgRichard Spencer supporter 
pleads guilty in shootingEditorial
Column
Netﬂ  ix series peddles chronic illness myths
I have multiple chronic illnesses. Chronic 
illness is a world of the unknown. It can 
be isolating. You feel like a problem. Daily 
activities can be obstacles. There’s a di-
chotomy between your goals and abilities. 
You never know when symptoms will change 
or stage a strike against the regimen you have 
built to combat them.
Getting a diagnosis can take weeks, months 
or years. Often with chronic or invisible illnesses, 
symptoms avoid logic and play coy with medical testing. 
Sometimes, doctors don’t take your complaints seriously. 
Why would they? Especially when you otherwise look like a 
fairly healthy, young adult.
This is why I take issue with “Afﬂ  icted,” a docuseries pro-
duced by Dan Partland that chronicles the lives of people liv-
ing with chronic illness. I couldn’t ﬁ  nish the ﬁ  rst episode. It 
was too unnerving; too sensationalized; too misleading; too 
ableist; too wrong. Most notably, too painful, especially for a 
community already dealing with pain and misunderstanding. 
First, the series title. The word afﬂ  icted inherently means 
a burden. Something those with chronic illness already feel 
too strongly.
People who are sick are tended to. I have to cancel plans 
or feel more like I am being taken care of than a peer. “Af-
ﬂ  icted” preys on this relationship of the served and serving, 
giving a hero’s portrayal to the partner or caretaker who for-
feits their lifestyle for the afﬂ  icted.
Some argue this sheds light on the issue, especially as the 
number cases of chronic illness rises. People with chronic 
illness might feel less alone and resonate with the stories of 
those chronicled.
A change.org petition with more than 5,000 signatures 
calls for the show to be pulled down. The petition says the 
show sheds a bad light on chronic illness by suggesting the 
diseases are all in patients’ heads.
I’ve faced the same problem. It’s dangerous and wrong 
to suggest that these people’s symptoms are psychosomatic, 
which they are clearly not. This documentary shows invisible illnesses are still not fully accepted by the medi-
cal community and society at large. By sharing a 
documentary so widely on Netﬂ  ix, a service with 
more than 125 million subscribers, society will 
further fall into the trapped mindset that will pre-
vent people like me from getting the help I need.
Even the people who agreed to be ﬁ  lmed feel 
like they were misled by the documentary. In 
“The Truth Behind Netﬂ  ix’s ‘Afﬂ  icted’”, an ar-
ticle published on Medium, they share that im-
portant details were left out, leaving them open 
to “ridicule and disbelief.” This creates a false or uniformed 
narrative, which is a step backward for those with misunder-
stood illnesses. Subjects were hurt by the way their stories 
were framed and manipulated. Important scientiﬁ  c evidence 
was left unseen by Netﬂ  ix audiences while only authoritative 
sources with doubts on those in the show were given a voice. 
The show is intentionally edited to foster judgment. Input 
from doctors with expertise in the areas of chronic illness 
went unheard. Concrete evidence that would have shown 
treatment trials and errors and revealed diagnoses and tests 
was not presented.  That is not in journalistic due diligence. 
Netﬂ  ix’s “Afﬂ  icted” has senselessly and negligently left 
people already ﬁ  ghting for recognition with a harder battle to 
face. In their words, “The damage to each of us personally 
and to our communities collectively is difﬁ  cult to overstate 
and is ongoing, even as we write this post.” The harsh words 
weigh heavily on the chronic illness community, who are left 
to use often limited energy ﬁ  ghting for treatment and under-
standing. 
For those watching “Afﬂ  icted” on Netﬂ  ix, it is easy to see 
why harmful viewpoints were formed or reafﬁ  rmed. How-
ever, the show is doing real harm with lasting consequences. 
If you are a person who hasn’t watched the show yet or one 
who has, it’s in the pursuit of truth and understanding that I 
would advise you to read the stories on Medium instead, or 
round out the knowledge on which you form your opinion.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
appears on Monday and Friday. FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Walking toward the journalism and communications school 
in Weimer Hall, you feel the nagging buzz of news notiﬁ  ca-
tions in your pocket. You like to stay informed with apps like 
CNN and The New York Times, so you don’t mind the distrac-
tion. It’s probably yet another earth-shattering political story. 
The presidency is throwing out scandals and tweets faster than 
you can keep up with them. You cross into Weimer’s shade, 
into its leafy green atrium and notice the television tuned to 
CNN. Wolf Blitzer’s snowy beard, brilliant ivory hair and wise 
visage ﬂ  oat above a headline reading:
Darts and Laurels
Let’s save the political news for last. We don’t need to 
upset half the audience right off the bat. We can begin 
with something more unifying, like our brave service-
men and servicewomen overseas. This past Wednesday, 
Air Force Sgt. John Chapman posthumously received the 
Congressional Medal of Honor for his outstanding bravery in 
Afghanistan, where he and a team of Navy SEALs raced back 
to rescue a comrade who had fallen from a helicopter. Chap-
man sacriﬁ  ced himself, standing out in the open to distract an 
al-Qaeda machine gun team, to save others on an incoming 
U.S. military helicopter. A solemn and thankful laurel to Sgt. 
Chapman and the family he leaves behind. We are deeply in-
debted to them in a way that can never be repaid.
A dart to al-Qaeda for obvious reasons.
In other news, archeologists believe that a recent bone frag-
ment found in a Siberian cave belongs to an ancient woman 
who was half Neanderthal and half Denisovan, two different 
branches of ancient humanity. A laurel to the scientists brav-
ing the Russian wilderness to dig up old bones. Though this 
discovery will have no bearing on our daily lives, it’s neat to 
think about different subspecies of human living on the earth 
simultaneously.
A dart to less glamorous scientists. Get out of the lab, 
nerds.
In the spirit of the ﬁ  rst week of school, we’d like to disperse 
laurels to all the professors and lecturers who took their ﬁ  rst 
class session easy. Many of us were unprepared to do anything 
else on the ﬁ  rst day except stand to introduce ourselves. To 
the professors who thought it would be a good idea to as-
sign homework on the ﬁ  rst day: The semester does not move 
that fast. What’s the rush? Why force your students, still reel-
ing from the traumatic move-in process, to suffer the mental 
anguish of reading? You are accordingly awarded a dart for 
denying us a sweet, sweet syllabus week.
To the courageous freshmen braving the food at the din-
ing halls, a well-deserved laurel. Though the food may not 
be world-class, take solace: The beneﬁ  ts of limitless pizza 
and Cinnamon Toast Crunch far outweigh any cost in quality. 
What else tastes better than all you can eat? Soon you will 
also learn the holy script, “Stop requested, for your safety…” 
and be educated on proper bus etiquette. Bus drivers are to be 
thanked. If you are crossing the street, look both ways and use 
crosswalks, if available. And never, under any circumstances, 
try to board the bus before others have gotten off, lest you feel 
the mighty wrath of a dart.
Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer, 
and Paul Manafort, one of Trump’s campaign managers, were 
both charged with a succession of crimes Tuesday, including 
ﬁ  nancial fraud and violation of campaign ﬁ  nance laws. This, 
to say the least, does not bode well for Trump’s chances of 
making it through his ﬁ  rst term unimpeached. A laurel to all 
of us everyday people living through a political scandal more 
brazen and lurid than Watergate and apparently more law-
abiding than most of Trump’s top advisors.
One ﬁ  nal dart goes to Dennis, the ex-Turlington Dancer 
banned from campus for threatening a student, who still  forc-
es us to see his skin-tight shorts, only now on West University 
Avenue. It would not have been a true ﬁ  rst week at UF had he 
not been screaming nonsense at students.
Meryl 
Kornﬁ  eld
EDITORRomy 
Ellenbogen
MANAGING 
EDITORPaige 
Fry
MANAGING 
EDITOR Stephan 
Chamberlin
OPINIONS 
EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Janssen Research & Development, LLC [V01 USA][Insert site location and contact information]STILL HAVING SYMPTOMS OF DEPRESSION EVEN 
WITH YOUR CURRENT ANTIDEPRESSANT?
Help us research an investigational medication for major 
depressive disorder (MDD).
The OARS 1 research study is evaluating the safety and effectiveness of an investigational 
medication for major depressive disorder, also known as, MDD. If you are someone 
who has been taking medication to manage their depression but are still experiencing 
depressive episodes, you may be eligible to participate in this study. 
To qualify, participants must:
•  be between the ages of 18 to 64,
•  have been diagnosed with MDD
•  have had an inadequate response to at least 1 but no more than 2 antidepressants.
Qualified participants will receive study-related medical care and medication at no cost.
To learn more about this study, please 
contact the study team using information 
provided below.
(352) 333-0094
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com
Welcome to Alachua 
County, Gators!
The amount of time 
each of you will spend 
here will vary. Many 
will stay for four years, graduate 
and then head somewhere else. 
Others will stay less than four 
years, choosing to take their tal-
ents elsewhere. A large portion 
will go to graduate school here 
and then leave. And more — if you’re like 
me — will graduate, ﬁ  nd a job and stay here.
Whatever your path might be, and re-
gardless of how much time you will spend 
here, you’re here now, and we’re happy to 
have you.
I want you to recognize and appreciate 
that your time here will be more fulﬁ  lling if 
you engage with the surrounding commu-
nity. Get to know Gainesville and Alachua 
County. Don’t be afraid to venture off cam-
pus. Go to the springs, watch a play at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre or volunteer with 
a community organization that supports a 
cause close to your heart.
And remember that a fundamental piece 
of being a member of a community is vot-
ing and participating in elections. When 
you participate, you are more inclined to re-
search and care about issues related to the 
community, to use your vote as your voice 
in determining how you think those issues 
would be best handled.
With respect to voting as a student, you 
are in an interesting position. You can reg-
ister to vote here or in your home county, 
whichever you consider to be your legal 
residence. The Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections ofﬁ  ce is not trying to sway you one way or the other. Our goal 
is to get you to participate — ei-
ther here or in your home county. 
Many students choose to go home 
or vote by mail for one reason or 
another. Others choose to register 
in Alachua County, making one 
of the ﬁ  rst of many future steps in 
establishing independence from 
where they grew up.
Regardless, registering to vote 
or updating your registration is easy. If 
you’ve never registered before, you can go 
to registertovoteﬂ  orida.gov and do it online.
Just need to update your registration? 
Call the Supervisor of Elections in the county 
where you intend to be registered. For exam-
ple, if you’ve just moved to Alachua County 
and would like to update your voter regis-
tration address to reﬂ  ect the change, all you 
need to do is call our ofﬁ  ce at 352-374-5252 
— between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday 
through Friday — and someone will be able 
to help you update your registration.
Our ofﬁ  ce, along with the Bob Graham 
Center for Public Service, will be on campus 
for National Voter Registration Day, which is 
Sept. 25. We’ll be at Library West, Marston 
Science Library, the Reitz Union, Murphree 
Area, Graham Area, Broward Area and Pugh 
Hall from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. that day. 
Come get information on the November 
election and ask any questions you want. 
If you have questions, I encourage you to 
reach out to me at tjpyche@alachuacounty.
us, or call our ofﬁ  ce at 352-374-5252.
TJ Pyche is the Elections Outreach 
Director at the Alachua County Supervisor 
of Elections.How to voice your vote in Alachua CountyColumn
In late June, Supreme Court As-
sociate Justice Anthony Ken-
nedy announced his plans to 
retire from the bench. This set 
a ﬁ  ght in motion over the fu-
ture of the court and gave President 
Donald Trump the opportunity to 
appoint a second justice.
News of Kennedy’s retirement 
was met with panic, upset and gen-
eral distress within the women’s 
health activist and reproductive rights commu-
nity. According to Time, Kennedy co-authored 
the 1992 opinion in Planned Parenthood v. 
Casey which upheld core tenets of Roe v. Wade 
and cast a swing vote in 2017 on Whole Wom-
an’s Health v. Hellerstedt, which overturned 
Texas restrictions on abortion providers.
Kennedy was not left-leaning but cast a 
number of important votes which were vital to 
reproductive rights. Without his moderate posi-
tion on the bench, the previous balance — four 
liberal justices, four conservative justices and 
one moderate justice — will shift, and the Su-
preme Court will have a conservative majority.
During his campaign, Trump made a prom-
ise that he would only appoint a justice who 
would overturn Roe v. Wade, which recognized 
the constitutional right to privacy “is broad 
enough to encompass a woman’s decision 
whether or not to terminate her pregnancy.” By 
nominating Judge Brett Kavanaugh, Trump is 
fulﬁ  lling that commitment.
Prior to nominating Kavanaugh, Trump 
stated he would not ask potential candidates 
about their opinions on Roe v. Wade, but that 
doesn’t mean he wouldn’t read between the 
lines to ensure his pick would follow suit with 
his goals. According to the National Women’s 
Health Network, Kavanaugh’s track record on reproductive rights makes it clear 
that if conﬁ  rmed, he will aid Trump 
in his assault on women’s health and 
women’s rights and see to it that Roe 
v. Wade is reversed.
Last year, Kavanaugh sided with 
a decision in Garza v. Hargan that 
would have allowed the Trump ad-
ministration to further delay a young 
immigrant woman from having an 
abortion she wanted. According to the 
National Women’s Law Center, Kavanaugh ac-
cused the majority of creating a new right to 
“immediate abortion on demand.” This is a 
phrase that has long been a rallying cry for anti-
abortion extremists.
In the 2016 case, Priests for Life v. Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, Kavana-
ugh sided with religion over a woman’s right to 
access contraceptive services when he dissent-
ed from the decision to uphold the contracep-
tive mandate of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), 
supporting employers who didn’t want to pro-
vide birth control for religious reasons.
Kavanaugh’s potential appointment isn’t 
just a threat to women’s health and reproduc-
tive rights — it’s a threat to many marginal-
ized groups in America. Not only is Kavanaugh 
likely to undermine affordable health care, but 
he is also likely to put the rights of women, im-
migrants and the LGBTQ+ community at risk.
We cannot allow someone as close-minded 
and prejudiced as Kavanaugh to have a lasting 
impression on our country. Call your senators 
now at 202-224-3121 and tell them how you 
feel to keep this man off the bench.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism and 
political science senior. Her column comes 
out Fridays.Kavanaugh threatens reproductive rightsColumn
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgT J Pyche
opinions@alligator.orgbring her back into reality. Still, 
she felt like she was in the room.
It was fourth period, the last 
period of the day.
Stout was sitting in her desk in 
the last row next to the door. She 
began to write notes on the unit 
for the day, personality, while 
eating her leftover peanut-butter 
and marshmallow-ﬂ  uff sandwich. 
The yellow thermos sat on the 
desk, never to be used again. 
2:21 p.m. She remembers the 
time exactly.
Hundreds of rounds rang 
through the hallway as the walls 
vibrated. She had spent enough 
time at the shooting range with 
her dad, an FBI agent, to know it was gunﬁ  re.
Stout and 30 of her classmates 
clamored over each other to make 
it behind their teacher’s desk. She 
tucked herself into the hollow 
space below the desk, where a 
chair would be.
They waited. At about 2:35 
p.m., the police came.
“Three down. Three injured. 
Is anybody injured?” the ofﬁ  cer 
said.
A collective cry: Yes.
The next day, Stout watched 
CNN and saw Schentrup’s photo 
pop up alongside the other vic-
tims. It was the ﬁ  rst time she let 
herself cry.
Now, Schentrup and other vic-
tims smile in photos on a cork-
board in her Gainesville apart-
ment.Stout, a UF political science 
freshman, wants to be an FBI 
agent like her father Richard, 
who responded to the school im-
mediately after the shooting. She 
said she wants to better the FBI 
after learning how the agency 
blundered tips about the alleged 
shooter.
“When the shooting was going 
on, I was acting just like my dad 
would,” Stout said.
Ten days after the shooting, 
she got a tattoo on her ribs of the 
number 17 with a heart, to re-
member the victims.
“It’s just something that’s a 
part of me now, surviving some-
thing that was so horrible,” she 
said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
Elizabeth Stout / Alligator
After surviving the Parkland shooting this past February, Elizabeth 
Stout, now an 18-year-old UF political science freshman, attends 
March For Our Lives in Washington, D.C. Carmen Schentrup, one 
of the victims of the tragedy, passed away in Stout’s classroom. 
Mackenzie Behm / Alligator Staff
Photos on Parkland survivor Elizabeth Stout’s calendar are hung to remember the lost lives in the 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School tragedy. Stout, 18, is now a UF political science freshman. 
PARKLAND,  from pg. 1Stout was diagnosed with PTSD FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
New patient appointments are available now.
www.sarkisfamilypsychiatry.com  |  (352) 331-5100  Call today!
Sarkis Family Psychiatry has provided effective, 
customized, and holistic mental health services for 
UF students and others since 1991. We treat ADHD, 
depression, anxiety, and more.
Our psychiatrists, therapists, and nurse 
practitioners are experts in diagnosis and offer 
treatments including:
•    Psychotherapy for individuals, couples, and 
families
•    Medications and supplements
•    Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for depression
•    Mindfulness meditation training
•    EMDR
•    Bioenergetics
•    The Daring WayTM  and others
We have helped thousands of people in a 
confidential and respectful environment.
Let us help you be WELL, not just “better”!
The doors that separated the Career Con-
nections Center from the rest of the Reitz 
Union have been removed in order to make 
the space easily accessible, Glover said. 
After listening to student focus groups, the 
idea of having an open concept for the fa-
cility came into focus.
“We wanted to be intentional in that, 
making sure that space allows students 
to see that they are welcome and they are 
open to be here,” she said, “but there are 
more things than just ﬁ  nding a job that are 
available.”
The project was funded through Capi-
tal Improvement Trust Fund, which is stu-
dent fee money provided for non-academic 
buildings. The project was ﬁ  ve years in the 
making, Glover said. The last two years 
focused on the bulk of the construction, 
leaving the former Career Resource Center 
temporarily housed for a year and a half in 
four different locations. 
Block party attendees had the option to 
tour the building and participate in various 
workshops like, “What is a Career Action 
Plan?,” “Experience Changes Everything” 
and “Connecting with your Embedded Li-
aison.” 
Assistant Director for Career and Indus-
try Engagement Jaysen Williams said his 
favorite part about the event was being 
able to connect with students.
“I really enjoy sharing information 
on the resources that we offer,” he said. 
“We’re open, and we’re here to help.”
Rachael Dean, a UF zoology and biology 
freshman, said she attended the event in 
order to learn more about her career op-
tions with the majors she’s pursuing.
“I feel like they deﬁ  nitely know what 
they’re doing and they can point us in the 
right direction of things we might need to 
do and where to like be more successful in 
ﬁ  nding careers,” Dean said.
Glover has high hopes for the new cen-
ter. Ten years from now, she’d like to see 
the entire campus community engaged in 
the career center.
“It’s our job to be able to coalesce and to 
bring others together around the conversa-
tion about career and where students go,” 
she said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgCCC,  from pg. 1 The center cost $9.6 million to renovate
William Clewis / Alligator Staff
One of the staff members at the Career Connections Center speaks with students about the newly renovated space at the 
Connections Block Party on Thursday afternoon.William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Students in the Career Connections Center talk in one of the open meeting spaces during the Connections Block Party on Thursday 
afternoon. The center, formerly named the Career Resource Center, underwent a 14-month renovation and expansion.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
MATTRESS SALE TWIN SET $69
FULL SET $89
QUEEN SET $149 KING SET $199
SAME DAY DELIVERY COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH 
GAINESVILLE 352-376-0953    8-24-18-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!" Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Live & Online Public Auction
Tues, August 28th, 2018 at 11:00 A.M.
Jugofresh Holdings Corp.
1883 Marina Mile Blvd., Ste 106
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315
Commercial Cold Press Equipment: New 
Goodnature Model X-1 Mini Cold Press 
Juicer, Vitamix Commercial Blenders, True 
2-Door Refrigerator, Oasis Open Air Fridge, 
Master Bilt Freezer, Robot Coupe Food 
Processors, Continental Refrigerators, Apple 
Tablets, Monitors, Printers, 2012 Ford Transit 
Connect XL VIN #NMOLS7AN7CT096798 
and more!
Catalog and photos available at www.moec -
kerauctions.com
Preview: Morning of sale 9AM to 11AM. 
15%-18% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
#18-020594-CA-44
To register: $100 refundable cash deposit 
and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin     8-24-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
HOUSE 5 MIN WALK TO UF LAW SCHOOL,
106 NW 25th St, 3Bd/1Ba, Wood Floors, 
Garage, Carport,, Screened Porch, Large 
Fenced Yard, HVAC, $1250/Mo,
AVAIL NOW. Call 352-246-5566            8-27-
18-4-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsFRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs PT 
and FT Sales Associates. We are 1 mile 
north of UF on 13th St, next to Starbucks! 
Must maintain consistent weekly schedule 
with 1 day on weekend a must!    8-24-18-
6-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
P/T and F/T front desk positions in Gainesville 
dental office. Day and evening hours avail -
able. $14 and up, depending on experience. 
Answer phones, submit insurance claims, 
interact with patients. Email resume to gden -
taljob@gmail.com    8-31-18-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-5-18-6-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Make $400 a week 
completing Surveys. Get Paid Immediately! 
Best Surveys from the brands you love! Go 
to collegejobs.team     8-31-18-5-14
NCF Public Charter School is a local drop -
out recovery high school in Gainesville. The 
school is located minutes from the UF & SFC 
campuses on NW 13th Street. Tutors are 
needed in math and are needed M-F from 
8:00 to 1:00. Tutor scheduling can be flex -
ible. $12 per hour. Call 352-379-2902    8-31-
18-5-14
Make up to $500 weekly
with this simple method. 
www.extracollegecash.club 
JOIN THE CLUB!                  8-31-18-5-14
MAKE MONEY FROM YOUR DORM 
ROOM!! Email grassed24@gmail.com for 
details     9-5-18-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    8-31-
18-4-14
Copytalk is hiring typists!
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive production-based pay
- Close to campus
www.ctscribes.com              8-29-18-3-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student position
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
TUESDAY, AUGUST 28TH ONLY
BETWEEN 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
If absolutely unavailable in that time frame,
please call 352-376-4446
for alternative arrangements.
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Learn how to make an extra $375/wk as a 
student. No Surveys! No cold calling! Go to: 
www.studentopportunities.club     8-24-18-4-
20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Quiet and easy to care for: 
Female Diamond Dove
with cage $10. Can deliver. Contact nancy -
ivey3@gmail.com    8-24-1-24Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Designated drivers are the greatestFinders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  Scared
1.  Travel ____5.  Senior
2.  Give off, emit6.  Another time
3.  Advances, forays7.  Thermal spring
4.  ____ storeIAAFDR
GECAYNDEERL
AINAG
AIRADET
DRINSAOSEGREY
ORCRENANSWERS: 1A-Afraid  5A-Elder  6A-Again  7A-Geyser
1D-Agency  2D-Radiate  3D-Inroads  4D-Corner  B-Graceland8-24-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This was declared a National Historic 
Landmark on March 27, 2006. 
BONUS
ACROSS
1 Smartphone call
record, say
5 Wet-Nap unit
11 Utterly beyond
repair
15 Part of a foot
16 St. Clare’s town
17 Carrie who was a
friend of Susan B.
18 *See 64-Across
21 “Shove off!”
22 Summer footwear
23 Suggestion
24 *See 64-Across
28 Rudder-
controlled
movement
29 Beckett’s
“Endgame” has
one
30 7-Up moniker
32 Narrow inlet
34 *See 64-Across
37 Strikes lightly, as
a window
38 Sexy
40 Rap sheet letters
41 *See 64-Across
46 SFO info
47 Sci-fi good guys
49 Prove equal (to)
50 Take quickly
51 *See 64-Across
56 Christian official
59 Laundry
convenience
63 Alpine retreat
64 *Foundation
ingredient of a
treat built upward
in the answers to
starred clues and
spelled
downward in the
circles
69 Guitar, slangily
70 Needle part
71 Really enjoyed
72 Little bit
73 Spotted
74 How farmland is
populated
75 Dr.’s group
DOWN
1 Country kid?
2 See 56-Down
3 Doodle site
4 “Precisely so!”
5 Formal
agreement
6 Grill remnants7 TV forensic
series
8 Many holiday
guests
9 Anka’s “__ Beso”
10 Involuntary
motions
11 Plot outline
12 Seasonal frontier
challenge
13 José’s “other”
14 Texter’s sign-off
19 Hardly a gulp
20 Loft bale
24 Philadelphia-to-
Albany dir.
25 Golden State
sch. in Davis
26 Young one
27 __-mo
29 Open one’s eyes
30 Plotting
31 Take down __
33 Emotional
distress
35 Half a tuba sound
36 Tense beginning?
37 Jersey casino,
with “The”
39 Bus alternative
42 Half of hexa-
43 Able-bodied
44 Initials on
American vessels45 Org. concerned
with meth
48 “Stan Against
Evil” airer
50 Shining example
52 Deeply disturbs
53 Take the top off
54 Big name in
moving
55 Like TV’s
“Batman”
56 With 2-Down,
Latin hymn57 “May It Be” 
co-songwriter
58 Once more
60 Hiking spot
61 Final, for one
62 Correct, in a 
way
65 Org. dealing with
brownfields
66 EMT 
proficiency
67 High-__ monitor
68 Stamp addition?
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/24/1808/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, August 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Massage
therapists’
workplaces
5 “Fiddlesticks!”
10 Used room
service
15 Largest city on
Hawaii’s largest
island
16 Terminix target
17 Piquant
18 Takes on a new
responsibility, as
of leadership
21 Indigenous New
Zealanders
22 Kind of artery
23 Key in a PC
reboot combo
24 Evenly matched
26 Mosquito
repellent
28 “Guys and Dolls”
showstopper
34 Sporty ’60s
Pontiac
35 __ out a win
36 Biopic about
Charles
37 “So that’s it”
38 Threw a fit
40 Capital of Oman
42 Muscle
43 Superficially
highbrow
44 To and __
45 “So that’s it!”
47 Orchestrated
48 Shelf for trophies,
maybe
52 Cruising, say
53 Stealthy warrior
54 Movie SFX
56 Prince Harry’s
mother
59 Word on the
street
63 Complex
reasoning that
occurs literally at
the end of three
long answers
66 “Inside the NBA”
analyst
67 In the back
68 Love god
69 Dweebs
70 “Same Time,
Next Year” has
only two
71 Not a good
impression
DOWN
1 Pretense
2 Tuscany town3 Furthermore
4 Lake Itasca, for
the Mississippi
5 Laundry cycle
6 Three-letter
product with two
periods
7 Animosity
8 Feel yesterday’s
yoga class,
maybe
9 “Stop pouring”
10 Spring bloomer
11 Yellow bill in
classic Monopoly
12 Event that may
feature family
heirlooms
13 “__ turn up”
14 Dmitry’s denial
19 Roamed (around)
20 At a frenetic pace
25 Saw-toothed
range
27 Kuwaiti ruler
28 Big name in
games
29 Animal behavior
specialist
30 New __: MLB
baseball cap
supplier
31 Deli choice
32 Staircase pillar
33 Work the bar34 Five-time US
Open champ
39 Checks out
41 Org. with a 
five-ring logo
42 Stringed
instruments
44 Swing wildly
46 Airport parking
facilities
49 Piano trio
50 Protective
coating51 Sampled
54 “Get real!”
55 __ pool
57 Thickening agent
58 Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame
songwriter Laura
60 Stable stud
61 Clickable image
62 “Hey, you!”
64 Abe Lincoln’s
youngest son
65 Dundee denial
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/23/1808/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 23, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis15 Services 19 Connections 22 Tickets 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundThe Gators soccer team takes 
on Ohio State tonight. Find out 
how UF stacks up against the 
Buckeyes, pg. 16Seven UF football players named to All-SEC teams
Safety Chauncey Gardner-Johnson, left tackle Martez Ivey and defensive 
lineman CeCe Jefferson were named ﬁ  rst-team All-SEC on Thursday. Cor-
ners CJ Henderson and Marco Wilson, along with running back Jordan 
Scarlett and linebacker David Reese were named second-team All-SEC.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
Staff Report
A new coaching staff, a frying pan and 
an AR-15.
They all showed up in one way or an-
other during the rollercoaster that was the 
Florida football team’s offseason. In case you were living under a rock and missed 
out on all that happened this summer, we 
at alligatorSports decided to compile a list 
of what went on over the last few months.
Florida’s in yet another quarterback 
battle
The Gators’ ongoing saga of quarter-back uncertainties continued well into this 
summer as three players are vying for the 
starting role.
The incumbent, redshirt sophomore 
Feleipe Franks, is looking to keep his start-
ing job over redshirt sophomore Kyle Trask 
and freshman Emory Jones. 
And so far, it’s a near-even race be-tween Franks and Trask.
Both have struggled, as Florida coach 
Dan Mullen pointed out after the ﬁ  rst 
scrimmage of the fall. But both have also 
done exceptionally well, with Mullen label-
ing them as “champions” in his own grad-
ing system.
It’s still up in the air as to who will start 
Week 1 against Charleston Southern, but 
Mullen made it clear that whoever gets the 
nod will be the guy he goes with moving 
forward. 
And at Thursday’s press conference, 
Mullen insisted that it won’t be a last-min-
ute choice.
“We’ll go in to the game week knowing 
who our starter is going to be for the ﬁ  rst 
game,” he said. “That’s not going to be a 
game-time decision deal.”
Van Jefferson and Trevon Grimes 
ruled eligible to play
In early August, the NCAA ruled that 
transfers Trevon Grimes, a former Ohio 
State wide receiver, and Van Jefferson, a 
former Ole Miss receiver, were eligible to 
play without sitting out a year.
For Grimes, that meant he was cleared 
to play right away. For Jefferson, however, 
there was one more obstacle to overcome.
The SEC recently lifted a ban on intra-
conference transfers in the spring, but it 
still needed to approve Jefferson’s transfer.
Usually transfers to other Division I 
schools have to sit out a year, but because 
Ole Miss was hit with multiple NCAA sanc-
tions last year, Jefferson and a few players 
sought immediate eligibility from the SEC 
and the NCAA. Everything you missed about UF football over the summer
Alligator File Photo
Redshirt sophomore Feleipe Franks is engaged in a competition to retain his role as Florida's starting quarterback.
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
Florida’s volleyball team begins its 
2018 regular season against No. 2 Nebras-
ka tonight at 7 and No. 3 Texas on Satur-
day in the Vert Challenge taking place in 
Lincoln, Nebraska.
In 2017, the Cornhuskers beat the 
Gators to end Florida’s season one win 
short of its ﬁ  rst NCAA championship tro-
phy in school history.
For the 2018 season, Nebraska returns 
with much of its offensive ﬁ  repower and is expected to test the Florida defense.
Senior outside hitter Mikaela Foecke is 
primed to lead the way for the Cornhusk-
ers just as she did in 2017. With 441 kills 
on 3.53 kills per set, Foecke helped lead 
an offense that was strong and accurate. 
The team ended the 2017 season with an 
NCAA Championship on the strength of 
its 13th-ranked hitting percentage (.282).
Nebraska also brought in ﬁ  ve freshmen 
over the summer, including setter Nick-
lin Hames and outside hitter Capri Davis. 
Hames is predicted to be in the starting Gators to open season in 
Nebraska tournament If you are anything like me, 
you were sitting in front of a TV 
screen Wednesday night watching 
Ohio State and Urban Meyer hold 
a press conference to announce 
how Meyer’s fate would play out. 
He was either getting ﬁ  red (which 
was extremely improbable), get-
ting suspended or getting off the 
hook. 
It was ultimately decided, after 
11 hours of meetings, that Meyer 
would be suspended for the ﬁ  rst three games 
of the college football season. I could go on 
and on about my thoughts on that decision 
(a joke and a travesty rolled into one), but 
that’s not what stuck out to me.It wasn’t Meyer’s insincere 
attitude while up on the stage 
that bothered me. It was how 
the narrative of the story com-
pletely changed since former 
ESPN journalist Brett McMur-
phy ﬁ  rst reported on former 
OSU assistant coach Zach 
Smith being involved in an al-
leged domestic violence case.
In case you missed it all or 
somehow didn’t know, Mc-
Murphy released a story on his Facebook 
outlining accusations made by Courtney 
Smith, Zach’s ex-wife, detailing how the as-
sistant coach had abused her. The Meyer thing isn't about MeyerSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15VOLLEYBALLJake’s on a Plane/Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJake14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
  Advertise in the 2018 Football Edition
Contact your Sales Rep TODAY!  
352-376-4482GAME  DEADLINE  RUNDATE
Charleston Southern  Aug 29  Aug 31
Kentucky  Sep 05  Sep 07
Colorado State  Sep 12  Sep 14
LSU Oct 03 Oct 05
Georgia (Jax)  Oct 24 Oct 26
Missouri (Homecoming)  Oct 26  Nov 02
South Carolina  Nov 07  Nov 09
Idaho  Nov 14  Nov 16
SEC Championship  Nov 28  Nov 30Run 5 out of 9 dates and receive 15% off
alligatorSports meme of the week: UF’s QB conundrumFRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
On Aug. 13, it was announced 
that Jefferson will be allowed to 
play this season. Jefferson and 
Grimes join a wide receiver unit 
that includes junior Tyrie Cleve-
land and sophomore Kadarius 
Toney.
Kadarius Toney has a gun, 
and Dan Mullen seems to be 
okay with it
On July 22, Toney was driving 
down Southwest First Street in 
his white Chevrolet Monte Carlo 
with defensive back Brian Ed-wards when he was pulled over 
by Gainesville police for a seat-
belt violation. 
Officers ended up finding a 
loaded AR-15 casually sitting 
in the backseat, which Toney 
claimed he owned for “protection 
because of locals.”
A player owning a gun, espe-
cially for self-defense reasons, 
should be alarming to any coach, 
collegiate or professional. But 
Mullen, who left a Mississippi 
State program where players 
owned crossbows and hunting 
weapons, seemed accepting of 
the situation when asked about 
his gun policy and Toney’s ac-tions. Accepting in the most con-
fusing way possible. 
“I have a no-weapons policy, 
but it’s not like you’re not al-
lowed to own a gun,” he said. 
He proceeded to give a run-
down of why he thinks players 
who own weapons need to be 
properly educated on how to han-
dle them, but the most important 
takeaway is that he didn’t say he 
thought Toney owning an AR-15 
is wrong. 
Malik Davis and Jordan 
Scarlett are back
The return of running backs 
Malik Davis and Jordan Scarlett 
during the offseason gave the Gators’ offense a huge lift in the 
depth category.
Scarlett spent the 2017 season 
away from the team as one of 
nine people suspended in a credit 
card fraud case, and he was rein-
stated this spring. 
In 2016, Scarlett led the Gators 
in carries (179), yards (889) and 
rushing TDs (6).
The 5-11, 206-pounder hasn’t 
seemed to miss a beat and showed 
up in the spring in tremendous 
shape.
Davis was leading the Gators 
in rushing last season with 526 
yards before suffering a season-
ending knee injury against Geor-gia on Oct. 28.
In June, a message was sent 
out from Davis’ Twitter account 
indicating that he was cleared to 
play for the upcoming season. 
“All the work in the darkness 
gone come to light #allcleared 
U N C A G E D,” the tweet said.  
Now, 10 months after having re-
constructive surgery on the knee, 
Davis appears fully healthy and is 
expected to be available on Sept. 
1.
Mullen said he doesn’t plan on 
restricting Davis at all on game 
day.
“I think the big test is when we 
had the scrimmage we let him go 
to see his confidence level ... the 
confidence in getting tackled, of 
making a live cut and a live play,” 
Mullen said. FOOTBALL,  from pg. 13Mullen: No plans to restrict Malik Davis' playing timelineup for her debut match 
while Davis will battle for 
the outside hitting spot op-
posite of Foecke.
Florida hopes to counter 
this highly anticipated of-
fense with impenetrable de-
fense and skilled players at 
every spot on the court.
“The defense on this 
team is out of this world,” 
Florida middle blocker Ra-
chael Kramer said. “It’s bet-
ter than last year.”
Hard to believe her words 
after the Gators finished the 
2017 season third in the na-
tion in opponent hitting per-
centage (.144) and saw the 
graduation of Rhamat Alhas-
san, who led the nation in 
blocks per set with 1.70.
Even with the holes left 
by the graduating class, 
Florida is optimistic that the 
new additions on its team 
will step up and fill in.
Freshman Thayer Hall, 
who had 361 digs and 36 
blocks during her senior 
season in high school, is 
projected to crack the start-
ing lineup and be an anchor 
defensively in the back row. 
Coach Mary Wise also spoke 
adamantly about freshmen 
Paula Cerame’s and Riley 
Fischer’s defensive abilities 
and how they will be uti-
lized this season.“[Cerame and Fischer] 
were their teams’ best defen-
sive players in high school,” 
Wise said. “We know they 
have it in them.”
Cerame led her team with 
259 digs and earned a Pre-
pVolleyball.com High School 
All-America Special Mention 
while Fischer was named 
to the 2017 PrepVolleyball.
com Defensive Dandies after 
she totaled 412 digs and 325 
serves received. 
Wise also noted that the 
team’s defense should be 
spurred by the foot speed 
and grit in the front row. 
6-foot-6 freshman Lauren 
Dooley and 6-foot-7 North 
Carolina sophomore transfer 
Holly Carlton are two signif-
icant additions that are ex-
pected to be next to Kramer 
for what Wise hopes to be 
a suffocating defense at the 
net.
Wise believes that both 
the Nebraska and Texas 
matchups will help show 
where the team is against 
some of the best competition 
in the country.
“It’s why you schedule 
these matches…to know 
what we have and what we 
need to work on,” Wise said, 
“and we’re going to know 
from the first set on Friday 
night.” 
 @dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg. 13Gators, Cornhuskers set for championship rematch in opener
Alligator File Photo
Middle blocker Rachael Kramer (left) said she believes this year's Gators squad is better than last season's. "The 
defense on this team is out of this world, " she said. 
At Big Ten Media Days, Meyer denied 
knowing anything about an incident occur-
ring in 2015 while Zach was still with the 
team. Days later, he reversed course through 
a letter in which he said he knew about the 
incident and had reported it to his superiors. 
He essentially lied at media days, then re-
leased a statement to cover his tracks.
And that’s how attention shifted to Meyer.Now nearly every sports fan in the nation 
became invested in this story. Not because 
of what happened to Courtney, but because 
a collegiate football icon was involved in the 
story.
People were treating him as if he was the 
one who abused Courtney or his own wife.
I’ll admit that if he had known about the 
abuse and did nothing to stop it, he’s just as 
guilty as Zach is.
But Meyer should not be the focus of this 
issue. It should be Courtney. It needs to be Courtney. Hell, Meyer even had the chance 
to acknowledge Courtney at the press confer-
ence on Wednesday. A reporter asked him if 
he had anything to say to her. 
His response?
“I have a message for everyone in this, 
I’m sorry we are in this situation.”
Earlier in the press conference, he also 
apologized to Buckeyes fans and said that he 
had “followed my heart, not my head.”
He had two chances to apologize to Court-
ney, and both times he basically chose to ig-nore her instead. By failing to acknowledge 
her, he pretty much took Zach’s side in this. 
At the end of the day, by the nation turn-
ing its attention to Meyer and the Ohio State 
program, it took away any little power the 
victim in this domestic violence case had.
It’s despicable.
Jake Dreilinger is the assistant sports edi-
tor at The Alligator. Follow him on Twitter 
@DreilingerJake and contact him at jdreil-
inger@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 1316   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
SOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
UF coach Becky Burleigh isn’t fooled by Ohio 
State’s record.
The Buckeyes were ranked No. 23 in the na-
tion and opened the season with road trips of 
herculean proportions at No. 11 Duke and No. 4 
North Carolina. 
The Buckeyes have been blanked in both 
games 2-0. The nightmare opening for OSU 
comes to an end when it plays No. 5 Florida in 
Gainesville tonight at 7.
The 0-2 start for the defending Big Ten 
champs isn’t the focus for Burleigh heading into 
the matchup. Rather, it’s the Buckeyes’ quality. 
“There’s deﬁ  nitely an upgrade in competition 
for us,” she said. “I think it will be really good for 
us to test ourselves.”
The Buckeyes were predicted to ﬁ  nish second 
in the Big Ten preseason coaches poll behind 
Penn State. Their impact players include mid-
ﬁ  elders Arden Holden (2nd on team in assists 
with 7 in 2017) and Sarah Roberts (5 goals in 
2017), as well as defender Izzy Rodriguez. All 
three were included on the preseason Big Ten 
Players to Watch list.
Florida, meanwhile, is riding high after open-
ing-weekend victories over Washington and 
FAU. Forward Cassidy Lindley had a whale of a 
debut, scoring her ﬁ  rst collegiate goal and netting 
three assists. Her ﬁ  ve points leads the Gators. 
She was named SEC Freshman of the Week for her efforts.
Other players looking to carry momentum 
into this weekend include midﬁ  elder Sammie 
Betters and forward Madison Alexander. Both 
have scored in each of Florida’s games so far. In 
addition, goalkeeper Susi Espinoza set a career 
high in saves against FAU (7). She will most like-
ly split goalie duties with senior Kaylan Marckese 
this weekend.
Florida has a quick turnaround following its 
contest with Ohio State. The Gators will travel to 
Stillwater, Oklahoma, to take on Oklahoma State 
for their ﬁ  rst road game of the season on Sunday.   
Burleigh said she isn’t too worried about hav-
ing to play two games in two different parts of 
the country over three days.
“Story of our lives,” she said. “Just the way 
soccer season is.”
The upcoming weekend is just the begin-
ning of what is arguably the toughest stretch in 
Florida’s schedule. Starting with Ohio State, the 
Gators will play seven consecutive games against 
teams that made the NCAA Tournament last 
year. Four of the seven are currently ranked, in-
cluding No. 2 UCLA, No. 6 FSU and No. 8 South-
ern California.
“We deﬁ  nitely have tough opponents com-
ing up,” senior defender Sara Wilson said. “But I 
think that’s what makes us Florida soccer. Deal-
ing with those tough situations deﬁ  nitely makes 
us who we are.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org Florida soccer set for “upgrade” in competition this weekend
Alligator File Photo
Midﬁ  elder Sammie Betters has scored on her only two shots this season. 
The Associated Press
Ohio State suspended coach 
Urban Meyer for three games on 
Wednesday night for mishandling 
repeated professional and behav-
ioral problems of an assistant 
coach, with investigators ﬁ  nding 
Meyer protected his protege for years through domestic violence 
allegations, a drug problem and 
poor job performance.
The superstar coach’s treat-
ment of his now-ﬁ  red assistant 
was also clouded by his abiding 
devotion to the legacy of former 
Ohio State coach Earle Bruce, the 
grandfather of former wide re-
ceivers coach Zach Smith and an early coaching mentor for Meyer.
“I gave Zach Smith the beneﬁ  t 
of the doubt,” Meyer said.
The investigation turned up 
“a pattern of troubling behavior 
by Zach Smith: promiscuous and 
embarrassing sexual behavior, 
drug abuse, truancy, dishonesty, 
ﬁ  nancial irresponsibility, a possi-
ble NCAA violation, and a lengthy police investiga-
tion into allega-
tions of crimi-
nal domestic 
violence and 
cybercrimes,” 
according to 
summary inves-
tigative ﬁ  ndings released by the 
university on Wednesday night.Meyer knew about at least 
some of the issues.
The report and punishment 
culminated a two-week investiga-
tion of how Meyer reacted to al-
legations that Smith abused his 
ex-wife, Courtney Smith. Zach 
Smith was ﬁ  red last month after 
she asked a judge for a protective 
order. Ohio State suspends Meyer 3 games, says he protected protege
Meyer
