We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
See the photos from Take Back the Night
Students shared their stories of assault, pg. 8 & 9.
St. Francis Pet Care building new clinic 
They are about $10,000 away from their goal, pg. 3.VITAL SIGNS
Florida gymnast Kennedy Baker has 
been learning sign language to help her communicate with a hearing-impaired family member, pg. 15.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 77
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE SHOP WILL OPEN SUNDAY AT 
CELEBRATION POINTE. 
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
To Emily Fradet, Kilwins means Christmas. 
Fradet, a 19-year-old UF psychology soph-
omore, said she visits the sweets and ice 
cream store during the holidays in St. Augus-
tine with family and friends. 
This Sunday, a Kilwins store will open at 
4949 Celebration Pointe Ave. in Celebration 
Pointe, a mixed-use development near the in-
tersection of Interstate 75 and Archer Road, said Ralph Conti, one of the development’s partners.
Kilwins will be the ﬁ  rst eatery to open in 
the development, with others, such as MidiCi The Neapolitan Pizza Company, planned to open in a couple of months, Conti said. The Regal movie theater, which is opening Sun-day, will also sell food, as well as alcohol, Conti said.
Conti said Kilwins is a good ﬁ  t for Celebra-
tion Pointe.
“They’re a very unique brand. They’ve 
been around a long time, and they have a fol-lowing, so we’re excited to have them,” Conti said.
Ron Brunette, a Kilwins spokesperson, 
said the chain of about 130 stores makes its own chocolate and ice cream in Michigan and Ohio. Other items, such as fudge and caramel apples, are made fresh in the store, he said.
“We strive to make every single location 
unique,” Brunette said.
Fradet said she looks forward to enjoying 
Kilwins’ caramel apples again soon.
“It’s kind of different from a regular ice 
cream shop,” Fradet said. “It has a family at-mosphere. It’s welcoming.”
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgBy Nicole Cruz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Steve Szanca received a call in 
March from a man saying he had some equipment to donate to the North Cen-
tral Florida YMCA. 
It wasn’t until the man sent him 
pictures of the professional equipment 
inside a gym that Szanca realized how 
much it would beneﬁ  t the organiza-
tion.   
The call came from 34-year-old 
Kyle Gold, president of Alter Ego Fit-ness, a gym located at 101 SE Second 
Place. Gold said Alter Ego is expecting 
to close its Gainesville location by the end of May, and instead of selling its equipment and ofﬁ  ce supplies, it’s giv-
ing everything to the YMCA located at 
5201 NW 34th Blvd.
“I didn’t realize he was with a gym,” Szanca said about the phone call with Gold. “As we learned more about the scope of the donation, we quickly be-
came very excited.” 
Szanca said the donation of up to 
$200,000 includes cardio machines, 
free weight sets, weight machines, art-
work, furniture and art that was in the 
gym. 
Gold said downtown Gainesville’s 
Sun Center, the building Alter Ego Fitness is located in, was bought by 
a South Florida company six months 
ago. The new building owners in-creased the cost of rent for the space, and the gym was no longer able to sus-
tain its business.
When Gold realized the fate of the 
location, Alter Ego Fitness decided to 
uphold its values in serving the com-munity and donate everything to the Kilwins chocolate store to 
open in Gainesville Alter Ego Fitness donating 
equipment to YMCABy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A package of fruit cups, two 
cans, a pack of soap and box of 
macaroni and cheese gathering dust 
in Valentina Eslava’s kitchen cabi-
net since Hurricane Irma got her out of paying a $250 parking citation fee.
The 19-year-old UF health sci-
ence freshman jumped out of bed Monday morning and rushed to UF Transportation and Parking Servic-es after learning UF President Kent 
Fuchs’ April Fools prank to forgive 
campus parking tickets was true. By 
8:30 a.m., her parking citation was forgiven.
“I came out of the ofﬁ  ce jump-
ing,” she said. “I was so happy.”
Eslava’s ticket was one of 90 ci-
tations excused on the ﬁ  rst day of “Food for Fines,” a program that forgives UF parking tickets and cita-
tion ﬁ  nes issued issued in the last 
year in exchange for a donation of 
ﬁ  ve items to the Field and Fork Pan-try between April 1, 2017 to Sun-day, said AnaLee Rodriguez, the Transportation and Parking Servic-es marketing specialist. By Wednes-day, 625 citation holders donated nonperishable foods and toiletries.
Rodriguez said people without 
parking citations decided to donate as well, adding to more than 3,000 donated items by Wednesday morn-ing.
Eslava was running late to class 
on Valentine’s Day and parked her scooter in the blue diagonal lines next to a handicapped parking space. By the time her three-hour class ended, she was ﬁ  ned for $250. 
She originally planned to take on 
extra shifts at Southwest Recreation Center to pay for the citation by Friday, but Fuchs’ announcement on Monday that his prank was true came just in time.  
“I’m a big believer that everyone 
could be forgiven, so that’s exactly what he did,” Eslava said. “It was a week of amnesty.”
Rodriguez pitched the “Food for 
Fines” idea to UF’s social media team in January, she said. Once Fuchs heard of the idea, he asked if it would be a part of his April Fools joke this year. 
“This is a really good time to 
donate and ﬁ  ll up that pantry when it’s a little bit empty,” she said.
Two parking service employees Thousands of items donated to ‘Food for Fines’ program
SEE YMCA,  PAGE 5SEE DONATIONS,  PAGE 5Amanda Rosa / Alligator
Isobel Vincent, 2, picks up diapers at the UF Transportation and Parking Services ofﬁ  ce Wednesday. Employees donated two boxes to her and her parents after her father, Michael Vincent, a 33-year-old UF PhD musicology candidate, tweeted at UF President Kent Fuchs about the “Food for Fines” program.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
HIGH  84° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
What Were You Wearing? 
Exhibit
The “What Were You Wearing?" art exhibit is being displayed until April 30 on the third floor 
of Ustler Hall Library. STRIVE 
at GatorWell and the American Student Medical Association have collaborated with anony-
mous UF student survivors to 
show the outfits they wore dur-
ing their attacks. An opening re-
ception will be held from 5:30 to 8 p.m. Friday in the Ustler Hall Atrium. For more info, call 352-273-4450.
GamerNights
The GatorNights’ theme today is gaming experiences. Activities 
will feature stuff-a-Pokémon, 
8-bit art and human foosball. The movie “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” will play. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Open jam and art show
The Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., will hold an 
open jam and art show from 8 
to 11:40 p.m. Friday. The center encourages people to play some songs they know, riffs or pro-gressions they’ve been working on or just feed entirely off the moment and co-create some-thing new with strangers. The open jam comes with all the ac-
coutrements, drum kit, bass and 
guitar amps, microphones and room on the board.
Florida Museum Plant Sale
The Florida Museum of Natural History will host a sale with 
more than 175 species of dif-
ficult-to-find and pollinator-friendly plants from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday and 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday. Accent, host, native and nectar plants as well as edible plants from Natural Treasures Farm & Nursery will be available for purchase, with 
proceeds benefiting the muse-
um’s “Butterfly Rainforest” ex-hibit. For more information, call 352-273-2057.
UF Bug Week scavenger hunt
To celebrate UF’s annual Bug Week, the Florida Museum of Natural History will hold a free 
scavenger hunt from 10 a.m. 
to noon Saturday. Teams will be given bug-related clues for a chance to win prizes. Visitors may also touch live insects at the UF entomology department’s Bug Zoo near the “Discovery Zone” exhibit. For more infor-mation, call 352-846-2000.
Wikipedia Edit-a-thon
Join members of the campus and community from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday at the Harn Museum of Art to edit and create Wikipedia pages related to art and feminism and underrepre-sented peoples in the arts. No ex-
perience is required. Interested 
people can bring their laptops. For details, visit artandfeminism.org/our-story.
Gainesville High School Theatre
Gainesville High School will present Disney’s “Peter Pan Jr.” showings at 7 p.m. April 12 to 
April 14, at 7 p.m. April 19 to 
April 21 and at 2 p.m. April 21. Tickets, which can be picked up at GHS Auditorium Box Office one hour before each show, cost $10 for adults and $7 for stu-dents. The GHS auditorium is located at 1900 NW 13th Street. For more information, call Sarah 
Shepherd at 352-213-8666.Walk the Talk for Epilepsy
The Epilepsy Foundation of 
Florida will host its annual Walk the Talk for Epilepsy at Veterans Memorial Park, located at 7400 SW 41st Pl., April 28. The event 
will raise awareness and funds 
to benefit Floridians impacted by epilepsy. Registration will open at 8 a.m., with the walk follow-ing at 9 a.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction
In an article published Wednesday titled "Student sena-tors announce effort to expand free printing across UF cam-
pus," The Alligator incorrectly 
reported Action SG would live stream the State of the Campus Address and Senate meetings. The Senate Information and Communications committee will be in charge of live streaming Senate meetings, and Action SG will live stream the State of the 
Campus Address.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 77
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
$10 eGift Card
DONATE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE OneBlood 
T-shirt & $10 
eGift Card for  
all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!YouMAKE A DIFFERENCE!THE ORGANIZATION 
HOPES TO START 
CONSTRUCTION IN THE 
NEXT FEW WEEKS.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
With 800 cats and dogs run-
ning around, St. Francis Pet Care 
is organized chaos. 
Corey Fisher, a volunteer at 
the pet clinic for homeless or low-income individuals, said 
there’s limited space and hun-
dreds of pets to care for, forc-ing volunteers to get creative with their resources. It means 
dragging around chairs so own-
ers can sit and using rooms for purposes they weren’t created for, the ﬁ  rst year UF veterinary medicine student said. 
“We’ll use the bathroom as 
an exam room for cats,” he said. “The only time it becomes a problem is when someone really 
needs to use the bathroom and 
there’s a cat in there.” 
Soon, the cats will have their 
own room in a new 2,100-square-foot clinic. The organization 
plans to start construction with-
in the next three or four weeks and hopes to host a grand open-ing in September, said Galey 
Gravenstein, treasurer for St. 
Francis Pet Care. The new clinic will sit directly behind the St. 
Francis House, located at 413 S 
Main Street.
Inside, there will be three pri-
vate rooms — one for cats, one for aggressive dogs and an op-
erating room — as well as one 
large room with six exam ar-eas. The organization has raised 
$310,000 of the $320,000 needed 
for the building, Gravenstein said. 
“We are beyond excited,” she 
said. “It has really ﬁ  lled a spot in the community” St. Francis Pet Care, which 
opened in 2007, is staffed entire-ly by volunteers and offers free 
veterinary services to homeless 
people, disabled veterans and low-income residents. Its ser-vices include basic exams, con-
sultations, ﬂ  ea and heartworm 
treatment and microchipping. The clinic also partners with UF to send pets to be spayed and neutered.
The center has operated out 
of a small rental unit, at 501 SE Second St., since it moved out of the main St. Francis House 
building in 2011.
On Tuesdays, when the clinic 
is open, the building feels like it 
may burst, Gravenstein said. She watches her feet to avoid step-
ping on any toes or paws. 
The new clinic will not only 
expand the physical space, but 
also the scope of the clinic’s ser-
vices. They hope to set up an 
operating room where they can spay and neuter pets onsite, per-form dental cleanings and con-duct minor surgeries, she said. 
Volunteers are also hoping to 
open the clinic twice a week in-stead of once.
Gravenstein said PetSmart 
Charities and other companies have donated money or ser-vices, including Walker Archi-tects, which designed the build-ing; CHW, which engineered it; 
and Charles Perry Partners Inc., 
which will build it. 
Gravenstein said she is 
thrilled the new building will 
help the team offer more quality 
care to pet owners who need it most, she said.
“They need this uncondition-
al love,” she said. “That dog or 
cat is purring or wagging their 
tail and licking on them in just total adoration no matter what.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgSt. Francis Pet Care to build new clinic to meet demand
Courtesy to The Alligator
The new 2,100-square-foot clinic will be directly behind the St. Francis House, located at 413 S Main St.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Vera Mathews (left) holds Nate, and Yvette Mathews holds Bella as they pose for a photo at St. Francis 
Pet Care. By Sabrina Conza
Alligator Contributing Writer
Noam Bilitzer’s mom was shocked when 
she turned on the TV and saw her son live his 
childhood dream. 
Her son kept her in the dark for almost nine 
months as he applied for, filmed and won an 
episode of Food Network’s “Chopped.” 
“My family always joked about me being 
on the show,” said Bilitzer, who’s the Chef 
de Cuisine at the restaurant Proof on Main in Louisville, Kentucky. 
The 2011 graduate of Gainesville’s Insti-
tute of Culinary Arts at Eastside High School won the title “Chopped Champion” and $10,000 on an episode that premiered Tues-day. The episode will air again 9 p.m. Thurs-
day.
“I was in complete shock,” the 25-year-old 
said. “I was basically frozen for a few hours 
afterward and didn’t really realize what had happened.”
His episode of the show, which was filmed 
in October, was centered on meat. Bilitzer and the other chefs cooked with wild boar, antelope and venison. 
He prepared seared wild boar loin with 
alligator and truffle glaze for the appetizer. 
The main course was seared antelope with 
rare heart and charred dandelion greens, and a venison sausage fritter with moose milk creme anglaise.
Despite being unfamiliar with the meat, 
Bilitzer was able to win because he had a strategy: He kept it simple and focused on making good food.  
After middle school, Bilitzer moved from 
South Florida to Gainesville to pursue his passion at The Institute of Culinary Arts, a magnet program at Eastside High School. 
Although he was a failing student, he 
turned his grades around at the institute and 
graduated with a 4.0 GPA, he said.
He credits chefs Pamela Bedford and Billie 
DeNunzio from the institute with helping him 
advance his skills.
Bedford said Bilitzer was one of her first 
students at the institute because she started 
working there when he was a freshman, so 
the two grew together. 
Bilitzer stood out from the beginning, she 
said. 
“I was just really impressed with his level 
of maturity and his dedication to food in gen-eral,” Bedford said.
She said Bilitzer called her two weeks be-
fore the episode aired to tell her to watch. 
Before the episode, she was nervous he 
hadn’t won, so she convinced herself he lost to avoid disappointment. 
At 11 p.m. when she found out he won, 
she screamed in excitement. 
“My husband said, ‘Hush! You’re going to 
wake up the kids,’” she said. 
Bilitzer said he would recommend for oth-
er chefs to go on “Chopped” if they’re willing to work hard.
“It’s a lot harder than what people might 
think,” he said. “There’s no real preparation.”4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
Courtesy to The Alligator 
Noam Bilitzer, 25, a 2011 graduate of the Institute of Culinary Arts at Eastside High School, won the “Chopped Champion” title and $10,000 on Food Network’s “Chopped” episode that premiered Tuesday. 
Eastside High School alumnus wins on Food Network showBy T amarra Thal
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dava Sobel remembers a conversation with 
a woman who thought the work the women 
did in the movie “Hidden Figures” was “cute.” 
This showed a level of internalized misog-
yny many women have, she said. Sobel even 
sees it in herself. 
Despite this, women should still pursue 
careers they are passionate about and refuse 
to let men take their credit away, Sobel said. 
About 200 UF students, faculty and public 
members came to see Sobel, the No. 1 New 
York Times best-selling author of “Galileo’s 
Daughter,” Thursday night at Ustler Hall. The event was sponsored by the UF College of Lib-eral Arts and Sciences using private founda-tion funds, said Mary Watt, an associate dean of the college. 
“I feel very fortunate that I was able to 
put my interest in science together with my love of writing,” Sobel said. “It’s difﬁ  cult, in a 
strange way, but it’s fun.” 
Sobel also discussed the groundbreaking 
achievements of women in astronomy such 
as Williamina Fleming, who devised a system for classifying stars in the Harvard College Ob-servatory.
Rachel Kalicharan, a 19-year-old UF biolo-
gy sophomore, said science ﬁ  elds are typically white male-dominated, so it’s challenging to 
be seen as credible in the ﬁ  eld as a woman of 
color, noting her Indian ethnicity. 
“Sometimes the accomplishments of wom-
en can be downplayed or discredited, and this can make you downplay your work,” she said. “What (Sobel) said makes me feel like 
my achievements are credible.”FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
T amarra Thal / Alligator Contributor 
About 200 UF students, faculty and members of the public 
came to see Dava Sobel, the author of the No. 1 New York Times best-selling novel “Galileo’s Daughter, ” Thursday night at Ustler Hall. Sobel’s other novels include “The Glass Universe” and “Longitude. ”
By Rachel Porter 
and Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer 
and Staff Writer
The Oaks Mall Plaza will be 
sold on April 26, according to a 
notice of sale the U.S. Bank Na-tional Association submitted to the Alachua County Circuit Court.
Rushmore Properties, which 
owns the plaza located at 6711 W. Newberry Road, owes the bank-ing association about $14 mil-lion from a loan issued in 2006. On March 6, a ﬁ  nal judgement of foreclosure was issued on the case that was ﬁ  rst ﬁ  led in August, ac-cording to court records. The Oaks 
Mall Plaza is adjacent to the Oaks 
Mall but is separately owned.
The judgement was handed 
down about a week before Toys R Us, one of the anchors of the plaza, announced it would close. Other properties in the shopping center include Starbucks, Jason’s Deli and Super Optical Express, 
according to the website of South-
ern Management and Develop-ment, who formally managed the property.
For Dave Walker, a co-owner 
of Bearded Browncoat Comics & Games, the possible foreclosure doesn’t affect the everyday busi-ness of his one-month-old comic 
book shop. As of now, he still sends his rent check to a court-
appointed management company, Crossman & Company, instead of 
Southern Management and Devel-
opment.
The bank’s attorney, Kevin A. 
Reck, ﬁ  led an emergency motion against the borrower, Rushmore Properties, and Southern Manage-ment and Development for not providing information and docu-ments to Crossman & Company but withdrew the motion against the management company on 
Thursday. Reck did not respond 
to multiple requests for comment.
Southern Management and De-
velopment also did not respond to multiple requests for comment. 
John Crossman, CEO of Cross-
man & Company, said their goal is to clean up the property and begin marketing to new tenants.
“We love Gainesville,” he 
said. “We love that property as well, it’s one of the main entrance points to the city.”
Crossman is listing vacant 
spaces in the plaza including a movie theater.
Walker expects the theater and 
other vacancies will ﬁ  ll eventu-
ally.
“Things come and go, and I’m 
sure the movie theater will open 
again,” he said. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgOaks Mall Plaza to be 
sold this monthNYT best-selling author speaks about women in astronomy
and a supervisor pitched in as well after Mi-
chael Vincent, a UF musicology PhD candi-date, replied to Fuchs’ tweet announcing the program.
“Thank you! My family could use items 
like these. I hope someone brings size 4 dia-
pers!” the 33-year-old tweeted.
Vincent and his wife, Rebecca Perthes, 36, 
a UF mental health counseling graduate stu-
dent, struggle to keep up with the need for diapers for their two-year-old daughter Isobel. 
The couple often ﬁ  nds themselves with 
$20 in their bank account trying to balance paying rent and buying a $10 pack of diapers, he said. Food banks rarely supply diapers, Vincent said.
The employees noticed Vincent’s tweet 
and bought Isobel boxes of Luvs and Pam-pers.Vincent and Isobel picked up their dona-
tion at the ofﬁ  ce Wednesday afternoon. As Isobel climbed on top of the boxes, Vincent thanked Rodriguez to reaching out. Rent is going to be a little easier to pay this month, Vincent said.
“We feel really blessed that we got them 
because they will really help us this month with our expenses,” he said. “We don’t have that stability every month.”
Although she doesn’t know if the amnesty 
program will return next year, Rodriguez said she’s happy to show students how much the parking services employees care. 
“It’s heartwarming to see the reaction 
we’re getting from outside people with dona-tions, but also our own staff members,” she said. “They’re getting in the spirit of donating. So that’s all I can ask.”
@AmandaNicRosa
Amanda Rosa / Alligator
UF Transportation and Parking Services collected more than 3,000 perishable goods as of Wednesday as part of “Food for Fines, ” a program that forgives UF parking tickets and ﬁ  nes from April 1, 2017 to April 1, 2018, in exchange for a donations.
local non-proﬁ  t YMCA, Gold said. 
“It worked out,” Gold said. “We got to 
do something nice on our way out.”
Gold said the equipment won’t be the 
only thing from the gym moving to the YMCA. As part of Alter Ego Fitness’s exit 
strategy, a few staff members, including 
the general manager, front desk manager, 
a few trainers and some class instructors, will also be transitioning to work at the YMCA.  
The YMCA community and people who 
use the facility are excited for the new equipment, said Nancy Walsh, who volun-teers on YMCA’s board of marketing and 
communications and has been a member 
for 20 years.
In December 2016, the North Florida 
YMCA almost closed due to ﬁ  nancial trou-bles, but about 400 donors contributed a 
total of $1.2 million to keep the gym aﬂ  oat, according to Alligator archives. 
“It feels great to have a donation so big 
come our way when we have had struggles 
early on,” 
Walsh said. “This donation is just one 
more step in the right direction.”The “Food for Fines” program 
ends today at 5 p.m.
Several of the gym’s stafers will transition to the YMCA DONATIONS,  from pg. 1
YMCA,  from pg. 1The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
As you speed walk to your 12:50 p.m. class because you 
woke up late, you ﬁ  nally reach the corner of West University 
and 13th Street. You’re sweaty and 20 minutes late when the 
Hub comes into sight. Will being ﬁ  ve minutes late to lecture actually make a difference? You did bring a reusable traveling 
mug, after all. You go to the Starbucks counter, give them your 
typical order — a grande French vanilla iced latte, double the syrup with caramel drizzle and an extra shot of espresso  — 
and they stick on the label. 
A few minutes later, the very nice and cute barista calls 
your name and hands you your drink. The barista gives you a smile and hangs onto your drink a little longer than expected. 
Was it a sign? Was the barista hinting at something? 
Maybe the barista left a message on the label, you think. As 
you walk away, you force yourself to keep going until you’re out of sight. Heartbeat quickening, you turn your mug and, in messy handwriting, you see … 
Darts & Laurels 
President Donald Trump recently announced as high as a 10 
percent tariff on paper that comes to the U.S. from Canada. The 
tariff — a tax placed on certain items imported from designated 
countries — can have far-reaching implications. It could raise the cost of paper as much as 32 percent. 
Newspapers are feeling the hurt, along with farmers. Tampa 
Bay Times Chairman and CEO Paul Tash wrote the increase in imported paper will result in the company spending $3 million 
more a year on newsprint. It’s a cost that will result in cutting 
jobs and, ultimately, stories of the community being left untold. 
The cost of journalism is one worth paying in order to keep a 
democracy in check. For that reason, we award Trump a dart.   
Our society undoubtedly has an issue with sexual assault. In 
recent months, we’ve seen hundreds of men and women join the #MeToo movement, a viral social media campaign that allows survivors to share their stories. 
It is often during moments like these, in which awareness is 
at its peak, that changes in culture happen. This is why sexual violence awareness matters, now more than ever. We are proud 
to see our fellow UF community recognize that.
On Wednesday, seeing the signs and hearing the chants of 
about 200 people who marched in Gainesville to protest sexual violence was encouraging. Afterward, they held a rally and al-
lowed survivors to tell their stories.
We recognize sharing survival experiences for most is heart-
breaking to say the least. For being brave enough to ﬁ  ght sexual assault, we award a laurel to all survivors and those who par-
ticipated in the Take Back The Night rally. 
Few people actually change the world. Even fewer change it 
both while they’re alive and dead. Wednesday marked the anni-
versary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., a man who 
continues to inspire progress even 50 years after he was killed. 
Across the nation, crowds gathered to honor his work, includ-
ing at UF, where the Century Tower carillon tolled 39 times to commemorate each year of King’s life. Perhaps the most signiﬁ  -cant demonstration took place in Memphis, Tennessee, where 
thousands rallied at the National Civil Rights Museum, which is 
housed in the old Lorraine Motel where King was killed. 
King was one of the most important voices in the civil rights 
movement during the 1950s and 1960s, and his powerful words still resonate today. He dreamed to live in a world where people are judged for “the content of their character,” not their skin color 
or other superﬁ  cial reasons. We still haven’t accomplished that, 
so the ﬁ  ght for equality must continue. To everyone who took 
some time out of their hump day this week to pay a tribute to 
King, we present you a laurel. Column
Two years ago, Gainesville declared itself 
a welcoming city. However, a recent in-
cident with the Gainesville Police has 
shown it may not be all that welcoming. 
An undocumented woman from Gua-
temala reported abuse to the police. Her boy-friend was suspected of kicking and hitting her as she tried to leave the apartment. The man was arrested. 
Speaking about the victim, witnesses in the 
apartment and the man arrested, GPD spokes-person Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias told the Gainesville Sun “we have clear evidence to prove that they are illegal. If they are, we will report them to ICE.” 
Reporting a victim of abuse to Immigrants and Cus-
toms Enforcement is essentially saying it’s OK to abuse people because they’re undocumented. It will increase 
fears the police are out to get them. Undocumented peo-
ple have the right to feel safe in their communities. 
This incident shows while Gainesville has a liberal 
and accepting atmosphere on the surface, police may not be as friendly as they seem in the “hot cop” photo or 
while playing basketball with kids on the street.  
Police cannot be everywhere at once, and sometimes 
they rely on tips about crime. By overzealously taking on 
immigration enforcement even though it’s not meant to 
be in their purview, GPD is scaring people from report-
ing crimes. What’s next? Will hospitals report undocu-mented immigrants who come in with an injury? Will an undocumented person be reported to ICE for calling the ﬁ  re department? These are resources that belong to the 
public, not just to American citizens. 
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time a local police force has taken 
a report of a crime as an opportunity to turn someone in 
to ICE. In fact, such incidents might happen more often than they get noticed by journalists. According to CNN, 
earlier this year, a man near Seattle reported a trespasser 
on his property and was arrested after the police showed up and found an outstanding ICE warrant for the caller. ICE warrants aren’t held to the same standard as any other criminal warrant. They are issued by the agency itself and not independently reviewed. 
These incidents break trust with the com-
munity. Often people will question a victim’s motives when they do not immediately report a crime to police. They might say reporting to the police doesn’t hurt, and it may be the only way for police to know which crimes to inves-tigate. Incidents in which police arrest the vic-
tims or turn them in for an unrelated crime just 
create more reasons for people not to report to 
police. 
There are many different crimes out there, and two 
illegal acts are not necessarily equally severe. Murder 
and money laundering, for example, or fraud and sell-
ing marijuana. In these cases, most of us believe one is worse than another. 
To be undocumented is to not have appropriate pa-
pers and doesn’t mean anything more than that. Legally, it’s more comparable to a parking ticket than a violent crime. Undocumented people deserve public resources, like police and education, as much as anyone else. 
The fact Tobias thought reporting an undocumented 
victim to ICE was mandatory speaks volumes. It’s not actually about what’s best for the community, but rather about a vendetta against undocumented immigrants. The 
undocumented people in this story were not reported to 
ICE, after public backlash. According to a Facebook post by Mayor Poe, the police department will not be report-ing to ICE any more, but the story still raises questions about what police policies exist across the country.
We respect jurisdiction in all other situations, why not 
this one? There are crimes that fall under different en-forcement agencies. Undocumented Americans are a part of our communities. Ideally, a police force should make their top priority keeping the community safe, including 
everyone in it.
 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and journalism se-
nior. Her column focuses on race and culture. Gainesville is not as welcoming as it claims to be
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
DRINK ALCOHOL 
RECENTLY?
www.edgelabresearch.org
352.214.4047
UF study. No medication. 
Must be someone who drinks alcohol regularly & be willing to participate in an in-person session & 2-week period using smartphone technology. Compensation.
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
I was quite disappointed to 
see the feature Friday article from last week detail the blight of insufﬁ  cient funding for the Disability Resource 
Center on campus. The article made reference to the decision by the local fee committee not to in-crease funding for the DRC back in October, which brought back a lot of bad memories, as it was that very same meeting in which the committee turned down an opportunity to increase funding to the Counseling & Wellness Center.
As you might recall, back when the news 
ﬁ  rst broke about the decision, I wrote a 
rather aggressive letter to the editor lambast-
ing the decision, and I received a notable 
amount of aggressive pushback from people who may not have fully understood how the 
committee worked. Now that The Alligator 
has brought attention to yet another conse-quence of that fateful meeting, I thought it 
would be ﬁ  tting for me to talk about the lo-
cal fee committee and how it exists in the context of funding the DRC, CWC and other 
entities on campus.
There is next to no information out there 
on the internet, but here is what I know about the committee to the best of my un-
derstanding. The committee is comprised of eight members: four faculty and four 
students. The Student Body president nomi-
nates the students in the summer, and the Senate conﬁ  rms them. This past year, they all happened to be high-ranking members of 
the executive branch. 
The committee approves or denies pro-
posals in relation to various per-credit fee increases. If the committee approves a pro-
posal, it goes to the university president for approval after consultation with the Student 
Body president with ﬁ  nal approval by the 
University Board of Trustees, according to section 1009.24 (11) of the Florida Statutes.
Last October, the CWC and DRC both sent 
in proposals for fee increases in order to get more funding. The students on the commit-tee voted down the proposals, among others. 
Their reasoning?
“Those who supported the motion to zero out all fee increase requests, do 
so under the notion that we as 
students believe that there is an 
alternative solution to ﬁ  xing the lack of resources in each depart-
ment without increasing the cost 
of tuition and fees. We believe that college affordability is of the 
utmost importance and decreas-
ing the overhead on the health 
fee could resolve these issues with directly 
appropriating a larger proportion of these 
funds to the services they are intended to provide.”
So, clearly, the students had their own 
ideas to ﬁ  x the issue, namely decreasing the overhead on the health fee. In brief, it’s a 13 
percent charge by UF against all expenditures 
of auxiliary organizations such as the CWC and DRC. The money collected goes toward 
funding other parts of administration that 
don’t bring in money, such as public safety and human resources.
Essentially, the students voted against 
funding the CWC, DRC and other organiza-tions because they wanted to try to get mon-
ey another way. So what happened? Frankly, 
I have no idea. We certainly haven’t seen any front page news about either entities receiv-
ing more funding.
It is imperative for us to know what be-
came of the executive branch’s effort to get increased funding for the CWC and DRC, be-
cause we all need to be on the same page in order to most effectively pursue alternate 
solutions. 
I know no one wants to be the person 
who says, “It’s time to raise student fees,” but even if raising student fees is the last re-
sort, we need to have transparency in order to know if it indeed is time to do so.
I’ve set up a meeting with the director of 
the CWC and the director of the DRC in or-der to get a better understanding of the fund-
ing sources of both entities to see if there are 
other solutions for us to pursue.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email 
me at: zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
sophomore and Murphree Area Senator. His 
column focuses on Student Government.So you want to get more funding 
for the CRC and the CWC?Column
Zachariah Chou
opinions@alligator.orgA recently released Record-ing Industry Association of America (RIAA) re-port revealed physical music sales surpassed 
digital downloads in 2017 for the ﬁ  rst time since 2011. The differ-ence is only 2 percent, but it is still signiﬁ  cant. It is an indicator of the two factors that killed digi-tal downloading: the rise of vinyl and the dominance of streaming.
The most interesting part about this new 
data is total physical sales are dropping; they are just dropping slower than digital’s current nosedive into oblivion (which fell 25 percent last year). Providing that critical sales push was vinyl’s 10 percent growth, a trend that has only been gaining speed in recent years.
Vinyl’s rise should be directly related to 
the same events that initiated digital down-loading’s fall from grace. Ten years ago, iTunes was king. For $0.99 a song, you could pick and choose your favorite tracks from albums and create unique playlists composed of only hit singles. However, when Apple increased the price of a down-loaded song to $1.29, everything changed. That amount apparently crossed the line in the mind of the consumer, and digital downloading has only continued to drown as superior alternatives arise.
The ﬁ  rst superior alternative was the 
revival of vinyl. As the world becomes more and more digitized, we face the odd dichotomy of acquiring more stuff more easily, yet in the end, having fewer physi-cal things. Now, all of our photos, books, music and movies can be ours without physically owning them. Our libraries of entertainment are now intangible, stored on hard drives and clouds across the coun-try. Such abstract ownership makes con-tent much more accessible, but deprives consumers of the satisfaction of actually owning a physical item.
When I was a sophomore in high school, 
before I even had my ﬁ  rst record player, I bought a vinyl copy of the Strokes’ al-bum “Is This It.” Even though I lacked the means to actually listen to it, I still jumped at the opportunity to buy the vinyl. Why? Because I loved that album so much that I wanted to physically own it. I wanted to touch it, proudly dis-play it on my shelf and have a physical copy of something that I adored.
Before long, I got a record 
player and started assembling a record collection, sparking a new hobby and source of enjoyment in my life. This element of hav-
ing a personal collection is why the vinyl industry is rising; people like to physically look at their music collection, seeing the stacks of their favorite albums get a little higher each year. We are physical creatures who value ownership above most things. The satisfaction and pride that comes from a music library you can touch beats show-ing your friends your “digital library.”
The second and ﬁ  nal nail in digital 
downloading’s cofﬁ  n is now the future of music consumption: streaming. About two-thirds of U.S. music industry revenues last year came from streaming, and it is show-ing no signs of stopping. Streaming grew 43 percent from 2016, and there are now more than 35.3 million paid music sub-scriptions in the U.S. alone.
Who in their right mind would pay 
$1.29 to download one song to own it, when you can pay $8 a month and listen to almost every song ever recorded? The innovative business model for streaming simply cannot be matched; it provides con-sumers with more of what they want and for signiﬁ  cantly less. Can it get any better than that?
From where we are right now, it is hard 
to see anything surpassing streaming from its throne. That being said, people prob-ably said the same thing about the fax ma-chine and pagers. Even better, I wonder if people thought the same thing about digital downloading 10 years ago? The music in-dustry will only become more innovative and revolutionary over time.
With streaming on top for the foresee-
able future, it is safe to say that digital downloading is dead, but how are we to know if streaming is not due for the same fate?
Andrew Hall is a UF management se-
nior. His column focuses on entertainment. 
Why did digital downloading die?Column
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
Story by Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Photos by Emma Green
Alligator
This wasn’t supposed to be Mar-
iam Mohamed’s first rally against 
sexual violence. 
She had planned to go to Take 
Back The Night at Davidson College in North Carolina, which she had previously attended. Instead, she lay in a hospital bed after overdos-ing on 65 pills. 
Two weeks prior to her first 
suicide attempt, she lost the case against her sexual assaulter.
She said she was assaulted three 
months into her freshman year at 
Davidson. After losing the case and 
filing for a restraining order against 
the perpetrator, she transferred dur-ing her sophomore year to UF.  
“It’s a double-edged sword, 
hearing the stories and know-ing that it’s such a common thing 
that happens,” Mohamed, now a 
20-year-old UF women’s studies junior, said at the UF rally. “But at 
the same time, knowing that there 
are so many people who understand 
what you’re going through is really 
comforting.”
The Take Back the Night rally 
took place Wednesday night on the 
Plaza of the Americas. The event 
was put together by UF’s Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Ed-ucation, or STRIVE, a group over-seen by GatorWell that’s dedicated to education on sexual trauma.
During the event, a couple hun-
dred people marched down Union Road toward Southwest 13th Street. They moved down West University Avenue and Fletcher Drive before leading back to Union Road and the plaza. 
Shalini Mirpuri, a peer educator 
for STRIVE, said the event has been put on by the organization for the past four years but has been held at 
UF since the 1970s.
“For as long as college has been 
around, college sexual violence 
has been around,” said Mirpuri, a 
26-year-old UF marriage and family 
therapy graduate student.
STRIVE’s budget from GatorWell 
was used for the event, which cost 
about $3,000 to $4,000 to put on, 
Mirpuri said.
Jessica Trochez, a 20-year-old 
UF psychology junior, made a post-
er in support of survivors that read, 
in green marker, “Rape is not sex. It is violence.”
Take Back the Night is an inter-
national march for sexual violence awareness. Trochez’s Violence 
Against Women professor inspired 
her to attend.  
“It’s comforting to know that 
it’s not only in this little area in 
Gainesville that you’re acknowl-
edged but also around the world,” Trochez said.
After returning to the Plaza of the 
Americas, an open mic was held for survivors to share their stories. The audience was asked not to record anything said in order to maintain 
a safe space. Mohamed was one of 
the people to take the stage and con-sented to publicly share her story.
“I am able to stand before you 
today and share my story, not to garner sympathy as a victim or to wallow in my tragic past, but to in-
spire you to take a stand alongside 
me,” she said, “and empower your-self by making sure your voice is heard.”Take Back the Night rally brings out crowd of about 200
During the event, students shared stories of surviving assault  
About 200 people march west on University Avenue for the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to 
End Sexual Violence on Wednesday. The night included poster-making, an open mic portion and a performance from The Sedoctaves.
Lauren Krumbholz, a 19-year-old UF health science freshman, writes on a poster for the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence on Wednesday. 
Angie Suarez, a 19-year-old UF public health sophomore, claps for a sexual assault survivor who told their story at the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence on the Plaza of the Americas. During the open mic portion, survivors came up to a stage set up in front of Library West to tell their stories.
FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
4 pc Chicken Tenders Snack 
with Buttermilk Biscuit 
only $3.99
Choose from Supremes or Homestyle Tenders
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner • Open Daily: 6 AM - 10 PM
www.bojangles.com • 3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
Mary Kenney, a 20-year-old UF psychology sophomore, sings “Pretty 
Hurts” and “Have Mercy” on the Plaza of the Americas.  The event was put together by UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education, or STRIVE, a group overseen by GatorWell that’s dedicated to education on sexual trauma.Janaki Padmakumar, a 20-year-old UF criminology and African American studies junior, 
marches south on Fletcher Drive for the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence. “I feel like women should be more empowered to live our lives without being afraid, ” she said. T essa Walters, 20, holds up a two-sided sign that reads “HOLD RAPISTS ACCOUNTABLE” and “STOP RAPE ON CAMPUS” while marching. “Every woman I’ve known has an experience with sexual assault or harassment, ” the UF international studies sophomore said, “and more needs to be done about it. ”
Mary Kenney, a 20-year-old UF psychology sophomore, sings “Pretty Hurts” and “Have Mercy” with The Sedoctaves on the Plaza of the Americas during the T ake Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence. The night also included poster-making, a march around campus and an open mic portion.
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
UF scientist plans to plant food in greenhouse – 
on Mars.
When Nicole Beisel talks about her research, some peo-
ple think she’s studying science ﬁ  ction.
“I’ll sometimes say, ‘I study plants in space,’ and people 
laugh and don’t even let me ﬁ  nish because they think it’s a joke,” said Beisel, chuckling.
At the beginning of this year, the 23-year-old began 
studying how plant DNA can adapt to environments out-side of Earth. She’s a part of a team that wants to turn 
a shipping container into a controlled greenhouse to grow 
crops on Mars. Beisel is working with researchers from UF’s Space Plants Lab and scientists in 10 labs around the world. 
To prepare for the possibility of human space travel, re-
searchers want to know if crops can survive on Mars before people arrive, Beisel said.
Beisel, a UF plant molecular and cellular biology ﬁ  rst-
year doctoral student, is using a modiﬁ  ed GoPro, or small video camera, to see a plant’s stress level within 15 min-
utes. 
UF Space Plants Lab already monitors a greenhouse in 
Antarctica remotely, which was installed late last year. It grows crops like arugula, beets and radishes. The hostile 
environment is a “practice zone” and is similar to the ex-treme environment of Mars, Beisel said. 
“We can try to rescue the plant and give a more success-
ful greenhouse effort, overall, for one day where growing crops on Mars would be really important,” Beisel said.
- Hannah Maggiore
Contributing WriterCompany made by UF researchers develops test to identify patients with brain injuries
Doctors now have a quick way to identify patients with 
traumatic brain injuries while avoiding radiation and reduc-
ing costs.
 Banyan Biomarkers developed the ﬁ  rst blood test 
for identifying this called Banyan BTI – or Banyan Brain 
Trauma Indicator, said Nancy Denslow, a UF researcher 
and Banyan Biomarkers co-founder. The test was FDA-ap-proved to be marketed on Feb. 14. The company is working with hospitals across the country to try to bring the test to emergency rooms and clinics. 
 The idea for the test was developed around the fact that 
there was no FDA-approved exam that quickly diagnosed mild to moderate traumatic brain injury.
 Banyan Biomarkers was developed by three then-UF 
researchers – Denslow, Kevin Wang and Ron Hayes – who have been working together to develop this blood test. Hayes no longer works at UF. 
 Wang said the blood test is used to determine whether 
adult patients with mild to moderate traumatic brain inju-ries should stay at the hospital for further treatment.
 He said the test is conducted by taking a small blood 
sample and closely examining it for two types of protein. If the doctor or lab assistant ﬁ  nd the proteins, the patient 
may have brain trauma. The test results appear in 15 to 20 
minutes.
 Since 2003, the company has received more than $100 
million from the U.S. Department of Defense and the Na-tional Institution of Health, Wang said.
- Alex Camargo
Contributing WriterUF researcher trying to create the optimal 
pumpkin
A UF researcher is breeding pumpkins to make one that 
has good ﬂ  esh and good seeds.  Normally, the fruit only has 
one or the other. 
 Geoffrey Meru, an Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences assistant professor, started a study at the end of 2016 to look at the nutrition components of vari-
ous pumpkins and their seeds. He wanted to get an idea of which are the best kinds to move forward within the breed-
ing program. The study was published on March 15. 
The study found that pumpkins with naked seeds, 
which are seeds that lack a coating, would be the best for snacking and oil production because of their large size and 
amount of oil.
He wants to breed naked-seeded pumpkins with pump-
kins that have very healthy ﬂ  esh to create a fruit that is more appealing to growers. 
Of the 35 different varieties of pumpkins studied, the 
Styrian pumpkin had the biggest seeds with the most seed oil and the Kakai pumpkin maintained qualities that keep a longer shelf life.    
“So the end product for a grower would be a pumpkin 
that he can have, cut, serve the ﬂ  esh, harvest the seed from the fruit and make oil out of it,” he said.  
The pumpkins are expected to be in the market in four 
to six years and will be a similar price to regular pumpkins, Meru said.
- Wyatt Schreiber
Contributing WriterRESEARCH ROUNDUPRomy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
State Sen. Keith Perry (R-District 8) said 
he will make it his job to bring early voting 
locations to colleges and universities as he and other local politicians debated how to get college students to vote early.
“I’m not the smartest guy out there, but I 
work really hard to get stuff done,” the rep-resentative for Alachua County told an audi-ence of about 75 at Pugh Hall on Wednes-day.
Perry, who read a draft of a bill to the 
audience, said he will propose it to address the need in November. Current Florida Stat-utes don’t mention colleges or universities 
as designated early voting locations, but the 
statues also don’t forbid them. A student organization, Gators for Underrepresented Voters, has been trying to change that and started a petition in January to allow early voting on campus. The group partnered with others to host the Let Students Vote fo-rum, where Perry spoke on how to get early voting on campus.
In 2014, the City of Gainesville sent an 
inquiry letter to Gov. Rick Scott’s adminis-tration regarding whether the Reitz Union could be used as an early voting center. In an advisory opinion responding to Gaines-ville’s request, Maria Matthews of the Flori-da Division of Elections said educational fa-cilities are excluded from its list of possible early voting centers, according to Alligator 
archives.
But not having an early voting polling lo-
cation may stop students from participating, said Hannah Daigle, the Gators for Under-
represented Voters public relations manag-er. She said some may not be able to get to 
the Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce downtown 
or other early voting locations. 
“Thirty minutes can be make or break,” 
the 18-year-old said. “Having an early vot-ing location on campus is really the only way to get the voter turnout we’re looking for.”
City Commissioner David Arreola said 
he’d be in favor of having shuttles or RTS 
transportation set up to help students get 
to voting locations but thinks it would only help marginally.
“I think what you want to see is the most 
convenient path for the voter,” Arreola said. 
Jack Golio, a UF political science fresh-
man, said he was surprised at how few early voting locations there are in the county. In the most recent city election, there were 
three early voting locations. 
“I feel like we’re not focusing on the right 
thing, which is lack of funding in early vot-
ing locations and this idea that certain peo-
ple deserve to vote because they can take 
time out of their day,” the 19-year-old said.
County Commissioner Ken Cornell said 
the county had asked the Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce about opening a location at UF before. Cornell said he hopes to see an early voting space soon and would propose a county resolution of support.
“However we can help you have that 
voice be heard louder, this commissioner is in favor of,” he said.
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgState, local politicians talk 
about early voting polls at UF
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Brandon Shavers knows what loss feels like 
after his friend took her life a year ago.
The Buchholz High School junior said it’s 
important to talk to people and see if they’re 
doing OK. The 17-year-old, who wants to be a 
psychologist, told school administrators mental 
health checks should be implemented at schools in a discussion on school safety and gun vio-lence Wednesday night.
“That’s blood on my hands if I don’t say any-
thing,” he said. 
Fifteen students from Newberry, Buchholz, 
Eastside and Gainesville high schools took questions from about 35 people at a monthly 
meeting of the city’s Black on Black Crime Task 
Force at the Kirby Smith Center about topics in-cluding the importance of mental health, crisis preparation and see-through backpacks.
John Alexander, the executive director of 
Reichert House, moderated responses from the panel and said the discussion was organized to talk about campus safety, which has been in the news, from students’ perspectives.
Kurtis Brutton, a senior at Gainesville High 
School, worries police could search students too much and make them uncomfortable if students are required to wear transparent backpacks, he said.
“I feel like it would be an issue for privacy,” 
the 18-year-old said. 
Sam Cornell, 18, a Buchholz High School 
senior, said preventative measures like campus 
metal detectors or increased police presence are 
important, but installing emergency tourniquet kits in classroom buildings would help save lives in the event an active shooter does come onto campus. The ﬁ  rst three minutes, the time 
it may take for paramedics to arrive, is enough 
time for someone to bleed out, he said.
“If I shut my mouth right now, and we all 
just sat here for three minutes, tell me that’s not a long time,” he told the group. 
High school shootings are becoming a “new 
normal,” said Cornell, who is working with the school administration to have medical response kits funded. Other schools in Marion County 
have funded similar programs already, he said. 
Jovanna Liuzzo, a junior at Eastside High 
School, said after the events at Marjory Stone-
man Douglas High School, everyone at her school seems sensitive.
“Even just hearing someone yell in the hall-
way you wonder, ‘Oh goodness, what is that?’” Liuzzo said.
The 17-year-old talked to her school princi-
pal about arranging open forums to start educat-ing students about what to do in the event of a shooting.
“Because I honestly have no idea,” she said. 
“We talked about it, you know, once in the ﬁ  rst week.”
Karen Clarke, the superintendent of Alachua 
County Public Schools, was in attendance and said she wanted to arrange a meeting to con-
tinue the dialogue with the 15 students.
Clarke said she hopes each school day will 
be an uneventful one but has talked to law en-
forcement about revising safety policies and ﬁ  re alarm procedures within the coming months.
“This is a subject that you don’t want to talk 
about, but it is there and it is the new normal for us,” she said.High school students voice 
concerns on school safetyBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N     4-6-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2
Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83705-15-18-21-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800    4-13-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Disagreement
5 Her first speaking
role was in
MGM’s “Anna
Christie”
10 Unlikely
14 Fashion designer
Rabanne
15 Cold shoulder or
hot corner
16 Elizabeth of
“Jacob’s Ladder”
17 Wee bit18 It might be
uncured
19 Plant with hips
20 Salute in an old
orbiter?
23 Arizona 
neighbor
24 Former SETI
funder
25 Pokémon Go
finder: Abbr.
28 Spa supplies30 African
megalopolis
32 Nonstick kitchen
product
35 Stadium scene
after a big win?
39 Normandy river
40 Foil firm41 It borders both
the Missouri and
the Mississippirivers
42 Fishing parties?
44 Early Disney
productions
45 __ del Carmen,
Mexico
46 Distant
beginning?
48 Photog’s choice
49 Org. offering
shelter for some
homeless
53 It merged with
Chevron in 2005
57 Edward
Scissorhands’
syndrome?
59 Chain part
62 1975 Pulitzer
winner forcriticism
63 Old film dog
64 Catty reply65 __ attack66 Flit67 Cat catchers68 Seriously reduce69 Prizes in los
Juegos
Olímpicos
DOWN
1 Bombards with 
e-junk
2 Deck alternative3 Nut with a cap
4 Nonsense
5 Iberian peninsula
territory
6 Economist Smith
7 Puerto __
8 Half an Ivy cheer
9 Dodges of old
10 Agile
11 Uncle on
“Seinfeld”
12 Advantages for
job seekers
13 Novelist Rita __
Brown
21 “He’s mine, __
am his”:“Coriolanus”
22 Stand snack
25 Boy toy?
26 Lurk27 Milk sources29 Prairie skyline
feature
31 Buff32 Name on
collectible cards33 Bell or whistle?
34 At hand,
poetically
36 Old French coin
37 It’s often skipped
38 Cryptozoologist’s
quarry
43 Wicked slice47 Conjunction in a
German article
50 Buds, slangily
51 Band of intrigants
52 Concert setting54 Romero who
played The Joker
55 Dog in Orbit City
56 Exams for future
attys.
57 Susie-shirts
tongue-twister link
58 Hosp. tests59 Little demon
60 Sells-shells
tongue-twister
link
61 Bit of cowspeak
By James Sajdak©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/06/1804/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, April 6, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Farm unit
5 “Uh, don’t forget
about me ... ”
9 Selling point
14 Soon, quaintly
15 Diamond corner
16 Busch Gardens
city
17 USAF plane for
small runways
18 Word of proof?19 Video game
based on a film,e.g.
20 Meal owed to
PresidentClinton?
23 Help24 __ bran25 PC-to-PC system28 Employing echo
in audio?
32 River to the North
Sea
36 “Blue Bloods”
rank: Abbr.
37 Devotee38 Northeast
gubernatorial
family name
40 Paris café brew
42 African antelope
43 Get in45 “__ Believer”:
Monkees hit
47 __-bitty
48 Rules for righting
wrongs?
51 WWII general
52 Map abbr.53 Bun, for one58 Mail about
system
improvements?
62 Like gymnasts
64 Camping stuff
65 Every which way
66 Wash cycle67 One-named
supermodel
68 Nutrition bar with
a crescent moonin its logo
69 Like pet
hamsters
70 Conciliatory
gestures
71 North Sea feeder
DOWN
1 Southeastern
Iraqi port2 Dealer’s requests
3 Circuitous routes
4 Zhou of China
5 Helped in a job,
perhaps
6 Difficult7 Biblical brother8 Comet fragment,
perhaps
9 State of mind
10 Proceed easily
(through)
11 Sense
something’samiss
12 Prefix with center13 “The Joy Luck
Club” novelist
21 Georgia, once:
Abbr.
22 Syrup-soaked
cake
26 Ticket __27 Dweebish29 Pro with a
tabletop scale
30 System of moral
values
31 Most piano
sonatas
32 Bluemountain.com
product
33 Drew34 Adjacent to35 Mideast
potentate
39 Stuff at mealtime
41 My Chemical
Romance genre
44 __ perpetua:
Idaho motto
46 Sticks49 Worsted fabrics50 Consume54 Amalfi Coast
country
55 Romulus’ twin56 Source of some
overhead footage
57 Heroic Schindler59 “What __ could it
be?”
60 Brief reminder61 “__ Unto My
Feet”: longtimeCBS religiousprogram
62 Circle part63 Italian actress
Scala
By Winston Emmons©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/05/1804/05/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, April 5, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Cerumen
1.  Prohibit 5.  Blackberry ____
2.  Let go6.  Acknowledge 
3.  Bottomless 7.  Mental wellness 
4.  Grab, stealRWXEAA
JNIEONEJLYL
MIATD
SEEAERL
MBYASLALATHEH
HNCTSAANSWERS: 1A-Earwax  5A-Jelly  6A-Admit  7A-Health
1D-Enjoin  2D-Release  3D-Abysmal  4D-Snatch  B-John Wayne4-6-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor loved playing 
bridge, poker and chess.
BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
Eyes Up.
Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT  
& DRIVE.Alfredo Perez and the Florida 
men's tennis team will be in College Station tonight when it takes on T exas A&M at 6:30.GATORS LACROSSE GAME RESCHEDULED
This weekend's contest between the Florida and Villanova women's lacrosse 
teams, originally set to be played Saturday morning, was rescheduled for Sun-
day at 1 p.m. due to an impending forecast of snow in Philadelphia.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Lost in the craze of college basketball championship  games and Tiger Woods’ highly 
anticipated return to the Masters, a par-ticular moment on the baseball diamond stole my attention this week.
The New York Yankees were up 
by a single run in the seventh in-
ning of their home opener against the Tampa Bay Rays on Tuesday. Giancarlo Stanton — last year’s Na-tional League MVP, who New York 
acquired in a trade with the Miami 
Marlins this past offseason – struck out swinging for the inning’s ﬁ  rst out. The strikeout was Stanton’s fourth of the game.
Yankees fans were 
counting.
Suddenly, boos pen-
etrated the wet, cold air in Yankee Stadium 
as fans vocalized their 
disappointment in the 
supposed star.
In the very next inning, Stanton 
had another chance to prove him-
self. This time, New York boasted 
a 9-4 lead. But when he struck out for a career-worst ﬁ  fth time, the crowd lost sight of its quickly ap-
proaching victory and reprised its 
angry boos as Stanton returned to the dugout.Villains are a must-have to 
keep sports interestingOff Brandt / Opinion
Benjamin Brandt
Twitter: @bhb1227
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16BASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Florida baseball coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan felt the need to pump the breaks. 
After Sunday’s win 
against then-No. 8 Vanderbilt secured the Gators’ ﬁ  rst con-ference sweep of the season, 
he reminded reporters that 
the regular season was only a shade over halfway done.
“It’s only the beginning 
of April right now,” he said. 
“The goal is to stay healthy 
and play like this at the end. If we play like this at the end, we’ve got as good a chance 
as anybody.”
Staying healthy has been 
a lucky break for the No. 1 
Gators (26-5, 7-2 SEC) so far this season. Through their 
ﬁ  rst 31 games, there haven’t 
been any serious injuries to contend with, allowing O’Sullivan the freedom to 
juggle his lineup with a full 
arsenal of players. 
That versatility could 
come in handy this weekend when Florida hits the road to take on Tennessee (18-12, 4-5 SEC) in Knoxville start-ing tonight at 6:30. While the Volunteers’ record may be less than impressive, their 
home record of 13-7 is noth-
ing to scoff at.
In fact, the Gators could 
have their work cut out for them taking on an under-
rated roster. Here are the 
three players that fans should be on the lookout for in the three-game weekend series:
Garrett Stallings, RHP: 
While freshman lefty Garrett Crochet will take the mound on Friday, Stallings may 
be the best of Tennessee's 
three weekend starters. The Chesapeake, Virginia, native is 4-2 in seven starts and has 
accumulated a 2.98 ERA, ri-
valing both of Florida’s top two starters in Brady Singer (2.74) and Jackson Kowar (2.68). He has only issued 
four walks this season, the 
second lowest mark among SEC starters. Though his fast-ball has consistently been 
clocked in the high 80s/low 
90s, Stallings does most of Gators begin series with Volunteers tonight in Knoxville 
The Associated Press
Coach Kevin O'Sullivan has helped lead Florida's baseball team to a 26-5 start so far this season. The Gators 
begin a three-game series against T ennessee tonight at 6:30 in Knoxville.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
FOOTBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators second-
ary, which has produced ﬁ  ve 
NFL draft picks in the last two 
seasons, takes pride in the mon-
iker the school has received in recent years: Defensive Back 
University. 
However, that “DBU” label 
has no meaning without putting 
the work in, starting with the team’s 2018 spring practices.
“Right now, we just take 
pride in learning the defense, growing the fundamentals and playing with a competitive na-
ture,” cornerbacks coach Charl-ton Warren said after Wednes-
day’s practice.
Warren was brought on to 
Florida’s staff by ﬁ  rst-year head 
coach Dan Mullen after spend-
ing last season at Tennessee. Mullen also hired a new safeties coach in former Eastern Michi-
gan head coach Ron English.
Warren and English have 
both seen strides in the team’s 
young secondary but said there is still a lot of work to do before 
the unit is ready to open the sea-
son against Charleston Southern on Sept. 1.
The two coaches preach con-
sistency and fundamentals from their players, and English said he likes the attitude and effort he’s seen so far.
“We’re getting better,” he 
said. “We need a lot of reps be-
cause we’re young and inexperi-
enced, but we’re getting better.”
With just two upperclassmen 
defensive backs on the roster in 
juniors Chauncey Gardner-John-
son and Jeawon Taylor, there will be plenty of opportunities for young players to see the ﬁ  eld in Florida’s secondary.
Sophomores Marco Wilson 
and CJ Henderson ﬁ  gure to play a big role on defense after re-ceiving signiﬁ  cant playing time 
last fall. Henderson’s four inter- Youthful Florida secondary getting 
its feet wet during spring practice
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Kennedy Baker awaited her cue 
on the edge of the mat as her gold 
eyeshadow and silver eyeliner 
masked the nerves that vibrated 
through her body. She swept her hair back and looked around at the sold-out crowd of 9,661 while 
the sparkles on her blue and or-
ange uniform twinkled under the 
dim lights of the O’Connell Center.
Her body was still, but she was 
just moments away from launch-ing her hands into a string of movements and gestures. It was this type of intimate and honest 
communication that made Kenne-
dy anxious. But for the first time ever, she was sharing that per-sonal piece of herself with a large 
audience.
It was the Florida gymnastics 
team’s first home meet of the 2018 
season against then-No. 1 LSU on Jan. 12. Kennedy — a senior 
on the team — was also about to 
perform the national anthem in American Sign Language along-side the UF Signing Gators, an on-
campus student organization.
The ramifications of her perfor-
mance were nowhere near as sig-
nificant as the time she competed 
at the 2012 Olympic trials or with 
the U.S. Senior National Team from 2012 to 2014. Something like this shouldn’t have fazed the 
11-time All-American. But as she 
readied herself for the beginning notes of “The Star-Spangled Ban-ner,” the Dallas native couldn’t 
help the sling of fears that cart-
wheeled through her mind.
Unlike her debut as a colle-
giate gymnast in 2015, where she recorded a top-three score on bal-ance team, her first time signing the national anthem wasn’t as smooth.
The mistake was a simple one. 
At the end of the song, Kennedy signed “rocket’s red glare” again instead of the correct lyric, “O say 
does that star-spangled banner.”
“I totally spaced and I was like, 
‘Oh. My. God.’” Kennedy said. “I 
was so scared because they were recording it. Luckily they didn’t 
post that part on Twitter.”
Performing in front of a large 
crowd wasn’t the problem. Ken-
nedy’s anxiety came from a deep-
er place in her heart. It stemmed 
from the reason she wanted to learn sign language in the first place: a desire to communicate with those not granted the privi-
lege of hearing.
This soft, caring nature will 
play a large role when Kennedy 
joins the Gators in Pennsylvania 
for the NCAA Regionals on Sat-
urday. Instead of competing with her team, Kennedy will act as Florida’s number one fan and sup-port system as she sits out with a 
season-ending Achilles injury. The task won’t be hard for Kennedy 
who, since high school, has dedi-
cated her time to learning some-
thing new that benefitted more people than just herself. 
•   •   •
For Kennedy, sign language 
isn’t a hobby. It is an obligation. Many people go their entire lives 
without being disabled. However, 
for one member of Kennedy’s fam-ily, this isn’t the case. Kennedy was introduced to the concept 
of deafness at a young age when 
she would try to communicate with her hearing-impaired cousin, Isaac, who is about 15 years older than her.
“We told her to look at him 
when she talked to him,” Kenne-dy’s mother, Brenda, said. “I think from that point on she was just 
kind of interested in deaf people 
and helping deaf people.”
Kennedy acted on that interest 
in high school. The idea to learn sign language came while watch-
ing an episode of “Switched At 
Birth,” a television show where the main character is deaf. Ken-nedy replayed scenes where the 
actors communicated in sign 
language and then repeated the movements with her own hands. Soon afterward, she started taking sign languages classes online.
“She’s got a heart the size of 
Texas,” her father, Stephen, said. “She just enjoys that. That’s how she rolls.”
What began as a hobby even-
tually grew into a secret exchange between her and her friends at her 
gym, Texas Dreams Club, in Cop-
pell, Texas. In between rotations, Kennedy and her teammates  prac-ticed communicating with each 
other using sign language. It even 
became an outlet for gossip when they were mad at their coach.
“Me and my friend specifically 
were like ‘Oh my God, this is so 
cool, we have to learn it,’” Ken-
nedy said.
By the time she entered college, 
Kennedy wasn’t satisfied by her 
progress. She decided it was time 
to get serious about sign language. She began taking ASL classes at UF the fall of her junior year and was a teaching assistant for the 
class this past fall. The class has 
helped her refine her skills in the language and better communicate with Isaac. Having longer sessions 
to chat with him is something 
Kennedy looks forward to doing in the future. 
“I need to ask him what hear-
ing people could do more to help 
deaf people and make the world 
more deaf-inclusive,” Kennedy said. “That’s definitely a conver-sation we’re going to have.”
•   •   •
Teaching yourself a new lan-
guage takes focus and discipline. It also requires a strong heart and 
the desire to not give up. This 
came easy for Kennedy, who — in her career as a gymnast — has fought through various injuries to 
her back, Achilles, knee and hip. 
But Kennedy hasn’t let her proneness to injuries frustrate her. Her cheeky personality, which UF 
coach Jenny Rowland affection-ately refers to as her “little sass”,  has helped her get through those 
difficult times.
“By the will of God alone,” 
Kennedy laughed. “You just kind 
of get used to the pain and just persevere.”
One of Kennedy’s most impact-
ful injuries happened when she was 12 years old. The growth plate in her left Achilles tendon split, re-
sulting in three surgeries over the 
span of eight years, including one procedure where doctors made a slit in her heel and inserted three nails. Now, Kennedy faces the re-
ality of another Achilles tear, this 
time to her right tendon, that end-ed her senior season early on Feb. 23 in a meet against Arkansas. 
However, she doesn’t let it 
bother her. When she thinks about the situation in relation to her cousin Isaac and the type of adversity he faces everyday, she 
knows there is no comparison.
“I can get over it,” Kennedy 
said. “I’m not gonna be on crutch-
es forever, but deaf people are 
pretty much deaf for life.”
•   •   •
Florida will compete at the 
NCAA Regional Championships in 
University Park, Pennsylvania on 
Saturday.
The Gators will meet No. 8 
Washington, No. 17 Arizona State, 
West Virginia, Penn State and 
New Hampshire in a competition that will determine which teams 
continue on to the NCAA Cham-pionships.
UF has won six consecutive re-
gional titles and has advanced to the NCAA Championships in 35 out of 36 total opportunities.
After taking third place at the 
SEC Championships on March 24, UF will look to redeem itself at the regional by securing one of the  two qualifying spots.
As the Gators prepare for the 
postseason meet, Kennedy’s atten-tion will be focused on supporting her teammates, just as she has supported loved ones like Isaac all 
her life. 
“I’m gonna be whatever they 
need me to be,” Kennedy said. 
“I’m gonna be the cheerleader, I’m 
gonna be the makeup guru.”
For someone who has spent all 
of high school and college perfect-
ing her skills in a language that doesn’t use sound, Kennedy will 
break all protocol on Saturday and 
use her voice to show her love for her fellow gymnasts.
“I’m gonna be the loudest one 
out there,” she said.
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgVITAL SIGNS: Baker using ASL to connect with cousin
The Associated Press
Florida gymnast Kennedy Baker has been taking American Sign Language classes since high school to help her communicate with her deaf 
cousin Isaac.
Kennedy Baker
Event: All-Around
Class: Senior
Height: 5-0
Hometown: DallasGYMNASTICS16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 2018
It was gleeful to watch.
Less than a week before, Stan-
ton rocketed two home runs in 
his Yankees debut. And with a 
measly four-game sample size heading into the series against the Rays, his season batting average 
of .286 exceeded his career mark 
of .269.But New York fans lacked any 
appreciation and were entirely 
unforgiving. That’s partly why the 
Yankees are one of the most hated franchises in American sports.
And I love it.
The more Yankees fans give us 
a reason to hate them and their 
team, the better it is for sports. The re-villainizing of New York after the years of Derek Jeter and 
Alex Rodriguez might be the best thing that’s happened to profes-
sional baseball in a while.
We often forget that the green 
ﬁ  elds and hardwood ﬂ  oors are really just a stage. Every stage needs a story, and every good 
story needs a villain.
Having a team to root against is 
just as exciting as having a team 
to root for. Baseball is simply more fun when everybody hates 
the Yankees. With more reason to care, people will watch more 
games, hoping the three-headed 
slugging monster of Stanton, out-
ﬁ  elder Aaron Judge and catcher Gary Sanchez will crumble miser-ably. 
Yes, it’s still April and the 
marathon-and-a-half that is the MLB regular season has only just begun. Baseball will continue to swing in and out of the spotlight 
until the fall.But while you may be watch-
ing the NBA playoffs or keeping up with offseason football, the 
Yankees will only be getting bet-ter, and their fans meaner. So when you do pay attention, they 
will be everything you want to 
hate and more.
Ben Brandt is a sports writer. 
Contact him at bbrandt@alliga-
tor.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14his damage with well-placed sliders and curve-
balls. 
Benito Santiago, C: The Volunteers have 
developed a reputation this season for lack-ing power at the plate. As a whole, Tennes-see has three fewer home runs (19) than UF third baseman Jonathan India and right ﬁ  elder 
Wil Dalton combined (22). But Santiago is try-
ing to single-handedly ﬁ  x the Volunteers’ lack of hard-hit balls. The senior from Pembroke Pines, Florida, is tied for third in the SEC with 
10 doubles and has added three homers to the 
Volunteers’ cause. 
Jay Charleston, 2B: The sophomore from 
Longwood, Florida, is one of just two UT start-
ers currently batting over .300, sitting at .302 
for the season. He has hit safely in 20 of his 29 starts. He is 8-for-20 (.400) from the plate in his previous ﬁ  ve games, scoring six runs and 
knocking three doubles. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  nBASEBALL,  from pg. 14Charleston is 
batting .302 so far this season
ceptions in 2017 are the most among return-
ing players. His ﬁ  rst two picks of the season, against Michigan on Sept. 2 and Tennessee on 
Sept. 16, were both returned for touchdowns.
Wilson, the younger brother of former UF 
and current Indianapolis Colts cornerback 
Quincy Wilson, was second among the team's 
defensive backs with 34 total tackles and led 
the team with 10 pass breakups.
“They’re guys that have had some success,” 
Warren said of Wilson and Henderson. “And they understand, just like we do, that they 
have a long way to go to get to where they 
want to be.”
Warren also said that sophomore Brian 
Edwards and freshman Trey Dean III could 
make a push for playing time. The 6-foot-2, 
183-pound Edwards played in 10 games during the 2017 season, primarily on special teams.
Warren recruited Dean III, an early enrollee 
at Florida, while he was still with the Volun-
teers.
“He should be going to his high school prom 
right now, and he’s trying to learn a playbook 
and manage school,” Warren said. “He’s given 
effort, but like I said, I think growing his foot-
ball IQ, growing his skill set and technique, it’s a day-by-day process.”
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Wilson led UF with 10 pass breakups in 2017
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Marco Wilson is expected to play a big role in Florida's defense 
this season after recording 34 total tackles as a freshman in 2017.
