We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gainesville to release new hurricane alert system
The city’s new system will launch in the next month or so, pg 10
Local radio station holds yard sale
100.1 FM sold art, toys and clothes in an effort to raise operating 
funds , pg 8UF Men’s Tennis ﬁ  nishes its season
With veteran leadership and workhorse 
freshman, the Gators made it back to the NCAA 
T ournament for the sixth straight year under 
coach Bryan Shelton., pg 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 90
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe leads a pack of bicyclists through Depot Park Saturday Morning as 
part of the fourth annual “Ride with Your Mayor and Commissioners” event. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
With all the water that’s been pouring from 
the sky, it’s a wonder that UF’s sprinklers never 
stop spitting.
As of May 22, Gainesville has received 5.38 
inches of rain throughout the month. This is 1.5 
inches above average.
Even with all of this rain, UF keeps the sprin-
klers running. Occasionally, the sprinklers even 
work with the rain to keep the grass wet.
“Wasteful,” is the word Joean Cho, a UF psy-
chology junior, used to describe UF’s practice of 
watering the grass on campus while it’s raining.
However, the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability Di-
rector Matt Williams offered an explanation on 
why running the sprinklers in the rain is actually 
a sustainable practice.
The campus is unique in that it has its own 
in-house waste water treatment plant, Williams 
said.
For years, the plant had been cleaning the 
waste water, which comes from the sinks and 
toilets on campus.
When UF ﬁ  rst started treating the water, it 
was ﬁ  ltered and then dumped into a small de-
pression of soil, Williams said. Over the years, 
this treatment method turned that small depres-sion into the Lake Alice we know today.
That system was then changed to push 
treated water into injection wells, Williams said. 
Most wells pull water out of the ground, but 
these wells push it deep underground.
Williams said this method is safe, and it is 
used throughout the state.
The school later looked into using this water 
for irrigation, Williams said. At the time, the ir-
rigation system was a major sink for water.
This system was changed about 10 years ago 
to use the reclaimed water for the sprinklers 
ﬁ  rst, Williams said. Today, about 98 percent of 
the water used for irrigation on campus comes 
from the reclaimed water system.
When the tank becomes too full, the irriga-
tion system runs, even if it’s raining, Williams 
said. This is in addition to scheduled watering.
The amount of water in the tank is depen-
dent on the number of students on campus us-
ing sinks, showers and toilets, Williams said. 
This means the number of times the sprinklers 
come on can change on a weekly basis.
“Even if it continues raining for another 
week, you might actually see the sprinklers 
come on in the rain,” Williams said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgBy Jacob Schoﬁ  eld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mike Shreve has lived at his home in 
Polk County for 29 years. Throughout the 
hardships that come with home ownership, 
he said one problem has been consistent.
Air potato vines pose a threat to native 
plant life by growing around other plants 
and absorbing sunlight directed toward 
them. In 1999, air potato vines were added 
to the Florida Noxious Weed List by the 
Florida Department of Agriculture and Con-
sumer Services.
Shreve’s property, located between 
wetlands and hills, is ripe with plant life 
where he says the vines “really go crazy.” 
The vines damage magnolias, oaks and red 
maple trees.
“At ﬁ  rst we tried to pull out the potatoes 
and vines, but that was sort of a losing bat-
tle,” Shreve said.
The vine’s name comes from its ability 
to quickly produce hundreds of pounds of 
large growths that resemble potatoes, said 
Shannon Carnevale, the natural resources 
agent for UF’s Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences extension in Polk County.The resilient potatoes from the vines 
don’t need water or soil to grow.
“We forgot a bag in a car and they grew 
right out of the bag,” Carnevale said.
To combat the invasive vines, the Polk 
County UF IFAS ofﬁ  ce is making air potato 
vine beetles available to Polk County resi-
dents to protect their properties.
Carnevale said the beetles will come in a 
container complete with a road snack of air 
potato leaves and an information sheet on 
how to properly release them at residences.
The idea was brought to her team when 
a Polk County resident called IFAS and re-
quested that the air potato leaf beetles be 
facilitated by IFAS instead of being deliv-
ered by the UF-associated Hayslip Biological 
Control Research and Containment Labora-
tory.
“This is because he couldn’t guarantee 
he would be home when the beetles were 
delivered,” Carnevale said. “They might 
perish if they are left out on the porch all 
day.” 
Carnevale said her department plans to 
expand this service to other extension of-
ﬁ  ces in the future.It’s raining consistently. Here’s 
why UF’s sprinklers are still onIFAS gives weed-eating 
beetles to Florida residentsBy Alana Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Debbie Boada is a lucky woman.
The Gainesville-based pediatric 
nurse said she nearly lost her son a 
few years ago when he was hit by 
another vehicle while riding his bi-
cycle on UF’s campus.
“There probably needs to be more 
implementation for bicycle safety,” 
Boada said.
Boada may get her wish. In honor 
of National Bike Month, Gainesville 
city ofﬁ  cials and citizens cycled to-
gether in Depot Park on Saturday. 
Their goal was to highlight the ben-
eﬁ  ts of bike riding and the city’s ef-
forts to put bicycle safety ﬁ  rst.
Mayor Lauren Poe, along with 
Gainesville City Commissioners, led 
the three-mile bike ride. Poe said 
about 100 residents of all ages at-
tended the event.
“Eventually, we want to have a 
completely interconnected grid of 
multi-use trails and paths that are off 
the main road network,” Poe said.
The route they followed is part of a continuous urban trail system 
— an interconnected group of bike 
paths. The city is also working on an 
“inﬁ  nity line” project, which will be 
shaped like a ﬁ  gure eight and meant 
for cyclists.
“There has been progress made 
to the trails and existing ideas, but 
there will never be a deadline,” Poe 
said. “As the city changes, these 
paths will be added to.”
After the bike ride, everyone 
gathered around the tents to talk to 
Poe and the commissioners. Bike 
checks, bike lights and information 
on bicycle safety were also available 
at the event.
“I look forward to this every 
year,” Poe said. “I think what hap-
pens is people come here for the bik-
ing, but they end up talking about a 
lot of other things that they want to 
see for the city.”
While Boada’s son was able to 
walk away from the accident with 
only a totaled bike, some cyclists 
aren’t as lucky. Florida had the 
second highest number of cyclist Mayor Poe, Gainesville oﬃ   cials invite bikers to Depot Park   
SEE BIKES,  PAGE 3
SEE BEETLES,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 90
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. HIGH  88° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Wondrous Creatures: Where 
Science and Art Intersect’ 
gallery showcase now open
Florida Museum of Natural 
History visitors can take a look 
at animals of the past in the 
new “Wondrous Creatures: 
Where Science and Art 
Intersect” exhibit now on dis-
play. This free gallery exhibi-
tion showcases five ceramic 
sculptures of prehistoric ani-
mals among 18th-century fur-
niture such as a bathtub, clock 
and bed. For more information 
on the exhibit, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/exhibits/won-
drous or call 352-846-2000.
Children’s advocate to speak 
to the community about the 
Children’s Trust of Alachua 
County
On Wednesday, David 
Lawrence Jr. will present on 
Children’s Trust of Alachua 
County can make in our com-
munity. Alachua County 
voters will vote on a refer-
endum on the Nov. 6 bal-
lot to create the Children’s 
Trust of Alachua County. The 
Children’s Trust will coordi-
nate local organizations and 
fund programs that address 
the specific needs of children 
in our county from birth to 18 
years of age through a data-
driven approach. Community 
advocates and leaders will 
hear Lawrence’s presentation 
at the Harn Museum of Art at 
5:30 p.m. Wednesday. Tickets 
are free to the public but must 
be reserved in advance. Before 
the event, an optional tour of 
the Jacob Lawrence art exhibit 
is available to guests at 4:30 
p.m. Following his presenta-
tion, Lawrence will attend 
a fundraising dinner for the 
Children’s Trust of Alachua 
County campaign.
Special planning commission 
meeting regarding compre-
hensive plan updates
The Alachua County Planning 
Commission will hold a spe-
cial meeting Wednesday at 
6 p.m. The meeting is in the 
Jack Durrance Auditorium, 
Room 209 on the second floor 
of the County Administration 
Building, located at 12 SE First 
St. The Planning Commission will hear and discuss up-
dates to the Alachua County 
Comprehensive Plan, specifi-
cally regarding the subjects 
of economic development, af-
fordable housing and the local 
food economy. Those interest-
ed in learning more or making 
comments about these sub-
jects are strongly encouraged 
to attend.
Legal concerns of a small busi-
ness startup
The Center for Innovation & 
Economic Development will 
host a workshop June 7 from 
6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The work-
shop will focus on aspects of 
starting a business that may 
involve federal, state or lo-
cal government. The center is 
located at 530 W. University 
Ave.
Florida Museum participates 
in ‘Blue Star Museums’ pro-
gram through Sept. 3
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History is offering 
free admission to all fee-based 
exhibits for active duty U.S. 
military personnel and their 
families through Sept. 3 as part 
of the Blue Star Museums pro-
gram. Free admission is avail-
able to any active duty Army, 
Navy, Air Force, Marines or 
Coast Guard personnel as well 
as members of the National 
Guard and Reserve, U.S. Public 
Health Service and National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Commissioned 
Corps, and up to five family 
members. For more informa-
tion, including a list of partici-
pating museums and accept-
able IDs, visit floridamuseum.
ufl.edu/event/blue-star-muse-
ums or call 352-846-2000.
Toastmasters meetings
Want to get more comfortable 
speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in Entomology Building, 
Room 1031. Meetings are free 
to attend and open to all. Visit 
their website at talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to editor@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
‘Solo’ sputters in takeoff with 
$83.3M at box office
NEW YORK  — In the largest 
disturbance yet in Disney’s 
otherwise lucrative reign over 
“Star Wars,” the Han Solo spi-
noff “Solo: A Star Wars Story” 
opened well below expecta-
tions with a franchise-low 
$83.3 million in ticket sales 
over the three-day weekend in 
North American theaters.
Disney estimated Sunday that 
“Solo” will gross $101 million 
over the four-day Memorial 
Day weekend, a figure below 
even the opening weekends of 
the much-derided “Star Wars” 
prequels. Last week, forecasts 
ran as high as $150 million for 
the four-day haul of “Solo.”
Overseas ticket sales were 
even worse. “Solo,” starring 
Alden Ehrenreich in the role 
made iconic by Harrison Ford, 
grossed $65 million interna-
tionally in its opening week-
end, including a paltry $10.1 
million in China.
“Of course we would have 
hoped for this to be a bit big-
ger,” said Dave Hollis, Disney’s 
distribution chief. “We’re en-
couraged by the response that 
people have had to the film. 
It got a good CinemaScore 
(A-minus). The exits are very 
encouraging.”
“Solo” came in with a 
Millennium Falcon’s worth of 
baggage following the mid-
production firing of directors 
Phil Lord and Christopher 
Miller, who were replaced by 
Ron Howard. With the rejig-
gered production, the budget 
soared well past $250 million.NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Wimer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschlee
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerVOLUME 112 ISSUE 90TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Subtropical Storm Alberto 
rumbled inland Monday after its 
Memorial Day strike on the Gulf 
Coast, driving holiday beachgoers 
away amid heavy rains that raised 
a dangerous ﬂ  ood threat around the 
South.
Forecasters warned that heavy 
downpours from the vast storm sys-
tem are increasing the potential for 
life-threatening ﬂ  ash ﬂ  oods across 
north Florida, much of Alabama 
and large areas of Georgia — and 
elsewhere around the Southeast.
The National Hurricane Center 
in Miami said Alberto was centered 
about 7 p.m. Monday near the com-
munity of DeFuniak Springs in the 
Florida Panhandle after its Monday 
afternoon landfall nearby. With 
maximum sustained winds of 40 
mph (65 kph), Alberto was crawl-
ing north at 10 mph (17 kph) as it 
began taking aim at the Southeast.
Authorities did not immediately 
attribute any deaths or injuries di-
rectly to Alberto. But in North Caro-
lina, a television news anchor and a 
photojournalist were killed Monday 
when a tree that had been uprooted 
from rain-soaked ground toppled on 
a TV vehicle as the two reported on 
severe weather on the fringes of the 
huge system, hundreds of miles (ki-
lometers) from Alberto’s center.
More rain is on the way. Be-
tween four and eight inches (10-25 
centimeters) of rain could soak the 
Florida Panhandle, Alabama, and 
western Georgia before the storm 
moves on. Isolated deluges of 12 
inches (30 centimeters) also are 
possible.
Forecasters said Alberto could 
then become a subtropical depres-
sion during the night before spread-
ing rains Tuesday over the Tennes-
see Valley and later in the week 
around the Ohio Valley and Great 
Lakes region.
Meanwhile, potentially life-
threatening rough surf and rip cur-
rents continued on the northern 
Gulf Coast after Alberto rolled up 
big waves and tides along the coast. 
Lifeguards posted red ﬂ  ags along 
the white sands of Pensacola Beach, where swimming and wading were 
banned as Alberto disrupted long 
holiday weekend plans for millions.
The storm forced some Memorial 
Day tributes to be canceled across 
Florida’s Panhandle. Safety was the 
priority, but the decision was still 
a “heartbreaker,” said Tom Rice, a 
29-year-old Army veteran who leads 
the organizations that had planned 
a ceremony Monday at Beal Memo-
rial Cemetery in Fort Walton Beach.
Some stragglers still made their 
way through the rain to pay tribute 
at the cemetery’s Veterans Tribute 
Tower, however. Rice said Ameri-
can ﬂ  ags had been placed Saturday 
on the graves of all 1,700 veterans 
buried in the cemetery.
“We got the ﬂ  ags out,” Rice 
told the Northwest Florida Daily 
News as wind whipped a massive 
U.S. ﬂ  ag ﬂ  ying at half-staff. “That’s 
what’s important.”
Along the Florida Panhandle, 
tourists vowed Alberto wouldn’t 
dampen their vacations.
Jason Powell sought to keep his 
children entertained with movies 
and TV until Alberto blows past his 
pristine Florida vacation spot.
“So far we’ve seen a lot of wind 
and the ocean is really high, cov-
ering up the entire beach,” Powell 
said.
Janet Rhumes said her group of 
friends from Kansas had been plan-
ning their Memorial Day weekend 
on Navarre Beach since October. 
They stocked up on groceries and 
settled in for card games. “We’ve 
never seen one before and we’re 
here celebrating a friend’s 20th 
birthday,” Rhumes told the Daily 
News. “So how often can you say 
you rode a storm out?”
Elsewhere, Florida’s Division 
of Emergency Management said, 
about 2,600 customers were with-
out power for a time in northwest-
ern Florida on Monday.
As Alberto’s center heads inland 
it is being deprived of the warm 
waters that fuel tropical weather 
systems, causing it to weaken, fore-
casters said. In coming hours it was 
expected to become a subtropical 
depression.
A subtropical storm has a less 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Former City Commissioner Randy Wells shakes the hand of a young bicyclist, William, 5, during 
Saturday’s  “Ride with Your Mayor and Commissioners” bike riding event.  
Alberto after landfall: Threat of heavy rains, ﬂ  ooding
deﬁ  ned and cooler center than a 
tropical storm, and its strongest 
winds are found farther from its 
center. And some of its rain bands 
spread hundreds of miles (kilo-
meters) away from the core of the 
storm.
Elsewhere, the North Carolina 
Highway Patrol said, a large tree 
toppled on a news television vehicle 
Monday near Tryon, North Caro-
lina. WYFF-TV of Greenville, South Carolina, said a news anchor, Mike 
McCormick, and photojournalist, 
Aaron Smeltzer, with that station 
were both killed.
McCormick and Smeltzer had 
just interviewed Tryon Fire Chief 
Geoffrey Tennant as they covered 
storms in North Carolina.
“Ten minutes later we get the 
call and it was them,” Tennant said 
at a news conference, his voice 
cracking.Tennant did not directly blame 
the up to 2 inches (5 centimeters) 
of rain that fell Monday from the 
fringes of Alberto for the deaths. 
He said the roots of a large tree that 
toppled on the vehicle came loose 
from ground saturated by a week’s 
worth of earlier rain.
The men died instantly, their TV 
vehicle’s engine still running, Ten-
nant said.
fatalities in the country in 2016, 
according to the Department of 
Transportation and the National 
Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety Adminis-
tration.
The City Commission has 
adopted a Vision Zero policy, Gainesville City Commissioner 
Adrian Hayes-Santos said. The 
goal of the policy is to eliminate 
injuries and fatalities on the roads.
The Vision Zero policy will be 
implemented in 2018, according 
to the Bicycle/Pedestrian Adviso-
ry Board’s meeting minutes.
Megan Wallrich, a 31-year-old wildlife biologist, said she appre-
ciated the message behind Mayor 
Poe’s bike event, but she also 
wants to see more come from it.
“There is a huge commu-
nity here for cyclists,” she said. 
“Hopefully that prompts them to 
also make changes in the future.”BIKES,  from pg. 1Bike safety was stressed at the event4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ORGANIC
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comShreve has received the beetles for a few 
years now and usually gets about 50 to 100 
at a time. He hasn’t noticed the beetles eating 
any of the other plants on his property.
“So far they haven’t eaten anything but 
air potatoes,” Shreve said. “We have some 
stuff that looks just like air potatoes or (has 
a) very similar leaf structure, but they won’t 
touch it.”
Carnevale said the beetles have been 
tested to ensure they only consume the air 
potato vine.
Even though the vine has been an ongo-
ing problem across the state, it does not stop 
people from having fun with them.
Carnevale described “air potato round-
ups” that the IFAS ofﬁ  ce would hold in places 
like Alachua as outreach events. They were 
similar to Easter egg hunts with prizes for 
biggest, smallest and most unusually shaped 
air potatoes.Within two years of the beetles being of-
fered to residents and land managers in Polk 
County, the air potato vine was no longer one 
of the top problem species in the area, Car-
nevale said.
“The site we did this at a couple of times 
didn’t have any air potatoes left,” Carnevale 
said. “We couldn’t do (air potato roundups) 
because the beetles were so successful.”
To request beetles, Polk County residents 
may visit the Hayslip Biological Control Re-
search and Containment Laboratory’s web-
site. A few forms must be authorized and 
then residents may pick up their own army 
of potato leaf beetles. The next delivery to the 
IFAS extension in Bartow will be June 6.
Shreve said he was glad UF could help lo-
cal governments to take strides in eradicating 
the invasive plant. 
“This is a great example of academic insti-
tutions providing meaningful and actionable 
information,” Shreve said. “This is a much-
needed success story.”BEETLES,  from pg. 1“A much-needed success story.”
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a man Thurs-
day night for an alleged drunken assault that 
occurred earlier in May.
Anthony Gaylor went out to celebrate his 
21st birthday May 5. According to the GPD 
report, Gaylor was intoxicated when he got 
home.
At around 9 p.m., Gaylor knocked on his 
roommate’s door. He tried hugging his room-
mate, then allegedly rubbed his roommate’s 
genitals outside of his clothing and entered 
his bedroom without consent, according to 
the arrest report.
After his roommate walked to the kitch-
en, Gaylor allegedly held a fork under his 
roommate’s chin and told the roommate 
he should kill himself. Gaylor then grabbed 
a large knife and held it to his roommate’s 
temple, repeatedly saying he should kill him-self.
Gaylor reportedly caused some bleeding 
and a small cut to his roommate’s temple.
The victim tried to run to the door, but 
Gaylor slammed it shut and locked it. Ac-
cording to the report, he then pinned his 
roommate onto the couch and began chok-
ing him until he couldn’t breathe. The victim 
was able to get away and lock himself in his 
bedroom.
Almost three weeks later, GPD arrested 
Gaylor for the incident.
According to the report, Gaylor later told 
police that he did drink that night, but he 
doesn’t remember anything past trying to 
hug his roommate.
He is currently being held at Alachua 
County Jail for aggravated battery and false 
imprisonment. His bond is set at $100,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGPD: Man arrested for assaultTUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
Gainesville resident arrested on 
aggravated battery charge
High Springs Police arrested a 
Gainesville native Wednesday night for al-
legedly stabbing someone in an argument.
At 10:25 p.m., Twyla Postell reportedly 
started a verbal argument with the victim. 
Prior to her arrival, the male victim and 
a woman were talking by 
23278 NW 178th Place in 
High Springs, near where 
Postell currently resides. 
According to the HSPD 
report, Postell was at the 
location earlier and had 
returned.
The witness and vic-
tim told police the verbal argument be-
came physical at some point. Postell then 
allegedly stabbed the man in his left hand 
with a long sharp-edged object. According 
to the report, the victim grabbed the object 
and threw it in the grass.
The victim stated he thought he was 
stabbed with an ice pick, but it was too 
dark for him to see. Reportedly, the wit-
ness never saw a weapon. During the ar-
gument, however, she did hear the man 
say, “This b---- just stabbed me.”
Ofﬁ  cers and deputies searched the area 
for the weapon but couldn’t ﬁ  nd it, accord-
ing to the report. The man’s injuries were 
photographed and reported as consistent 
with a stab wound from a sharp object.
Postell, 44, refused to answer any ques-
tions from the police. They charged her 
with aggravated battery, and she was held 
at Alachua County Jail until Thursday af-
ternoon, when she was released on her 
own recognizance.
- Jessica CurbeloRobbery suspects lead GPD on car chase
Gainesville Police arrested two men charged with rob-
bery and evading police Wednesday.
Travis Webb, 20, and Willie Reid, 18, were accused of 
robbing someone with a gun at an ATM 
and running from the police.
On Tuesday at 11:55 p.m., Webb al-
legedly went up to the victim with a small 
handgun after the victim withdrew mon-
ey from the ATM located at 2831 NE 11th 
Terrace, according to the report. Webb 
reportedly told the victim, “Give me what 
you got.”
The victim gave Webb $40 out of fear 
of being shot, according to the report. 
Webb allegedly got in the backseat of a 
car that Reid was driving.
A GPD ofﬁ  cer found the car on the 
1900 block of Southeast Fourth Street and 
tried to pull it over, according to the re-
port. The defendant started to drive away 
so the ofﬁ  cer chased after him; other pa-
trol cars joined in the pursuit later.
The car was driving in the wrong lane 
of Southeast Waldo Road and turned down a dead end 
street and stopped, according to the report.
Reid ran from the passenger seat and was caught while 
Webb stayed in the driver’s seat, according to the arrest 
report.
After the arrest of Reid and Webb, a witness said they 
were in the vehicle when Webb committed the armed rob-
bery, according to the report. 
During an interview, Webb said he committed the rob-
bery with a gun and he advised Reid to jump in the driver’s 
seat after the robbery and drive to another location so they 
could switch seats, according to the report.
He also said he was driving the car during the pursuit 
and that Reid gave him the gun and took it back after the 
robbery.
Reid also had a local felony warrant, according to the 
report. Webb and Reid remained in the Alachua County 
Jail on Wednesday and Thursday. Webb’s bail was set to 
$65,000 and Reid’s was set to $95,000. 
- Devoun CetouteWebb
Reid
Pair arrested in connection to string of burglaries 
A man and woman were arrested Friday afternoon for allegedly com-
mitting a string of car burglaries around Alachua County in late April.
The arresting ofﬁ  cer identiﬁ  ed the suspects as Brandon Driggers, 
25, and Taylor Shockey, 23, according to the report from the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
The ﬁ  rst reported incident was April 20 in Gainesville. According to 
the report, the victim was inside a Cracker Barrel Old Country Store on 
Southwest 43rd Street when her car was broken into.
The rear passenger window of the car was broken, and a $30 pioneer 
lunch box was stolen. The window damage was valued at $250.
Video surveillance clearly shows a red four-door car with a gray 
front left quarter panel parked nearby. Driggers is reportedly seen get-
ting out of the red car and approaching the Kia.
The video doesn’t show him breaking the window but does show 
him reaching inside and removing something before driving away in 
the red Chevrolet Impala.
On April 28, a sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce deputy received two reports of car 
burglaries at Splitz Bowling Center, located at 1301 NW 76th Blvd. in 
Gainesville. The deputy reportedly observed two cars parked next to 
each other with broken passenger windows.
According to the report, nothing was stolen from one of the cars, but 
several credit cards were stolen from the other. The credit cards were 
used at multiple places near the location within an hour of the burglary.
Video footage shows a female suspect entering a Walgreens on West 
Newberry Road and allegedly buying Visa Prepaid Cards. According to 
the report, the items stolen from the second car were valued at $295. 
The damage to the broken windows of both cars was valued at $150 
each.
During the investigation, the lead detective identiﬁ  ed the female sus-
pect as Shockey. Surveillance videos throughout Alachua County also 
show Driggers using credit cards allegedly stolen from different cars.
Driggers and Shockey were arrested Friday at about 1 p.m. Accord-
ing to the report, Driggers admitted to nothing. Shockey told police she 
was with Driggers when he broke into several cars and that he used a 
ﬂ  athead screwdriver to break the car windows.
Driggers would allegedly take credit cards and use them to buy Visa 
Prepaid Cards. According to the report, Shockey would then use or sell 
the gift cards.
A ﬂ  athead screwdriver was reportedly later found in the driver’s 
door of the red four-door car identiﬁ  ed during the investigation.
Driggers and Shockey are both being held at Alachua County Jail. 
Driggers’ bond has been set at $240,000, while Shockey’s bond is at 
$150,000.
- Jessica Curbelo Postell
Editorial
ColumnAppreciate 
where you are
You are not wasting time by treating yourself
Being a college student, professor or 
staff member can make for a de-
manding work day and stress. Be-
yond your to-do list, there’s other du-
ties you might have to tackle. There’s 
family life and friends. There are also other 
errands, chores or side hustles.
Being in this environment can be like 
you’re in an endless cycle of days in a pres-
sure cooker.
There might be a paper or lesson plan to write or 
prep, a quiz on Canvas or a day where two tests line up 
at once. Or there’s those days that seem to be a never-
ending series of unfortunate events: the bus that drives 
by right as you get there, a jammed printer or a broken 
laptop. 
Needless to say, these events are draining. 
For me, taking time for myself comes with guilt. I 
beat myself up for taking a nap or reading mindless, 
ﬂ  uffy articles when I should be doing an assignment, 
reading important news, working on my portfolio or 
learning a new skill outside of the classroom. 
As a student, I feel pressure to constantly be at work: 
applying for scholarships, searching for internships, 
taking classes, working on extracurricular activities, up-
dating resumes and staying on top of required classes, 
grades, career fairs and beyond.
The same guilt can come with buying something be-
yond your list of needs.
However, I think Netﬂ  ix nights, going out, reading 
a book for fun, having a shopping day or simply doing 
nothing are just as important as work.
These moments are where you learn who you are be-
yond work or school. They keep you fueled in a drain-
ing world where you’re bombarded with countless as-
signments, sad headlines or issues in your personal life.
Life is more than your title of “student.”Tasks that can be considered a waste of 
time could be the same thing that inspires a 
dream, new passion or career or something 
that propels your motivation or leads you on 
a path that eases stress.
For me, there are days when I’m lying in 
bed feeling unwell because of my chronic ill-
ness; I don’t even leave bed. However, taking 
the time to rest allows me to take on a new 
week or a new semester at times when doc-
tors tell me to stop. Even more, it gives me the space to 
think about ways to help other people.
It took being admitted to the hospital years ago to ﬁ  -
nally stop and step back outside the boundaries of work 
and school.
Lying in a hospital bed, feeling like I was wasting 
time, was where I became even closer to words and 
stories. In the dingy, dim room with faint beeps and 
a trickling IV, I dreamed up my blog and book idea to 
raise awareness for my chronic illness.
Getting sick has shown me more than anything the 
importance of the so-called wasting of time because it 
forces me to stop.
This isn’t to stay I don’t still beat myself up every 
day. However, it has allowed me to be better.
So the next time you’re sitting on your dorm bed, 
having some fun or making a spur of the moment pur-
chase and a haunting thought of your stress and to-dos 
trickles in, try to block it with the knowledge that you 
are still working — just in other ways. 
You’re working on making memories, taking a need-
ed break, ﬁ  nding yourself and living life to the fullest.
That is not a waste of time.
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
For many upperclassmen, spending the summer in 
Gainesville doesn’t quite hold the allure it did as a 
freshman. However, many students are forced either 
through lack of internship funding or plain old rejection 
to spend the Summer semester in Gainesville and take a 
few classes rather than be unproductive, which, quite frankly, 
isn’t the worst career move. The crucial “if” lies in how Gators 
make use of their time here.
Logically, the ﬁ  rst step for many students is evaluating 
where their resumes and lives are lacking. Students should 
then pinpoint what local internships, jobs and volunteer op-
portunities can help them land a stellar internship next sum-
mer or post-grad. Even more so, Gators should enjoy their 
temporary home and allow it to inﬂ  uence them as it wills.
Here are a few suggestions for a well-rounded summer in 
the ‘ville:
-Strengthen your communications skills, bump up your 
GPA half a point or work toward a new certiﬁ  cation. Time 
is only wasted when not realized and used for some ﬁ  nite 
purpose.  
-Look up more. Have you seen the trees in this city?! 
Gainesville is populated by some of the most beautiful vegeta-
tion in the state. You might spend an afternoon forest bathing 
with a friend or getting in some quality introspection. 
-Explore the environment around you. Your argument that 
Gainesville is tired and uninteresting is completely untrue if 
you fail to explore what lies in your backyard. Take a weekend 
to check out First Magnitude Brewing Company or Bolen Bluff 
Trail. There are far more natural attractions and local estab-
lishments than we could ever suggest. 
 -Attend City Commission meetings or your local Repub-
lican National Committee or Democratic National Commit-
tee chapter meetings. The agendas for these meetings have 
tons of information on city planning, local politics and other 
Gainesville business. You’ll learn more by attending these 
meetings than in weeks of Twitter scrolling. Also, taking part 
in and being informed of decisions that will affect your day-to-
day life is democracy at its ﬁ  nest. 
 -Root on local sports. The Gators’ softball and baseball 
playoffs have just begun. Head over to Alfred A. McKethan 
Stadium for the NCAA regional playoffs this weekend or orga-
nize a watch party for the Gator girls. In addition, check out 
any one of the multitudes of other area activities and clubs 
that exist in plain sight. 
-Utilize area swimming pools and recreation centers. Swim-
ming and team sports are the best way to incorporate exercise 
into your routine, allowing participants to build strong friend-
ships and disconnect from the virtual reality for a while. 
-Become a regular at a local coffee shop. There’s a reason 
why so many ﬁ  nd “Cheers” romantic. Nothing fosters com-
munity quite like shared moments in a busy day. 
-Appreciate where you are. The phrase is cliché, but the 
sentiment still holds weight. Far too little of us realize our 
station in life and actively watch our lives ebb and ﬂ  ow. But 
you really can if you try to be a bit more cognizant of your 
surroundings and record what’s going on in your life semi-
regularly. You are accomplishing far more than you know. 
- Above all, keep Gainesville weird.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Through the window of a Regional 
Transit System bus, you longingly stare 
at the motorcyclist next to you. Clad in 
black gear, he takes off at a red light and 
speeds toward campus. “Stop requested. 
For your safety: if crossing the street...” 
You tune it out and daydream of a reality 
without buses.
For those of us who are planning on 
switching over to two-wheeled motorized 
vehicles, including scooters, let’s not have 
any illusions about the risks associated 
with our decisions. But make them anyway, and ride 
safe, if you’ve weighed the risks.
I should speak to the grim statistics on motorcy-
cle accidents ﬁ  rst — those according to the Florida 
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles 
(FDHSMV). The three-year average for motorcycle 
accidents in Miami-Dade County is 1,204 per year. 
That’s about three a day. Fatalities have a three-year 
average of 54 per year. That’s about one death every 
week of the year. The statistics do not improve when 
you consider fatalities per vehicle mile traveled.
As per the National Highway Trafﬁ  c Safety Ad-
ministration, riding a motorcycle is 35 times more 
likely to kill you than driving in a car. It doesn’t get 
better when you apply lessons from the Hurt study, 
an authoritative on-scene study on motorcycle safety 
and mortality which analyzed data from motorcycle 
crashes.
Take a quick look around the UF campus: know 
both students and youth aged 16 to 24 are overrep-
resented in fatal crashes. In the county that houses 
our campus, Alachua, the ratio of fatal to non-fatal 
crashes is only slightly lower than it is in Dade. Slow, 
small-town Gainesville trafﬁ  c doesn’t help as much 
as we might think it does.
Scooter riders, remember that you are not safe ei-
ther. Think about how many of you are not wearing reﬂ  ective clothing or helmets and riding 
without a license. Those characteristics are 
all overrepresented in motorcycle crashes. 
If you retreat to thinking that a 50-cu-
bic-centimeter scooter isn’t fast enough 
to be dangerous, consider also that even 
the cheap scooters cruise at 30 mph. The 
median crash speed in the Hurt study was 
29.8 mph. 
There are tangible countermeasures we 
can implement to improve our odds of sur-
viving a crash — statistics again according 
to the Hurt study. Using them is shown to reduce 
injuries. These are things like wearing eyewear and 
using rigid protective boots and gloves. Helmet use 
cannot be overstressed.
We can’t look to the numbers for justiﬁ  cation on 
why we can feel safe on two wheels. We would be 
taking those risks in the presence of alternatives, 
risking our lives for whatever beneﬁ  t we get from 
speeding away at red lights.
One of my reasons is a grudge against RTS buses, 
which have forced me to use Uber one too many 
times. 
I chose to live in a house that would offer me bet-
ter quality of living and cheaper rent, but it is farther 
away and lacks reliable bus service. I choose to have 
the beneﬁ  ts of independence from buses and wallet-
breaking chauffeur services over that risk of bodily 
injury. 
I’ve weighed the risks. I want to be the motorcy-
clist outside the RTS window, complete with a neon 
orange full face helmet and colorful clothing. Wear-
ing black is dressing for your own funeral.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political science ju-
nior. His column comes out Tuesday and Thursday. Motorcycles are dangerous — I might buy oneColumn
It’s no secret that 
Rihanna’s “Fen-
ty Beauty” line 
has been a huge 
success since its 
launch in September 
2017. 
For many women, 
the cosmetics line re-
veal has been emotion-
al. With 40 shades to 
choose from, Fenty has ushered 
in a new era of inclusivity and 
started a conversation about rep-
resentation of diversity within 
the makeup industry. The prod-
uct line, which has been named 
one of Time's “25 Best Inven-
tions of 2017,” is just the latest 
example of Rihanna’s unfailing 
ability to innovate industries. 
But, I believe Fenty’s success 
could partly lie in the narrow-
ness of the offerings rather than 
the depth. 
Fenty offers tons of shades 
within each product category, 
but the actual types of products 
offered is refreshingly slim. The 
business model of most make-
up companies is to provide the 
customer with an overwhelm-
ing array of options that can be 
combined methodically to create 
an infinite number of different 
looks. Fenty doesn’t do that. The 
products focus on creating beau-
tiful skin, mimicking natural 
glow from the sun and creating 
a plump lip. The advertisements 
feature a gorgeous mix of differ-
ent looking women, but they all 
feature a similar “RiRi” look. 
As an average non-beauty-
guru person, this makes the 
makeup experience easier for 
me. I don’t have to be the artist; 
Rihanna already created the look 
for me. 
The small Fenty shelf at 
Sephora has relieved many cos-
metics consumers of the anxious 
feeling we all face when we walk 
into an overstocked store. “For-
ever 21 syndrome,” if you will. 
As a collector, the game has 
changed. The small amount of 
lipstick shades empowers con-
sumers to collect all 14 colors. 
Typically, no one aspires to own 
each of the hundreds of shades 
offered by cosmetics lines. Fenty 
has given makeup lovers a brand 
they can truly own. 
Fenty is one of the first com-
panies, in any genre, that I’ve 
seen which fights the consumer-
ism mentality that each product 
must exist in thousands of fla-
vors, shades, textures or smells. 
Honestly, do we need “Limeade” 
flavored Oreos? I think it’s time 
for us to have a conversation 
about choices. I highly encourage 
watching Barry Schwartz’s TED 
Talk, “The Paradox of Choice.” 
He talks on something that I 
reference mentally all the time. 
The negative impact that having too many choices can 
have. Schwartz says 
that too many choices 
leaves us paralyzed to 
decide and unhappy 
with whatever we pick 
in fear that we chose 
wrong. If you look at 
it in this way, Fenty is 
doing makeup consum-
ers a favor that other 
brands are not. 
When rating a cosmetics line, 
we usually consider factors like 
coverage, variety and afford-
ability. Are we forgetting to fac-
tor in how much happiness the 
products bring us? In a world 
where you can purchase any-
thing, should you purchase ev-
erything? For me, Fenty products 
bring me more happiness than 
other brands because they offer 
variety that I can wrap my head 
around. They have made it easy 
to replicate the look they adver-
tise. Rihanna has made it pos-
sible for other women to live in 
her fantasy.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertis-
ing junior. Her column comes 
out Tuesday and Thursday.With Fenty Beauty, less is moreColumn
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgLayla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
Right: Thirty-six-year-old 
Jennifer Nalli (left), 52-year-
old Patricia Vernon (middle) 
and 39-year-old Mike Esposito 
(right) in the garage of one 
home participating in Saturday’s 
yard sale at Huntington Lakes 
Apartments.
Bottom Right:  Huntington 
Lakes Apartments held a building-
wide yard sale on Saturday 
morning to raise funds for 100.1 
FM WGOT, a community radio 
station that was established in 
2008. The station aims to take 
back the public airwaves by 
providing a fresh, engaging and 
empowering approach to news, 
entertainment, cultural and 
educational programming.
Bottom Left: The front lawn 
of one home participating in the 
yard sale event at Huntington 
Lakes Apartments.
By Sloan Savage
Alligator Staff Writer
A survey released May 16 by Online Col-
leges ranked UF as No. 1 in a list of online 
college education programs for 2018-2019 in 
Florida. 
Kathy Harper, associate director of mar-
keting and communications for UF Online, 
said the ranking can be credited to the pro-
gram’s affordability and the benefits of being 
a UF student. UF has offered online programs since the 
late 1990s, but it wasn’t until 2014 that UF 
Online was established through legislative 
initiatives that provide special funding for 
the online program, Harper said.
UF Online’s tuition is 25 percent less than 
on-campus tuition, Harper said. Online stu-
dents are also exempt from certain fees that 
campus students pay.  
Like traditional students, online students 
also have access to resources at the Career 
Connections Center, formerly called the Ca-reer Resource Center. 
Ja’Net Glover, senior director for career 
services at the CCC, said the center made it 
a priority to ensure it has an online presence 
and has hosted about 70 virtual events in the 
past year alone. 
Virtual career fairs allow employers to 
post information about their company and 
available positions, then chat, or video chat, 
with students online, she said.
“We wanted to make sure that students 
and employers still have the ability to have that face-to-face connection,” Glover said.
Harper said UF Online students have 
been given greater access to “all the fantastic 
things that are a part of UF as a top 10 uni-
versity.”
“...even if they’re not right here in 
Gainesville, they can feel a part of it, and 
have a great student experiences,” Harper 
said.
@sloanasavage
ssavage@alligator.orgUF ranks as No. 1 online college in the state of Florida
Local radio station holds yard sale in effort to stay on-air
Photos by Davio Rodriguez
Alligator StaffTUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
By Samantha Leon
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Florida continues to recover from Hurri-
cane Irma, a new hurricane season approaches 
June 1.
The City of Gainesville will soon release 
AlertGNV, an emergency alert system that will 
enhance communication with residents, said 
Chip Skinner, the public information ofﬁ  cer for 
the City of Gainesville.AlertGNV will launch by the end of June or 
July, Skinner said. The alert system will pro-
vide text and email updates on severe weather 
events, trafﬁ  c impacts and other emergency 
situations.
Skinner advised students to monitor storms 
and have enough food and water to last three 
days in case of power outages. Students with 
vehicles should ﬁ  ll their gas tanks as well.
“As soon as (the hurricane’s) forecast to 
hit the state of Florida, (students) have to start thinking progressively,” he said.
If students are concerned about where to go 
during a hurricane, they should contact their 
resident advisors, said Hal Grieb, the assistant 
director of UF Emergency Management. 
On-campus students should stay in their 
residence halls unless otherwise advised, he 
said.
“Shelters are really not where you want to 
default to go. It’s minimal comfort. There’s no 
bedding provided,” Grieb said. “There’s food and water, but it’s basically designed for a 
place of last resort to seek shelter during the 
high winds.” 
Brooke Fletcher, a 20-year-old Kingsland, 
Georgia, native, who is transferring to UF in 
the Fall, said the hurricane season is not nearly 
as intense in Georgia as it is in Florida. 
“I’m not really used to leaving for storms,” 
she said. “So, I’d probably stick around up un-
til there’s a mandatory evacuation.”Gainesville, UF anticipate upcoming hurricane seasonBy Jacob Kovach
Alligator Contributing Writer
Petty Ofﬁ  cer First Class Chris 
Caputo, 29, went to the Florida 
Museum of Natural History on 
Monday with his wife and two 
children. He appreciated the op-
portunity for a day trip away from 
Jacksonville, where he is currently 
stationed.   
Florida Museum will be offer-
ing free admission to any fee-based 
exhibits, such as the new exhibit 
“Masters of the Night: The True 
Story of Bats,” to active-duty U.S. 
military personnel and up to ﬁ  ve 
family members this year from Me-
morial Day to Labor Day.
“It’s been great for the kids,” 
Caputo said. “They’ve been able to 
get their hands on everything.”
Caputo, who has served for 
eight years, works as an in-ﬂ  ight 
technician in the Navy. He said 
his children particularly enjoyed 
the interactive exhibits the muse-
um offered, which include a dark 
cave exhibit that can be crawled 
through and the museum’s “Youth 
Discovery Zone.”
Caputo said despite military 
life being fulﬁ  lling, it can be dif-
ﬁ  cult to manage with a 6-year-old 
boy beginning to play hockey and 
a 3-year-old girl trying her hardest 
to keep up with her older brother.
As he spoke, his kids giggled 
and jumped with about a dozen 
other children in the museum’s main gallery, watching an aug-
mented reality Colombian mam-
moth stomp around on an array of 
screens that were displayed on the 
room and, to the children’s delight, 
them.
Caputo said he thought the op-portunity at the museum was a ﬁ  t-
ting tribute to the occasion, allow-
ing military families to relax and 
reﬂ  ect for a day. He said it could be 
a welcoming escape for some.
“I think it’s a great way to hon-
or (those who served),” Caputo said. “It’s much better than sitting 
around cooking and drinking.” 
Paul Ramey, the assistant direc-
tor of marketing and public rela-
tions at the Florida Museum, said 
the staff is more than happy to 
support active-duty service mem-bers and veterans. He wishes more 
could be done to thank them.
Ramey, an employee of the mu-
seum since 1999, said there were 
not many locations offering oppor-
tunities like this when the museum 
ﬁ  rst started the partnership with 
Blue Star Museums, which is now 
in its seventh consecutive summer 
working with the Florida Museum.
He said attendance has been 
steady and has even increased dur-
ing the promotion that gives free 
admission to active-duty military 
personnel and their families.
According to Blue Star Mu-
seums, the number of museums 
participating in providing service 
members and their families with 
opportunities like this now exceeds 
2,000.
The organization’s website con-
tains a consistently updated list of 
offers that families may use. 
 In Gainesville, the Cade Museum 
for Creativity and Invention, the 
Florida Museum and the Harn Mu-
seum of Art are the three listed 
partners.
Limited exhibits of the museum 
that are currently on display are 
“Masters of the Night: The True 
Story of Bats,” “Hope for Hump-
backs” and “Mapping the Muse-
um’s Collections.”  
“The museum doesn’t have 
many ways to show our apprecia-
tion,” Ramey said, “so anything we 
can do, even little things, are im-
portant to us, and hopefully them.”Florida Museum oﬀ  ers free admission to active-duty military
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Florida Museum of Natural History’s assistant director of marketing, Paul Ramey, said attendence 
is up after offering free admission to active-duty miilitary personnel. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
$450/mo fully furnished 1/1 within a 5/5.5 
available May-July within The Retreat
Included utilities & Wi-Fi
Large pool, beach volleyball, and weight 
room 770-827-4452      6-5-7-3
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers only. 
Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ walk to 
UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. CAC/
heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 561-
822-7073, chaarlottekirk@outlook.com   6-7-
18-5-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
Designated drivers are the greatestGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
2-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
● ● MARGIE'S SECOND THOUGHT ● ●
2210 NE 55th Blvd, Gville. 386-972-2556
10 am - 6 pm, 7 days a week
● Baby supplies & toys ● Appliances ● 
Furniture ● Clothes ● Linens ● Rugs, Etc.       
6-5-18-5-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
For Sale: Kymco Like 200i Scooter.
Just broken in and serviced. Transferable 
warantee, windshield and cover. $1500. Don 
352-328-0764    5-29-18-5-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE1
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-375-9090                    8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-1200 PONTIAC GRAND AM $999
04 DODGE NEON $999
04 KIA OPTIMA $999
98 MERCURY MYSTIQUE $999
352-338-1999                        8-13-25-12
97 HONDA ACCORD $1499
04 NISSAN SENTRA $1499
04 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE $1499
04 NISSAN XTERRA $1999
352-338-1999                             8-13-25-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
97 DODGE DAKOTA $1999
02 CHEVY BLAZER $1999
04 SATURN VUE $1999
06 SUZUKI FORENZA $1999
352-338-1999                         8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2 male Grad students seek a
male roommate who is clean &
studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,
own bed/bath, on bus stop
close to UF. Pool, hot tub,
tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3
util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
W/D, front & back porches. $840/mo + utils. 
Call 352-871-6413    5-24 18-4-2
2/2 Corner Condo:
Move-in ready, washer/dryer incl.
Free internet.
10 min to UF. On bus route.
$850/mth. 352-872-3619      6-7-18-5-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave      4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
W/D included, fenced backyard, large
closets, close to shopping, midtown, buses    
Call 352-338-1000        6-7-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
6-19-18-14-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Legal Assistant position in Gainesville, FL. 
Part-time. Travel Required. Salary DOE. 
EOE. Send cover letter and resume/refer -
ences to jobs@trls.org.     6-12-18-9-14
See www.thornebrookchocolates.com for job 
description/details. E-mail resume and day/
year-round availability to info@thornebrook -
chocolates.com.     6-19-18-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health ServicesTUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Another Saturday night  
without a date?
READ THE ALLIGATOR.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Learn to fit in
6 “Sí,” on the Seine
9 Nasser of Egypt
14 Oscar winner
Marisa
15 “What was __
expect?”
16 Martini garnish
17 “The Sixth Sense”
writer/director 
M. Night __
19 “Mack the Knife”
singer Bobby
20 Basic cocktail
with Dewar’s
22 Spanish “other”
23 Acorn producer
24 Live frugally
31 What truants
“play”
32 2010 Apple
release
33 Application file
suffix
35 Pests in a pantry
36 Like very serious
errors
38 Octopus octet
39 Muscle spasm
40 Chore
41 Most of Wile E.
Coyote’s gadgets,
brand-wise
42 Political entities
subject to
Constitutional
separation
46 Forget-me-__
47 Ohio border lake
48 Exhortation to
come together ...
and a hint to 
20-, 24- and 
42-Across
54 Hawaiian hi
55 Embarrasses
deeply
58 Bourbon Street
cuisine
59 Boston
skyscraper, with
“the”
60 Nick of “Cape
Fear”
61 Shoelace
problems
62 Stockholm airline
63 Wear away
DOWN
1 @ signs
2 “I am so stupid!”3 Actress Poehler
and singer
Grant
4 Birds with
eyelike spots
on their tails
5 Youngest-ever
Best Supporting
Actor Oscar
winner Hutton
6 Lube shop
container
7 D-Day beach
8 Hebrides isle
9 NASA’s __
Space Flight
Center
10 Where Nome is
11 Surrealist
painter Joan
12 Gung-ho
13 “Girls” creator
Dunham
18 Gillette blade
21 Diet-friendly
24 Cool, in ’90s
slang
25 Greek column
type
26 V-shaped cut
27 Football’s “Iron
Mike”
28 Place for a
waxing
29 Prefix with frost30 Ron Darling or
Tom Seaver
34 To be, to Livy
36 De __: actual
37 Campfire remnant
38 Represented
40 Some “Iliad”
warriors
41 Utterly absurd
43 Left open, as a
door
44 Indian political
family45 “Dagnabbit!”
48 Absence
49 Splashy style
50 Axis dictator who
ordered the Pearl
Harbor attack
51 Little rascals
52 “Julie & Julia”
director Ephron
53 Grain tower
56 Flight board
abbr.
57 “Just like I said!”
By Ed Sessa
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/29/1805/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 29, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Actress Gilbert of
“The Big Bang
Theory”
5 “Lucky Jim”
author
9 “Be silent,” in
scores
14 Stagecraft aid
15 Email category
16 House
17 App opener
18 Director
Preminger
19 66-Across, e.g.
20 Competition
among insects?
23 2000 NBA MVP
24 Part of ENT
25 Cartesian
conclusion
28 Pit stuff
29 Rule by
generations of
insects?
34 City north of
Memphis
35 “The Lord of the
Rings” actor
36 Brand once
pitched by
Garfield, oddly
39 Fabric-dyeing
technique
42 “¿Cómo __?”
43 Macy’s
competitor
45 Minneapolis
suburb
47 Tiny but
impressive
insect?
50 One on first?
53 “__ tu”: Verdi aria
54 Fairy queen of
folklore
55 Bee-related
57 Deceptiveness of
insects?
62 Gathered
intelligence
64 Israeli carrier
65 Stagecraft
arrangements
66 Barclays Center,
for one
67 Barclays Center
team
68 Cherry or pear
69 Inclined to
ramble
70 Stun, in a way
71 In __: alignedDOWN
1 Peg in a cask
2 One of two tarot
card groups
3 Small-space
renter
4 Sleep disorder
5 Starting
6 “Breaking Bad”
contraband
7 Enthusiastic
about
8 Saved
9 Greek restaurant
10 Help badly?
11 Is made up
12 Vanderbilt domain
13 Where many a
drive begins
21 Memorable first
name in Olympic
gymnastics
22 Vote against
26 Arguing
27 Mimic on a perch
30 Pen part
31 Coach
Parseghian
32 Tribal symbol
33 Whaling, say
34 Ireland’s largest
county
36 Tennis legend37 Lascivious look
38 Binky
40 Uganda’s Amin
41 Modeling
enthusiast’s
purchase
44 Eventually
46 Picked-up
48 Runway safety
org.
49 Away
50 Vintage locale51 Hurry
52 “Hold on”
56 Ones that have
infested four
puzzle answers
58 Advance
59 Court bargaining
chip
60 “Darn!”
61 Otherwise
62 Adage
63 Ace
By Winston Emmons
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/25/1805/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, May 25, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Pill
1.  Fiddle with5.  African country 
2.  Type of flower6.  Indentation 
3.  Unpredictable 7.  Flying ____
4.  ____ pickle BTETLA
RINTKERENGI
NCOHT
ENGOIAB
AIERCRTACERSU
OKSRHEANSWERS: 1A-Tablet  5A-Niger  6A-Notch  7A-Saucer
1D-Tinker  2D-Begonia  3D-Erratic  4D-Kosher  B-King Cobra5-29-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The longest known ____ ____ ever 
measured was 24 feet long. 
BONUS
1. In 2016, the Dodgers’ Julio Urias 
became the youngest postseason start-
ing pitcher (20 years, 68 days old) in 
major-league history. Who had been 
the youngest one?
2. David Cone, Pedro Martinez and 
David Wells all tossed a perfect nine 
innings in a major-league game. Who 
of the three had the most career regu-
lar-season victories?
3. Donnel Pumphrey of San Diego 
State set a new record in 2016 for 
most career rushing yards (6,405 
yards). Whose record did he break?
4. Who was the first athlete from the 
Dominican Republic to play in the 
NBA?
5. The Vegas Knights set a record in 
2017-18 for most regular-season road 
wins by an NHL expansion team (22). 
Which team had held the mark?
6. Which Major League Soccer 
teams have won back-to-back MLS 
Cup championships?
7. In 2018, Germany’s Kristina V ogel 
won her 11th women’s world cycling 
title. Who else has won 11 times?
Answers
1. Bret Saberhagen was 20 years, 
175 days old when he started in 1984.
2. Wells had 239 victories, Martinez 
219 and Cone 194.
3. Wisconsin’s Ron Dayne, who 
rushed for 6,397 yards (1996-99, 
when bowl statistics were not includ-
ed).
4. Tito Horford, with the Milwaukee 
Bucks in 1988.
5. The Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, 
with 19 road victories in the 1993-94 
season.
6. D.C. United (1996-97), Houston 
(2006-07) and the Los Angeles Gal-
axy (2011-12).
7. Australia’s Anna Meares.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 28, 2018King Features Weekly ServiceDON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesSEC Player of the Year Amanda 
Lorenz and the UF softball 
team arrived in Oklahoma City 
for the WCWS on Monday.GATORS MEN'S GOLF MISSES CUT AT NCAAs 
Florida's season came to an end on Sunday after finishing 18th out of 30 
teams. The top 15 moved on to the second round of stroke play in Stillwater, 
Oklahoma.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S TENNIS
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team 
had its season come to an end af-
ter its last two doubles teams lost 
in the NCAA Singles and Doubles 
Championships on Saturday. Even 
with the disappointing finish, the 
Gators’ 2018 campaign was full of 
excitement.
Florida ended the season with 
an overall record of 19-10 and a 
9-3 conference record, which was 
third-best in the SEC.
UF opened the 2018 spring sea-
son with high expectations and 
was ranked No. 9 in the nation. 
The season began at home on Jan. 
22 against UCF. The Gators domi-
nated 6-1 with strong performanc-
es in singles on the top two po-
sitions to move to a 17-0 all-time 
record against the Knights.
After a successful ITA Kick-
Off Weekend where the team 
swept South Alabama and USF, 
the Gators went on the road. On 
its first road trip, Florida was met 
with its first challenges.
The rivalry matchup between 
Florida and Florida State in Orlan-
do, Florida, was tied at 3-3 with all 
eyes on Court 2 and freshman Oli-
ver Crawford. He lost in straight 
sets to the Seminoles’ Lucas Poul-
lain in a 7-6, 7-6 duel.
Coach Bryan Shelton later 
pointed to this defeat as Craw-
ford’s motivation to later produce one of the most successful seasons 
by a freshman in the program’s 
history.
UF split its next two matches, 
beating Michigan 4-2 on Feb. 9 but 
losing to then-No. 2 Ohio State 6-3 
on Feb. 11. 
Five days later, the team trav-
eled to Seattle, Washington, for 
the National Team Indoor Cham-
pionships to face top competition. 
Florida played three top-25 teams, 
which included two ranked dou-
bles teams and seven ranked sin-
gles players. It was humbled after 
getting swept 4-0 by Texas A&M 
and Illinois but had a promising 
win against a tough Notre Dame 
team. Shelton regarded this tour-
nament — and the lessons that 
came with it — as the turning 
point of the season.
Florida entered SEC play with a 
5-4 record with a difficult schedule 
ahead.
Its first conference opponent 
was Georgia, which came into the 
Ring Tennis Complex ranked No. 
17 in the nation on March 2. For 
the second time during the sea-
son, it came down to Crawford - 
this time on Court 4.
On the cold, windy night, the 
freshman upset then-No. 28 Jan 
Zielinski in a dramatic third set 
that brought tears to his eyes and 
an emotional hug from his coach.
“We knew he had it in him,” 
Shelton said after the match. “Af-Mystery of the Aggies lives on, Gators turn toward future
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
UF men's tennis coach Bryan Shelton joins his team after its Senior Day match with Alabama on April 13.  
The Gators went 19-10 on the season and qualified for the NCAA T ournament. 
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 16
BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
This is familiar territory for the Florida 
Gators.
They haven’t won the SEC Tournament 
since 2015, and last year, they lost to Arkan-
sas in the SEC Tournament.
This season, they also lost to Arkansas at 
the SEC Tournament in Hoover, Alabama, 
albeit the score wasn’t as bad as in 2017 
when UF got lambasted by the Razorbacks 
16-0.
After a comeback finish against LSU in 
round one of the 2018 tournament in which 
Florida won 4-3, the team met Arkansas.
This time around, UF lost 8-2. Not one Gator recorded multiple hits on the day, and 
the lineup struggled from top to bottom. The 
lone bright spot for UF was when SEC Player 
of the Year Jonathan India scorched a home 
run to get his team on the board in the sixth 
inning.
However, Florida was given a second life 
as the tournament is double-elimination un-
til the semifinals.
UF squandered its opportunity, getting 
blasted by the LSU Tigers 11-0 in seven in-
nings in round three of the event. The defeat 
marked the second time in as many years 
that Florida has been knocked out of the SEC 
Tournament in the form of a shutout.
An eight-run sixth inning doomed the 
Gators in the loss as they fell into a defi-cit they couldn’t recover from. The inning 
lasted so long that it had to be finished the 
following day. Fog rolled into Hoover and 
made it so murky that play was postponed 
until the next morning.
In the inning, UF gave up only one earned 
run, but eight runs scored. The Tigers bene-
fited from wild pitches, errors, a passed ball, 
walks, a hit-by-pitch and a few other avoid-
able mistakes.
Not one extra-base hit was recorded by 
Florida, and only shortstop Deacon Liput 
had multiple hits for the contest.
It was a struggle on the weekend for the 
Gators (42-17). They’ve looked out of sync 
since it was announced that ace Brady Sing-
er is being held out with a hamstring injury. The good news for the team is that it expects 
Singer to be back on the bump for regionals.
Head coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in a re-
lease that Singer threw a bullpen in Hoover 
and that he’ll be ready to go on Friday.
Moreover, catcher/first baseman JJ 
Schwarz was held out of the tournament due 
to a broken bone in his thumb. He will be 
reevaluated before UF’s next game.
“JJ is day-to-day still, he’s working hard 
to get back, and hopefully we’ll know more 
later this week,” O’Sullivan said.
Monday it was announced that Florida 
received the top seed in the NCAA postsea-
son and in doing so, earned a regional in 
Gainesville. The Gainesville Regional con-Florida flops at SEC Tournament, still earns top NCAA seed 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
TRACK
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
Step-up performances have followed UF 
track and field throughout its 2018 campaign. 
The NCAA East Preliminary marked a time 
when 30 of UF’s track and field athletes did 
what it took to ensure that their season didn’t 
end at USF Track and Field Stadium in Tampa, 
Florida. 
For many of them, it was a familiar posi-
tion.
Sophomore Clayton Brown was in that spot 
when he needed a triple-jump mark of at least 
16 meters at the SEC Indoor Championships on 
Feb. 25 to qualify for NCAA Indoors, and he 
got it done. 
This past weekend, the St. Andrew, Jamai-ca, native found himself staring down a similar 
lane in the long jump competition, and he only 
had one more chance to jump far enough to 
make it into the top 12, qualifying for NCAA 
Outdoors.
In the same routine series, he came up with 
one of the many clutch performances for UF at 
the meet to qualify not only in the long jump 
but in the high jump as well.
Three more jumpers on both the men’s and 
women’s sides followed Brown’s example with 
qualifying marks in more than one event. 
Senior KeAndre Bates was one of them. The 
reigning national champion’s triple jump win 
and eighth-place long jump finish ensured that 
he would get the chance to leave his mark on 
a Gators team that he has won six individual 
titles with.For junior Yanis David and senior Darrielle 
McQueen, the women’s long jump and triple 
jump competition will be their chance to step 
up the way they have all season. They’ve col-
lected big points for their team when it needs 
them. 
“Everybody who put the uniform on went 
out and competed hard—even those who 
didn’t make it,” coach Mike Holloway said 
in a release. “Nobody came out here and lied 
down. That was fun to watch.”
He watched as two of his 110-meter hur-
dlers made their way into the top 12 to ad-
vance. 
Sophomore Grant Holloway and freshman 
Cory Poole became the second pair of UF hur-
dlers to go to nationals since William Wayne 
and Kallinka Pitt did it in 2009.As the only program with multiple throw-
ers headed to Eugene, Oregon, for nationals, 
UF will continue to lean on the consistency 
of junior Anders Eriksson, freshman Thomas 
Mardal and redshirt junior AJ McFarland. 
The throwers have remained among the 
most productive in the nation all season. The 
fact that Eriksson, Mardal and McFarland fin-
ished second, sixth and 11th, respectively, to 
advance was no surprise. 
“We are who we are at this point; we quali-
fied who we qualified,” Holloway said. “We’re 
going to get back to Gainesville Monday, get 
everybody rested and healthy, then go out to 
Eugene and do the best we can.”
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgThe top NCAA qualifiers for UF from the East PreliminarySOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The home run. 
It’s the greatest equalizer in a 
softball game.
On Saturday night, a walk-off 
blast from freshman outfielder 
Jordan Matthews punched the 
No. 4 Florida Gators’ ticket to 
Oklahoma City for the Women’s 
College World Series. 
Yet, giving up the long ball 
has also been one of UF’s greatest 
weaknesses. 
It was evident Saturday when 
Texas A&M first baseman Tori 
Vidales knocked a two-run shot 
over the right-field fence just 
a half-inning before Matthews’ 
bomb. Vidales also scorched a 
three-run game-winner against 
Florida on Friday to help the Ag-
gies to a 5-4 victory.
And on March 16, in the first 
game of a series at the Univer-
sity of Georgia, junior pitcher 
Kelly Barnhill relinquished three-
straight solo homers to the Bull-
dogs in the top of the first inning. 
She gave up five in all of the 2017 
season. 
Now, Barnhill and the Gators 
(55-9) will face off with No. 9 
UGA once more in the opening 
match of the double-elimination 
World Series. 
The right-hander gave up four 
home runs in two starts against 
Georgia (48-11), both of which 
lasted only two innings. Senior 
pitcher Aleshia Ocasio gave up 
a two-run, walk-off jack to ju-
nior shortstop Alyssa DiCarlo on 
March 16, as well. For the cam-
paign, Barnhill has allowed 18 
softballs to leave the park, while 
Ocasio has done so 13 times. Both 
tallies are more than the team to-
tal of 11 from last season. Ocasio 
also gave up a two-out, walk-off 
home run in the Gainesville Su-
per Regional in 2016, the last time 
UF and UGA squared off in NCAA play.
DiCarlo and sophomore Justice 
Milz lead the Bulldogs into Thurs-
day’s showdown with 20 and 14 
home runs, respectively. DiCarlo 
went yard three times against the 
Gators when the two teams met 
in Athens and went 4 for 10 at the 
plate with six RBIs for the week-
end. Milz had three quiet games 
versus Florida, only posting one 
hit in 10 at-bats. 
However, the Bulldogs will be without perhaps their greatest as-
set, senior pitcher Brittany Gray. 
She sustained a bicep injury in 
practice on April 9 and under-
went season-ending surgery. Gray 
recorded a national-best 0.62 ERA 
during her 102.1 innings of action 
in 2018. 
During the only series UF lost 
this season, she picked up two 
wins over nine innings. In that 
period of work, Gray allowed 10 
hits and two earned runs to Flori-da batters. The only other pitcher 
UGA used in the series was junior 
Kylie Bass. 
Bass also had two outings 
against the Gators. She threw 10 
innings and gave up three earned 
runs on eight hits. She’s put to-
gether a solid 2.36 ERA for the 
season and has held opponents to 
a 0.185 batting average. 
Florida will likely see sopho-
more pitcher Mary Wilson Avant, 
who leads Georgia with 30 ap-pearances this season and holds 
the second-lowest ERA on the 
team (2.13) behind Gray. She’s 
thrown seven shutouts on the 
season. 
UF also faces potential match-
ups with No. 8 Florida State and 
No. 2 UCLA, as both teams are in 
the same bracket as the Gators 
and the Bulldogs. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators can’t give up the long ball at the College World Series
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Senior third baseman Nicole DeWitt (left) and junior right fielder Amanda Lorenz (right) celebrate after scoring runs against T exas A&M 
on Friday. They and the No. 4 Gators will face No. 9 Georgia at the Women’s College World Series in Oklahoma City. 
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2018
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$3 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSter Florida State, I told him ‘you’ll 
be back in this situation, and I 
know you’ll get it done.’”
Crawford’s breakout perfor-
mance was the beginning of a 
12-match win streak in singles that 
lasted six weeks. The doubles team 
of junior Alfredo Perez and sopho-
more Johannes Ingildsen also be-
gan to impress. The duo gained the 
No. 1 rank in the nation after the 
Indoor Championships and held it 
for the next six weeks.
Even with all of their talent, the 
Gators could not get into a rhythm. 
After a dominant 6-1 win over Ten-
nessee, they were upset by Missis-
sippi State 5-2 on March 9 and by 
TCU 4-3 just two matches later.
In perhaps the highlight of the 
season, Florida upset No. 1 Wake 
Forest 4-3. The win came on the 
back of clutch singles play by ju-
nior and team captain McClain 
Kessler, who shut out his opponent 
to give Crawford the match point.
Despite the big win, the team 
could not ﬁ  nish strong, losing two of the next four matches to close 
out the regular season and clinch 
the third seed in the SEC Tourna-
ment in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
In the tournament, the Gators 
quickly dealt with Vanderbilt 4-1 
before facing Mississippi State once 
more. The then-No. 9 Bulldogs 
again beat them 4-2 to end their 
hopes of raising the SEC trophy.
In the NCAA Tournament, UF 
advanced through the ﬁ  rst two 
rounds by sweeping South Caroli-
na State and Miami. On May 18, it 
met conference opponent Ole Miss 
for the second time of the season.
While the Rebels initially put 
Florida on its heels by winning the 
doubles point, Kessler once again 
closed it out and helped his team 
advance to the quarterﬁ  nals for the 
second time in four years.
Texas A&M awaited UF in the 
next round. The Aggies had beaten 
Florida twice in the season: previ-
ously in the Indoor Championships 
and then in SEC play in a close 
4-3 match on April 6. Florida once 
again struggled in doubles and lost 
the match 4-3 to get bounced from 
the NCAA Tournament.The Gators ended the dual-play 
season ranked 13th in the ITA 
rankings. Crawford’s win streak in 
singles and strong play in doubles 
earned him the Rookie of the Year 
award in the Southeast Region, a 
First-Team All-SEC selection and 
an SEC All-Freshman Team honor. 
Florida saw three singles play-
ers and two doubles teams enter 
the Individual Singles and Doubles 
Championships. There, both the 
Perez and Ingildsen duo as well as 
the Kessler and Vale team earned 
All-American honors for advanc-
ing to the quarterﬁ  nals of the con-
test. Perez also earned another 
All-American honor for advancing 
to the round of 16 in the singles 
event.
Florida will return in 2019 with 
the No. 1 recruiting class in the na-
tion which includes blue-chips Lu-
kas Greif and Sam Rifﬁ  ce.
Shelton will look to build on 
this team’s successes while ﬁ  xing 
the problems that resulted in it fall-
ing short in 2018.
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.orgTENNIS,  from pg. 14UF has No. 1 2019 recruiting classsists of Florida, Jacksonville, Flori-
da Atlantic and Columbia.
The Gators begin play against 
Columbia on Friday at noon.
They have made the NCAA Re-
gionals for a program-record 11 
times in a row under O’Sullivan. 
UF has also made the College 
World Series in its last three cam-paigns.
“At the beginning of the year 
our goal is always to earn a nation-
al seed for the NCAA Tournament, 
and now we’ve done it nine times 
in the last 10 years,” O’Sullivan 
said. “That’s incredible.”
Although the Gators struggled at 
the SEC Tournament, they should 
feel conﬁ  dent going into their re-
gional, especially since the SEC is 
extremely potent this season. The conference put 10 teams into the 
64-team ﬁ  eld, tying the SEC record.
O’Sullivan isn’t worried about 
his team’s struggles.
“At the end of the day, ev-
erybody has a clean slate now,” 
O’Sullivan said. “...our guys will 
be as motivated as anyone to show 
everyone how good they are.”
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14Singer returning for regional play
BASEBALL & SOFTBALL
NCAA SCHEDULE BREAKDOWN
 Thursday, May 31
World Series Opener: Softball vs. Georgia, 7 p.m., ASA Softball Hall of Fame 
Stadium, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Friday, June 1
Potential Winner’s Bracket Matchup: Softball or Georgia vs. Florida State or 
UCLA, 9:30 p.m. ET, ASA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma
Regional Opener: Baseball vs. Columbia, Noon, McKethan Stadium, 
Gainesville, Florida 
Saturday, June 2
Potential Elimination Game: Softball or Georgia vs. Florida State or UCLA, 
2:30 p.m. ET, ASA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Potential Elimination Game: Softball vs. Florida State or UCLA or Georgia, 
9:30 p.m. ET, ASA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Potential Winner’s Bracket Regional Matchup: Baseball or Columbia vs. 
Jacksonville or Florida Atlantic, 1 p.m. ET, McKethan Stadium, Gainesville, 
Florida
Potential Elimination Game: Baseball vs. Jacksonville or Florida Atlantic or 
Columbia, 7 p.m. ET, McKethan Stadium, Gainesville, Florida
Sunday, June 3
Potential Bracket Final: Softball vs. Florida State or UCLA or Georgia, 3:30 
p.m. ET, ASA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Potential Bracket Final: Softball vs. Florida State or UCLA or Georgia, 9:30 
p.m. ET, ASA Softball Hall of Fame Stadium, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Potential Elimination Game: Baseball vs. Jacksonville or Florida Atlantic or 
Columbia, 1 p.m. ET, McKethan Stadium, Gainesville, Florida
Potential Regional Final: Baseball vs. Jacksonville or Florida Atlantic or 
Columbia, 6 p.m. ET, McKethan Stadium, Gainesville, Florida
Monday, June 4
Potential Regional Final: Baseball vs. Jacksonville or Florida Atlantic or 
Columbia, 1 p.m. ET, McKethan Stadium, Gainesville, Florida 