We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Need a charger?
On-campus libraries to begin renting out new materials, pg 5
#WillTweet4Food
Social media savvy professors get juciy pork tenderloin, pg 4Gators football releases depth chart
Coach Dan Mullen and the UF coaching staff released 
the team’s ofﬁ  cial depth chart before Monday’s press 
conference. Find out who’s starting and who’s backing 
them up, pg 14
VOLUME 113 ISSUE 4
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Using a 7,000-degree ﬂ  ame, 
Chris Hubbard spent his 37th 
birthday blowing a custom glass 
art piece for Swamp City Gallery 
Lounge’s grand opening weekend. 
He was one of 10 artists ﬂ  own 
in from across the country to cre-
ate a showcase piece for the ﬁ  rst cannabidiol and art lounge in 
Gainesville. 
The Swamp City Gallery 
Lounge grand opening, which 
took place from noon to 2 a.m. 
on Saturday and Sunday, featured 
food trucks, clothing vendors, live 
music, glass-blowing demonstra-
tions and an art collection total-
ling $500,000 in glass pieces and 
wall art. The gallery, at 404 SE Second 
St. has an outdoor beer garden, a 
game room and a craft beer bar. It 
also features local art along with 
products infused with CBD, or 
cannabidiol, including ice cream, 
bath bombs, chocolates, eye 
creams and lotions. 
Dabs, which is slang for a 
type of vapor hit of an oil or con-
centrate, are also offered at the lounge, Swamp City owner Tyler 
King said. The lounge offers $5 to 
$7 dabs in a variety of ﬂ  avors like 
banana, blueberry and Girl Scout 
cookie, he said. 
Although the CBD chemical 
comes from the cannabis plant, 
smoking CBD does not produce 
the psychoactive effect that mari-
juana does, said Javier Camba, a 
Swamp City employee. “It doesn’t get you high, but 
it has a lot of health beneﬁ  ts,” 
Camba said. “It helps you with 
anxiety, it helps you with inﬂ  am-
mation, and it helps you with ar-
thritis and sleep apnea.” 
The goal is to one day legally 
have THC products for sale, Cam-
ba said. For now, Florida laws 
only allow CBD products to be You can legally do dabs at Swamp City Gallery Lounge SCHOOL BOARD DISTRICT 
3 WILL GO TO A RUNOFF. 
Staff Report
Tina Certain’s supporters were 
ready to party Tuesday night. 
When they weren’t craning their 
necks to get a glimpse of the results 
trickling in, they were doing the 
dougie, cheering and hollering in 
Cypress & Grove Brewing Company. 
In a tight race for the school 
board District 1 seat, Certain pulled 
out a win over incumbent April Grif-
ﬁ  n by just over 1,300 votes. 
“I’m elated, and I’m glad cam-
paigning is done,” Certain said. 
“Democracy works when we get 
involved.”
For some, Tuesday evening’s 
election marked the end of a long 
campaign. Along with Certain, Rob 
Hyatt also secured a seat on the 
school board. 
Since neither Gunnar Paulson 
nor April Barefoot Tisher earned 
a majority of the vote, the race for 
school board District 3 will appear 
on November’s ballot. 
In the race for County Commis-
sion District 2 seat, Marihelen Had-
dock Wheeler clinched a win against 
Randy Wells and will face third par-
ty candidates in the general. 
Jason Lee Haeseler pulled out the 
Democratic nomination over Amol 
Jethwani for State Representative 
District 21 by 1,732 votes. Jethwani, 
a 21-year-old UF political science 
senior, experienced a last minute 
scandal after it was discovered that 
he spent campaign funds on ques-
tionable items such as haircuts, Chi-
potle meals and nearly $500 on Lyft 
charges.  His opponent, Haeseler, will face 
Chuck Clemons, a Republican and 
the incumbent, in the general elec-
tion. 
Yvonne Hayes Hinson will join 
the race for a seat in the U.S. House 
of Representatives this November 
after beating two candidates for the 
District 3 Democratic nomination. 
Hinson will challenge the winner of the Republican nomination, Ted 
Yoho. 
 In the race for governor, Andrew 
Gillum secured a historic Demo-
cratic nomination and will face Ron 
DeSantis, President Donald Trump’s 
pick, in the general election. Gov. 
Rick Scott ran away with the Re-
publican nomination for U.S. Senate 
and will challenge incumbent Bill Nelson in November.
Dejeon Cain, a Gainesville 
preacher and business owner, 
clapped and cheered at Certain’s 
watch party. He said he is excited 
for Certain to ﬁ  ght for school safe-
ty and equity while on the school 
board.
“I think that the people of Ala-
chua County have made the right choice,” Cain said. 
While Certain waited for the 
votes to pour in, she reﬂ  ected on her 
campaign with conﬁ  dence. 
“I don’t have any regrets,” she 
said. “We just tried to run our cam-
paign in a good method, spread our 
message in a positive manner and 
just do everything we could do to 
win the race, and I feel like I’ve 
done that.”
Certain shared a joint election 
watch party with Jethwani.
Jethwani conceded to Haeseler 
before the ofﬁ  cial voting count was 
announced. He said he will support 
Haeseler in November.
Jethwani announced that he 
plans to pay back the controversial 
expenses discovered two days be-
fore the election but did not specify 
how much.
“I accept fault where I made er-
rors in judgment,” he said. “Every-
one makes mistakes.”
An hour after polls closed, Kay-
ser Enneking, a Democratic candi-
date for District 8 state senator, ran 
through the doors of White Buffalo 
to be greeted by nearly 60 support-
ers. 
The ﬁ  rst person to welcome her 
with a hug was Enneking’s former 
teacher, Peter Stacpoole. 
Stacpoole said he has known 
Enneking since her undergraduate 
years, when she studied in his labo-
ratory at UF.
“I know her to be an honest 
and decent human being, a logical 
thinker and one who I think is truly 
dedicated to improving the lot of the 
citizens of this area,” Stacpoole said. 
Minutes before Enneking ran 
into the bar, her husband, Mark 
Scarborough, announced that 43 of Gillum upsets Graham for Democratic governor nomination. 
UF student loses after last-minute scandal 
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
State Senate candidate Olysha Magruder awaits election results with her husband James McRae and 
mother Karen Magruder at the Palomino Pool Hall Tuesday night. Magruder lost the election. 
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 3
SEE CBD,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather VOLUME 113 ISSUE 3
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience 
with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, August 31, from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Contributing Writers, 
Photographers, Videographers, 
Copy Editors, and Columnists.
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetCAMPUS:
Weimer G207
at stairwell or 
elevator, go to ground 
floor, take hallway with 
single door all the way 
down to G207 on the left.Bring your resume, clips and 
questions for staff members!
2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
HIGH  88° LOW  73°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 3
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-
4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Progressive Rock Tribute
The Progressive Rock Experience 
will pay tribute to ’70s progres-
sive rock from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
Friday on Bo Diddley Community 
Plaza in downtown Gainesville. 
The free concert playlist includes 
one song by each the following 
bands: Genesis, Kansas, Styx, 
Head East, Supertramp, Uriah 
Heep, Eric Carmen/Raspberries, 
Elton John and Yes. Several 
songs by Deep Purple, Emerson 
and Lake & Palmer will also be 
performed.Protest
Join the Gainesville Interfaith 
Alliance for Immigrant Justice 
as it supports farmworkers by 
protesting from 10:45 a.m. to 
noon on Saturday at Wendy’s, at 
1711 N. Main St. It will present 
store management with a letter 
from the Coalition of Immokalee 
Workers, which is demanding 
that Wendy’s join other major 
retail chains in the Fair Food 
Program.
Blue Star Museums ends Monday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is offering free admission 
to all fee-based exhibits for ac-tive-duty military personnel and 
their families from now through 
Labor Day as part of the Blue Star 
Museums program. Free admis-
sion is available to any active-
duty U.S. military, and up to five 
family members all qualify for 
free entry. For more information, 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/blue-star-museums or call 
352-846-2000.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
pfry@alligator.org. Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistnat Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online SportsEditor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Alain Harb, aharb@alligator.org
Michael Smith
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
100’s of
New Choices
 Where:
Reitz Union
Tabling Area
When:
Monday August 27 thru 
Friday August 31
Time: 9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor:
Programs
sold unless the business is a li-
censed dispensary. 
King opened a marijuana dis-
pensary in California and moved back to Florida to pursue his vi-
sion for the gallery lounge. King 
said he has been an avid collector 
of glass pieces for 10 years and is 
also a craft beer enthusiast. 
“I wanted to bring all of that together under one roof and make 
a place where people, no matter 
what you’re into, can come and 
hang out,” he said. 
Some older customers use the 
CBD products for migraines, ar-thritis, tendonitis and chronic back 
pain, King said. Others smoke it to 
quit using tobacco products.
Marine veteran Robert Bruton 
bought CBD-infused mango ice 
cream to try at the event Sunday. 
He said he hopes it will help with 
his mobility. 
“The VA hospital takes away 
the medications now from the veterans because they don’t want 
them hooked on opiates,” he said. 
“I had opiates for over 20 years 
now, now I don’t have any. So 
I’m trying to get other things to 
try to make it so I can keep func-
tioning.” 
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org CBD,  from pg. 1The lounge has craft beer and art63 precincts reported a total of 16,343 votes 
while her opponent, Olysha Magruder, had 
9,308. 
Thirty minutes later, Enneking’s win was 
ofﬁ  cial. 
She attributed her success to the volun-teers, supporters, friends and family who 
helped with her campaign. 
“I did it because I’ve been a role model for 
a long time, and I want every little girl and 
little boy to look up and go, ‘That’s what a 
state senator looks like. I can do this too,’” 
Enneking said. 
Magruder said despite her loss, she was proud of the role she played in interrupting 
politics as usual. 
“I believe that we have a long way to go, 
but we are moving toward the right direc-
tion,” she said. “However I can be a part of 
that movement, I’m happy to do so.” 
Although Magruder lost, her supporters 
and team stayed loyal and optimistic. 
Campaign manager Kara Jess started work-
ing with Magruder throughout the past year 
because she loved her energy and passion, 
she said. “I am so honored I was able to be a part 
of it,” Jess said. “We started out knowing we 
had less money, less resources and less paid 
staff, but I think we really worked as hard as 
we could.”
Magruder said she wouldn’t have done 
anything differently because she stuck with 
her mission throughout the whole campaign. 
“I am committed to this ﬁ  ght, and I am 
committed to revolution,” she said. “I will al-
ways call out the truth and speak it as clearly 
as possible.”ELECTION,  from pg. 1Certain won school board seat
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Democratic State Senate candidate Olysha Magruder’s campaign managers 
Kara Jess and Javier Arroyo watch the results come in.Ashley Nunez / Alligator Contributor
State Representative candidate Amol Jethwani, 21, hugs his parents as the voting results 
come in at the election night watch party at Cypress and Grove Brewery Tuesday night. 
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A doggy-door bur-
glar didn’t let nails 
and boards keep her 
out of her mother’s 
home, according to 
Gainesville Police. 
Linda Lee Litza, 
51, was accused of 
breaking into her 
mother’s home through a dog door and 
stealing two bottles of wine Friday af-
ternoon, according to the arrest report.
It was the second time in two weeks 
she entered the house, on Northwest 
20th Way, through the dog door, the report said. 
Litza has broke into through the dog 
door so often, her mother nailed it shut, 
the report said. She was charged with 
the same crime before in June and May.
During her most recent break in, she 
stole two bottles of wine, worth $40, 
while her mother was sleeping, the re-
port said.
Police said they found Litza in the 
woods near the house and she told them 
she committed the crime.
Litza was arrested on charges of bur-
glary, according to the report. Litza is 
held in Alachua County Jail in lieu of a 
$5,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgWoman breaks into mom’s 
home through doggy door
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
woman accused of pointing a 
handgun at someone and ram-
ming her car into another car 
with two people inside. 
Treshorna Debbica Binns, a 
28-year-old Gainesville resident 
was arrested early Tuesday, ac-
cording to an arrest report.
A woman told police Binns 
followed her car after she picked 
up a man around Binns’ home 
on Southwest Depot Avenue 
Tuesday morning. Binns was in 
a romantic relationship with the 
man for about six months, the 
report said.The man 
and woman 
noticed Binns 
was follow-
ing them in 
her car when 
they stopped 
for gas, the 
report said. 
Binns pulled 
up behind the car and raised 
the gun.
The woman got into her car 
and drove to Northwest 14th 
Street. Binns rammed her car 
while the two were still inside 
and pushed it onto the curb, the 
report said. 
The woman’s car, which was severly damaged, came to a 
rest on the corner of Northwest 
14th Avenue and Northwest 
First Avenue, the report said.
The passenger ﬂ  ed from the 
car and ofﬁ  cers couldn’t ﬁ  nd 
him, police said.
While in custody, Binns de-
nied the incident and said she 
was home all day, police said.
Binns was arrested on charg-
es of aggravated battery and ag-
gravated assault with a deadly 
weapon without intention to 
kill, according to the report. She 
is being held in Alachua County 
Jail in lieu of a $60,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgWoman accused of crashing car 
tells police she was home all day
THE PIG ROAST WILL BE 
HELD SEPT. 8. 
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
For UF faculty members, an ac-
tive presence on Twitter could earn 
them a juicy slice of pork tenderloin. 
About 100 UF faculty and staff 
members were invited to a pig roast 
on Sept. 8 at the Earl and Christy 
Powell University House as a reward 
for their engagement on social me-
dia. The invites were sent out Friday 
to faculty and staff who are active on Twitter and have shared some-
thing about the university, said Todd 
Sanders, the director of digital com-
munications and social media. 
Some staffers are new to Twitter, 
with only a handful of tweets and 
followers, while others are owners 
of veriﬁ  ed accounts with thousands 
of followers, Sanders said. As of 
Tuesday, 71 faculty have RSVP’d, in-
cluding the journalism department’s 
Ted Spiker and the Center for Latin 
American Studies’s Emilio Bruna.
Having faculty and staff who are 
active on Twitter helps to extend the 
UF brand, Sanders said. 
“Our faculty and staff use Twitter to share things that make UF great,” 
he said. “They also keep it real and 
let us know where we can improve.”
The social media team takes note 
of interesting conversations and adds 
them to a list as potential retweets 
for the @UF account, Sanders said.
Sanders said he is unsure if the 
event will be a one-time affair.
“We’re just focused on making 
the upcoming event a fun one where 
faculty and staff can get together and 
maybe add some new followers,” 
Sanders said. 
UF President Kent Fuchs said he 
and the social media team bounced 
around a few ideas before landing on a pig roast. One suggestion was a 
private barbecue where Fuchs would 
ﬂ  ip burgers and hot dogs himself. 
The only problem, Fuchs said, is that 
he’s bad behind the grill. 
“I’m good at eating pig but not at 
roasting,” Fuchs said. 
Nicholas Vargas, a UF sociology 
and Latin American studies assistant 
professor, tweeted about his invite 
Friday. 
“Apparently, my university re-
wards faculty Twitter engagement 
with a celebratory Pig Roast at the 
(former) President’s House. It’s not 
merit, and doesn’t count for T&P--
but it’s pork, a close second--and I’ll gladly take it! See you there, @Presi-
dentFuchs @UFsocial,” he said.
Vargas said he feels that social 
media can be a useful tool to com-
municate research ﬁ  ndings with 
other leading scholars across the 
country and looks forward to attend-
ing the pig roast.
“Public recognition can take 
many forms, but I personally love 
the idea of celebrating informally 
around food,” Vargas said, “Espe-
cially at a place as beautiful as the 
former home of our UF Presidents.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgUF rewards social media savvy faculty with a pig roast Binns
Litza
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
ENGINEERING PAPER, MICROFIBER 
SCREEN CLOTHS AND FINANCIAL 
CALCULATORS WILL BE OFFERED.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
For students who always seem to forget 
their headphones and chargers at home, a 
new Student Government initiative might be 
their saving grace. 
Students can now check out more aca-
demic supplies from Marston Science Library 
and can soon do the same at Library West. 
SG made a $550 donation to stock libraries 
with products like engineering paper, micro-
ﬁ  ber screen cloths and an expanded inven-
tory of previously offered items. 
Marston has already begun to offer the 
new supplies and Library West will unroll 
the resources by next Monday, said Chad 
Alpaugh, the circulation manager at Library 
West. 
The initiative is meant to offer students 
materials they may not otherwise have ac-cess to, Student Body President Ian Green 
said. 
“You should be able to rent any resource 
that will enhance your academic experi-
ence,” Green said.
The supplies vary by location. Marston 
Science Library received donations of lab 
goggles, scientiﬁ  c calculators and graphing 
paper. Library West will have ﬁ  nancial cal-
culators, headsets for audio recording and 
charging cables. 
While some supplies must be checked 
out at the circulation desk with a Gator 1 
Card, others may be kept permanently free 
of charge, like the lab goggles and microﬁ  ber 
screen cloths, said Amanda Kane, a Marston 
Science Library access services assistant. 
Not everyone may be aware of these re-
sources, said Taylor Halpin, a 19-year-old UF 
Japanese and health science freshman. 
“For people who don’t have have ﬁ  nances 
to go out and buy them it’s great to have this 
close and available,” Halpin said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgUF libraries to oﬀ  er more rental itemsABOUT 50 PEOPLE CAME TO SHOW 
SUPPORT.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
Judy Broward tries to go to as many vigils 
as she can after a mass shooting.
The 70-year-old Gainesville resident was 
one of about 50 people who attended a vig-
il in front of Gainesville City Hall Monday 
night. Broward stood with her arm around 
her friend’s shoulder as she held a lit candle 
to honor the victims of the Jacksonville mass 
shooting. 
Gun violence hits Broward close to home, 
she said. Her son Brett died from a gun-related 
suicide about 15 years ago.   
“I didn’t die, my son died,” Broward said. 
“And my life was changed forever.”
Nine Gainesville activists and politicians, 
including Mayor Lauren Poe, spoke during 
the vigil, which was organized by the Alachua County branch of Moms Demand Action, an 
anti-gun violence advocacy group.
Alachua County Commissioner Ken Cor-
nell spoke about calling his son Connor, who 
lives in Jacksonville, when he heard about the 
shooting. He was relieved to ﬁ  nd out he was 
safe.
“It was scary,” Cornell said after the vigil. 
“He’s my son. He’s my winning lottery ticket.” 
Jovanna Liuzzo, a 17-year-old Eastside High 
School senior and leader of Students Demand 
Action, was the vigil’s youngest speaker.
Liuzzo said she became politically active 
after the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, 
which killed 17 people. Although Liuzzo can-
not vote yet, she said she hopes young people 
can make their voices heard.
“They are the key to enacting change, 
whether they believe it or not,” she said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgCandlelight vigil held for the victims of Jacksonville mass shooting
Amanda Rosa / Alligator Staff
About 50 Gainesville residents and elected ofﬁ  cials gathered to honor the 
victims of Sunday’s mass shooting in Jacksonville.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of chasing the boy-
friend of his child’s mother with a cocked 
gun was arrested by Gainesville Police  
Sunday evening.
Said F. Soriano Cue-
vas, 26, of Gainesville, 
was arrested at South-
west 20th Avenue after 
chasing and threaten-
ing a man with his 
weapon, according to 
an arrest report.
The man told police 
he was driving to his 
apartment when a white Toyota sped 
around him and blocked him. Cuevas 
got out of his car and began swearing at 
the man to get out of the car, the report 
said. 
When the man did not, Cuevas pulled 
a handgun out of the trunk of his car and cocked it, police wrote. Cuevas is ac-
cused of walking toward the man’s car 
while holding the gun in front of him. 
The man backed the car up and drove 
away once he saw the gun, police said. 
Cuevas began to chase the car on foot, 
but then got back in his car and drove 
after the man, police said. 
The man turned into the plaza on the 
corner of SW 20th Avenue and 34th Street 
when Cuevas turned his car around, po-
lice said.
When ofﬁ  cers arrived, the man was 
speaking with Cuevas’s child’s mother 
on the phone. Police asked her if Cue-
vas owned a gun, and she said yes, the 
report said.
Cuevas called police claiming some-
one threatened him, the report said.
Cuevas was released Monday on a 
$10,000 bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgGPD: Man chased the boyfriend 
of his child’s mother with a gun
Soriano
Editorial
ColumnWhat McCain taught 
us about integrity
Life under the inﬂ  uence (of each other)
When it comes to headlines and labels 
about my generation, I’ve heard it all: 
This cohort is a one-of-a-kind cocktail 
of avocado toast, music festivals, Snap-
chat and mindfulness retreats. We’ll 
have our La Croix and drink it, too, and we’ll take 
our Instagram likes with a side of instant gratiﬁ  ca-
tion.
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit some of these descrip-
tions are rooted in reality, but there’s more than 
meets the eye — and, just like older generations, 
our behaviors, perceptions and habits didn’t emerge in a vac-
uum. Growing up in the thick of a technological revolution 
has inherently made us early adopters of new ways of com-
municating, storytelling and connecting with others. This 
generation is reinventing the wheel with new ways of work-
ing, dating, living sustainably and building communities.
But through experiences with friends and classmates, I’ve 
discovered one not-so-glamorous truth about my generation. 
I realized, while people my age can appear shameless on 
the surface, when it comes to personal problem-solving, di-
lemmas about relationships, career indecisiveness and other 
tough decisions-to-be-made, this generation of college-aged 
adults feeds on inﬂ  uence. Despite our mirror selﬁ  es and go-
getter attitudes, it seems like so many of us simply don’t trust 
our own instincts.
I see it far too often with friends who are in relationships 
just for the sake of being in them, or with classmates who 
clearly have the passion for their industry but back out of 
opportunities because they’re not the trendiest or the most 
lucrative. My generation seems to preach mantras like “You 
do you” — but what will it take for us to actually believe in 
ourselves?
The idea of inﬂ  uence is manifested in interesting ways in 
today’s society. I see it every single day while picking apart 
my group messages. We’ve all been there: In the blink of 
an eye, a text with friends goes from zero (a casual space 
to arrange weekend plans) to 100 (a serious soundboard for 
dilemmas of all sorts). Group messages are something older 
generations, whose idea of a group text consisted of a static-
ﬁ  lled rotary phone call, could only dream (or have night-mares) about — and now these unread notiﬁ  ca-
tions have become a powerful vehicle for social 
inﬂ  uence in their own right.
Group message culture gives us a weird power 
that has become normative; we can section off 
groups of people in our lives for different pur-
poses, giving each multi-person message its own 
brand or voice. For example, my group chat with 
my brother and parents looks a little different than 
my group chat with my ﬁ  ve best friends. Not only 
does each thread serve a purpose in sharing sto-
ries or laughs, but I know that sending the same message or 
question in each will provide a different response or opinion.
Even if we aren’t the ones instigating discussions via text 
that would be better reserved for in-person conversations, 
simply witnessing these digital phenomena — messages that 
blossom into full-out relationship rants, screenshot-ﬁ  lled col-
lages and career compasses — makes it dangerously conve-
nient to get wrapped up in the inﬂ  uence of each other.
The problem is not that we lean on people close to us or 
that we text our friends to ask for opinions. Rather, issues 
arise when we know what feels right for us, yet can’t move 
forward without validation from our social circle. When we 
consistently instigate a conversation just to invoke reactions 
from our friends, I can’t help but wonder if we’re seeking 
advice or just looking for attention.
Social psychologists deﬁ  ne this act of internalizing the 
way others judge us — or the way we think others judge 
us — as reﬂ  ected appraisals. I think people in my generation 
should realize that many of these seemingly real judgements 
are actually all in our head.
Even in an era marked by social inﬂ  uencers who dictate 
the cultural zeitgeist of style and entertainment, I think it’s 
time that we act as our own inﬂ  uencers and our own role 
models. We should be inspired by the positive people around 
us, but when it comes to making our next moves person-
ally and professionally, let’s look beyond the group texts and 
start trusting ourselves again.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her column 
appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Senator John S. McCain, a beloved Republican senator 
from Arizona, died Aug. 25, 2018. He is survived by 
his wife, mother, seven children, ﬁ  ve grandchildren and 
a strong, lasting legacy. For all that McCain was — a 
father, husband, ﬁ  ghter pilot, war hero, senator, presi-
dential candidate — we learned one of the most valuable les-
son from him: why we must maintain our integrity, even in the 
darkest hours.
McCain fought challenges to his moral base, not only as a 
prisoner of war, but also as a politician. McCain was held hos-
tage for years and suffered excruciating torture. He only gave in 
to his captors after enduring it for four days, writing a confes-
sion of the crimes against the North Vietnamese people he sup-
posedly committed. After the war, McCain entered politics and, 
like all politicians, was tempted at every turn to resort to name-
calling and mud-slinging. It would have been easy. Everyone 
else was doing it, but McCain did not. When other politicians 
bowed to President Donald Trump and toed the party line, Mc-
Cain did not. McCain recognized he could not and would not 
abdicate his moral decision-making, passing the buck to some-
one else. He pushed back against the “reality show facsimile of 
toughness,” in his words, that Trump presented. He withdrew 
his support for Trump’s campaign after the Access Hollywood 
tape leaked. McCain did not sell himself away for political suc-
cess; he built it on a foundation of doing what he believed to be 
the right thing.
He opposed the torture programs being developed by the U.S. 
government because he knew, ﬁ  rsthand, that torture is wrong.
As students, we tend not to think of ourselves as living high-
stakes lives. Not many of us deal with million-dollar budgets, 
give testimony under oath or manage contracts for the federal 
government. But one day we may. One day, the integrity you 
carry in your heart and head, as you read this, will be projected 
onto some larger-than-life problem to come. It’s helpful to look 
at where your moral compass points today to see how you will 
navigate the unknown. We caution you to remember that life is 
not made of great sacriﬁ  ces and duties but of little things. It’s in 
the everyday, ordinary, seemingly dull decisions that you can 
best examine your integrity. How many times will you break 
your own moral code this year? How many times will you lie 
to your professor and feign illness rather than be truthful about 
oversleeping? How many times will you neglect a group proj-
ect and make your classmates carry the extra weight? Will you 
apologize for it — and correct it?
It’s also important to acknowledge that you are not per-
fect. None of us are. Neither was McCain. This is especially 
true when faced with great adversity; when we’re saddled with 
internships, jobs, classes and family obligations, integrity will 
matter all the more. It becomes easier to justify cutting corners 
when your time is stretched in every direction. 
McCain provides an excellent example of how we can be 
better leaders, students and senators, whether representing resi-
dence halls or congressional districts. This is true regardless of 
whether you agreed with McCain’s politics. Integrity has little 
to do with whether you think taxes should be higher in the top 
one percent, or whether you dislike McCain for helping get the 
Republican tax bill passed. It does, however, have everything 
to do with acting for what you think is right — for bringing the 
idealism that lives in your heart into the real world.
Socrates is credited with saying, “The greatest way to live 
with honor in this world is to be what we pretend to be.”
McCain did not have to pretend. But you don’t have to en-
dure torture or be a U.S. senator to carry yourself with integrity. 
You just have to set your moral compass true north and follow 
it with every small step. What will your legacy be?
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephen
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Q&A with Skunkape: 
Lindsey Brenemen sat down with local reggae band Skunkape 
to celebrate the band’s ﬁ  rst birthday. Check out page 8!Series Review of the Week:
Tranelle Maner, our resident series reviewer takes a 
look at Facebook Watch’s “Starter Pack” on page 8.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer
On Sept. 4, 2006, those numbers became 
etched in history as an iconic day: the release 
of Beyonce’s second studio album “B’Day” and 
the celebration of Beyoncé’s birthday. 
Queen Bey’s birthday is coming up in a few 
days, and Tonight’s The Night in Gainesville is 
providing a celebration dedicated to Bey herself 
for the third year in a row. 
The idea for the musician’s celebration oc-
curred back in 2016 when Bey Day director and 
Tonight’s The Night promotions manager Ty-
ler Francischine and her friend Annie Neimand 
were discussing the idea of the perfect night 
out. During a conversation about going out for 
the weekend, Neimand suggested the idea of 
dancing to Beyoncé’s music all night long. 
“I took that conversation to heart, and I 
reached out to the Atlantic to see if they were 
interested,” Francischine said in an email. “The 
ﬁ  rst Bey Day in 2016 was the ﬁ  rst event I had 
ever organized, and it really lit a ﬁ  re in me to 
keep the tradition alive annually.” 
From that year forward, Tonight’s The Night 
serves the Gainesville Beyhive and regular pop-
ulation a night of Beyoncé inspired and themed 
activities to commemorate her life and career. 
When asked about the decision on why to 
start this event and continually organize it, 
Francischine expressed her admiration for Be-
yoncé. She said Beyoncé has been an inspira-
tion for her since 1998. 
“I’ve always admired her style, sense of 
humor, humility and, of course, her limitless 
wealth of creative talent. As she’s matured over 
the decades, she’s served as a model of female 
strength and perseverance, constantly pushing 
the boundaries of what one human can accom-
plish,” she said. 
Francischine said the response from the 
Gainesville audience has been so receptive that 
she wants to continue to spread the love and 
share in the music of Beyoncé. 
“This year, we have the treasure trove that 
is her and Jay-Z’s album ‘Everything is Love’ 
to draw from as well,” she said. “I can’t wait 
to dance to her super-fast rapping verse in 
‘ApeSh*t’ personally.”
Bey Day is always held as close to Bey’s ac-
tual birthday as possible. This year, the special 
night will be Saturday, three days before her 
actual birthday. Francischine said the night’s 
festivities begin by playing the song that started 
it all, “Get Me Bodied,” which opens with Be-
yonce calling out the digits to her birthday that 
they now celebrate. 
“Bey Day is a night where everyone feels 
free to express themselves fully and completely 
without fear of judgment,” Fancischine said. 
“We’re all here for the same reason: to honor 
the lasting musical and cultural legacy of our 
queen.”The event will begin at 10 p.m. with a “Be 
Queen Bey” lip-sync contest. After each contes-
tant performs, the audience will pick the win-
ner, who will be crowned with an actual crown 
and sceptre onstage. 
“I want attendees to feel that they are as im-
portant to the show as the music itself,” she 
said. “There would be no Bey Day without the 
Gainesville BeyHive.”
Francischine said she wanted Bey Day to 
be a welcoming experience for all who attend, 
even those who do not love to dance. To ac-
complish her goals, she consulted a friend in 
New York to create dozens of experimental vid-
eos that reimagine Bey’s original videos in new 
and unexpected ways. 
“Even if you feel shy about dancing, watch-
ing these videos should get you in the mood to 
move along with Bey,” she said. 
For those who have previously attended 
Bey Day, Francischine said there are some new 
features for this year. First, the location has 
changed from the Atlantic to The Wooly due 
to maxing out capacity size in previous years. 
The DJ this year is also new to the Bey Day 
affair. Brother Eugene, whose real name is Rob-
ert Carter and hails from Phoenix, Arizona, has 
created a custom set of all of Bey’s hits and 
collaborations along with other artists Beyonce 
enjoys like Big Freedia and Michael Jackson.
For those feeling shy, Francischine said this 
event isn’t just for die-hard Bey fans and can be 
enjoyed by everyone. 
“Even if people are not that familiar with 
her body of work, I encourage anyone who 
loves R&B, soul or hip-hop to come out, be-
cause you never know what beat might drop,” 
she said. “It’s a great opportunity to dance the 
night away.”9 — 4 — 8 — 1 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Celebrate the birth of Queen Bey 
with the hive at The Wooly.
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
“The Wolves” is a heartwarming, 
laugh-out-loud and brutally honest look 
inside the world of a varsity high school 
girls’ soccer team working through the 
ever-changing process of growing up.
This latest play from the Hippodrome 
Theatre has been the joint effort of its 
own artistic director Lauren Warhol 
Caldwell and the UF School of Theatre 
and Dance.
The Wolves, the name of the girls’ 
soccer team, have their eyes set on win-
ning the season-ending tournament. In 
each scene, the girls warm up for their 
next game and engage in a rapid-ﬁ  re 
discourse that perfectly illustrates the 
mindset of real life teenage girls, allow-
ing the audience to feel like a ﬂ  y on the 
wall and gain an intimate look into the 
complex relationships between them. 
“It’s about close and intimate rela-
tionships and also adversarial relation-
ships,” UF professor of theatre Ralf 
Remshardt said.
The Pulitzer Prize-nominated pro-
duction creates an accurate depiction of 
what it means to be young, to be a wom-
an, to be an athlete and to experience 
the full spectrum of human emotion.
“A young person can ﬁ  nd themselves 
in the story,” Caldwell said, “(but) I 
think the play can speak to people my 
age about what it means to bond.”
This all-female cast brings the writ-
ing of critically acclaimed modern play-
wright Sarah DeLappe to life with high 
energy and superb depiction of emotion. 
Each actress embodies a completely dif-ferent character from her counterparts, 
revealing the complicated variety of 
emotion within female relationships 
and often highlighting the frustration 
and conﬂ  ict that can arise from working 
with people who have lived very differ-
ent lives.
“I think this play is a perfect example 
of the magic of theatre, which to me is 
the ability to ignite and invoke change 
and to start a conversation,” Hippo-
drome actress and UF alumna Ariel 
Reich said. “There are certain things 
that are really taboo to talk about and 
uncomfortable to talk about, but if you 
put it on stage and talk about it through 
story, that opens an avenue for conver-
sation and understanding.”
“The Wolves” tactfully represents 
characters with mental illness, social 
anxiety, body dysmorphia, parental 
pressure and sexual trauma. The girls 
engage in constant back-and-forth dia-
logue that varies from topics like getting 
your period during a soccer game to po-
litical debates about genocidal dictators, 
and from abortion to religion without 
weighing down the play with heavy po-
litical statements.
“It’s really a play that’s being talked 
about,” Remshardt said. “The author 
has put her ﬁ  nger on the pulse of what 
it’s like to be an adolescent.” 
The bright-eyed cast of “The Wolves” 
will take the stage Friday for its open-
ing performance. The play will continue 
until Sept. 23 with showings on Tues-
days at 7 p.m., Wednesdays at 7 p.m., 
Thursdays at 7 p.m., Fridays at 8 p.m., 
Saturdays at 5 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. and 
Sundays at 2 p.m.‘We are the Wolves’ 
THEATRE
 NIGHTLIFE
Rachel Jones
Marissa T oogood plays #07 in Gainesville’s version  of “The Wolves. ”
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
Tranelle Maner
Avenue Writer 
Facebook Watch is producing 
content at a fast pace and, until 
now, hadn’t developed a program 
poking fun at the gap between 
Millenial and Gen Z culture in the 
workplace. 
The new online series “Starter 
Pack” follows the life of a recent 
college graduate whose master’s 
degree in art hasn’t done her any 
favors in terms of getting a job. 
While interviewing for another 
position as a museum art curator, as she has done countless times, 
Ayana Martin (Jasmine Luv) has 
a breakdown and starts scream-
ing about the descension of the art 
world thanks to social media, espe-
cially memes. 
What she thinks is an outburst 
worthy of walking out over is, to 
her surprise, regarded as a genius 
idea by the new museum man-
ager and the 16-year-old publicist. 
To them, the idea is fresh and will 
appeal to the new, young market. 
They deem it “the death of art” ex-
hibit. 
So, Ayana must try to navigate a job that goes directly against her 
values. 
The online comedy series was 
created and produced by the AT&T 
Hello Lab. Before the ofﬁ  cial launch 
of this program, AT&T was already 
working closely with entertain-
ment media producers Fullscreen. 
Their ﬁ  rst series, “Summer Break,” 
launched in 2012 and had three 
successful seasons before AT&T 
made the shift to its own scripted 
original series. 
The series also stars social me-
dia star Dytto, who garnered a lot 
of online attention in 2015 for her dance videos. She became so pop-
ular online that she was invited 
to appear on “Ellen” and several 
dance programs after that. 
The cast includes other recog-
nizable names like social media star 
Lauren Giraldo; comedian and ac-
tor Michael Yo; singer, actress and 
dancer Alyson Stoner and YouTu-
ber Anthony Padilla. 
As far as reception of the series 
goes, most online viewers have 
given it medium reviews. So far, it 
seems to be more well-received by 
younger audiences and those who 
enjoy direct or “Instagram humor” as it’s been called lately. This come-
dic format is very in-your-face and, 
to some, slightly obnoxious, as the 
jokes are shallow and simple. 
Due to the program’s Aug. 20 
premiere, only two episodes have 
been released online. Time will tell 
if online content viewers will be-
come fans of the show and if the 
viewership and reviews will waver 
in favor of a second season. 
Until then, interested viewers 
can catch up on the series for free 
on Facebook and check the ofﬁ  cial 
“Starter Pack” page every Monday 
for new episodes.Series Review of the Week: Facebook Watch ‘Starter Pack’Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Writer
On Sept. 7, 2017, local reggae band 
Skunkape made its debut opening for Through 
the Roots at High Dive. A year later, they have a 
zealous fan base at each of their almost-weekly 
shows. I met up with the band at Downtown 
Billards Inc. in Ocala.
Lindsey Breneman: How long have you 
guys been together?
Austin Williamson: Sept. 7 will be a year 
since our ﬁ  rst show.
Breneman: Sept. 7 was your ﬁ  rst time ever 
playing together?
Ken Hill: Yeah. We had, what? Two to three 
weeks before our ﬁ  rst show to write our set?
Williamson: Yeah.
Breneman: Was that difﬁ  cult?
Hill: It was less difﬁ  cult than it should have 
been, but we all kind of mesh in this really 
weird organic way. I don’t know. I guess me 
and this guy (Taylor Johnson) have been, like, 
jamming doing music for, like, a decade on 
and off.
Breneman: When did you start doing your 
own music?
Hill: Immediately. Yeah, we’ve been an all-
original band the whole time. Except, we have, 
like, one cover song that these assholes insist 
that we play all the time.
Breneman: What’s the cover song?
Hill: “Clint Eastwood” by the Gorillaz. This 
guy (Williamson) raps on it, and it’s great. 
Drumming and rapping at the same time. The 
ladies love it.
Breneman: At both your shows I attended, 
I’ve seen the same group of people front row. 
Do you guys have a loyal fanbase?
Hill: Disgustingly loyal, actually.
Taylor Johnson: That’s, like, one of the 
best things. We just want to say thank you to 
them, actually. I didn’t realize until, like, our 
last show? But we do have just a lot of good 
friends and people from work. It’s a really sup-
portive community.
Breneman: Taylor, both times I’ve seen you 
perform you were constantly interacting with 
the crowd, actually diving into it each show. 
How do you do that so easily?
Hill: Pure narcissism.
Johnson: Yeah it’s just a lot of looking in 
the mirror. No, I’m kidding.
Hill: The biggest thing, I think, if you don’t 
mind me interjecting, is that so much of the crowd is our friends, right?
Johnson: That helps a lot. Also, just like my 
upbringing, I’ve been onstage, around people 
since I was a little kid. My parents were music 
pastors. I did music in the church. I did act-
ing. When I was, like, 16, I met him (Hill), 
and we started performing together, so there 
pretty much hasn’t been a time in my life when 
I wasn’t onstage. I feel more comfortable on-
stage and more comfortable expressing myself. 
Honestly, it’s not so much getting myself in the 
mode. It’s more like, “Yay, I get to do this to-
night!” It’s my therapy, my escape, you know?
Breneman: That’s amazing, yeah. So how 
often do you guys write new songs?
Hill: Not often enough anymore. But we 
have a good number of three-quarter-written 
songs that we have yet to debut.
Williamson: It’s coming soon. We’ve put a 
lot of focus on getting the songs that we have 
really tight, so that we can get an EP so we can 
actually get music out. And all the songs that we have recorded now are really solid.
Hill: We did the ﬁ  rst batch of, like, six songs 
that we wrote when we had, like, two weeks 
before our ﬁ  rst show. Then a few months later, 
we sat down and wrote, like, another six song 
set that we’ve really been reﬁ  ning since. We’re 
about ready to drop maybe another six or close 
to that. We’re ﬁ  xing to do some CD stuff so we 
can get on Spotify and iTunes. Standard “give 
us money when people get our music” kind of 
stuff. Give us that 3 cents per download. I’ll 
take it.
Johnson: The afﬁ  rmation I get makes it all 
worth it.
Breneman: Where do you draw inspiration 
for your music?
Johnson: It depends on the song.
Hill: A lot of stuff comes from deep things 
in our lives. And a lot of times, we’ll write a 
song, and then something will happen in our 
lives where we go, “This song was clearly 
meant to be about (us).”Johnson: Yeah, and it really depends on the 
vibe of the song we’re going for and the mes-
sage per song a lot of times.
Hill: We deﬁ  nitely try to be positive but re-
alistic in our writing. We don’t pull punches.
Johnson: Yeah, I don’t like the forced opti-
mism in a lot of reggae bands. That’s cool and 
all, but, you know, life isn’t always peachy.
Hill: Life has a dark side.
Johnson: Yeah, so you shouldn’t feel 
ashamed to express that too. We need to talk 
about it. So yeah, it depends on the song. A 
song like “Slowly” is pretty much just about 
having sex and having a good time. But then 
a song like “This Place” is about, like, not los-
ing hope.
Hill: “One Way” is about, like, surviv-
ing through friendships, being where we are 
through the people that we’ve met.
Williamson: We’re tethered forever.
The whole band laughed at that reference 
to their own lyric from their song “One Way.”
Johnson: It just depends, and that’s how 
a lot of the songwriting happens too. It’s not 
necessarily something we, like, sit down and 
we’re, like, okay, song time. It’s all spontane-
ous. It all like hits you at different times.
Breneman: What’s your favorite song of 
yours?
Hill: My favorite song of ours is probably 
“This Place.” “This Place” is just a banger. It 
works.
Johnson: We wrote it after a really trau-
matic experience. We had a good friend that 
passed. Now, every time we play it we dedi-
cate it to him. 
Hill: Yeah, like we said, sometimes we 
write songs about events in our lives. 
Johnson: And it’s the main song, like some 
of our songs are just for fun, but I really do 
hope “This Place” brings them some hope. It’s 
just a good relief song. Like, you listen to it and 
you feel a little better about that day.
Hill: It’s got good vibes through the whole 
thing. I think that’s our unanimous vote for fa-
vorite song.
Breneman: When’s the next time people 
can see you?
Williamson: Next show that we’re play-
ing, as of right now, is Nov. 4 at High Dive. 
And we’re playing Nov. 18, hopefully, in New 
Smyrna Beach.
Johnson: Me and Ken are doing a little 
house party tonight for fun. 
Hill: We’re going to play songs for whiskey.Reggae band Skunkape celebrates its birthday with a Q&A
MUSIC
MOVIES & T.V.Courtesy to the Alligator
Ken Hill jams out with the band at its July 13 concert.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Laundry?
Solved.
From Tide to Febreze,  
save and shop close to campus.
UF Campus T arget
Just north of campus on 
University and 13th St
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Writer
Annisa Setiawan says a pol-
ished, classic style is the way to 
go when it comes to planning 
your next fashion ensemble. 
Setiawan, a 20-year-old UF 
geology junior, is a brand am-
bassador for multiple clothing 
and accessory brands including 
I.AM.GIA, Tiger Mist, Monarch 
Tokyo and Lack of Color. So far, 
she’s having a blast endorsing 
promotional codes and products 
on social media because that’s 
how she’s able to connect with 
her viewers. Her Instagram re-
ﬂ  ects positive messages regard-
ing health and ﬁ  tness, travel, 
fashion and self-growth.
“People are most attracted to 
content that moves them, makes 
them feel happy, inspired and 
generally uplifted,” Setiawan 
said.Her go-to outﬁ  t normally in-
volves a simple nude, grey or 
white blouse with slacks and a 
pair of white sneakers. This ver-
satile look is perfect whether 
you’re heading to class or on a 
night out with friends. 
Setiawan said comfort is key 
when getting dressed, but that 
there is a distinction between 
looking comfortable and looking 
sloppy. 
“You can be extremely com-
fortable wearing a nice tracksuit 
or even a sweatsuit, because in 
that perspective, you’re both 
comfortable and a little more 
aesthetic,” Setiawan said. 
Setiawan said she has ad-
mired the fashion industry ever 
since she watched the 2011 Vic-
toria’s Secret Fashion Show. The 
way models and designers col-
laborated to create elegant yet 
elaborate outﬁ  ts fascinated her, 
so she began researching de-signer brands like Chanel, Gu-
cci and Balenciaga. “The more 
I looked into fashion, the more 
I realized there is so much ef-
fort and thought that goes into 
craftsmanship, creativity, and 
just being aware of what is rel-
evant to people in the industry,” 
Setiawan said.
She said these models are dif-
ferent from your typical runway 
model. 
“I noticed how beautiful and 
ﬁ  t they are in the sense that 
they have more lean muscle,” 
Setiawan said. “Some people 
might think that Victoria’s Se-
cret models are too thin, but to 
me they are ideal for their bone 
structure because when you’re 
that narrow, you won’t get that 
much bigger if you put on a lot 
of muscle.” 
Setiawan experimented with 
colorful, vibrant clothing in her 
early teens but eventually started taking styling tips from her mom, 
who taught her that monochrome 
colors complimented her skin 
tone. Other takeaways from her 
mom included the importance 
of quality over quantity and re-
membering to invest in products 
that will last for decades. 
“My mom was a big stickler 
for the timeless look — the type 
of fashion that never grows old,” 
Setiawan said.
In early August, Setiawan was 
diagnosed with celiac disease, an 
autoimmune disorder that de-
velops over time and can cause 
severe damage to smaller intes-
tines, so she avoids certain foods 
that contain gluten, lectins and 
dairy. 
She said being diagnosed with 
celiac motivated her to live a bet-
ter lifestyle, paying closer atten-
tion to her actions, she now re-
lies heavily on a well-organized 
schedule.Fashion forward UF: Annisa Setiawan
Courtesy to The Alligator
Annisa Setiawan poses for 
Valentine’s Day.
FASHIONBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,695/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVER
IMMEDIATE NEED
Delivery driver needed for early morning 
newspaper route in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting quantities of
newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Fall and Spring semesters –
Monday/Wednesday/Friday
Summer semester – 
Tuesday/Thursday
Please apply in person:
The Independent Florida Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
Gainesville, FL 32608
GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
MAKE MONEY FROM YOUR DORM 
ROOM!! Email grassed24@gmail.com for 
details     9-5-18-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
Copytalk is hiring typists!
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive production-based pay
- Close to campus
www.ctscribes.com              8-29-18-3-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Build my Word Press E-Commerce site. 
15.00 per hr. and maintain website by piece -
meal on a monthly basis, I need someone 
who is up to the task. treemancarson@
gmail.com    8-29-2-14
Part-time office assistant for law office. 
Wed. & Thurs - Noon to 5:00 p.m. Answer 
phones; take information from potential 
clients; schedule appointments; run er -
rands. Reliable transportation necessary. 
Proficiency in Microsoft Word required. 
Email Resume with salary requirements to 
receptionist@millerelderlawfirm.com.     9-7-
18-5-14Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Yardwork/some light housecleaning. Student, 
P/T a few hrs/wk. Wanted by retired UF grad. 
Close to UF, all equipment furn. $10-12/hr 
depending on exp/effectiveness. Reply w/ 
sched/ short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com     
9-7-5-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14
P/T and F/T front desk positions in Gainesville 
dental office. Day and evening hours avail -
able. $14 and up, depending on experience. 
Answer phones, submit insurance claims, 
interact with patients. Email resume to gden -
taljob@gmail.com    8-31-18-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-5-18-6-14
Make $400 a week 
completing Surveys. Get Paid Immediately! 
Best Surveys from the brands you love! Go 
to collegejobs.team     8-31-18-5-14
NCF Public Charter School is a local drop -
out recovery high school in Gainesville. The 
school is located minutes from the UF & SFC 
campuses on NW 13th Street. Tutors are 
needed in math and are needed M-F from 
8:00 to 1:00. Tutor scheduling can be flex -
ible. $12 per hour. Call 352-379-2902    8-31-
18-5-14
Make up to $500 weekly
with this simple method. 
www.extracollegecash.club 
JOIN THE CLUB!                  8-31-18-5-14
1. ANATOMY: What is the normal 
human body temperature in Celsius?
2. LITERATURE: The monster 
Grendel appears in what literary work?
3. MATH: What is the least common 
multiple of 3 and 7?
4. TELEVISION: Who was the first 
guest of the television news show “Face 
the Nation” when it debuted in 1954?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What is “tafel-
wein” in German?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What does the name of the martial art 
taekwondo mean in Korean?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
first graduate of West Point to serve as 
president?
8. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Morocco?
9. EXPLORERS: Who was the first 
European explorer credited with dis-
covering the Grand Canyon?
10. MOVIES: Who voiced the char -
acter of John Smith in Disney’s ani-
mated “Pocahontas”?
Answers
1. 37 C
2. “Beowulf”
3. 21
4. Sen. Joe McCarthy
5. Table wine
6. The Foot Fist Way
7. Ulysses Grant
8. Rabat
9. Garcia Lopez de Cardenas
10. Mel Gibson
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 27, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Learn how to
Make an extra $390+ / week
TESTING APPS.
Go to: www.collegecash.club     8-29-18-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Quiet and easy to care for: 
Female Diamond Dove
with cage $10. Can deliver.
Contact nancyivey3@gmail.com    8-2-1-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Script deviations
7 Shallot, e.g.
11 “Wicked!”
14 Knitted shoe
15 “The African
Queen”
screenwriter
James
16 Bird on
Australian coins
17 Follow-up
vaccination
19 Cul-de-__
20 Birth
announcement
abbr.
21 Montréal mates
22 Defeat soundly
24 Clip-on
accessories,
perhaps
26 Bit of equine
trickery
29 Fax forerunners
32 Florida produce
33 Turkey neighbor
34 “__ news?”
35 Supreme leader?
36 Tall tale
40 Airline to Oslo
43 Shoot the breeze
44 Watts of “Twin
Peaks” (2017)
47 Kind of illusion
50 Drive back, as
attackers
52 Part of Ursa
Minor
54 Mine, in Montréal
55 Justice Samuel
56 Organic fuel
59 Directional suffix
60 Tank or tee
61 Cheat at
checkout ... and
a hint to the
circled letters
65 Birthday card
number
66 Currency for 19
countries
67 Apartment
dweller, typically
68 Barrett of Pink
Floyd
69 Gas in a sign
70 Like the smell of
a brewery
DOWN
1 Costello’s cohort
2 Humdingers3 How some scripts
are adapted from
novels
4 “__ go time!”
5 Software
prototype
6 Appear to be
7 Operatic voices
8 “Gross!”
9 Zodiac sign
10 “You __!”: “Bingo!”
11 Make a comeback
12 Stockpiles
13 New title for
Meghan Markle
18 Semis
23 “This Is Us”
Emmy nominee
__ Cephas Jones
25 Feudal laborer
27 Word processing
choice
28 “Have a sample”
30 A dozen ova?
31 Helpful courses
for
underachievers
34 Inquire
37 “Don’t move!”
38 Campaigned
39 Diminutive Jedi
master
40 Mozart works41 Expression of
regret
42 Like Ronald
McDonald’s
sleeves
45 They may be
precious
46 “My memory fails
me”
48 Cousin of Gomez
Addams
49 Selected50 Lose sleep (over)
51 Sunday best
53 It may say
“World’s Okayest
Cook”
57 __ for help
58 Quaker pronoun
62 Shade
63 Conquistador’s
treasure
64 Actress Ortiz of
“Ugly Betty”
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/29/1808/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 29, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Uneducated
guess
5 Recreation in
which players
become
characters, for
short
9 Get rid of
14 Word before or
after brand
15 Rooty Tooty
Fresh ’N Fruity
chain
16 Pup
17 Figure skating
leap
18 Launched at
great speed
20 Place at the
track?
22 Calf’s suckling
spot
23 Stuntman Knievel
24 Lioness of film
28 Hard-to-fold bed
linens
31 Airport rental
34 Have title to
35 Mexican pyramid
builder
36 Herb in Italian
seasoning
39 Lively, musically
41 Ready to bloom
42 No. on a grad’s
résumé
43 Va. winter hours
44 Senior British
military rank
49 Unload for cash
50 Yale students
51 “Better in Time”
singer Lewis
55 Phrase including
hand gestures
symbolized by
the puzzle
circles
58 Russian ballet
company,
familiarly
61 Deadly shark
62 Bad-tempered
63 Mario __:
Nintendo racing
game series
64 “It’s my time to
shine!”
65 Leg joints
66 Iowa State city
67 ScrewballDOWN
1 Major mess
2 No. on an IRS
form
3 Make changes to
4 “You are beyond
__!”: “Incredible!”
5 High in calories
6 Early stage of a
clinical trial
7 Avenged a wrong
8 Completely
forgot, in slang
9 Created, as a
web
10 Portmanteau
brand for flu
symptoms
11 Nonsense
12 Blackjack half
13 Scholar’s deg.
19 Campaign pros
21 __ Lanka
25 “I got this”
26 Dance moves
27 Fancy necktie
29 Truck weight unit
30 Fedora, e.g.
31 Elaborate dos
32 Golfer Palmer, to
fans
33 Billy Idol’s “__
Yell”37 Easily fooled
38 Use an abacus
39 FedEx Office
alternative
40 Dismissive sound
42 “A Time to Kill”
novelist John
45 Kitten cry
46 “North to the
Future” state
47 Actor Mahershala
of Netflix’s “Luke
Cage”48 B’way show with
the song
“Valjean’s
Confession”
52 44th president
53 Canon
competitor
54 Terrible pain
56 Hasbro specialty
57 Oldies, in their day
58 “Shame on you!”
59 Attila the __
60 Bard’s “before”
By Joe Deeney
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/28/1808/28/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 28, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  ____ ship 
1.  ____ Hugo5.  Church ____
2.  Hit, banged6.  Odd
3.  Tense7.  Thomas ____
4.  Waxy writing stickKGIVNI
IOTRVCICHRO
OKOYK
KODEKCN
OURSVNEDNOEIS
RACNOYANSWERS: 1A-Viking  5A-Choir  6A-Kooky  7A-Edison
1D-Victor  2D-Knocked  3D-Nervous  4D-Crayon  B-Tchaikovsky8-29-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This composer was so popular that his country’s 
government awarded him a lifetime pension.
BONUS
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFormer UF receiver 
and current television 
commentator Cris Collinsworth 
will be the honorary "Mr. Two 
Bits" for the Gators' season 
opener Saturday.Feleipe Franks speaks after being named starter
The UF quarterback spoke to media after practice Tuesday, saying that he 
had "a lot of people out there who are doubting me, doubting our team. " 
Franks was named Florida's starting quarterback by coach Dan Mullen 
Monday afternoon. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
By Alanis Thames and 
Mark Stine
Sports Writers
Redshirt sophomore Feleipe 
Franks will take the ﬁ  eld as the 
Gators’ starting quarterback Satur-
day against Charleston Southern.
Coach Dan Mullen said Franks’ 
athleticism and ability to extend 
plays earned him the starting role 
over redshirt sophomore Kyle Trask 
and freshman Emory Jones. 
The quarterback competition 
has captured the attention of UF 
fans throughout the entire summer. 
What you may not have paid atten-
tion to are the other notables on the 
Gators’ depth chart that could possi-
bly give the offense the spark it has 
missed in recent years. 
Receivers
Ole Miss transfer Van Jefferson 
ﬁ  gures to be one of Franks’ go-to 
targets this season. He’ll start op-
posite Tyrie Cleveland, while Josh 
Hammond will play in the slot. 
Mullen praised Hammond for his 
leadership among the wide receiv-
ers at Monday’s press conference.
“He is a great leader within that 
group, both not afraid to get after 
people and by example in what he 
does,” Mullen said. “He brings ﬂ  ex-
ibility in that you feel comfortable 
he can play several different posi-
tions on the ﬁ  eld, with the knowl-
edge and standard we expect from 
the program.”
Ohio State transfer Trevon 
Grimes, Freddie Swain, Dre Massey 
and Kadarius Toney will play in a 
deep and heavy rotation of receivers 
this season. 
Running backs
Jordan Scarlett’s return follow-ing last year’s suspension means 
he’ll take over as the No. 1 guy at 
tailback. 
The 5-foot-11, 210-pounder led 
the team with 179 carries, 889 yards 
and six touchdowns in 2016. He 
posted the most rushing yards by 
a Florida freshman or sophomore 
running back since 1995.
Sophomore Malik Davis and ju-
nior Lamical Perine are listed be-
hind Scarlett on the depth chart. 
Davis worked his way back into 
the rotation following his recovery 
from a season-ending knee injury 
he suffered last season. Perine led 
the Gators in rushing in 2017 with 562 yards on 136 carries. 
Tight ends and offensive line
Veteran tight ends C’yontai 
Lewis, Moral Stephens and R.J. 
Raymond will be Florida’s top three 
tight ends. All three enter the season 
as redshirt seniors, though they’ve 
only caught a combined 36 passes.
The offensive line is an area that 
has appeared almost as ambiguous 
as the quarterback position, and 
Mullen told reporters that a lot of 
those guys are going to be inter-
changeable at those positions.
The Gators will utilize a tandem 
that played and started all 11 games last season in senior Martez Ivey at 
left tackle and junior Jawaan Taylor 
at right tackle. 
Redshirt sophomore Brett Heggie 
is healthy once again after a knee in-
jury ended his 2017 campaign. But 
it’ll be 6-foot-4, 321-pound senior 
Tyler Jordan leading the way at left 
guard. The team will keep an eye 
on Heggie's performance in prac-
tice this week and see if he could 
possibly start at center on Saturday. 
Otherwise, it’ll be Nick Buchanan or 
T.J. McCoy at that spot.
“You’re getting into a game plan 
for those guys,” Mullen said. “It’s a 
tight battle, so I want to see who’s gonna handle that the best.”
While Feleipe Franks is receiv-
ing a lot of attention for winning the 
starting quarterback job, there were 
a decent amount of surprises on the 
defensive depth chart. 
Let’s start with the big guys up 
front. 
Defensive line
The Gators will have 11 players 
rotating on and off the defensive 
line with two sophomores start-
ing on the interior. The 6-foot-4, The Starters:  Gators release depth chart ahead of opener
Alligator File Photo
Running back Jordan Scarlett is set to return to the ﬁ  eld following a 
season-long suspension during the 2017 season.  
Alligator File Photo
Right tackle Jawaan T aylor (right) earned a starting spot within 
UF's offense for the season opener.
Offense wins games, but defense wins 
championships.
It’s a mantra that has stuck with me 
since my days of playing recreational 
sports growing up, where I helped anchor 
my defensive line while playing soccer. Or 
when I played high school lacrosse after I 
had signed up to be a D-Pole but was ul-
timately switched to attack due to my size 
and speed.
It’s also why I had picked Gators corner-
back Marco Wilson to be Florida’s break-out player this season.
But then everyone’s atten-
tion remains with the offense.
While UF fans anxiously 
waited to see who would be 
named the starting quarterback 
and kept saying “all we need 
is a good quarterback for this 
team to be good,” I’m going a 
different route.
Florida’s key to success this year isn’t 
Feleipe Franks, who was named the start-ing quarterback on Monday. 
Rather, it involves a unit that is 
highly underappreciated.
The pass-rushers. The de-
fensive linemen.
Before you ostracize me and 
label me as not knowing what 
I’m talking about, hear me out 
for a second.
Florida football was really 
bad last year. Horrendous even. A 4-7 ﬁ  n-
ish that was two plays away from poten-tially being a 2-9 season with close games 
to Kentucky and Tennessee.
A lot of it could be blamed on the 
quarterback and the offense. As the faces 
of the team, they are expected to get the 
job done. However, when you look at the 
breakdown, you’ll see a much different 
picture.
The Florida defense had only three 
games where it created four or more quar-
terback hurries -- four against Michigan, The key to Florida’s success this season isn’t just Franks. It’s the pass rush.Jake’s on a Plane / Opinions
Jake Dreilinger
@DreilingerJake
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Janssen Research & Development, LLC [V01 USA][Insert site location and contact information]STILL HAVING SYMPTOMS OF DEPRESSION EVEN 
WITH YOUR CURRENT ANTIDEPRESSANT?
Help us research an investigational medication for major 
depressive disorder (MDD).
The OARS 1 research study is evaluating the safety and effectiveness of an investigational 
medication for major depressive disorder, also known as, MDD. If you are someone 
who has been taking medication to manage their depression but are still experiencing 
depressive episodes, you may be eligible to participate in this study. 
To qualify, participants must:
•  be between the ages of 18 to 64,
•  have been diagnosed with MDD
•  have had an inadequate response to at least 1 but no more than 2 antidepressants.
Qualified participants will receive study-related medical care and medication at no cost.
To learn more about this study, please 
contact the study team using information 
provided below.
(352) 333-0094
www.SarkisClinicalTrials.com
SOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
“The Hangover” could take a 
lesson from the way Florida strug-
gled last weekend. 
The Gators came crashing back 
down to Earth following consecu-
tive 1-0 defeats at the hands of un-
ranked Ohio State and Oklahoma 
State. The losses dropped Florida 
17 places in the United Soccer 
Coaches poll from No. 5 to No. 22.
It won’t get any easier for the 
Gators with No. 2 UCLA and No. 
7 USC coming to Gainesville this 
weekend. Here’s what to look out 
for as UF tries to climb back up the 
rankings:
Will the real UF offense 
please stand up?
So far in this young season, it 
has been a tale of two offenses for 
the Gators. 
The team scored six goals and 
took 30 shots through its ﬁ  rst two 
games. In its two losses, it has been 
held to just 21 shots and no goals.
“I don’t think we’ve really creat-
ed enough chances,” coach Becky 
Burleigh said. “We’re missing 
some dynamic players, but that’s 
just part of college soccer. So we 
have to ﬁ  nd different ways to be 
effective, and that’ll be our job in 
practice this week.”
UCLA has only given up one 
goal in two games this year, and 
USC has only given up one in three. UF’s offensive production 
this weekend will be telling against 
a pair of stout Pac-12 defenses.
Who will step up with Deanne 
Rose absent?
Forward Deanne Rose, who was 
All-SEC First Team last year as a 
freshman and is arguably Florida’s 
best scoring threat, has not ap-
peared in a game since the season 
opener. She sat out the last few 
games nursing a hamstring injury 
and leaves the team for 10 days 
to be with the Canadian National 
Team. 
Freshman Cassidy Lindley 
stepped up in her absence in Flor-
ida’s win over FAU, scoring her 
ﬁ  rst goal and recording two assists. 
Since being named SEC Freshman 
of the Week, Lindley has cooled off 
along with the rest of the Gators’ 
offense.
Florida missed that spark in the 
last two games, and somebody will 
have to step up in Rose’s absence 
in order to get the Gators back on 
the right track. Lindley, as well as 
forwards Melanie Monteagudo and 
Madison Alexander, and midﬁ  elder 
Sammie Betters, have scored all of 
Florida’s goals this year. 
Atmosphere at Dizney Sta-
dium 
It’s not every weekend that 
two top-10 teams make trips to 
Gainesville.
Friday’s match with UCLA will be the ﬁ  rst contest between two 
ranked teams since UF made Don-
ald R. Dizney Stadium its perma-
nent home. Burleigh said that the 
atmosphere from Gators fans has been impressive so far and that she 
expects it to ramp up for the up-
coming weekend.
“We have had two really good 
environments,” she said, “but I think with these two teams coming 
it could be even more exciting.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org What to look out for as UF soccer prepares for tough weekend
Alligator File Photo
UF forward Deanne Rose has missed the past three games while dealing with a hamstring injury. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenue317-pound Elijah Conliffe will start at nose 
tackle on Saturday. He replaces redshirt se-
nior Khairi Clark, who started all 11 games 
at defensive tackle in 2017.
Tedarrell Slaton (6-foot-5, 343-pounds) 
edged out transfers Marlon Dunlap Jr. and 
Adam Shuler for the starting defensive tackle 
position. Dunlap sat out last year after trans-
ferring from North Carolina, while Shuler is 
a graduate transfer from West Virginia. 
The Gators’ 2017 leader in sacks - senior 
CeCe Jefferson - and redshirt sophomore Jer-
emiah Moon will play second ﬁ  ddle to Jachai 
Polite at the “buck” position, the linebacking 
edge rusher in Todd Grantham’s 3-4 scheme. 
It may be because Jefferson has been bat-
tling an injury, but Mullen said at Mon-
day’s press conference that Polite’s effort in 
camp is what won him a starting spot. 
“(Polite has) had a great camp,” Mul-
len said. “He’s worked his tail off, and you know, it’s the effort you give on the ﬁ  eld.”
On the opposite side of the line, redshirt 
junior Jabari Zuniga will play defensive end 
after starting six games and being hindered 
by injuries a year ago. Zachary Carter, a 
6-foot-4 redshirt freshman from Tampa, 
Florida, will back him up. 
Linebackers
Juniors David Reese and Vosean Joseph 
are penciled in at the middle linebacker 
spots. Reese and Joseph ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst (102) 
and third (55) in tackles for Florida in 2017, 
respectively. However, Mullen announced 
that Reese is questionable to play on Sept. 1 
with an ankle injury. 
Defensive backs
Preseason All-SEC corners CJ Hender-
son and Marco Wilson will get the ﬁ  rst reps 
against Charleston Southern. Henderson is 
coming off a campaign where he tied for the team lead in interceptions (4), while Wilson 
led the way in passes defended (10). But 
watch out for 6-foot-3 freshman Trey Dean. 
He’ll ﬁ  nd himself on the ﬁ  eld just as much 
as the star sophomores, who will supposedly 
see a decrease in reps from last season. 
Chauncey Gardner-Johnson is UF’s sec-
ond returning tackler (58) and starter at the 
“star” position, the nickel corner spot. His 
backup, C.J. McWilliams, is questionable for 
Saturday. 
Sophomore Donovan Stiner and junior 
Jeawon Taylor complete the starting defense 
as the safeties. Mullen said Stiner proved 
himself in fall camp and will play a critical 
role in the Gators’ defensive success. 
You can Follow Alanis and Mark on 
Twitter @alanisthames and @mstinejr or 
contact them at athames@alligator.org and 
mstine@alligator.org. FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14David Reese led team in tackles last season
Alligator File Photo
Cornerback Marco Wilson will be paired with fellow 
sophomore CJ Henderson against Charleston Southern.
Alligator File Photo
Buck linebacker Jachai Polite (left) won the starting job in a battle 
with 2017 sack leader CeCe Jefferson. 
nine against Tennessee and a whopping 12 
against Vanderbilt. In each of those games, 
the rest of the defense played better as a 
result of the added pressure to the opposing 
quarterback.
While the Gators lost to Michigan, they 
intercepted the ball twice and sacked Wil-
ton Speight and John O’Korn ﬁ  ve times. 
And against Tennessee and Vanderbilt, 
where they ﬂ  ushed out the quarterback a 
combined 21 times, intercepted the ball 
three times, recorded two sacks, and forced 
opposing quarterbacks into going a com-
bined 39-for-79 passing.
That was in just three games. The 
Gators managed just 11 QB hurries in the 
other eight games combined, where they 
forced nine interceptions and recorded 15 
sacks. When you account for the wider 
game pool, those numbers aren’t nearly as 
good as what the team produced against 
the Wolverines, the Volunteers and the 
Commodores. 
It comes down to this. When Florida’s 
pass rush consistently gets to the quarter-
back, it can signiﬁ  cantly help the Gators 
pull out the win. When the group can’t 
break through the line, it allows the op-
posing quarterback more time to make the 
play.
And this year, the defensive line will 
make all the difference. UF’s starting group 
of Jachai Polite, Tedarrell Slaton, Elijah 
Conliffe and Jabari Zuniga will need to be 
on its game every week if the Gators want 
a shot of winning this year.
And so far, they have shown it in fall 
camp.
“(Jachai)’s had a great camp,” Florida 
head coach Dan Mullen said. “He’s worked 
his tail off, and you know, it’s the effort 
you give on the ﬁ  eld.”
If UF’s pass rush comes to play this year, 
expect a much better season in 2018.
Jake Dreilinger is the assistant sports editor at 
The Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @Dreilinger-
Jake and email him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14