We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
UF WINS SERIES OVER RAZORBACKS
Florida survived a late rally to beat Arkansas by 
one on Sunday, pg. 14March For Our Lives
Read stories from the marches in Gainesville and D.C., pg. 8
UF to get new baseball stadium
The Board of Trustees approved the plans, pg. 10FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Siblings 6-year-old Bryce and 8-year-old Lydia Wells hold a sign saying “Keep us safe” at the Gainesville March for Our Lives event on Bo Diddley Plaza on Saturday. 
Siblings 6-year-old Bryce and 8-year-old Lydia Wells hold a sign saying “Keep us safe” at the Gainesville March for Our Lives event on Bo Diddley Plaza on Saturday. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 72
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
HIGH  70° LOW  60°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Sikhism
The UF Sikh Students Association 
will host Turban Day from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Tuesday on Turlington Plaza. The event aims 
to make UF students aware about 
Sikhism and give a chance to do something out of the ordinary by experiencing someone else’s 
culture. As part of the event, 
the members of Sikh Students 
Association will help tie turbans 
around students’ heads. A turban represents commitment to faith and identity for the Sikhs. After 9/11, Sikhs across the U.S. have been targeted because of their turbans. The association is try-ing to change people’s perception about Sikh faith. For more infor-
mation, contact 352-877-0407.
Authors@UF: Whitney Sanford
Whitney Sanford’s book, “Living 
Sustainably: What Intentional Communities Can Teach Us about Democracy, Simplicity, and Nonviolence,” illustrates how groups of intentional communi-ties are living out values such as nonviolence, social equity and sustainability. She will discuss 
her book at 6 p.m. Wednesday in 
the Smathers Library, Room 100. Between 2011 and 2015, Sanford visited more than 20 intentional communities across the U.S., including ecovillages, cohous-ing communities and Catholic worker houses and farms to see how these communities translate values into actual practices of eating, building and governing. 
Their ongoing demonstrations 
showcase choices and trade-offs in attempting to live sustainably, and their experiments can help us think through solutions in our own communities.
Libraries closed for Easter
Alachua County Library District 
will be closed for Easter all day 
Sunday. All branches will be closed. Book drops at branches and online services through the Library District’s eBranch at aclib.us will be available. All 12 branch locations and two book-mobiles will resume their regular schedules April 2. For more infor-
mation, visit aclib.us or call 352-
334-3900. 
Take Back the Night
Strive UF will hold “Take Back the Night March and Rally to End Sexual Violence” from 5:30 to 9 p.m. April 4 on the Plaza of the Americas. Survivors are invited 
to speak on the nature of their 
sexual assault and recovery. Free T-shirts or tank tops are available for the first 300 marchers. For more information, call 352-273-4450.
National Library Week
During National Library Week, which is April 8 to 14, Alachua County Library District joins li-braries nationwide to celebrate 
the many ways libraries lead 
their communities with the trans-formative services, programs and expertise they offer. Celebrations include National Library Workers Day on April 10 and National Bookmobile Day on April 11.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 72
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, 
  Alain  Harb, Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot,   
  Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Zach Huang planned to ask one of 
his best friends and on-and-off crush 
Carmen Schentrup to senior prom, but not before texting her to see if she was OK with it.
The two knew each other since 
middle school, when Carmen moved to Parkland in 2012. They became friends as sophomores at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School when added to a mutual group chat. Then, they started hanging out with friends. 
Together, they watched and 
laughed at the worst-rated movies they 
could ﬁ  nd or some of Carmen’s picks, 
like superhero movies or “Star Wars.”
On Feb. 14, they walked together af-
ter lunch to third period and exchanged their usual sarcastic banter before split-ting up with a funny yell of “Goodbye!” 
It was the last time Huang would 
see her. 
During her last period, Advanced 
Placement Psychology, a shooter shat-tered the window of Carmen’s class-room on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of the freshman building, said her father, Philip Schen-trup. He said authorities told him the accused gunman stuck the barrel of the gun through the window and shot rap-idly and randomly. 
Four bullets struck Carmen, taking 
her life a week before her 17th birth-day. 
At the end of the six-minute shoot-
ing, 17 lives were taken and more than a dozen were injured.
Just ﬁ  ve days earlier, Carmen re-
ceived a letter from UF. She was one of 14,866 accepted. 
UF was one of her options. She 
dreamed of being a medical researcher. 
She vigorously played piano and 
read books. She was a straight-A stu-dent. She learned German ﬂ  uently enough through mobile apps to act as 
a translator for her family’s trip to Ger-
many, which she planned herself. 
“She was the kind of kid who you 
didn’t have to push,” Philip said. “She would do things all on her own.”
Before news broke of the shooting, 
the Schentrups’ youngest daughter, Ev-elyn, sent her mom a text saying she was OK. 
April Schentrup, the principal of 
nearby Pembroke Pines Elementary School, didn’t know what it was about. 
She later found out there was a shoot-ing at her children’s high school. Car-
men wasn’t answering. 
Huang drove from hospital to hos-
pital to try to ﬁ  nd her. After hours of searching, he found himself in the nearby Marriott hotel with other friends of Carmen as everyone waited for information. 
Around 2 a.m., Carmen’s mother 
walked up to him. The FBI just told them Carmen was dead, she said to him. 
A friend’s father had to drive Huang 
home after he slammed his ﬁ  st into a pole and shouted out in frustration. When he got home, he couldn’t go inside. He threw his phone into the bushes and ran. He sat on top of the 
sign leading into his neighborhood. He 
went back to retrieve his phone and sat on the sign again. He started typ-ing what had happened that day. What happened to Carmen. He wanted to re-member. 
After hours of sitting outside, he 
laid in bed but couldn’t sleep. 
He would never see her again. “One of the brightest minds out 
there is gone forever,” he said. 
See  the rest of the story online at 
alligator.org.
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
Free menstrual products now available at
OPEN MONDAY - FRIDAY : 8AM-5PM 
(352) 392-1161 | shcc.ufl.edu
SWIMMING
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
For the fourth consecutive year, the 
Texas men’s swimming and diving team 
ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst at the NCAA Championships.However, you wouldn’t have known it 
by looking at most national news outlets covering the meet. Instead, the focus was on Florida senior Caeleb Dressel.
Dressel stole the show at the NCAA 
Championships in Minneapolis this week-end, setting American, NCAA and UF re-cords in the 50 free, 100 free and 100 ﬂ  y.
Dressel became the ﬁ  rst person in history 
to swim the 50 free in under 18 seconds on 
Thursday, recording a time of 17.81 in his 
lead-off leg of the 200 free relay. Just a few hours later, he broke the record again with a time of 17.63 in the ﬁ  nals of the 50 free.
“He’s really good every time he swims 
it. He gets a better feel for it and corrects  Dressel shatters records, steals show at NCAA Championships
Courtesy to The Alligator
Carmen Schentrup, 16, was one of the 17 victims of the Feb. 
14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. 
SEE SWIMMING,  PAGE 14
One of the 17 Parkland victims had been accepted to UF4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
By Mari Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer
When the white “3” sign was lift-
ed, more than 800 people cheered 
and put their arms up in an “O” to 
look like the Dance Marathon’s hot 
air balloon logo Sunday. A new re-cord had been set. 
After 26.2 hours of dancing and 
standing at the O’Connell Center, 
UF Dance Marathon organizers held 
up white signs to reveal the orga-
nization had raised $3,026,420.19 
for the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, a nonprofit that raises money for children hospitals. 
In 2017, the yearlong effort raised 
$2.7 million, said Ashleigh Braun, a 22-year-old captain on the Dance Marathon public relations team. 
“I think every year we just con-tinue to evolve and grow and just trying to build off of the previous year,” the UF journalism senior said. 
Lindsey Breneman, a UF journal-
ism sophomore, said her feet were swollen from standing and dancing all weekend, but the miracle fami-lies inspired her to continue.
“We worked our butts off all 
year long,” the 20-year-old said. 
UF President Kent Fuchs was 
also at the event Sunday to receive the Community Person of the Year 
award. He was recognized after he 
donated $10,000.
Emily Boulter, a Dance Marathon 
spokesperson, said this was the first time Fuchs had donated. 
“We are so supportive of all the 
help he has given our cause,” the 21-year-old UF health education and behavior senior said. UF students raise more than $3 million for Dance Marathon
Mari Faiello / Alligator Staff 
UF Dance Marathon staff members hold up signs revealing the total amount of money raised this 
year: $3,026,420.19. The money will be donated to the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. 
SHE WAS ONE OF 
THE FIRST FEMALE 
COUNSELORS AT UF.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Roberta Albers-Seldman was a 
woman before 
her time. 
She cham-
pioned mental 
health at UF at 
a time when it wasn’t re-spected, helping people through difficult situations by sharing en-couraging quotes, genuine love and words of support. 
Albers-Seldman, who started 
her as the University Athletic Asso-ciation’s psychologist, staying there for 15 years, and later joining UF’s Counseling & Wellness Center to tend to anyone at UF, died March 
13 from a thoracic aortic aneurysm, 
said UF soccer coach Becky Bur-leigh. 
“That smile of hers is something 
I’ll never forget for the rest of my life, and I’ll carry it in my heart forever,” said Livia Ledbetter, a UF sociology and women’s studies ju-nior. Ledbetter, 20 said Albers-Seld-
man was one of the first female counselors at UF.
Ledbetter was out of town when 
a counselor at the CWC called to say Albers-Seldman had died.
“I heard those words and every-
thing stopped,” Ledbetter said. 
Ledbetter first met with Albers-
Seldman in May 2016 when Led-better was a sophomore. She kept making appointments because she said Albers-Seldman truly under-stood her. 
“I could write a whole book 
about how amazing she was,” Led-better said. “She made me feel vali-dated, loved and accepted.” Burleigh said Albers-Seldman 
was an advocate for mental health at a time when it was stigmatized, especially in sports.
She described Albers-Seldman 
as someone who could make any-one feel like they were the only per-son in the room. 
“Roberta probably never real-
ized the impact she had on so many people,” Burleigh said.
Peter Nguyenho, a UF psychol-
ogy junior, wrote in an email that Albers-Seldman helped him find reasons to live as he grappled with depression and suicidal thoughts.
“I will always remember her for 
saving my life,” 20-year-old Nguy-enho said. “Dr. Seldman never once judged me for any of the things I opened up to her about.”
When he found out about her 
death, he met with a counselor at the CWC and broke down, he said. 
After the session, he went into 
Albers-Seldman’s office, where he had sat across from her before, tell-
ing her his fears and thoughts. He 
sat in her chair and cried.
“I feel if Dr. Seldman was here 
right now, she would give me a warm hug, place her hand on my shoulder, and tell me everything will be okay and that life is still beautiful,” he said.
UF counselor remembered for kindness, saving lives
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Surrounded by plastic tarps and paint 
cans, Yonhiki No Saru drew abstract mon-
keys on a wall of The Standard Gainesville’s 
parking garage on four panels.
The four colorful murals added to The 
Standard Gainesville’s parking garage on 
Northwest Third Avenue, facing the Krispy 
Kreme Doughnuts on Southwest 13th Street, are part of a negotiation with the 
City of Gainesville for an encroachment on 
the Florida Department of Transportation’s 
property when the complex’s parking ga-
rage was built in 2017. The company over-
built on the property by less than 10 feet, 
said Chip Skinner, a city spokesperson.
With these murals, LM Gainesville, LLC, 
which built the complex, would also have 
to pay $75,000 to the city. It was part of the 
compromise the company struck with the city as a reasonable cost instead of rebuild-
ing the garage.
“Reconstructing that is not economi-
cally feasible,” Skinner said. “It really didn’t 
make much sense to demolish it and recon-
struct it. It would’ve cost them a bit more 
money than that $75,000 fine.” 
He said it was in the interest of the city to 
not make The Standard tear down its build-ing and tie up the traffic in the area.The situation with the encroachment 
was unique when the 10-story apartment 
complex sprung up across the street from 
UF’s campus, Skinner said. 
“We’ve never had a building built to that 
magnitude within the city,” he said. 
The encroachment does not affect pedes-
trians or traffic and doesn’t pose as a hazard to fire rescue response, he said. 
Assistant Fire Chief Stephen Hesson said 
the Gainesville Fire Rescue is not concerned 
with the required fire department access 
needed in the event there was a fire in the 
building. The fire department has the 20 feet 
it needs for its vehicles, even with the en-
croachment. 
“It’s typical when we set up our appa-
ratus to block a lane of traffic or an entire 
road because our trucks are so big,” he said. “This protects firefighters working around 
the truck.”
He said the department has different tac-
tics, like a sprinkler system inside the build-
ing, in case of a fire. He said the building’s 
fire response systems are unique due to the 
size of the building.
“It requires additional attention and 
resources,” he said. “It presents a unique challenge, and obviously we are capable to 
deal with a fire there, but it wouldn’t be a 
routine fire for us.”The Standard pays fine, paints mural as part of negotiation
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Four colorful murals of monkeys were added to a wall of The Standard Gainesville’s parking 
garage on Northwest Third Avenue as part of a negotiation with the City of Gainesville. The building encroaches on the Florida Department of Transportation’s property by less than 10 feet.
Albers-Seldman
MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
In their own words: Students explain why they marched
Jaimie Ivers, a UF public relations soph-
omore, helped plan the bus trip for UF students. She posted messages on Face-book student groups looking for students interested in going. She said she did it 
because she wants to support her alma mater, Stoneman Douglas. She planned to carry a sign that read “Positive Passionate Proud to be the change” to the march.
“Cameron Kasky, one of the Stoneman 
Douglas students leading the #NeverAgain 
movement, lives three doors down from me. I was in drama with him and Alex Wind, and now they are on the cover of ‘Time.’ When all the #NeverAgain kids started, it inspired me to do something here at UF. Details about 
the shooter and his life made it clear he is not someone who should have a gun. It’s not even just one issue, it’s so many: lack of communication, mental health. There was so many things wrong with the situation, something needed to be done. The result of the march should be a change in our laws, but I think it will 
take time. It won’t happen all of a sudden, but a march on Washington is part of 
it. It’s everyone that participates. There’s been people reaching out. There’s an overwhelming amount of people of all ages. The fact that it is happening world-wide is a good thing because I think we need to see how embarrassing that this happens here. I hope America is embarrassed.”Ricardo Rauseo, a UF political science 
and international studies senior and student senator, heard about the bus trip and said he needed to go to repre-sent other students.
“I was interested because that high school 
was 20 minutes away from my home in 
Weston. I decided this is something I care about, and this is a movement I can get behind. This type of peaceful protest doesn’t happen in my home country, Venezuela. I’m going to see 
how it is in the United States. I went to the 
Richard Spencer protest last year, so this will be my second protest. The media has framed it so much as like ‘They’re kids, they don’t know 
the law. We’re adults; we’re the ones that 
make the law.’ If you are old enough to be a victim of gun violence, then you are old 
enough to see gun laws change. People say ‘They can’t vote,’ but they are still part of our society, and if that were the case, we wouldn’t have any laws regarding kids at all. No one deserves to go through what they went through.”
As Adam Rachlin, a UF political science and family, 
youth and community sciences sophomore and Stoneman Douglas alumnus, rode a bus for more than 12 hours to march in D.C., he poured over pages of a book about the Second Amendment. 
He highlighted quotes he thought were meaningful, so he could “understand the other side,” he said.
“When it comes to gun reform, it’s something I’ve studied 
for roughly the past ﬁ  ve or six years, even before any of this 
happened. When the shooting in Aurora, Colorado, where a man shot up a movie theater, happened, it really affected me. Since then I’ve been trying to ﬁ  gure out why this happens, 
why people have access to these types of guns. I want to 
march for this because one of the pillars of ‘March For Our Lives’ is a ban on assault weapons. It’s a controversial idea, but I think it’s something that needs to happen. Not only is it apparent that these weapons are only used for mass destruc-
tion or mass killings, there is no other use for them. The Second Amendment is a very loose amend-ment. It’s the shortest of the amendments. Just because something back in the day made sense, it might not make sense anymore, and I think politicians need to see that. Organizations like the Na-tional Riﬂ  e Association need to stay out of politics. That’s what is making these politicians lean more 
toward a loose gun reform agenda. Through March For Our Lives, people are showing they don’t 
want that anymore. They want more gun reform. Ninety-seven percent of the population agrees we should have universal background checks, especially when it comes to gun shows, where you can go and buy a gun really easily. Stuff like that needs to be regulated more. I’m not only marching for the 17 lives, but for any life taken through gun violence. This isn’t just about school shootings, this is about shootings that happen in communities where gun violence is an everyday thing. The outcry for help is very apparent from how many people are going to march. It’s not just people from Parkland, it’s people from every city in the entire county. That’s so important, and it’s so important to be a part of this. That’s why I march.”Max Baron, a UF English and history sophomore 
and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School alumnus, traveled to D.C. to march. There, he listened to current Stoneman Douglas students recount the Valentine’s Day shooting at their 
school.
“The reason that I’m here is that the shooting on Feb-
ruary 14th didn’t just hit too close to home, it was home 
for me. Once I saw there was a trip being organized by 
friends of mine who also went to Stoneman Douglas to go to the March For Our Lives national protest in D.C., I im-mediately hopped on board and decided this was some-
thing I deﬁ  nitely wanted (to) get behind. It’s one of the 
ﬁ  rst protests I’ve done in my life, and I’m really excited for it. I hope for a strong turnout, to show that most of the country is on our side for sensible gun control, but also 
that we represent the lives that were lost there and remember the fallen. My sign says ‘we are 
the change we’ve been waiting for’. There’s a bunch of young people out here for this protest 
who have been inspired to create this entire movement at Stoneman Douglas and elsewhere around the country. My sign embodies that, so that is why I wanted to write that on there.”By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff WriterThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
We are the generation 
that is going to 
change the world
This Saturday, thousands of people came together in streets 
across the country with signs in their hands and a mission in their hearts. 
According to CBS, more than 200,000 people attended 
the main March for Our Lives protest in Washington, D.C., 
and organizers of the event put the overall number of protesters close to 800,000. In total, an estimated 800 marches were held in cities across the nation. These protests come a little more than a  year after the Women’s March took place, the largest single-day protest in U.S. history. 
Over the past month, we have watched high school students 
lobby in Tallahassee and D.C. We have watched those who are still considered to be too immature to drive a car or buy a beer change the course of history. We have seen them ﬁ  ght for a better 
and safer America. We have seen our generation demonstrate a 
power unlike any other, and prove they will change the future.
Some of the most signiﬁ  cant changes in our nation’s history 
came from people just like the ones who are spending their week-ends protesting, marching and lobbying for a better future. Our nation’s independence was catalyzed by a pivotal protest: the Boston Tea Party, the original American protest.
In 1913, 8,000 demonstrators marched the streets of Wash-
ington, D.C. to ﬁ  ght for women’s rights to vote. After seven more 
years of adherent determination, their goal was achieved. In 
1993, 800,000 people gathered on the National Mall to ﬁ  ght for the rights of the LGBTQ+ community. The march helped the community to gain recognition across the country and since then, same-sex marriage has been legalized and signiﬁ  cant strides have been made in terms of HIV and AIDS research.
In 1963, Martin Luther King Jr. showed Americans the power 
of a peaceful protest when he led marchers from the Washington Monument to the Lincoln Memorial and presented his famed “I 
Have a Dream” speech. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed 
shortly after that, changing the course of American history. 
And let’s not forget about the Vietnam War demonstrations 
which lasted through the duration of the 20-year war. These pro-tests led to the termination of the draft and the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Vietnam.
The aforementioned demonstrations are just a snippet of the 
power protests have had in American history. Nearly every major change we’ve seen, both in recent and distant history, came as a 
result of people who would refuse to sit down and accept what 
they felt wasn’t right. Our generation is no different.
For the past 20 years or so, we’ve seen a lull in protests and 
pause in the stark determination among American people. Sure, Americans have voiced discontent, but it’s been years since we’ve seen organized rallies like the ones mentioned above. Our generation is changing that.
We understand for some people it is hard to see the point of 
these protests. That’s because change takes time. It takes con-
tinuous effort and struggle. It takes miles of marching and hours 
of lobbying. It takes unique voices and fearless leaders. It takes courage, and it takes more than a week to achieve.
The impacts of the recent marches like the Women’s March 
and the March For Our Lives are yet to be seen. Nonetheless, we know it’s coming. 
We know our generation is working effortlessly to take advan-
tage of the First Amendment rights and take back our country. 
We couldn’t be prouder. Make sure you know what can actually be recycled
From as early as elementary school, we were 
correctly taught to minimize our negative 
impact on the environment. We were also told recycling is a fundamental way to do 
so. Somewhere along the line, however, in 
the hopes of teaching as many people as possible to recycle, its original purpose was lost.
Nowadays, many people feel a guilt trip, al-
most an anxiety, to recycle every last piece of their garbage. When the thought of what can ac-
tually be recycled creeps into our minds, most of 
us throw the object in question into the recycle bin and hope 
for the best. However, incorrectly recycling can hurt the rea-
son to recycle in the ﬁ  rst place. 
The essential purpose of recycling is to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions that can hinder human health. The superﬂ  u-
ous feeling of “doing one’s part” or “feeling green” comes 
secondary to preserving our quality of life.
The success of recycling comes down to its economic val-
ue. If companies cannot proﬁ  t from reusing materials, they have no incentive to use recycled materials. Unfortunately, 
the market value for recyclables has decreased dramatically 
over the past eight years, as much as 45 percent in some 
areas. 
The problem comes down to contamination and waste 
ending up in the wrong place. Waste management, which 
has more than 100 recycling facilities throughout the coun-
try, reports more than 16 percent of what is thrown away in recycle bins is unrecoverable, driving down the value of 
recycled materials.
Once thrown away, garbage does not magically disappear 
from the curbside. Haulers pick up recyclables and transport 
them to a facility that separates recycled materials to maxi-
mize proﬁ  tability. However, all of this time and effort that 
must be diverted to remove something that can’t be recycled 
actually increases the cost of recycling and decreases the re-
cyclables’ value. Rising costs have shut down recycling facili-
ties, and lower values hurt the chances of businesses reusing 
materials.If people want a legitimate reason to feel good 
about recycling, they must increase the value of their individual recycling bins. To do so, people must avoid contamination at all costs. As soon 
as paper becomes wet or handled with food, it 
cannot be thrown in the recycle bin. Although we 
were all taught from a young age how bad plastic 
is for the environment, plastics lids and contain-ers from restaurants are not recyclable. There 
should be a number from the Society of Plastics 
Industry on every plastic product, and plastic 
usually can’t be recycled if the number is greater than two. 
And for the love of former Vice President Al Gore, please 
stop recycling plastic bags. Even putting your recyclables in a plastic bag can be a huge detriment to the entire process. 
Not only are plastic bags not recyclable, but they can also 
get stuck in machinery at recycling facilities and bring the 
whole sorting process to a costly halt. Even if there is some 
sort of guilt from using regular trash bins, preventing a few non-recyclables from contaminating the recycling stream can 
help the overall process.
The solution is simple: People should only recycle what 
they are absolutely sure can be recycled.
In fact, it’s best to only focus on three types waste: alu-
minum cans, plastic bottles and cardboard boxes. By far, re-
cycling aluminum cans signiﬁ  cantly offsets more potential 
carbon dioxide emissions than any other recyclable material. 
Plastic bottles are easy to recognize, and Americans use a lot of them. And as shopping online continues to take over our 
lives, the cardboard shipping boxes in the waste stream does 
the same.
The ﬁ  rst step was encouraging Americans to recycle. Now 
that the country has succeeded in the everyday American 
consciously thinking about what they throw away, it is time 
to shift toward educating Americans on recycling correctly.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental engineering 
junior. His column focuses on science.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
I took for granted that, 
throughout my childhood and teenage years, I could 
stroll into the kitchen, open 
up the refrigerator and ﬁ  nd 
something to eat within sec-onds. I’ve never understood 
the true meaning of the word 
“starving.” I’ve never worried about having access to break-fast, lunch or dinner. Unfortu-nately, the same can't be said for all kids 
in this country. And this is something we 
need to address at the local, state and na-tional levels.
According to the American Youth Pol-
icy Forum, almost 50 million Americans experience some kind of food insecurity during their life. This means they either have little access to healthy foods or spo-radic access to food at all.
Other troubling studies, these con-
ducted by the Urban Institute, indicate that 6.8 million students between the ages of 10 and 17 do not get consistent 
meals at home as a result of food inse-
curity.
How can we expect the next genera-
tion of leaders, scholars, activists, teach-ers and citizens to learn and grow if 
they don't have food on the table? Can 
we blame the middle-schooler for doing poorly on his test if he spent the night before wondering if he’d eat dinner? Is it 
really appropriate to penalize a 17-year-
old for failing to ﬁ  nish her homework if she works every weeknight to help her parents feed her family?
In our quest to improve the quality of 
our educational standards and change the way our students learn, we often ignore the tangled web of factors that inﬂ  uence the lives of children and teens. It’s espe-
cially easy to forget to address problems 
that lie beneath the surface of other peo-ple’s lives — problems we may not see directly unless we walked into each of their homes or met each of their families. 
It’s also frighteningly easy to forget 
just how much hunger can affect all facets of one’s life if, like me, you’ve never truly experienced it. 
The American Youth Policy 
Forum also reports, following studies from the National Insti-tutes of Health, food insecurity and malnourishment can lead 
to greater mental health prob-
lems, behavioral issues, social anxieties and disciplinary ac-tions at school. Further, food 
insecurity puts kids at a higher risk of 
missing school and failing to graduate.
When we learn about startling sta-
tistics and facts like the ones above, we 
must work to counteract them. So what 
can we do to help combat food insecu-
rity? 
For one, we can donate to local food 
pantries and kitchens that serve our lo-cal communities. At UF, for example, we 
have the Field and Fork Pantry, which 
allows members of the university com-munity to take food and groceries to feed themselves and their families, usually 
for up to a week at a time. Programs like 
these may help folks in your classes, the staff at various campus facilities or even your next-door neighbor.
We can also pressure our elected of-
ﬁ  cials to pledge to allocate more funds toward schoolwide programs like free and reduced lunches — and to make sure schools include healthy options. These 
politicians work for us, and to that end, 
they should ensure the needs of our chil-dren are met when those kids venture off to their schools each morning.
All in all, problems with our educa-
tional system must also be seen in the context of other concerns, from food and health to transportation and infrastruc-ture. Making this country even just a little 
better for our children will require holis-
tic solutions that go further than looking at issues in the classroom. 
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminol-
ogy and philosophy senior. Her column 
focuses on education.Dear UF President Kent Fuchs,
We are writing to you on behalf of 
a multitude of concerned students at 
UF over the egregious human rights 
violations. These include child labor, 
sexual violence and slavery, ﬂ  ourishing with impunity in the Mexican export agriculture 
industry where Wendy’s buys its tomatoes. 
Over the past four years, students and 
faculty at UF have demanded Wendy’s be re-
moved from campus until the fast-food com-pany joins the Coalition of Immokalee Work-
ers’ Presidential Medal-winning Fair Food 
Program. 
The FFP is a world-renowned human 
rights initiative that ensures humane wages 
and digniﬁ  ed working conditions by harness-
ing the purchasing power of more than a doz-en of the world’s largest retail food brands. 
In a few short years, the FFP has radically 
transformed conditions for more than 52,000 
workers on farms from Florida to New Jersey. 
A CNN special report features the eye-
opening story of a tomato picker named Ale-
jandrina Carrera, who contrasts the night-
mare of being ﬁ  red from a farm in Florida 
after being sexually assaulted by a male su-pervisor with the new reality of working un-der the groundbreaking protections of the FFP.  
In Carrera's words, “You’re not going to 
be harassed, you’re not going to be insulted, you’re not going to be forced to work. There’s more respect now.” 
All of the major fast-food corporations 
— McDonald’s, Burger King, Subway, Taco Bell, KFC and Chipotle Mexican Grill — have joined and are enforcing the FFP’s golden standard of human rights in their supply 
chains. All except Wendy’s. 
We condemn UF’s complicity in the on-
going epidemic of sexual harassment, assault 
and other human rights violations by allow-
ing Wendy’s to continue leasing space on our 
campus.
We are aware the Wendy’s on campus is 
owned and operated by FFP buyer Aramark, UF’s food service provider since 1995. The 
UF administration has refused to take steps 
to cut ties with Wendy’s because it claims the fruits and vegetables used for Wendy’s burg-ers and salads sold on campus are procured through Aramark’s supply chain and there-
fore sourced from FFP-certiﬁ  ed farms. 
We are very proud of the courageous 
student movement at UF that spurred the 
momentous agreement between CIW and 
Aramark in 2010; however, that is not an ac-
ceptable answer to our demands for remov-ing a corporation that proﬁ  ts from women’s suffering from our campus.
UF does not tolerate sexual harassment 
and abuse of any kind on campus. No ques-tions asked. So why put UF’s reputation at risk by meddling in business with a company that unconscionably refuses to take meaning-
ful action to eradicate sexual violence and 
other human rights abuse in its supply chain? 
It is no secret thousands of farmworker 
women are forced into silence by the grab-bing clutches of fear, violence and corrup-
tion that deﬁ  ne the agricultural industry in 
Mexico. 
In the era of #MeToo, we must lift up real, 
enforceable solutions to stamp out and pre-
vent sexual harassment and assault in the 
workplace — and hold corporate giants like Wendy’s responsible for failing to rid their supply chains of human rights violations.
As stakeholders of all matters tied to UF, 
we will not accept the inﬂ  uence and presence of a fast-food brand on campus that looks the other way as farmworker women sacriﬁ  ce their dignity to feed their families. 
We urge you, Mr. Fuchs, to use your 
power and unyielding compassion to uphold UF’s commitment to “demonstrate respect for human dignity” to all by removing Wendy’s from our campus. 
We’re requesting to meet with you in per-
son before the end of the academic term to discuss this important and timely matter. 
We look forward to hearing from you.  
 
Sincerely, 
Lucero Ruballos
Vice President, Chispas UF 
Chispas UF is a pro-immigrant student orga-
nization at UF.To better children's education, pay 
attention to how much they eat An open letter to President Kent Fuchs: 
Wendy’s needs to be kicked oﬀ   campusColumn Letter to the Editor
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
Eleven-year-old Aagmeya Ba-
nerjee brought a crowd of about 
1,250 to its feet.
Not only was he the young-
est speaker, but he was the only one to receive a standing ovation at the Gainesville March For Our Lives on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Saturday. Banerjee ad-dressed politicians who don’t take children seriously in the discus-sion of gun reform.
“Stop talking to kids like we 
are idiots,” he told them.
Banerjee was among the 
marchers who spilled onto West University Avenue at about 2 p.m. to protest gun violence and demand stricter gun laws in 
Gainesville. The demonstration 
was one of more than 840 protests worldwide as marchers called for stricter gun laws and to weaken 
the National Rifle Association’s 
political influence.
Before marching, protesters 
rallied on Bo Diddley Plaza, listen-
ing to calls for action from politi-cal candidates, Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School alumni and 
local officials. Participants were encouraged to donate blood at the blood bus and register to vote at the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections booth.
As she marched, Penelope Dob-
bins, a sixth-grader at Millhopper Montessori School, raised her voice to the point of cracking as 
she pleaded for stricter gun laws.
When Penelope watches the 
news, she sees the U.S. crumbling 
apart, she said. Although she feels safe going to school, she worries about other children who attend schools with less security.
But Saturday’s march put a 
smile on her face and hope in her heart. Politicians will be forced to listen, and change will come, she said.
“We’re demanding action, and 
we’re going to keep chanting until they hear us,” she said.
While one speaker urged 
Congress to criminalize bump stocks, Mike Ryan Simonovich, a Gainesville resident, bent over to explain what a bump stock is to his 8-year-old son, Yuri.
Yuri is accustomed to the large 
crowds and thunderous cheers that come with protests. He typi-cally tags along with his father to marches, the polls and city meet-ings. Yuri said he likes attending the rallies and meetings with his father but prefers the shorter ones.
“I don’t like walking for a long 
time,” Yuri said.
Ryan Simonovich feels it’s his 
duty to educate his second-grade son about political issues because he belongs to the next generation of voters. He was thrilled to see so many young people advocating for change. He said he believes the Gainesville protesters sent a strong message.
“I hope that it terrifies the poli-
ticians who are in the pockets of the NRA,” he said.
No arrests or injuries were 
reported during the march, said Gainesville Police Department Lt. Jaret Weiland. The event was calm, even with the occasional counter-protester, he said.
GPD’s main safety concern was 
how the march would affect traffic as protesters spilled from the side-walks into the street. Although the department did not initially plan to block off roads, officers partially blocked off the right lane of West University Avenue. They were stationed along the march route to keep marchers close to the curb, Weiland said.
Bruce Frendahl, a 65-year-old 
retired architect, watched history repeat itself as he stood on the sidewalk next to Bo Diddley Pla-za. As protesters poured into the center of the plaza, Frendahl re-called the Vietnam protests led by his fellow UF students in the 1970s. He said activism moves in cycles.
“It’s coming back around. This 
is the issue that’s firing up the stu-dents,” he said.
Frendahl tacked a picture of his 
two grandkids, 10-year-old Abby and 8-year-old Joey, to the middle of his deep blue sign that read, “My grandkids will attend that school. Will it be safe for them then?”
Abby and Joey live in Coral 
Springs in the same school district as Stoneman Douglas. Frendahl said arming teachers will not keep his grandchildren safe – only gun reform can.
“I just pray to God to keep them 
safe, and my daughter is doing everything she can to keep them safe,” Frendahl said. “There’s nothing more that we can do.”
Behind many chants along the 
march were the tribal rhythms of 50-year-old Patrick Brezyan and his djembe, a bongo-style drum of African origin.
For nearly two decades, Brezy-
an has been bringing his goat-skin Ghanaian djembe to marches all across the U.S., from Chicago to New York City to Gainesville, where the percussionist has lived for the past year and a half.
He said he played his djembe 
along to protesters’ chants Satur-day afternoon not for attention, 
but for unity, a call to action 
through rhythm.
“The drum can be a powerful 
thing in a place like this,” he said. “It’s a tribal thing. It’s innate in our bones. It calls on people to come together.”
Staff Writer David Hoffman 
contributed to this report.Nearly 1,300 protest at Gainesville March For Our Lives
Shelbie Eakins/ Alligator Staff
Charles Trowbridge, a 75-year-old veteran and Gainesville resident, 
stands with a flag draped over his shoulders. He called for gun reform. Will Clewis/ Alligator Staff
From left: Hawthorne residents Sally Ringo, 67, and Michele T anner, 71, chant after marching. T anner holds a copy of the U.S. Constitution and a “Disarm Hate” sign.
T aylour Marks/ Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe calls students from kindergarten through college to the front of the stage on Bo Diddley Community Plaza, saying, “This day is for you!” 
By Amanda Rosa and 
 Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff WritersMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator 
Gabbriella Henderson, a UF psychology freshman, attended March 
For Our Lives in Washington, D.C.  The 18-year-old’s sign had names of those killed from about ﬁ  ve mass shootings, she said.Each student paid a $45 fee to travel from Gainesville to D.C. UF students bus to the Capitol, march for gun reform
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The bus ride up was quiet. 
After waiting for nearly half an 
hour to board, the sleepy-eyed UF students were on their way to Wash-ington, D.C. 
They had boarded two buses in 
the UF Commuter Lot during the early hours of Friday. Cradling pil-lows and blankets for the 12-hour trip each way, they had a mission in mind: protest the death of every victim who has fallen to gun vio-lence, including the 17 who died in a school shooting on Valentine’s Day 
in Parkland, Florida. 
Among the students on the bus 
were about 40 Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas High School alumni, who had seen their hometown in the headlines over the past month. 
News outlets have reported esti-
mates of how many people attend-ed the March For Our Lives event, 
ranging from 180,000 to 800,000. 
On Saturday morning in 46-degree weather, people from all across the nation stood on Pennsylvania Av-enue before a stage set up in front of the U.S. Capitol building. 
But before they would make it 
there, the UF students had to ride out the 12 hours and settle with an “OK, 
not great” bathroom on the charter 
bus rentals. They had packed all the winter clothing a Florida kid might own and handwritten signs advocat-ing for an end to gun violence. 
Stoneman Douglas alumnus 
Adam Rachlin ﬂ  ipped through “The Second Amendment Primer,” high-lighting passages he found interest-ing while most of his fellow passen-gers slept before they got to D.C.
The UF political science and fam-
ily, youth and community sciences sophomore wanted to make sure he understood the Second Amendment, 
as well as those on “the other side.” 
“Just because something back 
in the day made sense, it might not 
make sense anymore,” the 20-year-old said.
Rachlin and his seatmate Ivana 
Radovanovic talked about their former high school teachers from Stoneman Douglas to pass time. 
Each student on the buses paid a 
$45 fee for the trip, including trans-portation and one night at a hotel in D.C. The Stoneman Douglas alumni from UF raised $15,000 through a GoFundMe page and T-shirt sales and worked for ﬁ  ve weeks to orga-nize the trip. 
Brandon Taylor, a UF computer 
science engineering sophomore and one of the organizers of the UF Stands with MSD group, put in 150 to 200 hours of effort to make the trip possible. He said the fundraising gave the students an opportunity to travel together for cheap.
“There’s a large community that cares,” the 20-year-old said.
Once they reached the Comfort 
Inn in Springﬁ  eld, Virginia, they 
dragged themselves off the bus, their 
limbs stiff and numb. They had time to get a good night’s sleep before the Saturday morning protest.
As they devoured wafﬂ  es and ce-
real in the hotel’s dining hall, they speculated about the expected size of the crowd — they heard there would be about half a million people.
Soon after, they picked up their 
signs and headed in small groups to the metro stations. Susette Oñate, a 19-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation sophomore, told the small group she arrived with that they would tell their kids about that moment in 40 years. 
They agreed.
By late morning, the crowd was 
expanding. Music was blaring, and 
each sign was another plea for gun reform.
As a group of nine Stoneman 
Douglas alumni from UF walked to-ward the main stage, the crowd be-gan to part. 
“Make way for Douglas,” they 
chanted. Krishna Naik, 21, in a gray shirt that read “Eagles soar high” to honor her alma mater, led the group past strangers who cleared a path. 
“It was so moving,” the UF psy-
chology senior said. “I never would have expected people to do that for us.”10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Athletic Association has an-
nounced plans to build a new baseball 
stadium off Hull Road, near the Donald 
R. Dizney Lacrosse Stadium, by 2020.
Plans for the new ballpark were 
unanimously approved by UF’s Board 
of Trustees at a meeting Friday. The sta-
dium is estimated to cost $50 million and will now go to the Florida Board of Gov-
ernors for final approval.
The stadium will have 6,000 seats 
but an overall capacity of 10,000, with 
standing room for fans to watch, said UF 
Athletic Director Scott Stricklin. An addi-
tional 400 to 500 parking spots will also 
be added near the ballpark.
The Trustees also approved $11 mil-
lion worth of renovations for the Katie 
Seashole Pressly Softball Stadium, in-cluding expanded seating and shading, 
Stricklin said. A $65 million football 
training facility will be built at the site of 
the current baseball stadium.“It gives us a chance to do football 
right and to do baseball right,” he said.
The athletic association will pay UF’s 
Institute of Agricultural Sciences $3 mil-lion over the next five years to buy the 
land for the baseball stadium, UF spokes-
person Margot Winick wrote in an email.
Stricklin said the athletic association 
wanted a new stadium because shading is crucial for fans, especially for afternoon 
games in Florida’s heat. 
The new stadium will have more com-
fortable seating and increased shading. It 
will also be designed in a way where fans 
can mingle and still be able to watch the 
game, he said.
He hopes the new stadium will attract 
more people on game days.
“Baseball is such a social sport,” 
Stricklin said after the Trustees’ meeting. “People like that kind of gathering and 
moving around, so we’re going to make 
sure there is space to allow for that.”
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgUF Board of Trustees approves new baseball stadium
Courtesy to The Alligator
A rendering of the proposed baseball stadium.
By Rachel Chang
Alligator Contributing Writer
John Mica, a former Florida con-
gressman and UF education alum-
nus, held up a letter dated Feb. 
4, 1988 during the Norman Hall 
groundbreaking ceremony Friday. 
He said former UF President John 
Lombardi had sent it to Mica ad-
dressing the need for renovations to 
the education building.
“Sorry, John,” Lombardi had 
written. “I’m a little late.”About 200 politicians, alumni, 
students and faculty members gath-
ered Friday at Norman Hall Plaza 
to celebrate the renovation of UF’s education college that has been in the making for years. The college marked the occasion with a “ground-
breaking ceremony” that included 
speakers, cake and light refresh-ments of iced tea and water.
The UF College of Education dean 
Glenn Good said the college and staff first began planning for this recon-struction in the 1980s.“As long as I have been dean here 
at the College of Education, we’ve 
been talking about the need for re-
habilitation of our beloved Norman Hall,” he said. 
The $29 million renovation will 
take part in two phases, according to 
Alligator archives. Phase one began 
in December with Norman library and the third floor of the east Nor-man building. It is expected to be 
completed by early May. Phase two 
will be the rest of Norman with up-dated classrooms, study spaces and faculty offices.
Good, UF President Kent Fuchs, 
Florida congressman Ted Yoho, Mica, UF trustee Anita Zucker, Col-lege of Education associate dean Tom Dana and lead architect Joe Walker of Walker Architects were 
some of the speakers at the ceremo-
ny.
“With this project, we return Nor-
man to its former glory,” Fuchs said.
Dana, the education associate 
dean of academic affairs, said Nor-man Hall construction has already started on the east side of the build-ing. However, the entire college will 
be closed off until May 15.
“I’m thrilled that there’s going to 
be some great places for students to 
hang out,” he said.
Zucker, who graduated from the 
education college in 1972, said the importance of updating Norman and the accomplishments the college has already achieved.
“Seeing what this university is 
able to bring to other places makes me so proud,” she said.
After years of waiting, Norman Hall gets groundbreaking
By Kennedy Smith
Alligator Contributing Writer
Without speaking a word, 
7-year-old Janier inspired 750 el-
ementary school students to run as fast as they could.
Janier, whose last name 
wasn’t released due to his age, has a congenital heart defect. He’s a first-grade student at Idyl-wild Elementary School, located at 4601 SW 20th Terrace. 
This year, he and his fam-
ily will receive a portion of the $1,000 raised during the school’s third annual “Running Wild for a Cause Fun Run,” an event that raises money for sick Idylwild students and charities. Money also went to the Phoebe Louise Dooley Foundation, a childhood cancer charity, said Dena Robin-son, the event founder. 
At the event Friday morning, 
hundreds of tiny bodies clad in colorful parkas scattered around  the basketball court. Students shimmied their way into the “criss-cross applesauce” position as instructed, faces scrunched as they looked longingly to the field 
on their left, waiting. 
Six-year-old Ja’len, whose 
last name wasn’t disclosed by 
faculty due to his age, said it was his first year at the run, and he 
was most excited for the music.
“Footloose” and other songs 
that preceded the students by at 
least a decade roared over the 
speakers, controlled by DJ E-LO, 
better known as the school’s 
front-desk man Eric Lopez.
As Katy Perry’s “Roar” be-
gan to blast, a stampede of kids charged onto the grassy field.
The kids skipped around the 
field for about 20 minutes, flail-
ing their arms and stumbling 
over each other until the DJ 
herded everyone back.
Administrators sold $10 T-
shirts, $2 bracelets and parents 
made online donations to the 
American Heart Association pro-
gram “Jump Rope For Heart” to 
raise money. Each year, the run raises about $1,000, Robinson 
said.
The run began in 2016 after 
sixth-grader Kylie Galloway-So-to was diagnosed in 2013 with 
Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer 
in the body’s immune system rarely seen in kids. 
“She’s our inspiration,” Rob-
inson said. “She’s a great kid, 
and I was like, ‘Well, let’s do 
something.’”
Chris Dixon, the 28-year-
old Idylwild health education 
teacher, led the “Jump Rope For 
Heart” fundraising effort and 
helped Robinson plan all three 
Fun Runs.
Dixon said he’d been fun-
draising for “Jump Rope For 
Heart” before the Fun Runs ex-
isted. Now that he and Robinson 
are working on the programs to-
gether, he sees a greater interest 
from parents and students. 
“The kids love it; the teach-
ers love it,” he said. “The envi-ronment at Idylwild is like no 
other.”Elementary school students 
raise $1,000 for classmate
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government Sen-
ate might advocate for on-campus early 
voting locations soon. 
On Sunday afternoon, the Judiciary 
Committee unanimously approved a resolution advocating for on-campus early voting locations at Florida uni-versities. A resolution is a document through which the Senate expresses an opinion or takes a stance. The commit-
tee also tabled four bills that intend to 
revise SG codes.
Senator Katelyn Hernandez (Impact, 
District C), who co-wrote the resolu-
tion, said it advocates for increased early voting accessibility and promotes civic engagement for students.
“We have so many students that 
want to be politically engaged, and I think that accessibility is a huge part of 
that,” she said.
Judiciary committee chair Nick Ad-
ams said he hopes the resolution passes 
the Senate vote Tuesday night. If ap-proved, the resolution will be sent to several Florida universities as well as politicians, including Gov. Rick Scott and Secretary of State Ken Detzner.
The committee was originally sched-
uled to address four code-revision bills presented by Senator Richard German (Inspire, District D). However, Adams deemed the bills unconstitutional be-cause each had merged revisions, and 
he wanted an individual bill for each 
revision.
Instead of failing the bills, Adams 
decided to table them for future discus-sion, he said. German submitted the code revisions in separate bills Sunday. The committee will most likely look at the bills April 8, German said. 
The suggested code revisions, if 
passed by Senate, would make changes to how SG information is disseminated, including requiring the judiciary branch notices to be advertised by Action SG, an agency that promotes SG activities. Code changes would also add closed captioning to prerecorded SG videos, 
and live-stream State of the Campus 
Address and SG debates.
“I’m just really looking forward to 
seeing them get signed into law,” Ger-
man said.SG Senate to vote on 
early voting locations BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
4-6-18-12-2
Several cute & clean houses & apts.
for August in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. From $525/mo.Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     3-26-17-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14NEEDED:  3.5 HOURS, 1X PER WEEK
TYPE, FILE, OFFICE WORK under my di-rection at home on Archer Rd. Informal. Must be very good w/Win 10 on my laptop. English composition. I have references. $50/session, paid daily. 352-575-4508         3-28-18-3-14
Seeking Friendly, Dependable,Team Orientated Employeesfor Fast Casual Salad/Sandwich Store.$8.50/HR to start w/FREE SHIFT MEAL. Rotating Week-ends. Apply IN PERSON@ HoneyBaked Ham 618 NW 60th St, orEMAIL @marketcafe@bellsouth.net.    3-30-18-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
Designated drivers are the greatestPsyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Archaeologists Needed!
Work in Gainesville area.
Applicant must be in good physical condition.
Anthropology majors preferred.
Full or Part-time (full days).Contact Wes (713-822-3637).               3-30-18-4-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedEyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Norway’s capital
5 Central Florida
city
10 Distillery
containers
14 Procrastinator’s
promise
15 Something in the
air
16 Building beam
17 Narrow land
formation along
the Bering Sea
20 Price hike: Abbr.
21 Bard’s “before”
22 Billionaire Bill
23 Puts on the line
25 Marshy area
26 Most despicable
29 “Citizen Kane”
sled
33 Upstate New
York WinterOlympics village
36 Acapulco article37 O. Henry
specialty
38 It was thrown into
the harbor in a1773 “party”
39 Ingenious
41 __ long way: help
considerably
42 Washington city
with a repetitive
name
44 Intertwined47 Not as cold, as
weather
48 Hi-tech worker49 Hindu deity51 “Nonsense!”54 Spy org. called
“The Company”
55 Hamburg’s river
58 Scottish
archipelago
62 Hot under the
collar
63 Ball girl
64 Bothers no end65 Like golf balls at
the start of ahole, usually
66 Nuclear trial
67 Weight loss plan
DOWN
1 Mama bear, in
Mexico
2 Songs sung
alone3 Student aid
4 In the movies
5 Egg cells
6 “RUR” playwright7 Copycats8 Word with wolf or
Ranger
9 Shapiro of NPR
10 Countenance11 Adjoin12 “A __ of Two
Cities”
13 Mmes., in 
Madrid
18 __ Kreme:
doughnut brand
19 Private
nonprofits: Abbr.
24 Mo. town
25 Physique,
informally
26 “Mudbound”
actress Mary J. __
27 Composer
Copland
28 Norwegian toast
29 Mideast money30 Erect a house31 Parent’s brother
32 Senegal’s capital
34 Barely more than
not at all
35 Animation frame39 Turn like a chair
40 2016
Gosling/Stonefilm ... and, asshown by circles, whateach of fouranswers is
42 Dripping __:
soaked
43 Parisian pal45 Died down46 Monastic hood49 Move furtively50 Waves for, as a
taxi
51 Hissed “Hey!”52 Loafer or moc53 “Take this”54 Tech news site56 __ B’rith57 Barely beat59 Attorneys’ org.60 Filming site61 Retired flier,
briefly
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/26/1803/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, March 26, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 __ bar
6 Line used when
wrapping?
15 Singer whose
three studio
albums havenumerical titles
16 Was bugged
17 Remove, as a
corsage
18 It has a climbing
route called “TheNose”
19 Crude
21 Den denizens
22 Nice assent23 League of
Women Voters
co-founder
24 Assists a chef26 White House
advisory gp.
27 Six-pack group
28 Fighting chance
29 Comics shriek
31 The African
Queen, for one
35 Former first
daughter
37 Make a call
38 Conqueror of
Valencia in 1094
40 Brain in many an
Asimov story
43 British title
44 Part of a flute45 Kvetching chorus47 __ shooter48 Buzzed50 Pokémon that
evolves toKadabra
51 Org. concerned
with child support
52 Singer Vannelli
53 1995 AFI Life
Achievement
Award recipient
55 Spidey sense,
basically
58 Skateboard leap59 Stopped taking
orders
60 Home of Armani
and Prada
61 News credential62 Place on a
pedestal
DOWN
1 Scientific name
involving arepeated word2 To an annoying
degree
3 What Brad’s
Drink became
4 Settled down
5 Elder or 
Younger Roman
writer
6 Modern-day
eruption
7 “The Planets”
composer
8 Story lines9 It can be green,
red or yellow
10 Con’s mark11 Hyphenated
word in aHawthorne title
12 Put the bite on13 Many
Scheherazade
characters
14 XXX, perhaps
20 Big dogs
24 Little dog25 Self-Operating
Napkin creatorGoldberg
28 Rides with wing-
shaped tailfins
30 Game including
golf and bowling32 Taker of ppm
measurements
33 Barbershop
quartet style
34 Race against the
clock
36 Outdoor party
crashers
39 Buster?
41 “Bossypants”
memoirist
42 Fictional
governess46 Rita Hayworth’s
title princess
48 Building
subcontractor
49 Just plain silly50 Outstanding
52 Be a looky-loo
53 Genesis creator
54 “Disarming Iraq”
author Hans
56 Ceremonial 
title?
57 Jazz genre
By Debbie Ellerin and Jeff Chen©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/24/1803/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, March 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Veer out of the way
1.  Hand ____5.  Mythical hunter
2.  Chapter, installment 6.  ____ Mountains 
3.  Classic7.  In this place 
4.  ____ living roomVESWRE
VOHLESNOOIR
ZRKOA
DEPOSEI
TAVEGINIRNEEH
USKNNEANSWERS: 1A-Swerve  5A-Orion  6A-Ozark  7A-Herein
1D-Shovel  2D-Episode  3D-Vintage  4D-Sunken  B-Ohio River3-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____ is 981 miles long.
BONUS1. In 2016, Miguel Montero of the 
Chicago Cubs became just the third 
player to have a pinch-hit grand slam 
in the postseason. Name either of the 
other two to do it.
2. Which pitcher is the Milwaukee 
Brewers’ franchise leader in career 
strikeouts?
3. How many consecutive AFC East 
titles have the New England Patriots 
won entering 2018?
4. Which of these two conferences, 
entering 2018, was the last to win an NCAA men’s basketball champion-ship: Big Ten or Pac-12? 
5. In 2017, Washington’s Barry 
Trotz became the fifth NHL coach to reach 737 career regular-season vic-tories. Name two of the four ahead of him on the list.
6. Who was the first Asian boxer to 
hold a world heavyweight title in one of the four major sanctioning organi-zations? 
7. In 2017, Weston McKennie 
became the third youngest player (19) to score in his U.S. men’s soccer debut. Name either of the two younger players.
Answers
1. Cincinnati’s Mark Lewis, in 1995, 
and Ricky Ledee of the New York Yankees, in 1999.
2. Yovani Gallardo, with 1,226 
strikeouts.
3. Nine AFC East championships.4. The Big Ten won in 2000, while 
the Pac-12 last won in 1997.
5. Scotty Bowman, Joel Quenne-
ville, Ken Hitchcock and Al Arbour.
6. Ruslan Chagaev, who won the 
WBA title in 2007.
7. Juan Agudelo (age 17) in 2010, 
and Landon Donovan (18) in 2000.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 26, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFlorida softball coach Tim 
Walton and the rest of the Gators are facing T exas A&M tonight at 7 p.m. at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.FINAL FOUR BOUND
Villanova and Kansas punched their tickets to the Final Four of the NCAA Men's 
Basketball T ournament on Sunday. The Wildcats defeated T exas T ech 71-59, while the Jayhawks beat Duke 85-81. The Final Four will take place on Saturday in San Antonio. Loyola Chicago and Michigan are also set to compete.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
the things he needs to correct,” UF coach Gregg 
Troy said in a release. “This one was pretty darn good.”
Dressel also became the ﬁ  rst person in his-
tory to swim the 100 free in under 40 seconds, recording a time of 39.90 in the event on Satur-day. His time of 42.80 in the 100 ﬂ  y on Friday 
broke his previous record of 43.58 as well.
“Caeleb is just really good,” Troy said. “He 
handled things really well.”
Dressel’s performance at the NCAA Cham-
pionships makes him one of the most success-ful swimmers in collegiate history. He smashed 
Olympic gold-medalist Ryan Lochte’s program record of seven individual national titles with his victories in the 50 free, 100 free and 100 ﬂ  y. 
He also led UF to a win in the 200 free relay, 
increasing his career national titles total to 10.
In addition, Dressel took home seven All-
American honors at the meet, giving him 28 over the course of his career — one more than 
Shaune Fraser’s previous program record of 27.
To cap it all off, Dressel won his third con-
secutive CSCAA Swimmer of the Year award 
following his record-shattering performance in 
Minneapolis. It is the ﬁ  rst time Dressel has not 
shared the award with another swimmer.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgSWIMMING,  from pg. 3Dressel inishes his career with 10 individual national titles
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Caeleb Dressel ﬁ  nished his career with a bang at the NCAA Championships, breaking American, NCAA and UF 
records in the 50 free, 100 free and 100 ﬂ  y.
BASEBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
William Shakespeare once compared his 
beloved to a summer’s day. Michael Byrne’s 2018 season could be compared to some-thing more like a sturdy dam. 
As Florida’s closer, Byrne is tasked with 
preserving wins late in games, and he en-tered Sunday’s rubber match against Ar-kansas with an ERA of 0.00 in 16.2 innings pitched. It’s hard to accumulate that kind of 
stress behind a dam without it breaking. But 
it’s almost like Byrne had been, in the para-
phrased words of SpongeBob SquarePants character Patrick Star, taking that water — that pressure — and pushing it somewhere 
else.
The dam cracked on Sunday. But only a 
bit. 
Byrne humiliated Arkansas’ hitters in the 
seventh and eighth innings, but the No. 4 Razorbacks (17-7, 4-2 SEC) jumped on him 
in the ninth with a pair of leadoff doubles. 
Facing runners on second and third with no outs, Byrne allowed a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y that re-sulted in his ﬁ  rst run allowed this season. Nevertheless, he plugged the gushing and No. 2 UF (21-5, 4-2 SEC) picked up a 5-4, series-clinching victory. 
“Michael Byrne is just special,” coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan said. “He’s just got a differ-ent temperament.”
That was evident when O’Sullivan visited 
the mound after the back-to-back doubles from the Razorbacks. He said Byrne was not pleased with his concern and urged him not to worry. And as surely as Shakespeare de-livered consistent iambic pentameter, Byrne delivered with a pop out and a groundout. 
He ﬁ  nished with one strikeout, no walks, 
one earned run and tallied his ﬁ  rst win of the season. The run was Byrne’s ﬁ  rst allowed in 26.2 innings — an appropriate distance given its similarity to the length of a mara-thon — dating back to last year. 
“It was a little longer than I’ve thrown 
this year,” Byrne said, “but it wasn’t a big deal.” Florida’s unsung ace leads UF to 
series win over No. 4 Arkansas
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16I’m pretty sure I’ve writ-
ten some variation of this 
column every semester for 
as long as I’ve been writ-
ing columns at the Alliga-
tor, but it’s a topic that really touched me this weekend. 
I spent Friday driving to 
Charleston, South Carolina, to speak with former Sports Illus-trated writer Gary Smith. If you’ve never heard of Smith, he worked at SI for about 
30 years and wrote the kinds of stories 
that would make good movies — about an experienced freediver whose hubris led to his wife’s death, about a black bas-
ketball coach changing ideas about race 
and racism in America’s Amish commu-nity, about a man with a mental disability spending his life as an adopted member of a high school football team. The latter was 
actually turned into the movie “Radio.”
Point being, Smith wrote long, detailed, 
probing stories that never judged, never 
lambasted and always conveyed some 
deeper meaning than a normal, surface-
level story.I met with him because, 
as someone who strives to do the same thing (with consider-
ably less success, obviously), I 
wanted to try and understand how he seems to be writing from a desk inside his sub-ject’s mind. 
The main thing I gathered 
is that he was so successful because he conjured ques-
tions that nobody else asked. He’d spend 
weeks talking with his subjects, zeroing in 
on important, formative moments that in some way are universal. For Smith, there are no binaries like good and bad — only decisions that, even if you would have 
chosen differently under the same circum-
stances, are familiar to everyone. 
Yet despite how illuminating his stories 
can be, I think it’s reasonable to assume 
that if Smith were starting out as a sports 
writer now, he’d have little — if any — opportunity to produce those kinds of nar-ratives, because depth is not what sells. 
Social media and media organizations Sports reporting has become shallowSweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Alex McMurtry didn’t show any signs 
of anxiety as she took a quick breather and 
rolled her shoulders back for the final pass of 
her floor routine.
The Gators were leading Saturday night’s 
SEC Championships after freshman Alyssa 
Baumann posted a first-place score of 9.975 
on beam. All McMurtry needed to do was perform as she always does on floor to help the No. 5 Gators clinch their 11th SEC title. 
With one final glance down at the mat, 
the 15-time All-American sped forward and launched into her final pass. But as she came 
down from her last flip, she stumbled and fell 
out of bounds and onto her back. 
“It is hard to be one of the routines that 
had a mistake, but it is a learning lesson,” 
McMurtry said in a release. 
At the end of the rotation, Florida dropped 
from first to fourth place with a score 147.350. It never recovered from McMurtry’s mistake, finishing the meet in third behind LSU and 
Alabama with a score of 196.825.
McMurtry’s mishap came just after fresh-
man Megan Skaggs’ routine, where she also 
stumbled on her first pass and ended with a 9.175. Florida’s score of 48.400 on floor 
marked the team’s lowest score on the event 
this season. “The team was somber after the meet,” 
coach Jenny Rowland said. “They came in 
hungry and ready, but unfortunately, a cou-
ple of falters brought the mood down.”
The night didn’t start out that way, how-
ever. Florida opened the meet as the No. 2 
seed in the SEC. The Gators’ confidence showed through their opening rotation on 
bars, where McMurtry took the title with a score of 9.950. McMurtry also placed first in 
the meet’s last event, showing resilience with a 9.975 vault that followed her floor slip up. 
Keeping the Gators afloat was junior Alicia 
Boren, who tied for a first-place finish on 
floor with a score of 9.900 and came in sec-ond in the all-around with a score of 39.475.
“There were some well-executed and very 
confident performances,” Rowland said. “We 
fell short on one event.”
Florida won’t forget Saturday night’s floor 
routine. The rotation will weigh heavy on the 
gymnasts’ minds as they head into a week off 
before the NCAA Regionals on April 7. The 
field for the NCAA Championships will be an-
nounced today at 4 p.m. and will be streamed 
on NCAA.com.
“We just have one more event to put to-
gether, and then it’s going to be gold,” Row-land said. 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgUF falls short on floor, finishes third at SEC Championships
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
Duarte Vale and McClain Kessler opened doubles 
play with something they were missing in their loss 
to Ole Miss on Friday: intensity.
From the first serve to the last, their ferocity 
pushed the duo to a dominant doubles win.
The No. 9 Florida men’s tennis team (12-6, 7-1 
SEC) followed the energy of Vale and Kessler as it cruised to a 6-1 victory over the Arkansas Razor-backs (9-11, 2-6 SEC) at the Ring Tennis Complex on Sunday. The win was UF’s fourth in a row.
The No. 32-ranked team of Vale and Kessler set 
the pace on Court 2 with strong serves and aggres-sive plays at the net, defeating Jose Salazar and Alex 
Reco 6-3.
“I think those two really complemented them-
selves nicely today,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “It’s 
amazing, two days and a world of difference.”
On Court 1, however, issues overcame the Gators.The No. 1-ranked duo of junior Alfredo Perez and 
sophomore Johannes Ingildsen fell to Arkansas’ Os-car Mesquida and Adam Sanjurjo to snap its seven-match win streak in doubles. The 6-3 loss was the 
first loss for the pair since Jan. 22.
The upset did not hinder Florida, however, as the 
No. 8 pair of freshman Oliver Crawford and senior 
Chase Perez-Blanco clinched the doubles point for the Gators for the sixth time this season. Down 5-3, the duo fought back to win 7-5.
“When we were down, we just kept telling each 
other that we would get a chance to come back,” Perez-Blanco said. “We waited until the last minute, 
but luckily we were able to convert.”
UF came out strong in singles play, winning the 
first set on five of the six courts.
Crawford and Perez-Blanco continued to stand 
out in singles on Sunday following victories for both 
players on Friday.
On Court 3, Crawford dominated Mesquida in a 
6-1, 6-0 win. The freshman has now won 10 con-secutive matches and is undefeated in SEC singles and doubles.
Perez-Blanco looked strong as well on Court 4. 
His 6-3, 6-2 victory over Reco was the Miami native’s 
sixth consecutive singles victory.
Freshman Andy Andrade clinched the match for 
Florida on Court 5 with a heavy backhand past the 
Razorbacks’ Pedro Alonso. Andrade was one of four UF players to win in straight sets Sunday with a 6-3, 6-2 victory.
After the match’s clincher, the two teams contin-
ued to play.
Kessler proved again why he belongs on the court 
with another solid performance.
His 7-5, 6-4 win included a back-and-forth second 
set that ended with a powerful overhead shot to de-cide it. Since being placed back into the singles line-up on Friday, Kessler has won two singles matches in a row to move to 21-8 all-time when playing on Court 6.
On Court 2, No. 11 Ingildsen avoided an upset. 
After dropping the second set, the sophomore han-
dled Sanjurjo to win 10-6 in a 10-point tiebreaker.
No. 8 Perez’s frustrating day, however, continued 
into singles on Court 1. The junior held leads in both 
sets but squandered them in a 6-4, 6-4 loss to Arkan-sas’ Jose Salazar.
Shelton attributed Perez’s disappointing match to 
fatigue. The match was also filled with strong wind that, at one point, knocked off an umpire’s umbrella and nearly caused it to roll into play.
Salazar won his fifth consecutive singles match 
with his victory over Perez.
One player who was absent from singles competi-
tion on Sunday was Vale. After he lost his last three matches, he was taken out of the singles lineup for the first time since March 11.
The Gators will have some time off before they 
travel to Winston-Salem, North Carolina, to take on the No. 1 team in the nation, Wake Forest, on Friday. 
First serves are set for 3 p.m.
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgFlorida wins fourth consecutive 
match in victory over RazorbacksGYMNASTICS
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Alex McMurtry stumbled and fell during her floor routine at the SEC Championships. 
The Gators eventually finished third in the meet behind LSU and Alabama.
MEN’S TENNIS SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
In the home half of the third inning 
on Sunday night, UF third baseman Ni-
cole DeWitt stood on second base with an ear-to-ear grin.
Moments earlier with the bases 
loaded, the senior nearly hit her eighth home run of the season. The ball land-ed on top of the wall, but somehow ricocheted back into play and plopped softly onto the warning track. 
DeWitt couldn’t 
help but giggle.
Her three-RBI 
double put the game 
out of reach from ri-val Texas A&M and bolstered UF’s lead to nine runs. 
DeWitt paced 
Florida’s offense 
with a game-high five RBIs, while the team’s defense — led by pitcher Aleshia Ocasio — blanked the Aggies in 
a 10-0 victory at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium. 
The shutout clinched a series vic-
tory for the Gators (26-3, 6-2 SEC) over Texas A&M (29-6, 3-2 SEC) on Sunday with one game left to be played.
And for the second night in a row, 
the Gators jumped out to a first-inning lead. 
A leadoff walk by left fielder Aman-
da Lorenz brought DeWitt to the plate. 
After laying off a first-pitch ball, 
she powered her team-leading seventh home run to dead center field and put two quick runs on the board.
Later in the inning, second baseman 
Hannah Adams approached the plate with two outs and two runners on base. The freshman drove a hard line drive to right-center field that barely carried over the wall for her first collegiate 
home run, extending the Gators’ early 
lead to 5-0. 
DeWitt and Adams combined for 
eight RBIs on the night and helped the Gators improve to 20-1 on the season when scoring in the first inning. 
Ocasio (11-2), who totaled six 
strikeouts, one hit and no walks in five innings of work, began the night by 
striking out two of her first three bat-
ters. Her only trouble came when Texas A&M’s Samantha Show tripled to right-center field with one out in the third. 
However, the senior struck out the 
next two batters, retiring the last eight she faced to close out the game.
Sunday not only marked a victory 
for UF’s softball team, it also marked 
the anniversary of a day held heavy in 
the hearts of all its players. It was the four-year anniversary of the death of Heather Braswell, a teenager whom the Gators once sponsored during her fight with pediatric brain cancer. 
The players shared a moment of 
prayer with Heather’s mother, Terri, before the first pitch and wore Heath-
er’s favorite flower, the sunflower, in 
their hair to honor her memory.
“My class and the classes below us, 
none of us have ever met Heather,” De-Witt said. “But we know how much a part she plays for this program and it’s just something that we’ll keep going for the program for the rest of the time that it’s here.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators shut out TAMU, 
clinch weekend series
DeWitt
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2018
Starter Tyler Dyson’s perfor-
mance, meanwhile, was arguably 
his worst of the season. He pitched fewer innings (four) than any previ-ous start, and his three earned runs 
allowed were a season high. 
His afternoon could have been 
worse, though, as he exited the fifth 
inning with runners on second and third and no outs. The jam was in-
herited by freshman lefty Jordan But-
ler. 
Butler allowed a sacrifice fly that 
tied the game at three, but he struck 
out the next two hitters to keep the 
game tied before passing it off to By-
rne. 
Byrne’s presence prompted peace 
for his teammates, who have learned 
to trust him in tight situations. 
“We’re relaxed,” outfielder Nel-
son Maldonado said about when By-rne enters the game. “Byrne is gonna do what Byrne does.”
Maldonado gave him a big boost 
by providing the game’s decisive of-
fense. He launched a booming home 
run into the netting behind the left field bleachers to give the Gators a 5-3 lead in the bottom the seventh. Maldonado then pointed his finger toward the dugout before he rounded second base and flexed his muscles before he tapped home plate. 
“That felt awesome,” he said. “I 
knew it was out the second it came off the bat.”
Catcher JJ Schwarz also spat a 
two-run homer into left field earlier in the game, while Blake Reese plat-ed Florida’s only remaining run with a sacrifice fly. 
“They’re a good ballclub,” By-
rne said. “Winning two out of three against them is a pretty good week-end.”
O’Sullivan echoed that sentiment, 
noting that with a midweek game against No. 7 Florida State on Tues-day and a weekend series against No. 8 Vanderbilt looming, he was en-couraged by his team’s performance in its biggest test so far this season — especially with how it came back to 
win the series after losing on Friday.
“It just had that super-regional 
feel to it, and we probably needed 
to be tested that way, to be honest,” O’Sullivan said. “[I’m] obviously 
very pleased.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14Maldonado:  "W e're relaxed. Byrne is going to do what Byrne does."
Alligator File Photo
Florida closer Michael Byrne gave up his first run of the season on Sunday but held on to lead UF to 
a 5-4 win over Arkansas.
value engagement over almost 
everything, and nuanced, thor-ough stories don’t generally lead 
to attention-grabbing headlines. 
That’s certainly not true all the time, but even when longform reads do go viral, the amount 
of resources it takes to produce 
them is hard to justify against spending the same resources on five easier, audience-friend-ly stories that put up the same 
numbers. 
As a sports writer, this can 
be infuriating. For example, I 
spent over a month interview-
ing sources for a double profile 
on UF’s men's basketball man-agers turned walk-ons, and the 10,500 words I ended up writing took about 12 hours combined. 
Thankfully, the story did fairly 
well. 
But that weekend, I was run-
ning late to the Alligator staff 
meeting when one of my co-
workers texted me saying I had made the list of top-three most read stories of the week. 
“Great,” I thought. That rare-
ly happens for sports writers, and it felt triumphant to know a story I worked so hard on was being read that much. Or so I 
thought. 
My optimism was swiftly 
shattered when I arrived and 
learned the story with those views was a football piece that, 
if I’m being honest, I wrote in 
about 20 minutes because we needed something about foot-ball in the paper.
It wasn’t interesting, it 
wasn’t enlightening and it was hardly informative. But it had a catchy headline, so click, click, click. 
I want to be clear that I, too, 
often engage with inflammatory nonsense on social media, but I’ve been consciously trying to eliminate that tendency. Meet-
ing Smith encouraged that mis-
sion further, and I encourage you to join in as well. 
After that basketball story 
debuted, one of the sources in it texted me saying he was sur-prised how thorough it was. He’s not the first person to express that sentiment to me, and others 
have been more overt with their 
frustration over the epidemic of shallowness of sports reporting. 
As I’ve written before, I 
agree. 
So if you’re one of those peo-
ple who does care about depth and does care about wanting to learn something beyond which 
player recorded the most tack-
les in Saturday’s game, seek out that content.
Because certainly there are 
times when a “three things you may have missed” story can be fun and informative and provide the catharsis that only sports can, but sometimes, the most 
cathartic sports experience can 
be locking yourself in the bath-room while Gary Smith trans-ports you beyond the court and 
into the mind of Jim Valvano 
as he battles cancer, providing insight that no competition by itself can.
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. 
Contact him at ebauer@alligator.
org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Monday, March 26
Softball vs. Texas A&M, 7 p.m., SEC Network
Tuesday, March 27
*Baseball vs. Florida State, 6 p.m., SEC Network
Wednesday, March 28
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays, All DaySoftball vs. FIU, 4 p.m., SEC Network +Softball vs. FIU, 6 p.m., SEC Network +
Thursday, March 29
Men's/Women's Track & Field hosts Pepsi Florida Relays, All DayMen's/Women's Track & Field @ Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays, All DayWomen's Tennis vs. Arkansas, 5 p.m.Friday, March 30
Men's/Women's Track & Field hosts Pepsi 
Florida Relays, All Day
Men's Tennis @ Wake Forest, 3 p.m.Softball vs. Hampton, 4 p.m., SEC Network +
Baseball vs. Vanderbilt, 6:30 p.m., SEC 
Network +Softball vs. Jacksonville, 6:30 p.m., SEC 
Network +
Saturday, March 31
Men's/Women's Track & Field hosts Pepsi 
Florida Relays, All DayWomen's Tennis vs. Missouri, 11 a.m.
Baseball vs. Vanderbilt, Noon, ESPNU
Lacrosse vs. Connecticut, Noon, Big East Digital Network
Softball vs. Hampton, 1 p.m., SEC Network +
Softball vs. Jacksonville, 3:30 p.m., SEC Network +
Sunday, April 1
Baseball vs. Vanderbilt, Noon, SEC Network
Men's Tennis @ South Carolina, 1 p.m.
*Women's Tennis vs. Texas, 5 p.m.
*Denotes neutral-site event