We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Get FESTive
The Avenue has curated a playlist with some of this weekend’s 
best performers, pg. 10
Monkey business
A monkey named Carli has escaped,, pg. 4Where were you when... 
A trio of Gators football players reﬂ  ect on last season’s UF-UGA 
matchup, pg. 14WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 27
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Melina Rayna Svanhild Farley-Barratt, a 39-year-old Gainesville 
activist, waves a transgender ﬂ  ag during the “Won’t Be Erased!” 
rally Tuesday afternoon. The Trans Rights Action Committee 
hosted the event outside Hobby Lobby as a response to President 
Donald Trump’s recent statement about eliminating the status of 
transgender and having a person’s sex be determined at birth. The 
Hobby Lobby was chosen as the location due to its public stance 
against the LGBTQ+ community. 
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Melina Farley-Barratt wore a 
Superwoman costume and waved 
a transgender pride ﬂ  ag in front of 
Hobby Lobby Tuesday afternoon. 
Cars rushed by as about 15 pro-
testers held up signs encouraging 
drivers to “Honk for Trans Rights” 
and “Stand up for Human Beings” at 
the intersection of West Newberry 
Road and Northwest 62nd Street for 
about three hours. 
Farley-Barratt, a 39-year-old 
transgender woman and activist, 
organized the protest two days after 
The New York Times reported that 
the Trump administration is consid-
ering redeﬁ  ning gender as sex de-
termined at birth. Trans Americans 
would not be federally recognized 
under the new deﬁ  nition. 
The protesters wanted to remind 
local transgender residents that 
there is a community that supports 
and believes in them, even if the cur-
rent administration does not, Farley-
Barratt said.  
“We are here to protest the presi-
dent’s plan to erase trans people,” 
she said.
Throughout the protest, men, 
women and children waved neon 
signs and chanted, “Trans rights are 
human rights.” Drivers passing by 
honked their horns in support.  
The group chose to protest in 
front of Hobby Lobby because the 
company has discriminated against 
trans people, Farley-Barratt said. 
Rose Vale did not wear a costume 
or hold a sign. The 59-year-old si-
lently stood while watching the pro-
test.  
She said she has known trans 
people her whole life and wanted to 
see how others are showing support.
“We want to support equal rights 
for everyone and show that trans 
people deserve equal treatment,” 
Vale said.Residents protest 
Trump administration’s 
gender definitionTHE STUDENT SENATE 
DIDN’T DEBATE OR VOTE 
ON THE RESOLUTION. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Without a car, Bianka Ramirez 
juggled courses, a 30-hour work-
week at Subway and the pressure 
of being a ﬁ  rst-generation col-
lege student during her freshman 
year. 
“There are students in the 
same situation who aren’t able 
to make the time to vote in the 
midterm elections,” the 21-year-
old UF philosophy and econom-
ics senior said at Tuesday night’s 
Student Senate meeting. 
Despite Ramirez’s story, UF 
Student Government Senate de-
cided not to debate a resolution 
— a nonbinding written state-
ment — calling for optional class 
attendance on Election Day, Nov. 
6. The resolution was sponsored by community leaders including 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
and seven student organizations, 
such as the UF College Demo-
crats and UF Young Americans 
for Freedom. 
The resolution stated 24.1 per-
cent of UF students voted in the 
2014 midterm elections. Polls are 
open on Election Day from 7 a.m. 
to 7 p.m., while UF offers courses 
from 7:25 a.m. to 10:10 p.m. 
The resolution would sup-
port students who face obstacles 
when heading to the polls, said 
one of the bill’s authors, Zachary 
Amrose, a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science junior.
“Voting is so important that 
professors should consider mak-
ing class attendance optional to 
facilitate voting,” Amrose said. 
“That might convince some stu-
dents to vote who otherwise 
don’t think it’s a big deal.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgStudents push optional 
class on Election Day  
About 15 people participated.
A FEDERAL JUDGE RULED 
EARL Y VOTING CAN BE 
ALLOWED ON CAMPUS.
By Hannah Beatty 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sabrina Ochoa didn’t know 
when she went to vote early in 
the Reitz Union on Monday that 
she’d be the ﬁ  rst UF student to 
do so.
Ochoa, a 20-year-old UF psy-
chology senior, grabbed her iced 
pumpkin spice latte from the Re-
itz Union Starbucks and headed 
down a ﬂ  ight of stairs to wait 
in line to cast her vote at 8:15 
a.m.— 45 minutes before the 
polls opened.
While waiting in line with faculty members, it hit her that 
she’d be the ﬁ  rst student ever to 
cast her ballot at the Reitz Union, 
which became an early voting lo-
cation this year.
“It was kind of surreal,” Ochoa 
said. “I woke up this morning and 
didn’t think I was going to make 
history by any means. One of the 
better Mondays in my book.”
Ochoa and more than 450 
people voted at the Reitz Union 
on the ﬁ  rst day of early voting, 
according to numbers generated 
by electronic check-ins, said TJ 
Pyche, the spokesperson for the 
Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections. On Tuesday, the sec-
ond day of early voting, 549 peo-
ple cast their ballots.First two days of early 
voting at Reitz draws 
in over 1,000 people
SEE REITZ,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
Local Events / News in BriefHIGH  82° LOW  65°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Fall 2018 BFA Dance Showcase
UF's School of Theatre and 
Dance presents "Unhinged," 
which includes eight works 
choreographed by the UF 
bachelor's in fine arts students 
in the Dance Performance 
Senior class as well as pieces 
choreographed by other Dance 
Performance students and fac-
ulty. The concert alternates 
between two programs — each 
displaying a different arrange-
ment of work. "Unhinged" will 
be showing in Studio G-6 of 
the Nadine McGuire Theatre 
and Dance Pavilion. Program 
A will be shown 7 p.m. to-
day and Friday and 1 p.m. 
Sunday. Program B will be 
shown 7 p.m. Thursday and 
Saturday and 3 p.m. Sunday. 
Tickets are $9 for general ad-
mission and can be purchased 
either at the University Box 
Office, located at Gate 1 of the 
O’Connell Center, or online at 
Ticketmaster.
My Fulbright in 7 Minutes
The UF Fulbright Program 
will host “My Fulbright 
in 7 Minutes” 5:30-7:30 
p.m. Thursday at the UF 
International Center in the 
Hub. Guests can learn about 
Fulbright grants and network 
with the U.S. and international 
Fulbright participants. These 
seven-minute presentations are 
concise and fast-paced. They 
are entitled: “From Legend 
to Science: Geomicrobiology 
of the Fountain of Youth” 
by Adrian Barry Sosa, 
“Regenerative Medicine 
– From Tail-regenerating 
Lizards to Organ-regenerating 
Humans?” by Ruxandra Sava 
and “Heat Stress and Fertility: 
The Answer from Cows” by 
Ali Husnain. To RSVP, email 
UFFulbrightRSVP@gmail.com. 
The event is free and open to 
the public. For more informa-
tion, contact mcardec@ufic.
ufl.edu. 
GatorNights - Friday Night 
Frights
GatorNights will have a haunt-
ed house and a costume con-
test this Friday. There will 
also be a tarot card station, 
Halloween games and ice cream. A spooky scavenger 
hunt will take place around the 
Reitz Union. “Hereditary” will 
be shown at 8 p.m. and 10:45 
p.m. in the Auditorium where 
popcorn and soda will be of-
fered. GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF 
students with their Gator 1 
Card from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in 
the Reitz Union. Guests must 
be current students to partici-
pate and are allowed to bring 
one guest.
Bicycle Ride to support Breast 
Cancer Research, Sunday
The Pink Pumpkin Pedal-Off is 
a charity bicycle ride to raise 
funds to support local research 
on treatment-resistant breast 
cancers. Ride distances are 10, 
22, 40 or 62.5 miles. All rides 
begin and end at the Cancer 
and Genetics Research Center 
at UF. Register at pinkpump-
kinpedaloff.org. 
Girls Who Code
Girls Who Code Gainesville 
is officially up and running 
for the 2018-19 school year. 
This nonprofit organization is 
geared toward closing the gen-
der gap in technology careers 
and encouraging young girls 
to pursue computer science 
and related interests. The new 
Gainesville chapter is looking 
to register more girls, grades 
six through 12, to take part 
in this free after-school activ-
ity which will be held 7-8:30 
p.m. Thursdays at the Alachua 
County Headquarters Library. 
Young women who are inter-
ested in computers or gener-
ally curious about technology 
can visit the organization’s 
Facebook page at facebook.
com/GWCGainesville. No pre-
vious experience is required. 
All genders are welcome.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of individuals 
who desire to recover from eat-
ing disorders. If you feel guilty 
about eating, are at times un-
able to start or stop eating even 
when you want to or if you feel 
disgusted or powerless over 
your eating, this group may be 
for you. Everyone is welcome 
regardless of age. For times, 
locations or more information, 
please email GainesvilleEDA@gmail.com or text/call 954-
319-6365. You can also visit 
www.4EDA.org for more infor-
mation. 
Apply Now for 2019-20 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, 
complete the Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid at faf-
sa.ed.gov. Students can now 
file a 2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of students’ 2019-
20 FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. Apply before 
Dec. 15 to ensure that the fed-
eral processor has time to ana-
lyze and send the results of the 
FAFSA to UF Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is award-
ed on a first-come, first served 
basis, so it is recommended to 
apply as early as possible to be 
considered for the most aid. 
The 2019-20 FAFSA will be 
available on a new phone app 
called myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
CLARIFICATIONS
In an editorial "The Alligator's 
endorsements for U.S., 
state and local candidates" 
in Monday's edition, The 
Alligator endorsed Scott 
Costello. The editorial was cut 
for the page’s word count and 
didn’t include additional rea-
sons the editorial board had 
for endorsing him. The edito-
rial board felt he is more politi-
cally adept than his opponent.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 27
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Edition 2018
DEADLINE
OCT. 26RUN DATE
NOV. 2More than 60,000 people come to 
Gainesville for the weekend-long 
festival. Tell them where to eat and 
how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming souvenir Edition which is 
passed out along the parade route.
Call 352-376-4482  
advertising@alligator.orgHOMECOMING
Contact the Alligator 
Advertising Department today.Kick Off a Season of Great Business
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Visit us at Bo Diddley Plaza  
Farmers Market  Wed. 4-7 pm
954-882-2879
@Emma Jeens Pies
Students can vote in G-50, next 
to the entrance of the Reitz Union 
Hotel, across from Subway and 
Wells Fargo from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
until Nov. 3.
“Our goal is always to expand 
access to voting,” Pyche said.
During 29-year-old Megan 
Forbes’ lunch break, she and her 
co-workers took a 10-minute walk 
down Center Drive to vote. She 
said it was more convenient than 
when she voted downtown during 
the primary election in August.“I am a big proponent of making 
voting easier for people because 
so few people actually do vote,” 
Forbes said.
In order for the Reitz Union to 
become an early voting location, 
Jaime Roy and Megan Newsome, 
Vote Everywhere ambassadors, 
ﬁ  led a lawsuit in May against Flor-
ida Secretary of State Ken Detzner 
with the Florida League of Women 
Voters and the Andrew Goodman 
Foundation, which funds Vote Ev-
erywhere.
Newsome, a 22-year-old An-
drew Goodman Foundation fellow and UF astrophysics alumna, said 
that UF is “knocking it out of the 
park so far.”
As of Tuesday, more than 1,000 
people voted at the Reitz Union. 
Miami Dade College had 564 vot-
ers Monday, and the University of 
Central Florida had 564 combined 
on Monday and Tuesday.
“I’m wildly impressed, to be 
honest,” Newsome said. “I expect-
ed UF to be low.”
Roy, a co-plaintiff in the law-
suit, said they felt exhilarated by 
the ﬁ  rst day of early voting.
“There is historically low turn-out for college students,” Roy said. 
“We’re also a group that histori-
cally doesn’t have reliable trans-
portation but this makes a big dif-
ference.”
The 21-year-old UF political 
science and marine science senior 
plans to vote Nov. 1, the last day 
of Battle of the Ballots, a competi-
tion among colleges to see which 
had the highest voter turnout, with 
fellow Vote Everywhere ambassa-
dors.
“It’s not often that you get to see 
the change happen this quickly,” 
Roy said. “It’s reality now.”
Meriza Candia and her boy-
friend voted before she went to 
work in the afternoon. She said it 
was easier for her to vote on the ﬁ  rst day because of the conve-
nience.
“I can vote and go to class and 
work and not think about it later,” 
Candia, a 23-year-old UF political 
science senior, said.
She said she was going to wear 
her “I voted” sticker at her job at 
the Multicultural and Diversity Af-
fairs suite in the Reitz Union to let 
others know about the opportunity 
to vote just a few ﬂ  oors down.
“We’re often the group that 
they blame a lot of things on,” 
Candia said. “When students ac-
tually come out in huge numbers 
and vote, it’s showing other gen-
erations that we can do it, we are 
doing it and you’re going to ﬁ  nally 
have to listen to us.”REITZ,  from pg. 1Students iled a lawsuit for the space.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff 
State Senate candidate Dr. Kayser Enneking campaigns outside of the Reitz Union 
on Tuesday afternoon. Enneking, a graduate of the UF’s medical school, is running for 
State Senate District 8 against incumbent Keith Perry.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
UF students Juan León, 20, (left) and Zachary Amrose, 20, (right) from the group 
“Gators for Underrepresented Voters” leave messages in chalk on Turlington Plaza 
on Monday to encourage fellow students to vote early in the Reitz Union. Early 
voting will be available in the Reitz Union until Nov. 3.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018THREE OF THE LOTS WILL 
OPEN IN DECEMBER. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
It’ll be easier for UF graduate students 
and faculty to find parking spots after four 
temporary lots open up in December.  
The lots will provide 1,100 spaces to 
make up for the upcoming loss of the 600-
spot commuter lot on Gale Lemerand Drive 
that will close in December for the con-
struction of a parking garage, called Ga-
rage 14, said Craig Hill, the UF associative 
vice president for business affairs. The new 
temporary spaces include the 225-space lot 
made out of a repurposed tennis court near 
Flavet Field that opened in August. 
When Garage 14 opens at the begin-
ning of 2020, UF will gain another 1,400 
parking spaces, Hill said. The seven-level 
620,000-square-foot garage will cost about 
$32.2 million.The lifespan of these temporary lots de-
pends on campus development, Hill said.  
“The campus community has grown, 
and the demand for parking has grown,” 
Hill said. “So, the inventory that was suffi-
cient five, 10, 15 years ago is not sufficient 
today.”
Three of the lots will open to UF gradu-
ate students and faculty by the end of De-
cember on half of Norman Field, Fifield 
Field and Archer Road Field, Hill said. The 
final lot near Southwest 13th Street and 
West University Avenue will be the last to 
open by February because it’s waiting on 
city approval to be built. The construction 
of temporary parking will cost about $4 
million. Finalized designs of the lots should 
be completed in the next three weeks.
“We hope it will make it easier for fac-
ulty and staff and graduate students to find 
parking on a daily basis,” Hill said.
Creating a new garage and temporary 
lots is a tactful way to deal with the press-
ing parking issue, said Joseph Wilson, a UF Department of Computer & Information 
Science & Engineering associate professor.
“The parking difficulties people have 
are real, and they’re driven by our modern lifestyles,” Wilson said. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF makes room for 1,100 parking spaces in prepartion for loss of 600
Jordan Bourne / Alligator Staff
Four temporary lots will soon open to accommodate parking during construction of Garage 14 
on Gale Lemerand Drive. One temporary lot near Flavet Field opened in August.
THE CAMPUS SHOULD BE 
OPEN IN SPRING 2021.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
One of Santa Fe’s six campus 
locations will be receiving a mul-
timillion-dollar expansion.
On Thursday, Santa Fe College 
announced the expansion of the 
Blount Campus located in down-
town Gainesville at 401 NW Sixth 
St.
An expanded $36.4 million building will be the newest ad-
dition to the Santa Fe College 
downtown campus, said Jay An-
derson, the Santa Fe College com-
munications manager. The build-
ing will be three stories tall and 
86,311 square feet. 
The project will be funded 
primarily through donations and 
fundraising partnerships, al-
though sources of funding are 
still a work in progress. Anderson 
said the expansion is planned to 
open in Spring 2021.
New classrooms, lab suites and business incubation spaces 
will be included to help students 
grow and manage business work, 
Anderson said. As of right now, 
the estimated number of class-
rooms, lab suites and business 
incubators is unknown, but col-
lege officials are hoping to have 
a rendering and more details by 
next month. 
Blount Campus will also re-
main home to the Center for In-
novation and Economic Develop-
ment, a business incubation with 
Santa Fe students and the city of Gainesville, Anderson said. Cur-
rently, there is no estimate on 
how many people will work there.
This campus will have state of 
the art equipment to better serve 
students in East Gainesville who 
find it more difficult to go to the 
main Northwest Santa Fe College 
campus on 3000 NW 83rd St., An-
derson said.  
“I just think it’s fantastic that 
we’re expanding this facility and 
working on access and inclu-
sion,” Anderson said. 
Transportation to campuses outside of the main Northwest 
facility can be difficult to get to, 
said Alexander Fraser, a 19-year-
old Santa Fe undecided freshman. 
He said whenever he has to travel 
to another location, besides the 
Northwest one, he spends more 
than $20 on an almost 30-minute 
drive.
“I’m looking forward to see 
what the campus will have in 
store when it’s done,” Fraser said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgSanta Fe to expand Blount Campus in $36.4 million project
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staf Writer
A UF fraternity is on probation after be-
ing accused of giving minors alcohol at a 
summer party.
The UF chapter of Beta Theta Pi is un-
der probation until Dec. 14 after being ac-
cused of serving alcohol to minors during 
the Summer B semester, according to a 
letter written by Mick Earley, the Student 
Conduct and Conflict Resolution associate 
director.
Earley sent the letter to Kyle Rintoul, the 
chapter president, on Oct. 9.
“The University of Florida holds student 
safety paramount and will not tolerate be-
haviors that jeopardize the ability of our 
community members to find success in a 
positive way,” Earley wrote in the letter.
The fraternity must follow a set of rules 
until probation ends, the letter said.
The group can only attend five on- or 
off-campus events where alcohol is served, 
including tailgates, homecoming events and 
socials. Fraternity members and guests are not allowed to drink alcohol at events that 
have not been approved by the Student 
Conduct and Conflict Resolution, the letter 
said.
The chapter must create plans to address 
risk management, social events and safely 
hosting events with alcohol and present the 
plans to its members, the letter said. 
Beta Theta Pi has until Nov. 23 to in-
vite a law enforcement officer to talk to the 
chapter about the legal risks of underage 
drinking and what to do if someone has too 
much to drink, the letter said.
UF administration acknowledged that 
Beta Theta Pi took responsibility for the 
conduct violation and was honest about the 
incident, the letter said. Today is the last 
day the fraternity can appeal the probation.
Rintoul could not immediately be 
reached for comment.
Additionally, Delta Chi and Tau Epsilon 
Phi are both suspended while Pi Kappa Phi, 
Chi Phi and Alpha Epsilon Pi are under in-
vestigation for hazing.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgUF fraternity on probation 
for underage drinking
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staf Writer
Doors couldn’t keep Carli, a 15-year-
old capuchin monkey, from escaping a 
primate sanctuary Sunday morning. 
Jungle Friends Pri-
mate Sanctuary, at 
13915 N. State Road 
121, is offering $1,000 
to anyone who reports 
seeing Carli and helps 
capture her, said man-
ager Debbie Muga.
Carli snuck out of a 
metal, cage-like tube that connects dif-
ferent primate enclosures in the sanctu-
ary, Muga said. 
A staff member was able to lure Carli 
into a trailer with a treat, Muga said. But 
the monkey opened the trailer door and 
ran out.
“She was out of there as quickly as 
she was in,” Muga said.
The monkey has eluded staff and the 
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Commission since she escaped from the sanctuary, Muga said. Carli is a helper 
monkey. She is trained to do tasks like 
open doors and flip light switches to 
help a disabled person.
This is the first time an animal has es-
caped from the sanctuary since it opened 
20 years ago, Muga said.
Carli was last seen near State Road 
121 on 128th Lane, less than a mile 
away from the sanctuary. Jungle Friends 
received a photo of her at about 11:30 
a.m. Sunday, Muga said.
Staff from Jungle Friends and the 
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Commission are trying to find her and 
lure her with treats, Muga said.
The sanctuary hasn’t filed a report 
with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-
fice to help with the search, said ACSO 
spokesperson Lt. Brett Rhodenizer. 
“We’re just worried that she’ll wan-
der into somewhere that she isn’t wel-
come, and she won’t understand why 
she isn’t welcome,” Muga said.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMonkey escapes sanctuary
Carli
Sanctuary offering $1,000 to whoever finds her.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Two teenagers accused of steal-
ing a car were arrested Monday 
morning.
Florida Highway Patrol fol-
lowed Jaden Demar Davis, 18, of 
Gainesville and a 17-year-old, of 
Pensacola, down U.S. 441 after no-
ticing they were driving a stolen 
car, according to an arrest report.
Local ofﬁ  cers were warned 
about a car stolen from Lake City 
at about 10:40 a.m., the report said.
An FHP trooper saw the car go-
ing south on Interstate 75 about 20 
minutes later.
The trooper called for backup 
and followed the car as it exited on 
U.S. 441. Troopers stopped the car 
near Progress Boulevard, the report 
said.
The 17-year-old driver and Davis 
got out of the car. Troopers found a clear bag containing about 23.2 
grams of synthetic drugs in the 
17-year-old’s right front pocket, the 
report said.
Davis told the troopers he knew 
the car was stolen when the teen-
ager picked him up. The car was re-
turned to its owner, the report said.
The 17-year-old, who has never 
had a license, was charged with 
driving without a license, grand 
theft auto and possessing more 
than 10 grams of synthetic drugs 
and drug paraphernalia, the report 
said. He was taken to the Alachua 
County Juvenile Detention Center 
and wasn’t named in the report be-
cause he’s a juvenile.
Davis was charged with grand 
theft auto and is being held in the 
Alachua County Jail in lieu of a 
$2,000 bond, according to jail re-
cords.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgFHP: Teenagers steal carHIS BOND IS SET 
AT $1.1MILLION.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was charged with attempted mur-
der Monday in connection to the shooting of 
a 14-year-old girl, Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Ofﬁ  ce said.
Patrick Laverne Marks, 47, of Gainesville, is accused of pointing a gun at a 14-year-old 
girl who was shot by another man Saturday 
afternoon on Southwest 69th Terrace, ac-
cording to a report.  
Alachua County Fire Rescue took the girl 
to UF Health Shands Pediatric ER with three 
gunshot wounds, the report said.
Neighbors split up a ﬁ  ght among the girl, 
Marks and an unnamed boy at the intersec-
tion of Southwest 19th Court and Southwest 
69th Terrace, the report said. Marks and the boy drove away in a red Mustang. 
About 15 minutes later, the girl and two 
other people were walking down Southwest 
19th Court when the Mustang came back, 
the report said.
Marks stood near the car and pointed a 
gun at the group while the other armed man 
ran toward them and said, “If you run, I’ll 
shoot you,” the report said. 
The man shot the girl, hitting her twice in 
the left arm and once in the lower abdomen, the report said. 
No additional arrests have been made, 
and the investigation is ongoing, said Lt. 
Brett Rhodenizer. 
Marks was charged with attempted mur-
der, aggravated assault and possession of a 
ﬁ  rearm by a felon, two counts each. He is 
being held in the Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $1.1 million bond. 
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgMan arrested in connection to shooting of 14-year-old girl
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman and her father were 
accused of selling drugs out of their house 
following a Gainesville Alachua County Drug 
Task Force investigation Thursday.
Bruce Allen Smith, 51, and his daughter, 
Kimberly Michele Smith, 30, were arrested af-
ter police found drugs and paraphernalia, ac-
cording to arrest reports.
At about 1:50 p.m., the task force searched 
their home on the 300 block of Southeast 71st 
Terrace, police said.
Detectives found needles, a scale, ammuni-
tion, a pill grinder, a pill bottle with marijuana 
residue and bags with a white residue in Bruce 
Smith’s room, the report said.
In Kimberly Smith’s bedroom, which she 
shares with her two children, detectives found 
a needle with fentanyl inside a diaper bag. Bruce Smith began yelling that he wanted a 
cigarette, kicked a stool and walked away, po-
lice said. The detective grabbed Smith’s shoul-
der, who then fell over the chair and kicked 
it at the detective, hitting her on her left side. 
Bruce Smith was arrested that afternoon. 
His daughter was arrested Monday afternoon 
near Boulware Springs Charter School, the re-
ports said.
Bruce Smith was arrested on charges of bat-
tery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer and posses-
sion of a ﬁ  rearm by a felon, while Kimberly 
Smith was charged with possessing drugs and 
paraphernalia. Bruce and Kimberly Smith were 
arrested on charges of selling drugs and are 
being held in the Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $25,000 and $15,000 bond, respectively. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgFather, daughter arrested during 
drug task force investigationThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORThe Alligator’s endorsements for 
amendments and referenda
Column
On-Campus voting is a privilege: use it
A few darkened marks on paper, hid-
den behind a bordered-
off cube is all it takes to 
make a change in the 
United States. 
The time for marching in the 
streets and hanging ﬂ  iers promot-
ing political agendas is coming to 
an end as early voting at UF be-
gins. For the ﬁ  rst time in the uni-
versity’s history, early voting is 
available on campus in the Reitz 
Union from Oct. 22 to Nov. 3. 
On-campus voting is an oppor-
tunity for student voters and Alachua County 
residents that has never been utilized before. 
The accessibility for voters to get to the polls 
is commonly cited as a major factor in voter 
turnout. Also, the inability to get to the polls 
is often understood as a form of voter op-
pression, and that’s what makes this year’s 
polling change such a signiﬁ  cant one.
At UF there are countless reminders to 
vote. There was hardly a day I would walk 
through Turlington or the Reitz Union with-
out someone asking me if I had a registered 
to vote or if I planned to vote. Yes, and yes, 
I would always say. They were spreading 
small reminders, to vote, vote, vote. 
In my political science class freshman 
year, my professor said that if we took only 
one thing away from that class, it was that 
we need to use our right to vote. She nev-
er pushed who we should vote for and she 
never expressed who she had voted for. Just 
vote, she would say. 
So now I’m saying it too: vote. 
Take twenty minutes out of your day to 
research who you should vote for. Take ten 
minutes out of your day to walk to the Reitz. 
Take thirty seconds out of your day to ﬁ  ll in 
a few dots on a sheet of paper. And that’s it, 
thirty minutes and you’ve done something 
that really matters. 
On-campus voting can give a voice to col-
lege students that has never been available before. To not take advantage of this oppor-
tunity is to not only hurt yourself, 
but to hurt your classmates, your 
neighbors and your family. There 
have been countless amounts of 
times when I’ve heard people say 
that this election could be a major 
turning point in history, and may-
be that’s true or maybe it isn’t. 
The only way to ensure that 
any kind of change can take 
place is with yourself. If you want 
things to stay the same or if you 
want things to change drastically 
in this political climate, you are the one who 
can make that happen. 
The people who pushed for on-campus 
voting care about your vote. I know that it 
can be hard to ﬁ  nd time in the day, espe-
cially when you may feel like voting won’t 
mean anything, but I’m telling you, you have 
time. Instead of spending thirty minutes in 
a Starbucks line or scrolling through Insta-
gram, you could have researched candidates 
and cast your vote. 
Older generations grew up with the men-
tality that voting is a civic duty that shouldn’t 
be taken for granted, and they continue to 
feel this way. It is why older generations’ 
voter turnout trounces young-adult voter 
turnout. Early voting on campus is an incred-
ible opportunity to bring young adults to the 
polls, and it deserves to be utilized. 
If you have any sort of opinion on poli-
tics, which I know you do, vote. I’m relying 
on you to make an educated vote on what 
you care about, as is the rest of the coun-
try. It may not feel like your vote counts, but 
that mindset will never encourage a change 
of politics in the U.S. Thirty minutes of your 
day, that’s all I’m asking, for you to walk to 
the Reitz and vote.
Michaela Mulligan is a UF journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on Wednes-
days.
Michaela
Mulligan
opinions@alligator.orgFor the second day of early voting, The 
Alligator is releasing its endorsements for 
amendments to the Florida Constitution 
and local questions. We base our recom-
mendations on how each would beneﬁ  t 
Florida’s citizens and the environment. As a 
rule, if the intent of the amendment isn’t clear 
when reading it, we’d recommend voting no.
Amendment 1 - Vote NO
This amendment raises the amount of a 
home’s value that can be exempted from prop-
erty taxes, excluding school taxes. This amend-
ment would help homeowners, who would 
save about $250 on their tax bills. However, 
they would likely still pay the tax one way or 
another — local governments would lose rev-
enue vital for police and ﬁ  re services.
Amendment 2 - Vote YES
Amendment 2 would make permanent the 
current cap limiting property-tax assessment 
increases to 10 percent annually for commer-
cial properties. The current cap is set to expire 
in 2019. Should the cap expire, it would cause 
a large tax increase on 530,000 residential and 
commercial property owners in Florida.
Amendment 3 - Vote YES
Amendment 3 would grant voters sole dis-
cretion to authorize expansions of casino gam-
bling in Florida. The proposal would empower 
corporations with the resources to gather lots 
of signatures on petitions. Although it allows 
for a monopoly of the industry, it would elimi-
nate the incentive casino owners would have 
to contribute to political candidates. 
Amendment 4 - Vote YES
This amendment would restore voting 
rights to felons after their release from prison 
— felons convicted of murder or sex offenses 
will not have their rights restored. Under the 
current system, felons must apply to a clem-
ency board to regain their voting rights. That 
process can take more than 10 years.
We hope that those convicted of murder 
and sex offenses will see a future amendment 
that addresses their rights.
Amendment 5 - Vote NO
Amendment 5 would bar the Florida Legis-
lature from raising taxes without a two-thirds 
majority vote in both the House and the Sen-
ate. This amendment adds additional hurdles 
for legislators in making a well-balanced bud-
get, making it harder to raise taxes even when 
it would be vital.
Amendment 6 - Vote NO
Amendment 6 would give victims of crimes 
the right to be “reasonably protected from the 
accused,” have their safety considered when 
judges set bail, increase the mandatory retire-
ment age for judges by ﬁ  ve years, to 75, and 
prevent judges from giving preference to a 
state agency’s interpretation of a statute. This 
amendment adds requirements to an over-
worked justice system and eliminates a provi-
sion that ensures the rights of the accused are 
not violated by the victim.
Amendment 7 - Vote NO
Amendment 7 would provide college tuition to spouses and children of military members 
and ﬁ  rst responders killed while on duty. There 
is a negligible tax increase, but the amendment 
also changes the way public university trustees 
can vote to raise tuition fees. 
Amendment 9 - Vote YES
Amendment 9 bans offshore drilling that 
poses an environmental hazard for Florida. It is 
bundled with a ban on vaping inside workplac-
es, which is a benign side effect to increased 
environmental protection.
Amendment 10 - Vote NO
This amendment requires the state’s legisla-
tive session to start in January, create a coun-
ter-terrorism ofﬁ  ce, make the state veterans af-
fairs department constitutionally required and 
require ﬁ  ve county-level ofﬁ  ces to be elected. 
The last requirement tells local government 
what to do at the state level, which is why we 
recommend a vote against the amendment.
Amendment 11 - Vote NO
Amendment 11 prevents “aliens inevitable 
for citizenship” from owning property. It al-
lows applying an updated version of a criminal 
statute to sentencing a crime committed before 
the update. Put simply, it allows for a judge to 
apply a harsher sentence to a crime that has 
already been committed, and continue a pros-
ecution under a statute that has already been 
repealed.
Amendment 12 - Vote YES
The Lobbying and Abuse of Ofﬁ  ce by Public 
Ofﬁ  cers Amendment would bar public ofﬁ  cials 
from lobbying while in ofﬁ  ce and six years af-
terward and prevent current ofﬁ  ceholders from 
proﬁ  ting from their position. 
Amendment 13 - Vote YES
Ends Dog Racing would put an end to grey-
hound racing involving betting over the next 
two years. We agree with animal rights activ-
ists — the inhumane way in which the dogs 
are raced and treated must come to an end.
Alachua County Question 1 - Vote YES
This proposal would create a Children’s 
Trust, which will have authority to tax up to 50 
cents per $1,000 of taxable property value to 
provide developmental and supportive services 
for children from birth to 18 years old.
Alachua County Question 2 - Vote YES
The proposal would cost about $5 per 
month for the average family in Alachua by 
raising the sales tax to seven cents per dollar. It 
provides vital funding for the county’s schools.
Municipal Referenda 1 - Vote NO
The proposed GRU Authority would take 
control of Gainesville’s utilities away from the 
elected City Commission and give it to a board 
selected by the commission. This is opposed 
by the entire Gainesville City Commission, the 
NAACP and the League of Women Voters.
Municipal Referenda 2 - Vote YES
This proposal would move the elections of 
Mayor and City Commission from March to the 
fall cycle so they coincide with the primary and 
midterm elections. This will presumably raise 
student-voter turnout and save Gainesville 
about $200,000 per election.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
For countless stu-
dents, college 
provides valu-
able experiences 
and memories in 
the realm of relation-
ships. Ranging from 
serious, long-term 
partnerships to casual 
ﬂ  ings with a lifespan 
of one night, romantic connections 
are one of the most prominent as-
pects of the life of a typical college 
student. As with other essential 
facets of life, humanity has found 
a way to trivialize and diminish the 
quality and impact of socializing 
and hooking up. The device that 
has been invented to do it? Tinder.
This is not a hit piece against 
hooking up casually. I think as long 
as both parties are on the same 
page regarding the depth of the re-
lationship, any species of romance 
is valuable. It is not being madly in 
love with a person that makes con-
nections with partners successful.; 
it is communication and novelty. A 
valid argument can be made that 
a long-term relationship without 
communication or exploration is 
not as healthy as a one-night stand 
in possession of both. This would 
lead one to believe that Tinder is a 
successful means to a vibrant love 
life. I’m here to tell you why it is 
closer to putting yourself on life-
support.
Tinder is to dating and hook-
ing up as Walmart’s “Great Value” 
brand is to pretty much every sin-
gle grocery item you can think of. 
Sure, it will check all of the boxes 
in the short run, but relying on the 
knock-off products will inevitably 
leave you with a growing pit of 
emptiness on the inside. Tinder is 
an inauthentic method of meeting 
people, which is the main issue 
with the platform. Strong connec-
tions that lead to strong relation-
ships are generally predicated on 
a common interest, be it a class, 
extracurricular or common friend 
group. Sometimes that connection 
is Midtown, and that is perfectly 
ﬁ  ne too. At least in that situation, 
the relationship is organic and the 
attraction is natural. The party scene has the addi-
tional beneﬁ  t of the 
encounter being ob-
served by both indi-
viduals’ friends, so 
extremely unwise deci-
sions can be avoided. 
Tinder, on the other 
hand, begins and ends 
with photos, a short 
bio, and a few rounds of messag-
ing. This is the same thing as tell-
ing your parents what you want, 
from the store instead of getting it 
in person: You have a general idea 
of what to expect, but it probably 
won’t be exactly what you want 
and there is a slight chance that it 
will kill you. 
Tinder is fascinating in that it 
boasts not one, but two Achilles’ 
heels: The ﬁ  rst being the inauthen-
tic aura surrounding the app and all 
of the people who inhabit its ma-
genta walls, and the second being 
the inexpensive nature of the con-
nections made on the app. Similar 
to Walmart, Tinder essentially ap-
plied the cold hand of capitalism to 
dating and has created a cheaper, 
more efﬁ  cient product. Instead of 
potato chips and milk gallons like 
Walmart, Tinder has price-checked 
the effort it takes to form new re-
lationships. The price of organic 
relationships in effort expended to 
make things work is what makes 
the payoff feel so amazing. The 
energy we pour into getting what 
we want from a relationship is 
the price, and the product is made 
more valuable for it. 
Going to Walmart for groceries, 
like Tinder for a mate, gets the job 
done. However, it is impossible 
to escape the emotional void that 
stems from the dirt-cheap, con-
trived connections that result from 
the app in the same way that a per-
son will never truly enjoy “Great 
Value” yogurts or cookies. I think 
from now on I’ll be sticking to Cho-
bani or Milano, and in the same 
light, I think it’s about time for me 
to delete my Tinder.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF 
English and history freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Tinder is the Walmart of datingColumnI      recently went where the majority of college 
students may not ﬁ  nd themselves on a Sat-
urday night: a movie theater — and not on 
a date or with a group of people.
I’m aware that seeing “Crazy Rich 
Asians” by myself on a weekend isn’t exactly a 
revolutionary act of independence. But in this 
era, where instead of doing something alone 
in public we can opt to stay in and solo-scroll 
through Netﬂ  ix or Amazon Prime, my experi-
ence reminded me of the importance of not just 
spending time alone but of learning to enjoy it.
As I sat in the hushed theater, I ripped open 
the foil wrapper of my York Peppermint Pattie 
with a sense of delight. I’m not worried about 
what the other person I’m with is thinking 
throughout the ﬁ  lm, and I don’t have to worry 
about whether or not my hand is too sweaty 
for a hand-holding situation.
Most of all, though, having those two hours 
of pure, uninterrupted, ﬁ  ctional bliss to myself was great. Rejuvenating, even. There 
was also something notable about 
the whole experience — driving to 
the theater at sunset alone and say-
ing “one adult” at the ticket counter. 
Even leaving the theater and recap-
ping the ﬁ  lm in my head instead of 
partaking in the obligatory “So… 
what did you think?” conversation 
was different but nice.
It made me think about how not 
just spending time alone, but actually cherish-
ing time spent by ourselves, is often perceived 
by my generation as something that falls under 
the oh-so-ambiguous (and overused) umbrella 
term of “adulting.”
I think becoming our own best friends 
shouldn’t be something that’s solely reserved 
for our post-grad lives.
So much of our routines in this so-called 
college bubble are shaped by the people we surround ourselves with, which is 
special and makes our experiences 
unique. That being said, it’s not a 
crime to take a breather from the 
same groups of people we see 24/7.
Taking time for ourselves is an 
important part of making the most of 
our relationships, whether romantic 
or platonic, because in order to fully 
be present and fully cherish the com-
pany of other people we love, we 
should be happy with who we are ﬁ  rst.
Whether your idea of “me time” means al-
lotting time to exercise or go for a walk, par-
taking in a nightly skin care ritual — or even 
saying no to plans when you know you need 
to work on your own projects or deadlines — 
it’s vital that we carve out little moments and 
experiences we can enjoy on our own. 
One of the biggest lessons I’m thankful I 
learned early on in my college career is to not get bogged down by FOMO (Fear Of Missing 
Out). It’s often easier said than done — espe-
cially in our fast-paced culture, where social 
media posts and updates can easily pave the 
way for self-comparison or feelings of not mea-
suring up. But I’d argue being secure with our-
selves and learning to enjoy time spent alone 
now will only make us more adaptable and 
conﬁ  dent when transitioning to post-grad life.
The truth is, while taking time for your-
self may not lead to a night of wild memories, 
share-worthy Snapchat stories or Polaroids to 
be pasted in a photo album (or posted on In-
stagram) to relish in the future, it’s important 
we learn to ﬁ  nd happiness even in the little 
moments we have alone, as those rituals are 
what will help us recharge, reﬂ  ect and enjoy 
the experiences we do share with others.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Alone time isn’t just for ‘adulting.’ Enjoy and savor every moment of it.Column
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org
Nov. 6 will be here before you know 
it, and Florida voters will have a lot 
of choices to make. Several of these 
choices will be on amendments to 
Florida’s constitution. According to 
the South Florida SunSentinel, there will be 12 
amendments on the ballot in November, num-
bered from 1 to 7, and 9 to 13. (Amendment 8 
was removed from the ballot by the Florida Su-
preme Court.) These amendments cover a va-
riety of topics, from government meeting dates 
to vaping and dog racing. The problem: The individual 
amendments jump around in topic.
For an example of this, let’s take a closer look at 
Amendment 9. The amendment does two things: bans 
oil drilling in Florida’s territorial waters and bans vap-
ing indoors. Those things don’t seem to have much to 
do with each other, do they? And yet, they’re smashed 
together into one amendment, leaving voters who may 
like one part but not the other in an unenviable position. 
Amendment 9 isn’t the only example of this. Amend-
ment 7 would raise the number of votes needed on the 
university board of trustees or the state board of gover-
nors to raise any university fees (excluding tuition), pro-
vide death beneﬁ  ts and waive some educational costs to 
spouses of fallen military members and ﬁ  rst responders 
and place the state’s college system in the Florida Con-
stitution. Amendment 10 would also accomplish three 
things in one: move state legislative sessions to even-
numbered years in January, require the creation of a 
state Ofﬁ  ce of Domestic Security and Counter-Terrorism, 
constitutionally require a Department of Veteran Affairs 
and require all counties to have certain elected ofﬁ  ces 
(such as sheriff, tax collector and supervisor of elections). 
If you think this haphazard grouping of topics is a 
problem, you’re not alone. According to the Tampa Bay 
Times, the fallen Amendment 8 had the same problem. 
While the main thrust of the bill would have transferred 
control of charter schools from local school districts to 
the state, the amendment would have also imposed 
school board term limits and enshrine civics education 
in the state constitution. Though the main reason the 
amendment was removed was because the language was 
unclear, the Times said the multiple topics the amend-
ment covered was also a concern. Columnist John Ro-
mano of the Times pointed out the combined nature of the amendments, saying “the bundles entice 
voters to approve an unpopular idea because 
it is tethered to a more happy-sounding propos-
al.” Romano called this scheme “a ploy” that 
he would not be “snookered by.”
So who’s responsible for the bungled 
amendments? The Florida Constitution Revi-
sion Commission (CRC). According to Ballotpe-
dia, the CRC is a 37-member board that meets 
every 20 years to propose and review amend-
ments to Florida’s constitution. In an interview 
with WLRN of Miami, CRC member Tim Cerio said the 
CRC bundled amendments in an effort to shorten the 
ballot and reduce voter fatigue. While voter fatigue and 
ballot length are legitimate issues, packing together rela-
tively unrelated issues and telling voters to vote yes or no 
on both is a terrible solution, and the justiﬁ  cation for this 
seems rather ﬂ  imsy. In addition, none of this would be 
an issue if there were simply fewer amendments on the 
ballot, and for that we can also blame the CRC.
The CRC last met in 2017 and proposed seven of the 
12 amendments on the November ballot, according to 
the Times. To give the CRC credit, not all the amend-
ments it proposed for November are duds. Amendment 
12 would expand ethics rules by banning elected ofﬁ  -
cials from lobbying the body they were elected to for six 
years after leaving ofﬁ  ce and would ban elected ofﬁ  cials 
from using their ofﬁ  ce to receive a “disproportionate 
beneﬁ  t” for themselves, their families or their business. 
Amendment 13 would ban betting on greyhound racing 
in Florida and eventually ban greyhound racing outright 
in 2021, which will please many dog lovers and animal 
rights activists. Still, the CRC has been overzealous, 
proposing too many amendments and then awkwardly 
having to bundle them together so an already-long ballot 
can be a little less long. As a show of protest against the 
CRC’s bundling, voters should reject the worst offend-
ers (Amendments 6, 7, 9, and 10) out of principle, and 
then push for a reform of the CRC that would limit how 
many amendments it can put on the ballot and ban such 
bundling in the future. Maybe then Florida’s amendment 
system can be a little saner.
 Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column 
normally appears on Mondays.The backstory on overly-complicated amendmentsColumn
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Q&A with FEST Wrestling champ:
Check out Page 9 to get to know EFFY, Fest 
Wrestling’s dynamic reining champ.Inside look at a FEST performer!
Flip over to Page 9 to learn more about Mom Jeans, one of the 
many bands performing at FEST 17.By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville FESTival ﬁ  ends, the time has come for 
you to grab your fanny pack, and prepare for FEST 
2018. 
For the 17th year in a row, FEST is coming to 
Gainesville and holding concerts from Friday through 
Sunday. 
FEST is an underground music festival held annu-
ally in Gainesville and was established in 2002. 
The event has grown exponentially over the 
years, and what started with 60 bands and two days 
has now expanded into the multi-day extravaganza 
we know today. 
More than 300 bands, 20 comedians and 60 
wrestlers will span across 18 different venues in 
Gainesville for the three-day event. 
Local artists performing include Billy Reese Pe-
ters, Bitemarks, Coffee Project, DONKNG, Post 
Teens, Southpaw, Sunshine State and over 30 others. 
Six of Gainesville’s own comedians will also take 
part in the comedy showcase during FEST weekend. 
Some of the locations for the various performers 
include Bo Diddley Plaza, The Atlantic, The Wooly,  Eight Seconds, CMC, Rockey’s Piano Bar, Boca Fi-
esta/Palomino, Big Lou’s, The Hippodrome, Durty 
Nelly’s, Hardback Cafe and Loosey’s.
 Each venue ﬁ  ts nicely within a four-block radius 
in downtown Gainesville.
Access to the event is based on passes. Passes can 
be purchased  online and on location as available. 
The ofﬁ  cial FEST 17 three-day pass gets you ac-
cess to all the shows ofﬁ  cially associated with the 
event for the weekend. Passes are available as a last 
minute walk-up for $170 on Friday at the Holiday Inn 
in Gainesville. 
Once purchased, attendees must go to registration 
from noon to 7 p.m. on Friday at the Holiday Inn 
University Center to pick up their passes and check 
in. 
Prospective attendees must also bring a pho-
to ID or passport to pick up their wristband along 
with complimentary goodies, including guidebooks, 
schedules and Koozies.
Passes have the potential to  sell out quickly, as 
the event plans to only sell 3,000 tickets. 
For more information on pass availability and the 
lineup of bands, comedians and wrestlers check out 
the ofﬁ  cial website at theFESTﬂ  .com.What to expect when you’re at FEST
Emilia Whitmer
The band Canker Blossom performing at Gainesville FEST in 2017.
By Lindsey Breneman 
Avenue Staff Writer
Tony Weinbender has two great 
loves: music and Gainesville. Seven-
teen years ago he lost $500 trying to 
combine those, but in doing so, he 
created an event that became a city 
staple and a community that never 
stops coming back for more.
Weinbender, 42, looks like an 
average Gainesville resident. He 
lives in Gainesville with his wife, 
Elizabeth, and two dogs, Oliver and 
Biscuit. Exactly a week before FEST 
17, Weinbender was laughing with 
an old friend at the Piesano’s bar 
and sipping on a beer, waiting for a 
volunteer meeting for the event. He 
said it’s a stressful time of year for 
him, but it doesn’t seem to be. He 
looks utterly relaxed. That is, until 
he starts to talk about his FEST, his 
people, his music, then, he looks like 
a kid in a candy shop.
“I love the fact that I feel like, 
at 42, I’m just as involved as I was 
at 16,” Weinbender said about the 
punk rock music scene. “It’s just a 
much bigger scale now.”
Weinbender grew up playing 
in punk bands in Virginia. During 
spring breaks he and his friends 
would all come to Gainesville to play 
at the original Hardback Cafe, which 
is now Boca Fiesta.
He was going to school and work-
ing at his college radio station when 
he got a call from his friend Vinnie 
Fiorella, the drummer in the band Less than Jake. Fiorella was starting 
a record label. He asked Weinbender 
for help.
So Weinbender dropped out, 
packed his bags and moved to 
Gainesville. He worked at Fueled by 
Ramen, Fiorella’s label. The drum-
mer was usually touring with his 
band, so Weinbender said it was just 
him and another employee, whom 
he hated. One day, the two were so 
fed up with each other, Weinbender 
said he quit and the other guy ﬁ  red 
him at the same time.
After Fueled by Ramen, Wein-
bender was listless. He lived in a 
house with eight roommates and 
did just about anything for money. 
He moved furniture, sold his plasma 
and did other odd jobs he could ﬁ  nd. 
He ﬁ  nally found a job at Leonardo’s 
Pizza by the Slice.
“I just don’t want this to be ev-
erything,” Weinbender remembers 
thinking at 25.
Weinbender’s friends saw that he 
was upset and reminded him of the 
music festival he used to plan while 
working for his college radio sta-
tion, the MAC Rock or Mid Atlantic 
College Rock festival. They decided 
to put on a punk rock festival in 
Gainesville.
Weinbender couldn’t get a loan, 
so he went back to Virginia and 
asked his divorced parents for $500 
each, promising to pay them back 
after his festival succeeded. A couple 
of friends helped him. They made 
their own ticketing platform instead of paying Ticketmaster’s fees. They 
called old friends in the punk rock 
scene. Eventually, they booked 
about 60 bands over a two-day pe-
riod in small local venues, most of 
which no longer exist, during UF’s 
spring break.
Weinbender lost half the money 
loaned from his parents in that ﬁ  rst 
FEST, but it was fun. Only a couple 
hundred people came, but he said 
they all begged him to do it again.
Do it again! Do it again! It’s only 
going to get better if you do it again. 
That’s what Weinbender remembers 
his friends kept saying.
He didn’t even wait a year. In 
October, on the weekend of the Flor-
ida - Georgia game, he tried again. 
Almost all the original FEST attend-
ees came back, most of them with 
friends. This time, Weinbender said 
FEST 2 made back that $500 lost the 
ﬁ  rst time. He’s been holding FEST on 
the same weekend ever since.
The next year was the ﬁ  rst time 
with FEST had an attendee from 
overseas. Weinbender remembers 
doing registration with his friend PJ 
who leaned over and whispered “I 
think that’s the German!”
They freaked out. They bought 
the man from Germany round af-
ter round of beers and were soon 
fast friends. FEST 4, he came back, 
this time with two of his friends. 
The next year, he came again, this 
time with 12 friends. One of those 
12 met his wife at that ﬁ  fth FEST. 
They got married and he now lives in Gainesville.
That’s why FEST doesn’t have an 
advertising budget. Because, accord-
ing to Weinbender, word-of-mouth 
is the best advertisement anyone can 
have. He said he wants everyone 
who comes to FEST to have such 
a great time that they never shut 
up about it, so their friends feel the 
need to come back with them the 
next year.
“We’re not looking to really 
grow. FEST is this size,” Weinbender 
said. “As long as we can keep doing 
it and everyone is happy, we will. 
I’m looking to just sustain and keep 
my people happy.”
People who keep coming back to 
FEST are family to Weinbender. He 
said each year is like a reunion.
According to him, there’s never 
been a ﬁ  ght at FEST, and arrests 
are extremely rare. He said most of 
the interactions at FEST with the 
Gainesville Police are foreign attend-
ees who, after a few too many beers, 
forget that in America, they’re not 
allowed to walk the streets with an 
open container.
After FEST 10, the city surveyed 
local businesses asking what their 
thoughts were on FEST, and all but 
one, which Weinbender called a “foo 
foo restaurant that’s already closed,” 
endorsed the event. Even though 
they look like a bunch of “punks,” 
the FEST crowd is much more tame 
than those brought in by gamedays 
in The Swamp, Weinbender said.
Since FEST 10, Weinbender’s been able to live off FEST’s rev-
enue along with a couple odd jobs. 
The two months after the event are 
dedicated to what Weinbender calls 
“clean up,” which is mostly ac-
counting and making sure everyone 
is happy. In December, he throws 
a Christmas party for his approxi-
mately 50-person staff. There, he 
asks them to pitch charities where 
he’ll donate leftover proﬁ  ts. Then he 
starts planning for the next year.
When you ask Weinbender to 
name his favorite FEST performers, 
he throws up his arms and asks how 
he’s supposed to choose. 
Some of the bands are close 
friends, like the Menzingers who are 
performing at FEST for the 11th time 
this year. Some are “scores” he’s 
been badgering to come forever, like 
The Get Up Kids who are playing at 
FEST for the ﬁ  rst time this year. He 
had booked The Get Up Kids a tiny 
band 20 years ago at MAC Rock. 
Some are just new bands whose mu-
sic he loves.
It seems suspicious, like he’s try-
ing to be political and avoid hurt-
ing anyone’s feelings but watching 
Weinbender talk about each band 
and his FEST family, it’s difﬁ  cult not 
to feel his excitement and genuine 
love.
“It’s the same reason I worked for 
a radio station,” Weinbender said.  
“(It is the) same reason we made 
mixtapes for our friends as kids. If 
you care about music you want to 
share it.”The Man behind the FEST: Tony Weinbender’s punk roots
MUSIC
MUSICWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Lindsey Breneman
Avenue Staff Writer
Mom Jeans is a newer band 
in the California punk scene 
that’s making its second FEST 
appearance this year while on 
its “Puppy Love” tour.
“A lot of our friends have 
been playing FEST for the last 
few years,” lead singer Eric But-
ler said. “Everybody was con-
stantly telling us about how we 
had to play, and we had to go. 
The only other festival ex-
perience we had was South by 
Southwest, and its generally 
agreed that FEST is a million 
times better. It was a really 
great time get to hang out with 
friends for three days straight. 
For me, FEST is one of the only 
places I get to see all the people 
I normally have to go on tour to 
see in one place.”
Butler, 23, met Austin Ca-
rango, 23, when they lived on 
the same dorm ﬂ  oor their fresh-
man year at UC Berkeley. Butler 
said they became fast friends 
when he found that Carango 
listened to Joyce Manor and 
Modern Baseball, unlike many 
of his other friends at the time. 
Their ﬁ  rst EP in 2014 was what 
Butler describes as just messing 
around.
Gabriel Paganin, 24, also 
went to Berkeley with the two. 
The three became Mom Jeans in early 2015 with Butler singing 
and playing guitar, Carango on 
drums, and Paganin on bass. In 
2016, the band released its ﬁ  rst 
album “Best Buds” and Bart 
Thompson, 23, joined the crew 
shortly after.
The band is named Mom 
Jeans as a joke. Butler said it’s 
a sort of play on some memes 
that were ﬂ  oating around at the 
time poking fun at emo kids 
who listened to punk and prob-
ably wore mom jeans. He thinks 
it’s kind of disarming and lets 
their audience know not to take 
the band too seriously.
Mom Jeans gained popularity 
in the punk scene fast. The four 
are making their way across the 
U.S. now, promoting their lat-
est release “Puppy Love,” with 
FEST as one of their stops. 
Butler said they have been 
around the country a lot over 
the past couple of years, but 
this year is the ﬁ  rst time they 
will also be touring Mexico and 
the U.K., which he said is an 
honor.
“Playing a basement show 
with a beer-soaked ﬂ  oor for like 
50 kids was the dream,” Butler 
said. “So being on tour is kinda 
surreal.”
Despite his band’s fast rise 
in popularity, Butler is utterly 
down-to-earth. He can’t believe 
so many people listen and con-
nect to its music. But for anyone 
who listens to the raw honesty in his lyrics it’s not surprising.
Butler said he has always 
used music as an outlet. It’s a 
way for him to be able to put 
his feelings into words when he 
normally ﬁ  nds that difﬁ  cult or 
embarrassing. 
“Music has always been a 
vehicle for me to do that with-
out feeling weird or self-indul-
gent or selﬁ  sh,” Butler said. “As 
a person, I have my own difﬁ  -
culties with, you know, mental 
health and my identity like my 
gender identity and sexual ori-
entation, things like that, and 
all any of us want is to feel 
loved and accepted and like we 
can be ourselves and have that 
be OK.” Butler said. “This band 
is very open venue for us to do 
that.”
His advice to those new to 
the scene is to make music that 
feels good to you and that you 
want to listen to.
“There’s going to be other 
people out there that connect to 
it,” Butler said.
Butler said he looks to the 
newest bands who are just 
starting for inspiration, because 
that’s when he thinks music is 
in its purest form. 
“All I want to do is make 
people feel like they matter. 
Their opinions, their bodies, 
their space, they matter and 
they have a voice,” Butler said 
“That’s not unique to us but I 
hope that’s why people like us.”Mom Jeans talks music, FEST and touring
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Mom Jeans will rock the stage at Gainesville’s annual punk rock 
festival, FEST this weekend..
By Vanessa Blankenship
Avenue Staff Writer
FEST Wrestling is all about pro-
moting independent wrestlers while 
encouraging intergender wrestling 
and equality.
Reigning and defending FEST 
wrestling champion, EFFY, won 
the title in February after defeating 
wrestler Su Yung. 5:30 p.m., Sun-
day, he will be competing for his 
title during a fatal four-way match 
with Saieve Al Sabah, Serpentico 
and Jason Cade. 
Q: What are your signature 
moves in the ring? Is there any-
thing that you add to your act 
that makes you stand out among 
other wrestlers?  
A: See here’s the thing, I don’t 
even care about moves. I change 
my moves all the time – what 
wrestling is, is storytelling. You’re 
watching miniature episodes of 
live-action, stunt coordinated, crazy 
entertainment that can tell you any 
sort of story in the world. We’ve got 
sort of this stage where everybody 
is watching from all sides, and you 
can use all these different things that 
you have at your disposal whether 
it be weapons, or whether it be the 
way the ring is built, or whether it 
be a referee getting involved. It’s 
all done in a form of telling this story between the people and these 
matches. 
Taking in every single match 
and enjoying the story that you get 
to tell and enjoying the performers 
you get to work with. Wrestling 
is so insane because you could be 
working with someone who you’ve 
been in a ring with for, you know, 
a hundred times, and you could be 
getting in the ring with someone 
you met 20 minutes ago.
Q: How would you describe 
your character when you are in 
the ring? 
A: My character is a very outspo-
ken, loud, doesn’t hold his tongue. 
(They’re a) queer, glam rock con-
sumer icon.
Q: Is there a persona that you 
have in the ring that’s different 
from who you are with your fam-
ily and friends? 
A: Yeah, I mean, you crank it 
up some, but I think once people 
met me they kind of realized - and 
it happens with a lot of wrestlers - 
we’re all pretty wild,” EFFY said. 
“So, we’re turning it up a little bit 
in the ring, but you know, the way 
we are approaching things, just be-
cause of the way you can be cre-
ative with wrestling and tell these 
stories and create these worlds, 
we’re very out there and I am loud. 
I’m occasionally embracive, and 
I’m very opinionated about things. It’s deﬁ  nitely me, it’s just an excit-
able version of me.  
Q: What is the best advice 
you’ve ever received about wres-
tling?
A: Don’t trust somebody just 
cause they’re famous.
Q: Is it ever awkward when 
you have to wrestle a really good 
friend at FEST?
A: What you’ll ﬁ  nd with wres-
tlers, is the more you know that 
wrestler, the more forgiving the 
whole situation is. Sometimes we’re 
intentionally a little more rough 
with each other or intentionally 
we will try things in a weird way. 
Maybe I’ve wrestled you a hun-
dred times, and I’m holding you 
in a headlock, and I’m whispering 
something silly in your ear just to 
try to make you laugh while we’re 
in the middle of this match. I think 
that’s a total advantage.
Q: Is there anything else you 
would like to add about FEST 
Wrestling? 
A: I would say, wrestling fan or 
not wrestling fan, I think you would 
ﬁ  nd FEST Wrestling enjoyable. It’s 
a very, very diverse crowd, and I 
think people on Sunday will look 
around them and be surprised to 
see who they are in the room with. 
It’s going to be a lot you wouldn’t 
probably always expect - so come 
hang out. Be diverse. Enjoy it. Q&A With Fest Wrestling Champion: EFFY 
WRESTLING
Courtesy to The Alligator
EFFY shows off his championship moves.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. 
Top it off with our famous sour 
orange pie. Now that is a meal any 
FL Gator can enjoy. So come on 
out to the creek + take a step back 
in time. Only here can you see the 
legendary bluesman Willie “The 
Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St.  
(352) 375-7372
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy 
Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off 
select wines by the glass, $5 select 
specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 
3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south 
of Archer Road on 13th Street in the 
Shands Parking Garage. Private 
room available. Great for rehearsal 
dinners, student life organizations, 
and other group events. Always 
taking reservations, call us at 872-
5181. Like us on Facebook and follow 
us on Instagram @chefcarlwatts for 
upcoming events and daily specials.COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee 
and a wide array of desserts and 
treats made daily. Bring your own 
cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, 
lot parking. Indoor and Outdoor 
seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 
336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has 
expanded to include a swanky 
next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection.  
Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-
2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and 
modern Korean dishes with the best 
sushi in town Weekday specials 
including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one 
beer, wine and sake from  
4pm-7pm! 352-384-3733
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you
Lunch: Mon-Sun 11am-3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pm 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482Lindsey Breneman 
Avenue Staff Writer 
FEST is taking over Gainesville 
this weekend for the 17th time. With 
punk-rock fanatics from across the 
globe roaming the streets, it seems 
like a good time to curate some of 
our favorite tunes to blare when we 
want to headbang out our emotions. 
The best part? You can see every band 
featured on the playlist this weekend.
Both The Menzingers and Flatlin-
ers will be celebrating their 11th anni-
versaries dominating FEST stages this 
weekend. Fans of these rock veterans 
can catch both on the Bo Diddley Pla-
za stage on Friday and Saturday night, 
respectively. After The Menzingers, attendees 
should be sure to stick around to 
see Cursive join the long list of punk 
alumni. Then, on Sunday, The Get Up 
Kids will also ﬁ  nally make its FEST 
debut on the same stage. The band 
was an important proponent of punk’s 
rise in the 90s and toured with famous 
names like Green Day and Weezer. 
For a change of scene, we recom-
mend visiting The Wooly on Saturday 
night where Mom Jeans, a newer ad-
dition to the punk scene, will take the 
stage. 
The band accurately describes ts 
music as self-aware but not self-indul-
gent. It’s a brand of pop-punk that’s 
not quite as hard metal as some of the 
other bands but has lyrics so raw and honest that it’s easy to imagine you’re 
friends with these four dudes from 
California. You can catch them right 
before the popular Gainesville native 
rockers, Dikembe.
Wondering where you can catch 
the rest of these songs live? Comeback 
Kid will be at :08 Friday. We Bless this 
Mess will rock the Civic Media Cen-
ter the same night. You can see Adult 
Mom at Rockey’s in the early hours of 
Saturday morning. Crusades is play-
ing their farewell show at High Dive 
Saturday night, and Wet Nurse will 
jam at Durty Nelly’s Sunday. Check 
out thefestﬂ  .com for the entire lineup.
In the meantime, turn your volume 
all the way up and prepare for FEST 
17 with this playlist.The best of FEST: Playlist
MUSICFEST Playlist
“Obituaries” by Menzingers
“Death Cup” by Mom Jeans
“It’s Just a Matter of Practice” by We Bless This Mess
“Holiday” by The Get Up Kids
“Be Your Own 3AM” by Adult Mom
“The Signs of The Times” by Crusades
“Over It” by Wet Nurse
“Pick Up the Pieces” by Cursive
“Apology Not F*****g Accepted” by Dikembe
“Human Party Trick” by Flatliners
“Hell of a Scene” by Comeback Kid
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSelling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Dental Practice Liquidation. Dentist is mo -
tivated to sell any and all equipment, older 
but in good working order, along with instru -
ments and supplies. 1000-B NW 8th Ave, 
Gainesville 32601. Mondays and Tuesdays 
Only. 352-373-7582     10-24-18-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    10-
24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    11-2-18-10-14
Real Estate Job in Gainesville
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email resume to
contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com       10-26-
18-5-14
Take surveys and get paid!
You can make $800/week
completing surveys online!
Free to join!
Go to: www.OnlineOpportunity.club     10-29-
18-5-14
Part-time position at horse boarding farm, won -
derful atmosphere, perfect for someone look -
ing to work around horses a few afternoons a 
week. Must have experience and reference. 
Please contact khcherokee@aol.com      10-
31-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
Designated drivers are the greatestNeed CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
SERVERS NEEDED!!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
11-2-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. GEOGRAPHY: Which of the 
world’s oceans has the most islands?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What does a helixophile collect?
3. COMPEITIONS: What are the 
three events that must be completed in 
an Iron Man Triathlon competition?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which 1928 
presidential candidate and New York 
governor was nicknamed “The Happy 
Warrior”?
5. HISTORY: Who was the last 
American astronaut to go into space 
alone?
6. MUSIC: What is the easternmost 
place mentioned in the song “This 
Land Is Your Land”?
7. LANGUAGE: What is unusual 
about the word “abstemiously”?
8. LITERATURE: What kind of 
creatures were featured in the novel 
“Watership Down”?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state on the 
Pacific Coast was the first to be admit-
ted into the Union?
10. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
sheets of paper are in a quire?
Answers
1. The Pacific
2. Corkscrews
3. Swimming, cycling and running
4. Al Smith
5. Gordon Cooper
6. New York island
7. It contains six vowels (including 
“y”) in alphabetical order
8. Rabbits
9. California
10. 25
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 22, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Make an extra $400 or more per week
in the comfort of your dorm.
Go to: www.collegeopportunities.net       10-
29-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
44-lb Lab / Springer, neutered 
male. Very gentle & friendly.
Call for more info 352-283-2488      10-26-
3-24
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  ____ Sutherland
1.  New Zealand ____5.  Loaded down
2.  Lumpy6.  Get the hang of
3.  Connection7.  Calamity 
4.  SeedDDALON
ALDORLDEANL
LRNAE
ULNDORA
KNLIGEADRAOLE
LERKENANSWERS: 1A-Donald  5A-Laden  6A-Learn  7A-Ordeal
1D-Dollar  2D-Nodular  3D-Linkage  4D-Kernel  B-London10-24-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The current version of ____ Bridge 
is 882 feet long.
BONUS
By Tim Schenck
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/24/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 24, 2018
ACROSS
1 Vote to accept
6 Sincerely asks for
10 Vicki Lawrence 
sitcom role
14 Harley owner
15 “This is __ a test”
16 Flower painted by 
van Gogh
17 Roadblocks
19 Friendly
20 Win the affections 
of
21 “__ lost!”
22 Mental flash
23 Be rude to
24 Doc’s org.
26 Good name for 
many a tree-lined 
street
28 Energy
29 Barely sufficient
33 “Unbreakable 
Kimmy Schmidt” 
co-creator Fey
37 Crossed (out)
39 Prepare, as 
Romano
40 Womb-related
42 Crowd control 
weapon
44 Part of TNT
45 Trace amount
47 Not tacit
48 Ledger column
50 Charlotte-to-
Raleigh dir.
51 Did nothing
52 Calypso-
influenced genre
53 __ of March
57 Minor argument
60 Baseball bat 
wood
62 In the center
64 Airport idler
65 Gambles in a 
church basement, 
maybe
67 Golfer’s selection
68 Easy gait
69 Winemaker with 
1900 acres of 
vineyards in 
California
70 __ a bell: 
sounded familiar
71 Short-horned 
bighorns
72 Lid inflammations
DOWN
1 Clerics in un 
monastè re2 “Outlander” 
novelist 
Gabaldon
3 Gumbo pods
4 Salon jobs
5 Crosby, Stills & 
Nash, e.g.
6 Fancy neckwear
7 Final stage of a 
chess match
8 TV series with 
choreographed 
numbers
9 Word with metric 
or merit
10 Wawa and 
7-Eleven
11 Bone-dry
12 Attic pests
13 Topside, 
perhaps
18 Cowardly
25 With 38-Down, 
bar offering 
found in each set 
of circles
27 Big name 
in small 
construction
30 “Poker Face” 
Lady
31 Needle case
32 Tear to bits
33 Sushi option34 “For real?”
35 Brooklyn NBA 
team
36 Captivating
38 See 25-Down
41 Greek letter
43 Support group?
46 Mold into a new 
form
49 Paper clip 
alternative
53 Senseless sort
54 Shabby55 Sharp-eyed 
hunter
56 Astringent 
plumlike fruits
57 Prepare, as a 
25-/38-Down
58 Prefix with graph
59 Neural 
transmitter
61 Hoping for more 
customers
63 Drops off
66 “Amen!”
By Mark McClain
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/23/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 23, 2018
ACROSS
1 Colorist’s concern
4 Light brown pear
8 Hillary Clinton, 
née __
14 Horace’s “__ 
Poetica”
15 “The Mammoth 
Hunters” author 
Jean
16 Low-scoring tie
17 Big wheel, briefly
18 Controversial 
coal-extraction 
method
20 Wine lover’s prefix
22 Sport shown on 
TV Japan
23 Beer extraction 
gadget
24 Dues-paying 
participant
27 Spanish lady
30 Acquire
31 Isle of Arthurian 
legend
33 Woodland deity
36 Developmental 
insect stage
39 Luau accessory
40 Broadside 
accidents
43 A, in Augsburg
44 Small stores
45 Rather nasty
46 “__ Fideles”: carol
48 Corrode, with 
“away”
49 Macy’s section, 
e.g.: Abbr.
50 Format for some 
tournaments
57 “__ y Plata”: 
Montana motto
59 Bit of talk show 
self-promotion
60 Opal of the 
comics, to Earl 
Pickles
61 Meal suggested 
by the starts of 
four long answers
65 Deli salmon
66 Philadelphia 
campus
67 Building lot unit
68 __-ray Disc
69 Volkswagen 
family car
70 Rough file
71 Some ER cases
DOWN
1 Wreaked 
condition
2 One of the 
archangels3 College sports 
channel
4 Music majors’ 
degs.
5 First stage
6 Blood bank 
supply
7 Upward trek
8 Film genre prefix 
with com
9 Words after work 
or sleep
10 “Gracias” 
response
11 Common people
12 Raggedy doll
13 Eldest of the 
“Little Women”
19 Author of eerie 
stories
21 Delivery MD
25 Least
26 Shankar on the 
sitar
28 Interminably
29 Ouzo flavoring
32 Poughkeepsie 
campus
33 Place
34 Put up with
35 Symphonic 
stories
36 British john
37 European peak
38 Dr. Jekyll creator’s 
monogram41 “Burlesque” 
co-star
42 Being hauled to 
the garage
47 Sundress 
features
48 Lawn 
maintenance 
tools
51 Maker of Cajun 
Shrimp nail 
polish
52 Like the “funny 
bone” nerve53 Never, in 
Nogales
54 “The Hobbit” 
hero
55 Bluffed-out 
words, perhaps
56 Connection
58 Sooner St.
61 Car care brand
62 Pot contents
63 Police rank: 
Abbr.
64 Weight-training 
unit16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Ingildsen, Berdusco win doubles championship
The duo of junior Johannes Ingildsen and sophomore Brian Berdusco won 
the title during the ITA Regional Championships in Athens, Georgia. Sophomore Ida Jarlskog walked 
away from the 2018 ITA Regional 
Championship a winner as she 
claimed the top spot in the singles 
tournament.FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Running back Jordan Scarlett remembers the 
frustration of watching Florida-Georgia last year 
washing over him like a wave surrounding a rock.
He felt helpless, just like that rock before it 
sinks back into the sea, because he was suspend-
ed indefinitely at the time and couldn’t contribute 
to the team. Scarlett watched the game with for-
mer UF receiver Antonio Callaway from the unen-
viable position of his home.  
“We just felt like we could make a difference,” 
Scarlett said. “Just watching the offense struggle 
last year was just a problem for me and him.”
A lot has changed since nearly a year ago. Scar-
lett is back with the team and thriving in his start-
ing role, leading the team with 381 rushing yards 
and three touchdowns. 
Florida’s troubles of a 4-7 season are far be-
hind, as it sits as the No. 9 team in the country. 
And a new coach ushers in a new era in Gators 
football, one without the lull of supposedly made-
up death threats and mediocrity as the norm. 
Scarlett isn’t the only Gator that was affected 
by the memories of last season’s Florida-Georgia 
beatdown.
Quarterback Feleipe Franks doesn’t remember 
much of the pregame drama. Former coach Jim 
McElwain was on his way out of the program, and 
he even told his players he expected that game to Feelings of last year now a distant memory for Gators
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Running back Jordan Scarlett watched last year's UF-UGA game from home. "We just felt like we could make a difference, " 
he said. Scarlett and receiver Antonio Callaway were suspended indefinitely last season. 
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
Nothing but Nettuno / Column
Another season of college 
hoops is upon us, so you know 
what that means: complaining 
about December non-confer-
ence losses on Twitter, Brack-
etology updates ad nauseum 
from Joe Lunardi and the cloud 
of a federal fraud trial that im-
plicates most major programs 
in the country in some way.
Basketball’s back, baby.
Florida’s squad starts the year un-
ranked in the preseason AP Top 25 but 
returns all but one starter from a year ago. 
The Gators will take the court for the first 
time on Tuesday in an exhibition against 
Florida Southern, so here are three bold 
predictions for UF’s season.
Florida will upset Florida State to 
open the season
OK, so maybe this one isn’t that bold. 
But the No. 17 Seminoles haven’t lost to the Gators since 2013. FSU 
returns three starters, includ-
ing its two leading scorers 
from last season in Terance 
Mann and Phil Cofer. The 
‘Noles have an experienced 
team and will pose a tough-
er season-opening challenge 
than the Gators are used to. 
It will also be the first test 
for true freshman point guard Andrew 
Nembhard, the presumptive replacement 
for Chris Chiozza. Not to mention the 
fact that FSU is coming off an Elite Eight 
run a season ago. All of these are good 
reasons to pick the Seminoles to win on 
Nov. 6. That’s why there’s going to be a 
lot of buzz when the Gators catch them 
napping and end the winning streak at 
four.Three bold predictions for 
the 2018-19 Gators seasonSOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
It has been a long time since the Florida 
soccer team faced a Senior Day like this.
With just one regular season game re-
maining, the Gators (5-9-3, 3-4-2 SEC) are in 
real danger of missing the SEC tournament 
for the first time in program history. UF cur-
rently sits in eighth place in the conference 
standings, with only the top 10 teams ad-
vancing.
The top seven teams have all clinched, and 
five teams are mathematically fighting for the 
final three spots. Crucially, UF will enter play 
on Thursday with a three-point advantage 
over Mississippi State and Alabama, the two 
teams on the outside looking in.
The situation is not a familiar one for 
Florida’s senior class. The Gators won the 
regular season SEC championship in 2015, 
followed by a fourth-place finish in 2016 and a third-place finish last year.
Of course, if Florida does end up missing 
the SEC tournament, it is almost guaranteed 
to miss the NCAA tournament for just the 
third time in history.
The desperate situation the team finds it-
self in ahead of what is usually a celebratory 
occasion underscores how far the Gators 
have fallen this year. They have been shut 
out 11 times and barely average a goal per 
game, the fourth-worst mark in the confer-
ence. They are also allowing the fifth-most 
goals in the SEC.
Things won’t get any easier on Thursday 
when Arkansas comes to Gainesville. The 
Razorbacks (11-3-3, 6-2-1 SEC) are currently 
tied for second in the SEC and received the 
most votes of any team not ranked in the 
latest United Soccer Coaches poll. UA is also 
3-0 against teams that are currently ranked.
If it’s any consolation, Florida does lead UF still has everything to play 
for ahead of Senior Day
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16Tyler Nettuno
@TylerNettuno
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
NFL
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
Week 7 of the NFL season 
did not stray from the status 
quo. The Los Angeles Rams 
remained undefeated after an-
other three-touchdown outing 
from presumptive MVP Todd 
Gurley. Tom Brady and the New 
England Patriots found a way 
to win. The Cleveland Browns 
found a way to lose again in 
overtime. And the Florida 
Gators were well represented on 
rosters around the league.
During a bye week for the 
UF football team, several Gators 
stood out at the next level. 
Chicago Bears tight end Trey 
Burton caught nine passes for 
a career-high 126 yards and a 
touchdown in the loss to New 
England. This was the third 
consecutive game in which Bur-ton has scored, as he has clearly 
asserted himself as a reliable 
target for Mitchell Trubisky.
Washington Redskins tight 
end Jordan Reed hauled in 
two passes for 43 yards in a win 
over the Dallas Cowboys. Reed 
has yet to click with new quar-
terback Alex Smith, failing to 
score a touchdown since Week 
1, nor has he topped 70 yards in 
any game this season.
Detroit Lions linebacker Jar-
rad Davis totaled seven tackles 
and one sack in a road win over 
the Miami Dolphins. The 2017 
first-round pick is steadily mak-
ing a name for himself in the Li-
ons’ defensive unit, having re-
corded three sacks and a forced 
fumble so far this season. Davis’ 
teammate and cornerback Teez 
Tabor also had seven tackles in 
the win against Miami.
The Kansas City Chiefs lit up the Cincinnati Bengals defense 
on Sunday Night Football. Ben-
gals defensive end Carlos Dun-
lap sacked Patrick Mahomes 
and recorded one other tackle, 
but as a unit, Cincinnati was 
picked apart by Mahomes. 
Dante Fowler Jr. and the 
Jacksonville Jaguars fell to the 
Houston Texans on Sunday, but 
the defensive end recorded his 
first sack of the season against 
Deshaun Watson. Atlanta Fal-
cons cornerback Brian Poole 
totaled four tackles in a win 
Monday night over the New 
York Giants. Poole has had to 
step up in the secondary with 
fellow former Gator and team-
mate Keanu Neal sidelined for 
the season with a torn ACL.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgGators in the NFL: Burton shines, Tabor nets career day
Alligator File Photo
Chicago Bears tight end Trey Burton caught nine passes for a career-high 
126 yards Sunday in a 38-31 loss to New England on Sunday.  
MEN’S GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Everything seemed locked into 
place ahead of the final round at the 
Tavistock Collegiate Invitational on 
Tuesday. The Gators were slotted into 
10th place out of 15 teams; it looked 
like they would need their very best 
to overcome a six-stroke deficit over 
Illinois, and it would take another 
bad round for UCF to make up eight 
strokes to pass UF. 
But movement was the name of the 
game on Tuesday. Fourteen of the 15 
teams in the tournament moved up or 
down in the standings by the end of 
the final round. Vanderbilt was the 
only team that did not move, as it ran 
away with the competition, winning 
by 20 strokes at 31 strokes under par. 
The Gators moved up one spot and 
finished in ninth place after a one-
over round as a team, a round that 
was a 10-stroke improvement over 
Monday’s performance. They were 
the beneficiary of a 10-over collapse 
by Illinois, which finished tied for 
10th with UCF. 
“We have obviously not had our 
best stuff, but we have been extreme-
ly resilient,” coach JC Deacon said in 
a release. “Once we figure it out, we 
are going to be a top team.”
UF had a problem at the Tavistock 
Collegiate Invitational that it has faced 
throughout its fall slate: a lack of high-
end individual performances. The 
Gators have only had two players with 
top-10 finishes — which happened at 
the Trinity Forest Invitational on Sept. 
25 — and five top-20 finishes. 
Freshman Aden Ye (E) was the only 
UF golfer to finish in the top 20 with 
his 17th-place result, his best finish of the fall season. Ye’s score throughout 
the weekend was like a college stu-
dent’s bank account, always hovering 
around zero as he posted three con-
secutive even scores.  
Senior Gordon Neale (+6) looked 
like his struggles would continue after 
a bogey and a double bogey to begin 
his round. He reeled off four straight 
birdies after that, however, and had 
four more on the back nine, but two 
bogeys to close out his round brought 
him back down to earth. 
Neale finished in a tie for 38th, but 
his 23-place rise in the standings was 
the biggest of any UF golfer on Mon-
day and played a role in Florida’s one-
spot climb in the standings. 
Sophomore Chris Nido (+4) had a 
solid start with an opening round that 
placed him in a tie for third. He could 
not replicate his success over the last 
two days, though, and he fell to a tie 
for 17th after Day 2 and then to a tie 
for 29th by the end of the tournament. 
Sophomore John Axelsen (+6) 
and freshman Eugene Hong (+7) had 
disappointing tournaments, tying for 
38th place and 46th place, respec-
tively. 
The Tavistock Collegiate Invita-
tional saw the end of a fall season 
where the Gators’ best finish was 
fourth place. Deacon wasn’t satisfied 
with their performance during this fall 
season, but he did have some Tebow-
esque confidence about his team. 
“Thankfully, they don’t hand out 
any rings in the fall,” he said. “We’ve 
got some time to get it right and I 
promise there won’t be a team that 
works harder than we are going to 
work over the next three months.”
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgGators take ninth at 
Tavistock Collegiate 
Invitational  FOOTBALL
Staff Report
 
We sat down with the as-
sistant sports editor of Geor-
gia’s independent student 
newspaper, Michael Hebert, to 
ask him some questions about 
this weekend’s UF-UGA game. 
Here’s what he had to say. 
What was the general re-
action around Athens after 
the loss to LSU?  
I think Kirby Smart and the 
team realized they were simply 
outplayed. LSU exposed a lot 
of Georgia’s weaknesses on de-
fense and some of the struggles 
offensively. I personally picked 
LSU to win the game, but I 
didn’t expect them to blow out 
Georgia. It seems very similar to 
last year’s loss at Auburn, but 
it will be interesting to see how 
the team responds, because the 
makeup and leadership of this 
year’s team is different, and it 
will be tested throughout the 
rest of this season. 
What has the team been 
working on leading up to 
UGA-UF? 
We don’t get a lot of insight 
into what the team has been 
working on ahead of games, 
mainly because we are only al-
lowed a small amount of time 
to view practices. From what 
I understand, the main points 
are stopping the run and pro-
tecting the quarterback. To me, 
those are the two big issues that 
Georgia has dealt with through-
out the season, and both will be 
crucial against the Gators. 
How will the absence of 
Ben Cleveland and David 
Marshall impact UGA’s run-
ning attack and D-line?
I think it’s interesting so many people have been asking 
about Cleveland. He has been 
out since the Missouri game 
with a broken leg, which was 
the fourth game of the season. 
He is a great talent on the of-
fensive line, but freshman Cade 
Mays has slid in and has actual-
ly performed pretty well, albeit 
with some freshman mistakes. 
So really, I don’t know how 
much his absence will make 
much of a difference than it has 
in previous weeks. On the other 
side, although we don’t really 
know the status of Marshall 
and when he will return, his ab-
sence is definitely noted due to 
Georgia’s struggles in stopping 
the run, and it showed against 
LSU. 
Jake Fromm threw a ca-
reer-high 34 times against 
LSU. Do you see him throw-
ing with the same frequency 
against UF? 
The fact he threw 34 times 
against LSU is because Georgia 
got down early and offensive 
coordinator Jim Chaney elected 
to throw the ball much more 
in an attempt to make a come-
back. I don’t see the game with 
Florida playing out the same 
way. Georgia has shown that it 
can run the ball effectively, and 
it will need to if it wants to beat 
the Gators. So to answer your 
question, no, I believe Georgia 
will utilize the run and there 
might be some more playing 
time for Justin Fields. 
What matchups are you 
looking forward to the most? 
The matchup I’m interested 
in the most is Georgia’s offen-
sive line vs. Florida’s front sev-
en. One thing I’ve noticed about 
Florida is that its defense has a ton of speed. Georgia struggled 
against an LSU defense that 
could be considered on the same 
level as the Gators. It will be in-
teresting to see how Georgia’s 
offensive line manages that, 
and also how it creates running 
room for running backs Elijah 
Holyfield and D’Andre Swift. It 
will also be interesting to see 
how Georgia uses Fields against 
Florida’s defense, because often 
times it seems like Georgia runs 
the ball more effectively with 
Fields in the game. 
UGA spanked UF last year. 
What’s the confidence level 
of the team heading into this 
season’s matchup?
I think the team understands 
that this game will be much dif-
ferent than it was last season. 
Like I said before, Georgia is a 
much different team than it was 
in 2017, but it is still a good 
team. I think Dan Mullen has 
done an incredible job turning 
Florida around and it should 
be a classic battle between two 
rivals. I’m expecting to see a 
physical football game that will 
be decided late in the fourth 
quarter, and from what Smart 
and the players say, it seems 
like they are too. 
Predictions?
It will be really close, but I 
see Georgia taking this one. Af-
ter the loss to LSU and the bye 
week, Georgia should be moti-
vated to bounce back, but more 
importantly, it will be a rested 
team. The thing is, Florida will 
be rested, as well. I think Geor-
gia has too much talent on of-
fense that will allow it to prevail 
in the end. Players will have to 
make big plays and I think they 
will. Georgia wins, 20-17. Q&A with Red and Black assistant 
sports editor Michael Hebert16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)   $6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSbe his last. 
“To be honest I can vaguely 
remember it,” Franks said. “My 
mind hasn’t been too focused on 
that, haven’t thought about that. 
Just focused on this weekend and 
playing Georgia and stuff.”
Like with Scarlett, the Franks 
from last year was much different 
than the one from this season. 
The redshirt sophomore quarter-
back only threw for nine touch-
downs and eight interceptions in 
2017. He has 15 touchdowns and 
ﬁ  ve picks through seven games 
this season.
“I always knew we’ve had re-
ally good players,” Franks said. 
“At the same time, we’ve always 
had good players, it’s just been 
when can we put it all together, 
when can we make it all happen?”
Some of Florida’s players 
wanted to reﬂ  ect on the past. Re-
ceiver Josh Hammond wants to 
leave it behind him.Of course, he remembers the 
feeling of having to go through 
McElwain’s departure and sitting 
through the uncertainty of the 
future. He believes, though, that 
everyone has moved on.
“The past is in the past,” Ham-
mond said. “We have let go of it. 
We are just worried about this 
year and worried about going out 
to practice and execute and get 
ready to compete and try to get 
better.”
Hammond said the team is just 
focused on making Florida-Geor-
gia, No. 9 vs No. 7, live up to the 
hype.
The Gators spent the bye week 
resting and rejuvenating. They 
hardly thought about Georgia. 
But this week, Florida is all-in on 
the Bulldogs.
“It’s a great feeling. I think 
knowing it’s a big game, it gets 
guys ready to play,” Hammond 
said. “It gets them amped up. I 
think we will be ready to play. 
We got to prepare all week for it.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 14Franks: "I always knew we've had really good players."
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Wide receiver Josh Hammond didn't record a catch in last year's 42-7 loss to Georgia. "The past is the 
past, " he said. "We have to let go of it. "
the all-time series between the 
two sides 21-1. The two teams 
have not met since the 2016 SEC 
Tournament ﬁ  nal, which Florida 
won.
Florida’s 10 seniors, includ-
ing this year’s leading goal scorer 
Lais Araujo and captain Sarah 
Troccoli, will be honored before the 6:30 p.m. kickoff. Forward 
Melanie Monteagudo, midﬁ  elders 
Brittney Bennett, Briana Solis and 
Mayra Pelayo, defenders Courtney 
Douglas, Rachelle Smith and Sara 
Wilson, and goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese will all be honored be-
fore the game as well.
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 14UF will honor 10 seniors 
Thursday against ArkansasThe Gators will win the SEC Tournament
Sure, the Gators were picked to ﬁ  nish ﬁ  fth in the 
league at SEC Media Day in Birmingham last week. I 
don’t buy it, though. Tennessee and Auburn topped 
the conference a year ago, and Kentucky is probably 
going to do Kentucky things, but Florida has the talent 
to compete with these teams. UF is deeper than it was 
last season, especially in the frontcourt. Isaiah Stokes 
and Chase Johnson appear to ﬁ  nally be healthy, and 
newcomer Keyontae Johnson should see meaningful 
minutes. The Gators will start conference play slow, 
but once they solidify their rotation, they’ll surge to 
ﬁ  nish second in the SEC in the regular season. After 
splitting the regular season series, Florida will take down the Wildcats in the SEC Championship Game in 
Nashville.
UF will make it to the second weekend of the 
NCAA Tournament
They may not reach their full potential, but the 
Gators are a team that’s built to win in the tournament. 
Three returning seniors. A returning junior starter. A 
potential freshman phenom. Experienced depth. This 
is the formula that led Florida to deep tournament runs 
in 2014 and 2017, and UF will enter the tournament 
playing its best basketball of the season. The Gators 
will ride their veteran leadership to their ﬁ  fth Elite 
Eight appearance in eight years.
Tyler Nettuno is a basketball writer for The 
Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @TylerNettuno and 
contact him at tnettuno@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14