We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
Does the media cover Tim Tebow 
too much? 
We tell you why he and other athletes past their 
prime shouldn’t get the limelight, pg. 15Combating mental illness
How are ROTC programs helping cadets’ mental health? pg. 5
1930s UF memorabilia donated to university
Find out how the items were found, pg. 9FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
By Victoria Chin
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF College of Journalism and Com-
munications has hired 15 faculty members 
in an effort to push UF to top three in the 
U.S. News & World Report’s annual ranking 
of top public schools.
UF currently holds No. 9 and is tied with 
the University of California, San Diego and 
the University of California, Irvine.
One factor that has kept the school from 
reaching a higher nationwide ranking is its 
faculty size, said Spiro Kiousis, executive 
associate dean and professor of public re-
lations. The Florida Board of Governors is 
providing about $110.6 million that UF is us-
ing to hire more faculty and reach its goal of 
entering the top-three ranking.
The college’s 15 hires include 11 lectur-
ers for the journalism, telecommunication and public relations departments and four 
assistant professors for the advertising, tele-
communication and public relations depart-
ments.
Joining the college’s ranks are profession-
als in their ﬁ  elds and top-notch researchers 
and scholars. Kiousis said this many people 
have never been hired by the CJC at once.
“To my knowledge, it’s unprecedented,” 
Kiousis said. “It’s historic nationally, as well 
as historic for us.”
The new faculty will be teaching both 
already established and new courses in the 
college. Some have started their positions, 
but the majority of them will begin in the 
Fall, including CNN Wire’s Moni Basu, who 
will teach narrative nonﬁ  ction.
Professor and chair of UF’s Department 
of Public Relations Marcia DiStaso said the 
department will gain Natalie Asorey, a social 
media specialist who will teach a writing 
and social media class; Mickey Nall, who worked for Ogilvy Public Relations and was 
the 2013 Public Relations Society of America 
chair and CEO, and Myiah Hutchens, a pub-
lic relations scholar who will teach political 
public relations.
Having these new hires will put more 
full-time faculty members in classrooms, 
DiStaso said.
“We’ve got some amazing (graduate) 
students teaching, amazing (adjunct profes-
sors) teaching, but this just gives us a little 
bit more ﬂ  exibility,” DiStaso said.
DiStaso said each department evaluated 
its faculty to determine which skill sets were 
lacking. Applicants were judged based on 
how they could strengthen the CJC’s faculty 
base and improve the student experience.
“It’ll help us grow, help us meet demands 
of students to kind of provide the fantastic 
degree that we’ve been providing but also 
step up our game,” DiStaso said.
Construction to create ofﬁ  ces for the new faculty members began Thursday, said Ran-
dy Wright, executive director of the Division 
of Media Properties. Four spaces in Weimer 
Hall that were once conference rooms and 
storage areas will be used for the new of-
ﬁ  ces.
The construction and furniture will cost 
an estimated $193,000, and technology for 
the rooms another $40,000, Wright said.
“This is the ﬁ  rst time in my nine years (at 
UF) that we’ve done something extensive to 
make space for new faculty,” Wright said. 
The construction is projected to be com-
pleted by Aug. 15, before the new faculty 
orientation. 
“It’s nice for us to be able to continue 
to grow,” DiStaso said. “It’s rare for univer-
sities to do that. I know many across the 
country that are just teaching bare minimum 
classes, and we can provide all the hot, fan-
tastic topics with some amazing professors.”UF CJC hires 15 faculty members, starts Weimer renovationsBy Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Freshman Robyn Clarke’s 
transition to college was like any 
other — ﬁ  lled with anticipation 
and excitement. But unlike most 
students, Clarke lives with cere-
bral palsy, a neurological disorder 
affecting movement and posture, 
making her transition into a dorm 
a little different.
“I’m not strong enough to open 
the door on my own,” Clarke 
said. “When I try, it just takes all 
of my strength and effort.”
As she looked for a college to 
attend, Clarke struggled to ﬁ  nd a 
university with on-campus hous-
ing where she could live safely on 
her own terms. 
“I still need a lot of help doing 
regular, everyday tasks,” Clarke 
said. “But the problem that (my 
family) kept coming up with was 
that none of the other schools 
really had the accomodations I 
needed.”
Clarke eventually found a 
home in UF. With plans to expand 
from 11 to 19 handicap-accessible 
rooms by next summer, UF could 
house more students like her. 
UF is one of few schools in the 
country to offer secure, inclusive 
housing for students living with disabilities, said Jenna Gonzalez, 
associate director and learning 
specialist for the Disability Re-
source Center.  
“We have the ADA law as the 
baseline, but UF just took it above 
and beyond,” Gonzalez said. “It’s 
really rewarding to see how ac-cessibility has changed.”
The accommodations pro-
vided by UF are giving Clarke a 
new-found freedom. She lives in 
Cypress Hall, which was built in 
2015 and provides student with 
disabilities a secure place to live 
independently. Every dorm on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor 
is handicap accessible, Clarke 
said. Each room is also specially 
designed to ﬁ  t the student’s in-
dividual needs. A furniture shop 
customizes furnishings to make 
the area more accessible. 
“It just seems like UF has thought of nearly everything,” 
Clarke said. “This dorm is al-
lowing me to be independent in 
a way I never have been before.”
In addition to customized fur-
niture, UF and the University of 
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
are the only U.S. schools to pro-
vide tools for students with dis-
abilities, such as ceiling lifts for 
in-room mobility and bang bars, 
which are vertical, metal bars 
that just need a gentle tap to open 
doors, Gonzalez said. 
“Now, I’m able to go down-
stairs on my own without it being 
such a big undertaking,” Clarke 
said.
There are different levels of 
residential accommodations, 
from rooms without carpet for 
students suffering from allergies 
and asthma to single dorms for 
those with anxiety and depres-
sion. Gonzalez works with each 
student who qualiﬁ  es to ﬁ  nd or 
create housing that suits them.  
“Without this, I don’t know 
where I would have gone. I might 
have been stuck at home taking 
classes online,” Clarke said. “Be-
cause of these accommodations, 
I’m able to come here, live my 
dream and get a degree that I can 
then use to go out and make a dif-
ference in this world.”UF plans to expand handicap-accessible housing next year
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Cypress Hall is one dorm on UF’s campus that offers accommodations speciﬁ  cally for students with 
disabilities. Every dorm on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor is handicap accessible.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 102
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaT oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 102
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
HIGH  89° LOW  74°
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Florida Museum hosts free 
Creative B movie ‘Nightwing’
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting a screening of 
“Nightwing,” released in 1979 
and rated PG, at the museum 
Friday at 7 p.m. Visitors will 
have the chance to discuss the 
film with a panel of scientists, 
artists and special effects ex-
perts. The museum and Creative 
B will screen the movie and 
explore the balance between 
science and art with an expert 
panel. The panel discussion 
starts at 7 p.m., followed by the 
movie. The museum's perma-
nent exhibits will be open to the 
public for extended hours until 
10 p.m. Parental discretion is 
advised. For more information, 
visit www.floridamuseum.ufl.
edu/event/creative-b-nightwing 
or call 352-273-2061.
Adult softball sign-ups 
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department's adult softball 
league is open until Aug. 31. 
Teams can plan on the Monday 
Men's League or Tuesday and 
Friday Coed Leagues. The 
Monday Night Men's League 
starts Sept. 10; the Tuesday 
Night Coed League starts Sept. 
11, and the Friday Night Coed 
League begins Sept. 14. The sea-
son for each league ends dEC. 
14. A mandatory team manag-
er meeting is Sept. 6 at 7 p.m. 
at the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Multipurpose Center meeting 
room, located at 1028 NE 14th St. 
All team managers are expected 
to attend, as well as individuals 
still looking to join a team. The 
cost for each team is $203.50 for 
city residents and $304.75 for 
non-city residents. Teams will 
not be registered until payment, 
roster form and all player con-
tracts are submitted. All forms 
and information are available 
on the adult athletics webpage. 
Please bring proof of residency 
when you come to register. For 
program information and those 
individuals wishing to sign up as 
free agents, please contact Scott 
Chase at 352-393-8751 or at cha-
sea@cityofgainesville.org.
Alachua County Installs 
WeatherSTEM Observation 
SystemAlachua County has installed 
a new meteorological observa-
tion system at the High Springs 
Fire Station. Alachua County 
Commissioner Ken Cornell won 
the system in a drawing at the 
Florida Association of Counties 
conference in November 2017. 
WeatherSTEM provides us-
ers with an integrated meteo-
rological observation system 
that allows residents to receive 
real-time information on lo-
cal weather and its impacts. A 
smartphone app for the system is 
also available. This new system 
complements the existing sta-
tions located at the University of 
Florida and the Alachua eSchool.
Florida Museum open extended 
hours every Friday in July
As part of the UF Creative B 
program, the Florida Museum’s 
permanent exhibits, except the 
“Butterfly Rainforest,” will re-
main open until 10 p.m. on 
Friday and July 27. Join the 
museum for free bat-themed 
movies to complement the cur-
rent featured exhibit “Masters 
of the Night: The True Story of 
Bats.” A panel discussion will 
take place before each screen-
ing. For more information, visit 
floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/
summer-extended-hours or call 
352-846-2000.
Development review meeting 
The Alachua County 
Development Review Committee 
will meet Thursday at 1:30 p.m. 
The meeting will be held in 
the Jack Durrance Auditorium 
(room 209) of the County 
Administration Building located 
at 12 SE First Street. The meet-
ing will disscuss: Greenhouse 
Church PD, Phase 1 - Paved 
Parking. This is a Revised Final 
Development Plan additional 
paved parking spaces and drive 
aisles on approximately 50.355 
acres located on Tax Parcel 
Number 04193-004-010 at 10924 
NW 39th Ave. For more infor-
mation, contact the Alachua 
County Growth Management 
Department at 352-374-5249 or 
Leslie McLendon at lmclendon@
alachuacounty.us. The public 
is invited to attend the meet-
ing. Due to schedule conflicts, 
it will not be available to view 
live on Cox Channel 12 or on 
the County's Video on Demand 
website. If you have a disability 
and need an accommodation in 
order to participate in a county program, service or public meet-
ing, please contact the Alachua 
County Equal Opportunity 
Office at (352)374-5275 at least 
two business days prior to the 
event. TTY users, please call 711 
(Florida Relay Service).
FDOT to hold public hearing on 
proposed State Road 45 me-
dian modifications 
A public hearing regarding pro-
posed changes to State Road 45 
(U.S. 41) in Newberry will be 
held July 24 at the Newberry 
Branch of the Alachua County 
Library, 110 S. Seaboard Drive, 
Newberry, FL 32669. It will begin 
with an open house from 4:30 
p.m. to 6:30 p.m., followed by 
a public comment period at 6:30 
p.m. The Florida Department of 
Transportation is considering 
changes to the median, roadway 
warning devices and pedestrian 
warning devices near the rail-
road crossing on State Road 45 
(U.S. 41) between Northwest 7th 
Avenue and Newberry Lane in 
Newberry. Project documents 
will be available for review at 
the public hearing and at www.
nflroads.com by July 24. Persons 
wishing to submit written state-
ments or other exhibits in place 
of or in addition to oral state-
ments may do so at the hear-
ing or by sending them to Kyle 
Coffman, 2198 Edison Ave., 
Jacksonville, Florida 32204. 
All exhibits or statements post-
marked on or before Aug. 3 will 
become part of the public hear-
ing record.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Sen and email with "What's 
Happening" in the subject line to 
editor@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day's 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted "What's Happening" 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper. VOLUME 112 ISSUE 102
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
Photos by Davio Rodriguez / Alligator Staff
Above: A group of dancers perform during Friday night’s “Swamp Dance Fest” that took place 
during the Harn Museum of Art’s “Print Party” event.
Right: Dance majors Shannah Parkin, 22, (left) and Lynette Fisher, 20, (center) practice before 
their performance. Behind them is a Kehinde Wiley painting, Dogon Couple.
Above Right: Two-year-old Ava makes a screen print with the help of Harn Museum of Art 
intern Madison Ricker while being held by her mother, 33-year-old Letitia Williams.
Harn Museum hosts ‘Swamp Dance Fest,’ helps create art By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Newberry resident was ar-
rested by Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office on Sunday night for alleg-
edly threatening a woman’s family 
to get money.
On June 14, 
Russell Holling-
sworth, 55, alleg-
edly left a sealed 
letter to the vic-
tim in her car. 
According to the 
letter, the wom-
an’s husband 
had wronged so 
many people that he owed a total 
of $46,424.
The woman was instructed 
not to tell her husband or anyone 
about the letter. If she didn’t pay 
the money, the “Revenge Squad” 
would set up her son so he would 
go to prison for drugs, according to 
the letter.
It was also written in the letter 
that they would kidnap her daugh-
ter and have her raped, beaten, tor-
tured and fed heroin until she was 
a “junkie hooker.”
According to the arrest report, 
the woman was instructed to make 
an initial payment and stick it un-
der a portable toilet at a designat-
ed time and place. After that, she would be able to make nine more 
payments on the 15th of every 
month at the same time and place.
On June 16, an ACSO officer 
dropped off the first payment of 
$100. The payment was picked up, 
but the camera didn’t capture the 
person who took it.
On July 15, the second payment 
was placed in the same spot by 
detectives. Numerous SWAT mem-
bers and cameras were in place for 
if the suspect showed up.
At about 9:45 p.m., Holling-
sworth reportedly arrived on 
Northwest Millhopper Road and 
picked up the package. As he was 
walking away, ACSO took him into 
custody.
Hollingsworth later said he 
didn’t like the woman’s husband, 
according to the arrest report. He 
said he used to work for her hus-
band, who constantly screwed 
people over.
Hollingsworth reportedly just 
wanted the woman to “get smart” 
and leave her husband. He said 
that would be a way to get back at 
him.
According to Alachua County 
Jail records, ACSO charged Holling-
sworth with extortion. His bond is 
set at $75,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
Hollingsworth
Man accused of public masturbation
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
A man being accused of masturbating in public 
was arrested Monday by Gainesville Police.
Demytrius Wilkins, 19, was charged with loitering 
and prowling.
A GPD officer went to 1015 NW 
21st Ave. on Monday around mid-
night and responded to a report of a 
suspect masturbating in the parking 
lot as residents walked by, accord-
ing to the report. On the scene, the 
officer identified Wilkins as match-
ing the description.
When Wilkins saw the officer, 
he quickly turned and walked away 
from view, according to the report.
She caught up with Wilkins and saw him try to 
hide in a dark area near the building. When Wilkins 
saw her, he quickly turned and lunged forward but 
was detained.
After being read his Miranda rights, Wilkins said 
he did not live in this complex. He said he walks 
through the complex on his way to work in the morn-
ing, according to the report. 
Based on the location of Wilkins’ home and job, 
the officer didn’t think it made sense for him to walk 
through the complex, according to the report. She 
also believed it was an unreasonable time for him to 
be at the complex.
When the officer told Wilkins about these incon-
sistencies, he changed his story and said he likes to 
walk around and listen to music, according to the 
report.
GPD has received about 12 calls within the past 
four weeks, all giving a similar description of Wilkins 
with the same description of the incident, but they 
were not able to locate the suspect, according to the 
report. 
Law enforcement officers are also filing a sworn 
complaint against Wilkins for indecent exposure, ac-
cording to the report.
Wilkins was released from Alachua County Jail on 
Monday morning. He was not given bond.
Wilkins told The Alligator this is the second time 
an officer stopped him to say he fits the description 
of someone they were looking for and that a witness 
saw him. The officers were different on both stops.
“It is too many times, and it is not good,” Wilkins 
said. “This has happened too much, and it needs to 
stop.”
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgBy Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
A pedestrian was killed Sunday 
night after being hit by a car on 
Northwest 39th Avenue, or State 
Road 222.
Carlos Hunt, 32, was driving his 
Buick Regal in the right lane when 
he collided with Madeline Quintana 
around 11:30 p.m.
Quintana, 25, was in the middle of the road when she was struck 
by the front left side of the car, ac-
cording to Florida Highway Patrol’s 
press release.
The driver had no injuries, and 
alcohol was not a factor for him, ac-
cording to the release.
The victim was transported to 
UF Health Shands Hospital where 
she was pronounced dead, accord-
ing to the release.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgThird suspect arrested in 
connection with January shooting
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
On Jan. 15, three men allegedly drew guns 
and shot into and around a car in Alachua, at-
tempting to kill the people in-
side. Five people were injured, 
including two toddlers.
On Wednesday, Alachua 
Police arrested Jeffrey Rob-
inson Jr., a third suspected 
shooter in the investigation.
APD Chief Chad Scott an-
nounced at a press conference 
that Robinson, 23, was taken 
into custody without incident at around 12:45 
p.m. Members of the special investigation unit 
arrested him on Northwest 135th Terrace and 
Northwest 154th Avenue in Alachua.
APD Sgt. Jesse Sandusky said they had infor-
mation early on in the investigation that Robin-
son may have been involved but were unable 
to make an arrest until Wednesday. Robinson 
didn’t know APD was looking for him, Sandusky 
said.
When he was arrested, Robinson spontane-
ously said, “Oh yeah, I have weed in my pock-
et,” according to a report. 
Brothers Kenzel Edwards, 22, and McKenzly 
Edwards, 24, have already been arrested and 
charged with six counts of attempted murder.
“This does not bring an end to the investiga-
tion or the effort by the Alachua Police Depart-
ment to rid this community of this senseless vio-
lence,” Scott said.
The three men reportedly associate them-
selves with a self-proclaimed gang. Sandusky 
said groups have existed for a while, but APD 
has seen more criminal activity and violence in 
the past year.
Activity has mostly been seen in the north-
west part of Alachua, and patrol has increased in 
those areas, Sandusky said. APD is not releasing 
the names of any gangs.
“This type of behavior has no place in our 
community, and we will not stop until they are 
dismantled to the core,” Scott said.
According to Alachua County Jail records, 
Robinson is being held in lieu of $1,802,000 bail. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgACSO: Man accused of extortion threatened victim’s son
Pedestrian identified in Sunday fatal collision Robinson Jr.
 Wilkins
By Stephanie Strickland
Alligator Contributing Writer
McKenzie Smith, 22, knows 
what it feels like to reach her 
breaking point. 
Smith and her teammates were 
competing in the Ranger Challenge 
when she felt her mind and body 
break down. Fatigue had taken 
over. 
She no longer felt she had it 
within her to ﬁ  nish the course, but 
her teammates felt otherwise. 
“The captain of the team grabbed me by my ruck and said, 
‘McKenzie, I believe in you, you 
can do this,’” Smith said, and she 
did just that. 
It was this act of mental tough-
ness during Smith’s time within 
UF’s Army ROTC program that she 
will bring to the Army Nurse Corps. 
For many Americans, ﬁ  reworks, 
barbecues and campﬁ  res have 
become staples of Fourth of July 
celebrations. In the wake of these 
festivities, Americans are reminded 
of those who have worked to up-
hold the freedom this holiday com-memorates through the U.S. armed 
forces.
According to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, there are 
around 20 veterans who commit 
suicide each day, accounting for 
nearly 20 percent of suicides in the 
country. 
Mental illnesses such as post-
traumatic stress disorder and de-
pression are not uncommon among 
the armed forces. 
Despite this, students at UF and 
across the country are excitedly 
preparing to take up military roles 
through ROTC programs. These 
students often carry a heavier load 
than others and seldom have addi-
tional resources dedicated to their 
mental health.  
However, Savannah Herrington, 
a second-year psychology major 
with a vested interest in devel-
opmental psychology, said if ad-
ditional mental health resources 
were provided to these students, 
they may go unused. 
“One of the main reasons why 
people do not reach out for mental 
health support is that they are too 
afraid or too ashamed to ask for 
help,” she said. 
Herrington’s thoughts align 
with a research study conducted by 
Kristopher Hall, a former doctoral 
student at the University of Central 
Florida, in his dissertation regard-
ing mental health stigmas among 
ROTC students. 
Hall concluded that service 
members avoid seeking help if they 
feel there is a chance of being ste-
reotyped or negatively labeled.
However, Hall also found that 
if students or faculty in leader-
ship positions supported the use 
of mental health resources, ROTC 
students were more likely to take 
advantage of them.The best line of defense when 
it comes to mental health among 
ROTC students are themselves on 
a personal and interpersonal level, 
Herrington said. 
“ROTC programs can be suc-
cessful for the transition into the 
military as long as they focus on 
building strong-minded and conﬁ  -
dent individuals,” Herrington said.  
Lt. Col. Bryan Lucas, the senior 
Marines instructor at the Edgewa-
ter High School Junior ROTC pro-
gram in Orlando, works to do just 
that. 
Lucas said he recognizes that it 
is his responsibility to ensure the 
mental health of his students. He 
encourages them to create a sup-
port system among themselves as 
they go through the rigor of mili-
tary programs. 
“What we say is, ‘You’re a fam-
ily, and it’s your responsibility to 
look out for one another,’” he said.  
Lucas said the goal of JROTC 
and ROTC stretch beyond the dura-
tion of the program itself.
“We want them to be success-
ful in life,” he said, which includes 
ensuring that each student has a 
strong network to fall back on. 
This network is what Kenzee 
Marcotte, 19, is hoping to rely on 
as she joins UF’s Air Force ROTC 
program this upcoming Fall. 
Marcotte said she has struggled 
with her own mental health in the 
past but believes that coming into 
a network of other students with 
similar goals will help her build her 
own inner strength. 
“I hope that the Air Force brings 
me a sense of community, family 
and belonging that will help aid in 
my mental health,” she said. 
Marcotte is supportive of the ef-
forts UF has made regarding mental 
health as a whole through resourc-es such as the Counseling & Well-
ness Center. However, she said the 
addition of an on-site counselor 
may alleviate some of the anxiety 
associated with the transition be-
tween ROTC and active military 
service. 
“ROTC students will face a dif-
ferent kind of stress that the aver-
age student may not face: The re-
ality that after school is over, they 
may be serving our great country 
and the challenges that come along 
with this will require a different 
kind of psychological assistance,” 
she said. 
John Maxwell “Max” Clausen 
Jr.,  20, is a UF geology junior with-
in the Navy ROTC program, and he 
said the program has integrated 
mental health into its curriculum 
to teach students how to respond 
in stressful situations. 
One example of this training is 
during Freshmen Orientation week 
for Navy ROTC. 
Clausen said cadets are intro-
duced to stressful environments 
and learn how to focus on the men-
tal health of themselves and those 
around them, but this type of train-
ing doesn’t end there. 
“Being able to manage stress is 
an important skill taught through-
out the four years students are in 
the program,” he said. 
Clausen also participated an 
experimental summer training in 
June. One of the primary tenants of 
the program was to practice men-
tal toughness during stressful and 
dangerous situations. 
The program is set to become a 
mainstay in Navy ROTC training, 
Clausen said. 
Read the rest of this story online 
at alligator.org.TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Combating mental illness 
A look into the mental health resources of ROTC programs
Courtesy of Stephanie Strickland
Seth Stanley runs at his home in T ampa, Florida, to stay well-
conditioned for the upcoming school year. 
Editorial
ColumnElection prep: 
Part 1
I’m a loud woman, and I refuse to shut up
My younger cousin has developed a 
bit of a reputation as a troublemaker 
in the family and at school because 
of her outspoken nature. Despite 
being born into an Eastern culture 
that tries to soften its women into submission, 
she has grown with a loud voice and an unfor-
giving tongue. She says controversial things, 
starts conversations and challenges teachers 
and peers. I connect with her because I share 
her expressive personality and have also suffered be-
cause of it. In response to her exuberant personality, 
people isolate her, bully her, disregard what she says 
and put her down.
It makes me wonder, would the circumstances be 
different if she were born a boy? 
What if she was raised in a West-
ern culture? Does the West have 
a superior level of equality for 
women anyway? Do we hear the 
voices of women and girls when they speak, or do we 
talk over them?
Boys who exhibit her qualities are praised as leaders. 
They are admired for having the courage to stand up to 
the status quo. They aren’t crazy; they’re innovators. 
They quickly rise to management positions and make 
great public speakers. Unfortunately, when men speak, 
we all listen a little harder. Women who are outspoken 
are painted as annoying, nagging, bossy or obnoxious. 
And if they get something we want or say something 
we don’t like, they’re called a b----. If the woman is a 
part of any other minority group, the treatment is often 
harsher.
I don’t believe there are even male equivalents to the 
types of slurs that are used against women. Curse words 
used against men criticize laziness, dumbness or rude-
ness. While words used to blast women take aim at ad-mirable qualities like achievement, resilience, 
and conﬁ  dence. People use words like “slut” 
or “nasty woman” to temper us, to make us 
softer, to keep us under control. We respond 
by overusing the word “sorry” and keeping 
our voices down in fear of being belittled or 
even worse — ignored. 
Perhaps the most disturbing part of this 
unfair criticism toward women is that other 
women are often the ones taking the shots. 
We join in on these smears because we’re taught to be 
in competition with one another. We think there isn’t 
enough success for women to go around, so we try to 
tear each other down.
Because women already face so much discrimination 
for exhibiting leadership quali-
ties, we don’t need to add to the 
already bitter climate. As women, 
let’s not use names men created to 
put us down.
It saddens me to think my cousin, who was gifted 
with such candid qualities and an expressive heart, is be-
ing taught she is inadequate because of these strengths. 
It’s a shame all these girls who are natural born leaders 
would be discouraged from asserting themselves. We 
should be encouraging girls to be themselves, especially 
if that means being ambitious.
The next time you are about to use a slur toward a 
woman or call her bossy, consider whether you would 
say the same about a man. Are your own jealousies 
clouding your perception? Women, don’t be afraid to 
be bold, loud or annoying. Don’t shrink to ﬁ  t the world, 
make the world grow to ﬁ  t you.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. Her column 
comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Aug. 28 is right around the corner, folks. One of the most 
important days of the year is nearly upon us: primary elec-
tions.
There are plenty of seats at stake. Federal, state and 
local positions are up for grabs, and you have the oppor-
tunity to make your voice heard.
Residents can vote for up to 11 different ofﬁ  ces. We will break 
them down in a four-part series leading up to the election. The ﬁ  rst 
two on our list: U.S. representative and state chief ﬁ  nancial ofﬁ  cer. 
Please note this editorial is not an endorsement of any candidate.
U.S. Representative
Gainesville, your current congressman is Ted Yoho, a Republi-
can on the House Committee on Agriculture and the House Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs. He’s sponsoring or cosponsoring several 
bills, including the Cyber Deterrence and Response Act of 2018, 
which outlines a proposed response against hackers based in Rus-
sia, China, Iran and North Korea. Yoho holds an A-rating from the 
NRA for his stance on the Second Amendment.
Yoho faces primary challenger Judson Sapp, a newcomer to the 
political scene. He strongly supports President Donald Trump on 
a number of issues. Sapp has tweeted in agreement on Trump’s 
tariffs on China and his meeting with North Korean leader Kim 
Jong Un. Sapp was formerly the CEO of his family’s railroad con-
struction business.
Democrats are ﬁ  elding three candidates facing off in the pri-
mary. Dushyant Gosai, Yvonne Hayes Hinson and Tom Wells are 
all vying for the nomination. Gosai said his top priority would be 
to “ﬁ  ght for free college education,” according to a survey issued 
by Ballotpedia. He also listed raising the minimum wage and im-
migration reform as his other main goals.
Hayes Hinson is a former Gainesville city commissioner. She’s 
in favor of supporting the Medicare for All bill currently being dis-
cussed in the House. She also wants to eliminate “sentencing dis-
crepancies that target African-Americans” and legalize and regu-
late recreational marijuana, according to her campaign website.
Wells ran as an Independent in the 2016 election against Yoho. 
His priorities include focusing on investing in clean energy sources, 
increasing the minimum wage and expanding Social Security, ac-
cording to his campaign website.
Chief Financial Ofﬁ  cer
Both the Democratic and Republican candidates are running 
unopposed, leading to an ultimate showdown between them and 
one other write-in candidate in November.
For clarity, the chief ﬁ  nancial ofﬁ  cer oversees 2,000 employees 
who regulate state spending, insurance and consumer protection, 
reinstating felons’ voting rights and other issues. 
The Republican incumbent is Jimmy Patronis, a former Florida 
legislator. He was appointed to the CFO position by Gov. Rick Scott 
in June 2017. Patronis played a major role in forcing Ofﬁ  ce of Fi-
nancial Regulation Commissioner Drew Breakspear to resign fol-
lowing disagreements in Breakspear’s ofﬁ  ce handling of a sexual 
harassment complaint, according to a Tampa Bay Times report.
Jeremy Ring is Patronis’ Democratic opponent. Ring is a former 
state senator and former executive at Yahoo. His top priorities in-
clude protecting Florida pension funds and stabilizing insurance 
rates, according to his campaign website. He said he believes his 
background in Silicon Valley would help sell Florida as a business 
destination.
Richard Paul Dembinsky is the write-in candidate for CFO. 
Dembinsky is a former Democratic candidate for Florida governor 
before he withdrew in March.
We at The Alligator urge you to learn more about these and all 
other candidates for local, state and national ofﬁ  ce before heading 
to the polls in August and November. Florida residents can register 
to vote at registertovoteﬂ  orida.gov.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
“W e think there isn’t enough success 
for women to go around, so we try 
to tear each other down.”
Layla Soboh, Alligator columnist
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!
On Monday, 
President 
Donald  
Trump de-
nied that 
Russia interfered 
with the 2016 elec-
tion. What Trump 
did Monday ﬂ  ies in 
the face of U.S. in-
telligence agencies. 
Trump went against 
the CIA, FBI and NSA to side 
with the authoritarian ruler of 
a geopolitical foe. This begs the 
question: Is he really still acting 
like our president?
Here’s what you need to 
know about the 2016 election 
meddling and what our U.S. 
intelligence agencies have said 
about it. First, the Justice De-
partment, through the special 
counsel, indicted 12 Russian in-
telligence ofﬁ  cers for meddling 
in the election. But the ﬁ  ndings 
aren’t out of the Justice Depart-
ment alone. On the list of those 
who have recognized Russia’s 
election meddling are: the Sen-
ate Intelligence Committee, the 
House Intelligence Committee, 
the director of national intel-
ligence, Secretary of Defense 
James Mattis (appointed by 
Trump), his own Secretary of 
State and former CIA director 
Mike Pompeo, the National Se-
curity adviser and, best of all, 
his own press secretary Sarah 
Huckabee Sanders.
So why won’t Trump say it 
was the Russians?
As an American, you have 
to wonder why your own presi-
dent, the leader of your country 
and poster boy of the free world, 
won’t acknowledge something 
so simple, so basic, as to have 
the entire consensus of the in-
telligence community. Why 
deny what the overwhelming 
amount of evidence is scream-
ing? The only possible answer 
is that Trump is more afraid 
of Russian President Vladimir 
Putin than he is committed to 
defending the U.S.Let’s drop the act. 
You can go ahead 
and forget about 
Trump wanting to 
“normalize rela-
tions” with Russia. 
Forget about “easing 
the tension.” You 
can safely toss “he 
wants diplomacy 
with a country that 
was once our en-
emy” out the window. Pompeo 
and I are on opposite ends of 
the political spectrum, so I take 
what he says with a heaping 
tablespoon of salt. But when 
Pompeo, despite his right-wing 
views, says “I am conﬁ  dent 
that the Russians meddled in 
this election … This threat is 
real,” I believe him. We can put 
politics aside for a minute and 
recognize this threat to our de-
mocracy.
Why can’t Trump?
Trump showed us where 
his loyalties lie at the Helsinki 
press conference. Not with his 
own government. Not with his 
own country. Not with democ-
racy. Not with Americans. It 
has become so glaringly obvi-
ous, so apparent, so neon, so 
egregious, that we cannot af-
ford to wait. Trump must be 
impeached, and I do not say 
this lightly. He is, through inac-
tion and cowardice, promoting 
the interests of Putin over our 
own. He has undercut the U.S. 
and its interests at every turn.
Remember when Trump 
won? And everyone went out 
into the street and chanted “Not 
my president?” Some said that 
was ridiculous. He is in ofﬁ  ce, 
and I am citizen, after all. But 
after these two years, I didn’t 
make that statement come true. 
He did. Trump abandoned us 
ﬁ  rst. He is not our president. He 
never was.
Stephan Chamberlin is a 
UF political science junior. His 
column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday. Never was my presidentColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
Hey Gator Nation,
It’s hard to believe the 
second week of Summer B 
is already over. Whether 
you were working, taking 
classes or just taking it easy, I hope 
you have all had a safe and produc-
tive ﬁ  rst half of summer. I’m happy 
to write to you today to give some 
updates from your Student Govern-
ment. We received many great ap-
plicants for summer staff positions, 
and they’ve been able to accom-
plish so much already.
I am happy to announce that 
beginning this fall, we will be 
hosting regular meetings with 
the Gainesville City Commission, 
Gainesville Police and University 
Police. This is part of my commit-
ment to working with the local com-
munity to ensure that a healthy dia-
logue is created between members 
of the UF and Gainesville commu-
nities. External Affairs Chairwoman 
Emily Dempsey is working hard to 
ensure these meetings are success-
ful, and the ﬁ  rst one is scheduled 
for early September. These meet-
ings will give students the oppor-
tunity to voice their concerns with 
our local government and to foster 
a greater sense of civic engagement.
Accent Speakers Bureau Chair-
man Greg Wolf hosted Accent’s ﬁ  rst show during Summer A, featuring 
Emmy award-winning journalist 
Byron Pitts. Pitts spoke about the 
importance of education and how to 
use our own privileges to help oth-
ers be successful. The Summer Ac-
cent show was part of SG’s efforts 
to engage with Innovation Academy 
students, who are an essential part 
of the Gator Nation.
As many of you know, June was 
LGBTQ+ Pride Month. One of my 
campaign promises when I was run-
ning to be Student Body president 
was to foster an inclusive environ-
ment that focuses on representation 
here at UF. With this, I used my 
power of executive order to ofﬁ  cial-
ly recognize Pride Month this year. 
It has been awhile since a Student 
Body president has utilized execu-
tive orders, but I felt it was essential 
to use the resources I have available 
to support students. At UF, we need 
to support all of our students and 
their diverse identities. An inclusive 
community can only make us stron-
ger as we aim to be a top-ﬁ  ve pub-
lic institution. Beyond our campus 
community, it is clear the ﬁ  ght for 
LGBTQ+ equality is not over, and 
we must always look at what we 
can do here to stand with marginal-
ized groups.
As we all know too well, Sum-mer at UF means taking classes 
in “Rainesville.” To help students 
stay dry, SG and U Matter, We Care 
within the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce 
will provide backpack rain covers 
for students. These can be used 
to keep textbooks, computers and 
anything else you may keep in your 
backpack dry from the elements. 
These will be provided a little later 
in the summer, so be on the lookout 
for those!
Finally, I’m happy to let you 
all know that applications are still 
open to join university committees. 
These committees give students the 
chance to provide their input on 
a number of issues and initiatives 
on campus. Applications for com-
mittees are due Friday and can be 
found at ufsa.uﬂ  .edu/students/
committees/university_commit-
tees/.
SG has been working hard for 
students throughout the summer. 
I am looking forward to seeing all 
that we can accomplish on behalf 
of every Gator. Thank you for tak-
ing the time to stay informed, and 
as always…
Go Gators!
Ian Green
Student Body PresidentAn open letter from SG President Ian Green
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
Above: Raised in captivity, this bat was the perfect outreach animal for events such 
as the Lubee Bat Conservancy’s “Bat Show and T ell” event at Gainesville’s Bass Pro 
Shops.
Above right: Keepers from the Lubee Bat Conservancy pose with one of their outreach 
bats at Gainesville Bass Pro Shops on Saturday.
Right: Children were able to observe live bats eat fruit during the Lubee Bat 
Conservancy’s “Bat Show and T ell” event.
Lubee Bat Conservancy hosts bat educational programBy Alana Wilson 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo 
opened its first walk-through aviary 
Sunday. Visitors are able to enter the 
animals’ habitat and get close to native 
Floridian birds.
“We have a lot of exciting exhib-
its and interesting animals here,” said 
Anna Meyer, a student zoo keeper. 
“But this lets our patrons get a lot clos-
er to our animals and see them without 
the wire in front of them.”
This project began about six 
months ago and was made possible 
by a $125,000 grant from the City of 
Gainesville. Due to the rain, the aviary 
took longer than expected to finish. 
“But as it finally started to come to-
gether, it was so satisfying to see the 
pond be a pond and not a mud hole in 
the ground,” Meyer said. 
There were signs leading to the new 
area, but some people still had trouble 
finding it. 
“I couldn’t find it at first. I thought 
it was going to be a bigger exhibit,” 
said Darius Rodriguez, a zoo visitor.
The visitors can watch the birds from two areas: inside the aviary or 
beneath a covered pavilion. The pavil-
ion was once used to view the alligator 
exhibit, but the alligators were moved 
next to the aviary to make room for the 
new bird sanctuary. 
The aviary houses birds like rose-
ate spoonbills, whistling ducks, wood 
ducks, white ibises, a blue-winged teal 
and a cattle egret, said Jessica Shim-
skie, another student zoo keeper.
“All of these animals can be found 
in Florida,” Shimskie said. “Hopefully, 
it’ll help people be concerned about 
what’s in their own backyard, too.”
The birds came from Dallas, San 
Antonio, St. Louis and the Smithson-
ian’s National Zoo in Washington, D.C.
The roseate spoonbills’ bright pink 
color caught the most attention from 
visitors. The birds made their presence 
known by standing on logs along the 
walkway, closest to the families.
“The pink birds really seem to not 
care if you’re there,” Rodriguez said. 
“They just walk around right past you 
or clean themselves a foot from you, so 
that’s kinda neat.”
Most of the other birds were tucked 
away beneath the trees or sitting on the higher branches.
“Some of the other birds are still 
getting used to people,” Rodriguez 
said.
The zoo also has a guest experience 
keeper who will be in charge of watch-
ing the birds and the guests in the avi-
ary while the zoo is open.
Zoo staff members will take over 
maintaining the exhibit. The food costs 
and exhibit maintenance come out of 
the zoo’s budget.
The zoo staff come in every morn-
ing to clean the aviary, feed the birds 
and make sure they’re O.K., Meyer 
said.
While working on the aviary, the 
zoo staff had a goal of improving on 
the exhibits, she said.
“We want our animals to have the 
best home,” Meyer said. “If we can do 
something like this instead of putting a 
bird into a smaller enclosure, it’s bet-
ter for the birds, and it’s better for the 
guests.” 
This exhibit will be open as long as 
the zoo remains open.
“We hope this lasts forever,” she 
said. “This isn’t a limited time: This is 
a new permanent exhibit.”Santa Fe College opens first walk-through aviary to public
Courtesy of Alana Wilson
Two roseate spoonbills sunbathe along the walkway of their 
new home at the Santa Fe College T eaching Zoo. 
Photos by Matthew Goldman
Alligator StaffBy Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
Almost a century ago, Charles E. 
Boll stashed three keepsakes from his 
freshman year at UF underneath a pair 
of wool pants. He painted them shut 
inside of a purple drum.
A month ago, Kathy Carney, 58, 
and her son Ryan, 26, bought three 
drums for $5 each at a thrift shop in 
Hurricane, West Virginia. It was a typi-
cal day for the avid thrifters.
As the shop owner lugged the pur-
ple, red and yellow drums to the car, 
he noticed something inside one and 
said, “Well, you got something extra.” 
When Carney got home, she used a 
screwdriver to pry open the lid. 
“We came back to the house, and 
we had lunch. Quite honestly, I didn’t 
even think about the drums,” she said. 
When the purple drum popped open, 
she “got hit in the face with the aroma 
of the past.” 
Inside, a complete World War II 
Marine uniform covered a rectangular 
UF banner and triangular pennant and 
two small beanie-like hats called “rat 
caps,” one from UF and one from the 
Georgia Institute of Technology. 
“The colors were so brilliant. The 
felt was wonderful,” Carney said. “I 
couldn’t really say anything. If you 
knew me, that’s a big deal for me to be 
speechless.” 
The UF items were donated to the 
University Archives at the George A. 
Smathers Libraries on June 18, where 
they will be used for exhibits and re-
search, university historian Carl Van 
Ness said. They are currently being 
conserved and are not on display.
“We did not want to sell it because 
it had so much historic value to the 
university. It was not a money-mak-
er,” Carney said. “This was something 
valuable in itself as what it represent-
ed.”
Van Ness said Boll’s rat cap is the 
oldest one in the university collection, 
and his pennants are among the old-
est, if not the oldest, in the collection. 
The orange UF rat cap had the year 
‘33 sewn in blue on top and the words “Rat Boll” and “Ironton, Ohio” hand-
written on the inside.
“Prior to World War II, and even 
brieﬂ  y after World War II, ﬁ  rst-year 
students were required to wear a rat 
cap,” Van Ness said. “It was part of 
a quasi-hazing process whereby fresh-
men were admitted to the university 
and accepted by the Student Body.” 
Along with the caps, Van Ness said 
other traditions were common during 
the 1930s at UF. Freshmen had to at-
tend every football game and were 
not allowed to walk through the Plaza 
of the Americas. Instead, they had to 
walk around to go to class.
Freshmen also had to beat sopho-
mores in a game called “ﬂ  ag rush” 
where they had to wiggle 13 feet up 
a greased pine tree outside of Thomas 
Hall and retrieve the ﬂ  ag, Van Ness 
said. If they won the game or Florida 
beat the University of Georgia in foot-
ball, they were allowed to remove their 
caps early.
Van Ness said it is typically difﬁ  cult 
to date items like these, but he con-
ﬁ  rmed Boll’s items were purchased in 
1929 because he only attended UF for 
one year before returning to his home-
town in Ohio.
“For something that was sold in 
1929, it was really amazing how well 
(the pennants have) been maintained 
over the years,” he said. “Usually you 
see fading in these kind of materials, 
but because they were stored probably 
forever in the dark, they haven’t faded 
very much.”
Since donating the items, Boll’s son, 
Charles E. Boll II, contacted Carney 
about her and her son’s ﬁ  nd. Carney 
said she is meeting up with him soon 
to give him his father’s Marine uniform 
and a baby rattle that was also in the 
drum.
In 2006, Charles E. Boll died in 
Stuart, Florida, at 97 years old. Van 
Ness said he plans to have Boll’s rat 
cap on display in the Reitz Union once 
he takes down the current display of a 
younger rat cap and jacket on the ﬁ  rst 
ﬂ  oor.
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Angela DiMichele / Alligator Staff
A pair of West Virginia residents found historical UF ﬂ  ags and banners in a container they 
bought from a thrift store. 
Angela DiMichele / Alligator Staff
The University Archives at the George A. Smathers Libraries received a “rat cap” from the 
1930s. The donations are among the oldest items in the university’s collection. 
West Virginia residents uncover vintage 1930s UF memorabilia10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
GUIDE TO 
  DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comINSULIN PRICES MORE THAN 
TRIPLED BETWEEN 2002 AND 
2013.
By Blake Trauschke
Alligator Contributing Writer
The difference between $50 and $300 
for a dinner to Savannah Hocter is if she 
is given a regular soda instead of the diet 
version she ordered.
UF sociology and criminology senior 
Hocter has Type 1 diabetes, meaning her 
body cannot produce insulin, a hormone 
that converts food to energy. Any un-
known sugar intake can cause her glucose 
to spike.
The Right Care Alliance and the Em-
powered Patient Coalition of Gainesville 
are holding a public forum in the Reitz Union on July 31 at 5 p.m. to discuss ris-
ing drug prices, focusing on insulin, UF 
medical and doctoral student Frederick 
Ashby said.
Ashby said the three companies that 
own the patent to insulin in the U.S. — 
Eli Lilly and Company, Novo Nordisk and 
Sanoﬁ   — have jacked prices in unison for 
the past few decades.
The cost for these companies to pro-
duce a bottle of insulin is $1.90, Ashby 
said, yet they charge about $300 a bottle.
Ashby said the organizations are host-
ing the forum because they believe in poli-
cy solutions, and they hope to host profes-
sional speakers and local politicians.
“The insulin products have not changed 
during these price hikes since each type 
was created,” Ashby said. “These rising 
drug prices are purely for company prof-
it.”Advocacy groups to hold 
forum addressing rising 
insulin prices
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Scientists at UF and Georgia Institute 
of Technology have begun $1 million re-
search to develop breeding techniques that 
allow peanut crops to withstand drought.
UF professor and study program direc-
tor Diane Rowland said the researchers 
will observe the peanuts’ root systems, 
photosynthesis maintenance and overall 
stress tolerance.
Greenhouse trials are among the meth-
ods being used to test these traits, Row-
land said. They will take the best perform-
ing peanut plants from the greenhouse 
and farm them, monitoring their water 
stress by remotely taking the plants’ tem-
peratures.
“The techniques that we develop could 
be utilized by others to build on for future improvements,” said UF Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Science agronomist Barry 
Tillman.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture an-
nounced the project last week, Tillman 
said. It will be funding both UF and GT’s 
efforts.
By the end of the three-year research 
period, the crops will be used in a breed-
ing program, Tillman said. These crops 
will cover 50 acres of land at the North 
Florida Research and Education Center in 
Marianna and the Plant Science Research 
and Education Unit in Citra, Florida.
Rowland hopes the project will give 
insight to how other crops may handle 
drought and develop peanut varieties that 
can better handle water scarcity.
@dcassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgUF researchers develop 
techniques to breed 
drought-tolerant peanutsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1600/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $950/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
7-31-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
DROP DEAD GORGEOUS HOME FOR 
SALE NEAR UF EAST CAMPUS.  Perfect 
for 2 students or married student w/ children. 
3/1.5 newly renovated, move in ready. New 
roof, new kitchen w/ granite counter, new 
stainless appliances, new luxury vinyl plank -
ing everywhere except new carpet in BRs, 
new bath w/ comfort level toilet, new vanity 
& fixtures. Freshly painted inside & out. AC 
only three years old. Call Carl 352-446-8559.   
8-7-18-7-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$1850/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-19-18-4-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 9 Bicycles 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Seeking part-time copy editor/technical writ -
er. Must have prior editorial/copy editing ex -
perience and must have advanced grammar 
knowledge. Rate is $12/hour. Please send 
resume and cover letter to pda@gue.com.  
7-19-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 7/23- 7/26 
from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; 
Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach -
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then 
"workshops” to register.      7-19-18-2-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Excites, with “up”
5 Programs
opened with a
fingertip
9 Furtive attention-
getters
14 When doubled, a
fish
15 Computer folder
item
16 Musical
eightsome
17 *Air Force topper
19 Go halfsies
20 Creator of the
Hundred Acre
Wood
21 Onetime comm.
giant
23 Concerning
24 *Subconscious
revelation
28 Unethical
31 __ brûlée:
custard dessert
32 Wild hog
33 Excite, with “up”
35 Up to now
38 Pipe shape
39 *Solution for an
itchy Spot?
42 __-Magnon
43 Honking birds
45 Cookie 
container
46 Woman in a
family tree
47 Armada
50 Eurasian
grasslands
52 *Escapes
55 Beat really fast
56 “Gimme a __”
57 Cacophony
61 Not up to the
task
63 Opposites, and
what the
answers to
starred clues
literally contain
66 Ford replaced
him as VP
67 Folded Tex-Mex
treat
68 Daily paper
material
69 Back in style
70 Underworld river
71 Stun with a police
gunDOWN
1 Radio switch
2 Landlocked
African country
3 Three-time
Masters champ
Mickelson
4 Formally accept,
as a delivery
5 Toward the stern
6 Camera shot
7 Kilt pattern
8 __ tank
9 Neg. opposite
10 Deep divides
11 Hockey trophy
12 Purple-haired
twin on “The
Simpsons”
13 Brew
18 German gent
22 Shingle sealant
25 Royal wedding
guest, perhaps
26 Peter Fonda’s
beekeeper
27 Tide type
28 “__ your pardon”
29 Spy story staple
30 Like evildoers
34 Laundry tub
36 Shore bird
37 Youngsters
39 Charges for
members40 Part of DJ
41 Really enjoying,
as a hobby
44 Unexpected hit
46 Name officially,
as to a position
48 Sci-fi invaders
49 Robberies
51 Seemingly forever
52 Monastery figure
53 Jessica of
“American Horror
Story”54 Panache
58 Thought
59 Hems, but
doesn’t haw
60 To be, to 
Brutus
62 Word 
before time 
or piece
64 Like an “if 
looks could 
kill” look
65 Quaint curse
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/17/1807/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 17, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Movie: “American ____”
1.  Position 5.  Corner
2.  Thankless person6.  ____ Empire
3.  Chosen7.  Male or female
4.  Flying ____PESIRN
CAETNSENALG
ZTECA
NRIAGET
TLEDEECDGEREN
UCSERAANSWERS: 1A-Sniper  5A-Angle  6A-Aztec  7A-Gender
1D-Stance  2D-Ingrate  3D-Elected  4D-Saucer  B-Argentina7-17-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to more than 300 glaciers. 
BONUS
1. Baltimore’s Trey Mancini tied 
a record in 2016-17 by hitting eight 
home runs in his first 17 major-league 
games. Who else did it?
2. Pitchers Octavio Dotel and Edwin 
Jackson hold the major-league mark for 
playing for the most teams. How many?
3. The Pittsburgh Steelers selected 
four future Pro Football Hall of Fame 
players in the 1974 NFL Draft. Name 
three of them.
4. In 2017, Duke tied the record for 
most times being ranked No. 1 in The 
Associated Press men’s basketball 
preseason poll. Who else has held the 
ranking nine times?
5. The Nashville Predators set a fran-
chise record in the 2017-18 season for 
most victories for a season (53). In 
what season was the previous record?
6. Who was the last American wom-
an before Shalane Flanagan in 2017 to 
win the New York City Marathon?
7. The 2018 Masters featured the 
fourth consecutive golfer to win his 
first major at that event. Name three 
of the four.
Answers
1. Toronto’s Carlos Delgado (1993-
94) and Colorado’s Trevor Story 
(2016).
2. Each has pitched for 13 teams.
3. Lynn Swann, Jack Lambert, John 
Stallworth and Mike Webster.
4. North Carolina.
5. The Predators won 51 games in 
the 2006-07 season.
6. Miki Gorman, in 1977.
7. Jordan Spieth, Danny Willett, 
Sergio Garcia and Patrick Reed.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
July 16, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets
ACROSS
1 Adobe extension
4 Food
8 Formal
affirmation
14 Amazement
15 “Logan”
superheroes
16 Bib, essentially
17 Cooking acronym
18 Calendar model’s
argument?
20 First word of The
Beach Boys’
“Kokomo”
22 David Caruso
starred in the
Miami version
23 __ periculo: at
my own risk
24 Ones who curry
favor in Cannes?
29 Jackie portrayer
on “Nurse Jackie”
30 Spike TV, once
31 He finished
hosting “The
Tonight Show”
12 years before
Fallon was born
34 Tool points
37 Long past
41 Booms in the
poultry industry?
44 Wrap label
45 Isaac’s eldest
46 Extended tale
47 “Just joking!”
49 Narrow cut
51 Northern New
York gallery,
say?
57 Latin lover’s word
58 Cup holder?
59 Seller of spots
61 Package on the
porch ... or
what’s been
brought to 18-,
24-, 41- and 
51-Across
66 Main man
67 Snicker
68 Anticipatory
times
69 Beauty
preceder?
70 Small stock
purchase
71 Pudding starch
72 Amount realized
DOWN
1 Smurf with a red
hat
2 Fictional miner3 Longest human
bone
4 Open a satellite
shop, say
5 Bizet’s buddy
6 Base __
7 Moved furtively
8 Demand
9 One in a pub
lineup
10 Google’s was in
2004, briefly
11 Be very thrifty
12 Trig functions
13 In the know
about
19 Penultimate
Greek letter
21 Six-pack makeup
25 Picture at
Cannes
26 “Die Lorelei” poet
27 __ day: school
contingency
28 Not in the book
31 Cubicle fixtures
32 “I got it!”
33 It’s all around you
35 School __
36 Unavoidable jerk
38 What might
reveal the
answer to “Who’s
your daddy?”
39 Custard base40 Org. that abhors
leaks
42 Windsor, for one
43 “Star Trek”
lieutenant
48 Smartphone
alternative
50 Parental words of
finality
51 Decided on a
diamond
52 Sat
53 Start to cycle?54 Wasp nest sites
55 __ Dictionary
56 Road sign with a
double-tailed
arrow
57 One on a
driveway
60 One who works
with feet
62 FedEx alternative
63 Want ad abbr.
64 Actress Gabor
65 Gas pump spec.
By Jim Quinlan
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/13/1807/13/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 13, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols LewisUF football coach Dan Mullen 
and three players - CeCe 
Jefferson, David Reese, Martez 
Ivey - will participate in SEC 
Media Days today in Atlanta 
from 1:30 p.m. to 5:45 p.m. HARPER WINS HOME RUN DERBY
Nationals slugger Bryce Harper won the Home Run Derby in Washington 
D.C. Monday night. The right fielder had 21 home runs in the championship 
round against the Cubs' Kyle Schwarber. He became the third-ever cham-
pion to win at his team's home stadium.  Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
SOFTBALLalligatorSports Staff Report
After a 2017-18 UF athletics season full of 
unbelievable plays and exciting finishes, the 
alligatorSports staff narrowed down the an-
nual Moment of the Year Award to four se-
lections: Feleipe Franks’ touchdown to Tyrie 
Cleveland against Tennessee, Austin Lang-
worthy’s walk-off home run against Auburn 
to send UF baseball to the College World Se-
ries, Caeleb Dressel’s record-setting 50-meter 
freestyle at the NCAA Championships and Jor-
dan Matthews’ walk-off homer to lift Florida 
softball to the Women’s College World Series. 
The panel of Mark Stine, Evan Lepak, 
Brendan Farrell, Chris O’Brien and Andrew 
Huang argues its picks for last season’s best 
moment.
Andrew: If you’re going by wins and loss-
es, the Florida football squad had the least 
successful season among the 19 different var-
sity sports teams representing UF.
But today, we’re talking about the best 
play of the year, which just so happens to be-
long to that same football team.
I remember it clearly, and definitely didn’t 
watch the replay on YouTube before recount-
ing  “Heave to Cleve” for you: It was Sept. 16 
and Tennessee was in the Swamp, the score 
was tied at 20 with nine seconds left in the 
fourth quarter, and the Gators had one last 
chance to win the game and avoid overtime. 
Quarterback Feleipe Franks was lined up 
in the shotgun formation and wide receiver 
Tyrie Cleveland was isolated on the left side 
of the field. 
The ball was snapped and the Volun-
teers’ four-man rush proved too much for the 
Gators offensive line. As the pocket collapsed, 
Franks evaded a tackle and slipped forward to 
the right hash mark, set his feet and launched 
the ball towards the end zone. 
Cleveland had beat the cornerback in front 
of him and was streaking down the field. Then 
he got a step on one of UT’s safeties, and the 
pass hit Cleveland perfectly in stride. It was 
a season-long 63-yard completion for Franks 
and a season-long reception for Cleveland. 
The game was over.It was pandemonium. It was yet another 
nail in the coffin of Vols head coach Butch 
Jones’ already-shaky job security. It was the 
entire Gators football team dogpiling on top of 
each other (with poor Cleveland stuck at the 
very bottom) in the end zone. It was the top 
moment, with little to no competition, of the 
UF athletics 2017-18 year.
@AndrewJHuangahuang@alligator.org
Evan: My “Moment of the Year” candidate 
has my vote due to the sheer circumstances 
behind the play itself. 
First off, Game 3 of the Gainesville Super 
Regional between Auburn and Florida on 
June 11 was already bonkers to begin with. 
Not only was the winner heading to the Col-
lege World Series, but the game featured a 
steal of home in the fourth inning that gave the Gators their second run of the contest.
In a postseason game, something like that 
is almost unheard of.
Heading into the bottom of the 11th, the 
contest was tied at two runs apiece. Gators 
left fielder Austin Langworthy hadn’t record-
ed a hit yet, and I certainly wasn’t expecting 
a walk-off winner from a guy who only ac-
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Nine UF softball players partici-
pated at the USA Softball Interna-
tional Cup in Oklahoma City, which 
included 13 teams representing 11 
countries. 
The tournament began Monday, 
July 9 and concluded Sunday with 
the bronze medal and champion-ship games. With five UF products 
on its side, the USA Red team faced 
off with Japan for the gold medal, 
winning 10-5, while the USA Blue 
defeated China 7-6 to place third. 
The Red’s roster featured play-
ers exclusively from the United 
States’ 2017 World Championship 
team, while the Blue’s utilized tal-
ent from the Japan All-Star Series 
that took place in June. Former Gators Michelle Moult-
rie, Kelsey Stewart, Aubree Munro 
and Kirsti Merritt started for the 
USA Red in the finale, while ris-
ing senior pitcher Kelly Barnhill 
watched from the dugout. Former 
UF pitcher Delanie Gourley and 
rising senior outfielder Amanda 
Lorenz left with bronze medals as 
representatives for the USA Blue.
Moultrie went 2 for 3 against Ja-pan, belting a solo home run and 
an RBI-single. The right fielder and 
Jacksonville native got a hit in all 
six of the Red’s games, leading the 
team with 11 hits. She also picked 
up four RBIs and scored six runs 
while posting a tournament slug-
ging percentage of 1.063. 
Munro was a mainstay behind 
the plate for the USA Red, playing 
in all six of the team’s games and starting four. The 24-year-old from 
Brea, California, batted 4 for 11 for 
the tournament and made two tags 
at the plate in the Red’s final two 
games. 
She kept a runner from scoring 
in the in the bottom of the sixth of 
Saturday’s 11-2 victory over Chi-
nese Taipei, and she denied Japan’s 
Natsuko Sugama from scoring in alligatorSports Awards: Best Moment of the Year
Five Gators take gold at the USA Softball International CupAlligator File Photo
Tyrie Cleveland hauled in the game-winning touchdown pass from Feleipe Franks as time expired against T ennessee on Sept. 16. 
The "Heave to Cleve" received three of five votes for "Best Moment of the Year" from our alligatorSports panel.
SEE AWARDS,  PAGE 16
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
FOOTBALL
The Associated Press
ATLANTA (AP) — Southeastern Con-
ference Commissioner Greg Sankey says 
the Supreme Court ruling that struck down 
a federal law barring gambling on sports 
could cause the league to require schools to 
issue weekly reports that list the status of 
injured or ineligible players.
Speaking to reporters Monday at the start 
of the league’s annual media gathering, 
Sankey stressed that gambling’s potential 
effect on games is one of the most impor-
tant issues facing the league, but the SEC is 
unlikely to require weekly reports in 2018.
Sports books often use information on 
injured or ineligible players to hedge the 
line.
“FERPA and HIPAA requirements, aca-
demic suspensions, other team or athlet-
ics department-imposed suspensions and 
NCAA eligibility issues make something more like an availability report relevant for 
discussion,” Sankey said Monday. “I do not 
believe this has to happen before the 2018 
season, either on the part of this conference 
or the national level.
“I expect, however, the change in sports 
gambling could be and will be likely the im-
petus for the creation of such reports in our 
future.”
The Supreme Court ruling in May states 
that states wanting to take advantage of the 
ruling can pass legislation to allow sports 
books to open. Mississippi is the only SEC 
state currently that will allow sports books 
to begin taking bets at its 28 licensed ca-
sinos — a process that could begin this 
month. Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri and 
South Carolina have considered legalizing 
sports books.
Sankey said the SEC has spoken since 
2011 with the NFL, NBA, Major League 
Baseball and PGA ofﬁ  ces to learn how other leagues are monitoring the issue. The SEC 
has prioritized its approach to legalized 
gambling, it will not act hastily.
“That will result from collaboration 
among the American Football Coach’s As-
sociation and its representatives, the con-
ference, the NCAA national ofﬁ  ce, learn-
ing from the professional leagues and with 
proper guidance from legal resources,” he 
said. “If this is to happen, we have one op-
portunity to get it right.”
Appearing at the College Football Hall 
of Fame, just a few blocks from Mercedes-
Benz Stadium, Sankey used the locale to 
point out some of SEC’s biggest accomplish-
ments over the last few years.
After playing its championship game for 
23 straight years at the Georgia Dome, the 
league moved to Atlanta’s new marquee 
site, Mercedes-Benz Stadium, and had two 
teams there in the national title game with 
Alabama beating Georgia.It’s nothing new for the league to have 
one of its schools playing for the game’s 
biggest prize.
“A team from the SEC has played in 11 of 
the last 12 national championship games,” 
Sankey said. “Five different SEC teams have 
accessed the national championship game. 
Four different SEC teams have participat-
ed in winning nine of the past 12 national 
titles. It’s the second time, however, since 
2011, that two SEC teams have been in the 
national championship game.”
Fans keep ﬁ  lling up stadiums, too.
“As a conference, we’ve led the nation in 
football attendance for 19 years,” he said. 
“The conference’s approach maintains our 
long-standing rivalries, both within divi-
sions and across divisions where they ex-
ist.”
Sankey added that SEC teams played in 
the ﬁ  ve highest-rated college football games 
on television last year.  Sankey: New gambling laws could result in SEC injury reports
A week ago, I wrote a col-
umn about how I think 
Tiger Woods is over-
rated, washed-up and 
doesn’t deserve nearly 
the amount of media coverage he 
receives.
But this column isn’t about Ti-
ger. No, let’s make it bigger than 
that because it’s not only him who 
receives more attention than he 
deserves, I think we can all agree 
on that. Let’s look at some athletes 
who get way too much of the spot-
light:
Oh man, I’m about to get cruci-
ﬁ  ed by the Gator faithful for this 
one. This is Gainesville suicide. 
Dare I say it? Dare I utter the name 
of a man who is the most perfect 
person, the most wonderful hu-
man being ever created, the best 
role model that one could think of? 
I love him to death, seriously, but 
Tim Tebow ( gasp!) receives too 
much attention.
Okay, settle down you Florida 
fans. 
Listen, I adore Timmy Touch-
down. I go to UF, and I grew up 
watching him at the helm of what 
were arguably the best four years 
of Gator football ever.  I idolized 
him, had his jersey, shook his 
hand at every Gator Walk I attend-
ed, and I understand that he is just 
overall the best type of person you 
could ever meet. I, of all people, 
know how great he once was.
Now, hear me out.
Not a lot of people outside of the Florida faithful really enjoy fol-
lowing his endeavors.
Since when do we care about 
the Double-A Minor League All-
Star game and the fact that some-
one hit a double? But I guarantee if 
you watch ESPN, FOX Sports, NBC 
Sports or follow any other sports 
medium (i.e. Bleacher Report), 
you know Tebow did just that. 
You don’t know about Jordan 
Romano, a New Hampshire pitch-
er who eviscerated batters with an 
MLB-ready 96 m.p.h. fastball, or 
Portland’s Matt Kent, who tossed 
a 47 m.p.h. eephus pitch (I mean, 
how do you even do that when 
you’re regularly throwing in the 
80s?).Again, I respect Tebow – I 
think he’s a winner through and 
through, and if I have 11 Tebows 
on a football team (or a baseball 
team for that matter), I’m going 
undefeated. I’m not saying cut all 
coverage of Timmy, not at all. He’s 
been on ﬁ  re his last 10 games. I’m 
just saying let’s give equal cov-
erage to the talent in the league 
alongside him.
It feels wrong to mention 
Tebow and Johnny Manziel in 
the same breath, but the former 
Texas A&M product is one of the 
most prominent cases of America 
caring way too much about an ath-
lete that is simply second-rate.
If I polled 4,500 random sports fans and asked them to name one 
player in the Canadian Football 
League, I’d estimate over 95 per-
cent would respond with Manziel.
Thank God for Jeremiah Maso-
li.
Oh, wait, you don’t know who 
that is? Ha, that’s funny consider-
ing he’s the starting quarterback 
for the Hamilton Tiger-Cats, the 
same team Manziel is on.
If you’ve never heard of Maso-
li, look him up and you’ll quickly 
ﬁ  nd he’s a stud. He’s second in 
the CFL in passing yards through 
four games. In his WORST yardage 
contest, he threw for 322 yards and 
three touchdowns – pretty damn 
good stats for a “worst” game. The former Oregon and Mississippi 
product is ﬁ  rmly entrenched in the 
starting quarterback position for 
Hamilton. 
Much like Tiger, Manziel is an 
awful role model and still domi-
nates coverage for his league. I 
don’t ever want to hear Manziel’s 
name without hearing Masoli’s in 
the same sentence.
Finally, I really, really don’t 
care what Ronda Rousey does 
anymore. I pretty much lost re-
spect for her after she showed a 
complete inability to deal with 
a loss. In sports, there’s winning 
and losing and, unless you’re 
Floyd Mayweather, you’re going 
to ﬁ  nd yourself on the losing side 
at some point.
When Rousey’s vibrant ﬂ  ame 
was extinguished by Holly Holm 
in 2015, she embarrassed herself 
by never lighting it again. Yes, 
she attempted a return in 2016 but 
got ﬁ  lleted by Amanda Nunes in a 
bout that showed Rousey had no 
desire to even be in the Octagon.
Recently, it was announced that 
the ﬁ  ghter would be inducted into 
the UFC Hall of Fame. Sensational, 
she deserves it. Seriously an awe-
some ﬁ  ghter and fun to watch.
But then she moved to the 
WWE, and my interest dissipated.
Do I really care what she does 
in the WWE? No, no I don’t. And 
you shouldn’t either because 
WWE has absolutely no relevance 
to actual sports. 
WWE is pretty interesting and 
a cool show, but just really has no 
signiﬁ  cance in the sports world. 
It’s a production, not a sport.
Let’s focus more on the athletes 
today that really matter. Not the 
athletes of yesterday.
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer. 
Follow him on Twitter @THE-
ChrisOB and contact him at co-
brien@alligator.org.Stop giving media coverage to washed-up athletesO’B-Wan Kenobi / Opinion
The Associated Press
Tim T ebow is arguably the greatest football player in Florida history, but does that mean he should be 
judged on his former accolades forever? Even as a minor league baseball player?
Chris O’Brien
Twitter: @THEChrisOB16  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 17, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University Avenuecounted for four home runs the en-
tire season.
But, as they say, sometimes you 
just have to expect the unexpected.
Langworthy put a charge into 
a pitch that greeted Auburn right 
ﬁ  elder Steven Williams on the 
warning track. The ball inexplicably 
bounces out of Williams’ glove and 
over the fence to break the hearts of 
the Auburn faithful and to give UF 
its fourth-straight CWS berth.
Watching the dogpile ensue at 
home plate and the nearly 6,000 
fans at McKethan Stadium all stand-
ing in unison made me think how 
awesome sports can be and how 
amazing of a moment the Langwor-
thy walk-off really was.
@evanmplepakkk
elepak@alligator.org
Brendan: In the grand scheme of 
things, was the “Heave to Cleave” 
the most important moment in 
Florida athletics this past year? Of 
course not. It was merely a bright 
spot in what was otherwise an em-
barrassing season.But sometimes, moments are 
bigger than just sports.
The game against Tennessee 
came just ﬁ  ve days after Hurri-
cane Irma devastated the state of 
Florida, killing 75 people and caus-
ing billions of dollars in damages. 
In times like these, people often 
turn to sports as a distraction from 
their problems. With heavy hearts, 
87,736 fans packed the Swamp to 
watch the Florida Gators take on the 
Tennessee Volunteers.
The game itself was ugly, as the 
9-6 score after three quarters had in-
dicated, but a frantic fourth quarter 
left the score tied 20-20 with nine 
seconds to go and the Gators with 
the ball at their own 37-yard line. 
Scrambling to get away from a Ten-
nessee pass rush, Feleipe Franks 
stepped up and unleashed a 63-yard 
bomb to a shockingly open Tyrie 
Cleveland in the end zone, giving 
UF a miraculous 26-20 win and 
sending the Swamp into a frenzy.
While other moments over 
the past year may have had more 
meaning on the ﬁ  eld, to the people 
of Gainesville and other fans across 
the state of Florida, this will be the 
moment that they will always re-
member from 2017-18. After everything the community 
had faced over the past week, even 
if it was only for a few minutes, ev-
erything felt right in the Swamp.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org
Mark: I was at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium for my “Moment of 
the Year.”
With the Gators down one run 
in the bottom of the seventh in-
ning during the Gainesville Super 
Regional’s ﬁ  nal game against Texas 
A&M on May 26, the UF softball 
season came down to one batter: 
freshman Jordan Matthews. 
Matthews went hitless in the 
ﬁ  rst two games of the series against 
the Aggies, but earlier that morning, 
she decided to change the weight of 
her bat from 24 ounces to 25, the 
weight she used as a high schooler 
in Anaheim, California. 
The switch resulted in a moment 
of brilliance from the freshman with 
two outs in the ﬁ  nal inning of play. 
She blasted a 2-2 pitch off Texas 
A&M senior Trinity Harrington to 
plate three runs and send Florida to 
the Women’s College World Series. 
Better yet, Matthews’ bomb came a half-inning after the Aggies 
took the lead off a three-run homer 
by ﬁ  rst baseman Tori Vidales. 
The walk-off was also UF’s sec-
ond of the series. Catcher Janell 
Wheaton drew a game-winning 
walk in the ﬁ  rst game of the Super 
Regional. 
The Matthews walk-off home 
run was a heart-stopping conclu-
sion to an already thrilling series of 
softball.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Chris: Man, this was such a 
tough decision for me. 
I was in attendance for Langwor-
thy’s home run to send the baseball 
team to the College World Series, 
and the crowd was electric. Caeleb 
Dressel obliterating the record was 
freaking legendary. Jordan Mat-
thews’ home run to send UF softball 
to the CWS was insanely improba-
ble. Moments like these are the rea-
sons why sports are so captivating.
But there was just something dif-
ferent about the “Heave to Cleve.” 
I remember watching the play 
and thinking, "What the hell is 
Feleipe doing, C’yontai Lewis and Brandon Powell are wide open to 
put them in ﬁ  eld goal range!" And 
as he threw it, I literally muttered to 
myself, “Jesus f---ing Christ, they’re 
going to OT.”
And then Cleveland caught it, 
and all hell broke loose.
Maybe it’s because it was my 
ﬁ  rst game since I entered college, 
maybe it was the fact that it was 
Tennessee that the contest was 
against, but something about it just 
felt more electric than the rest of the 
season.
It probably has something to do 
with the fact that the Gators played 
absolutely horrendously the rest of 
the year.
This was supposed to be the year 
the Vols got UF back for the improb-
able Antonio Callaway 4th-down 
touchdown in 2015.
But instead, we watched magic 
unfold in front of our eyes as the 
ball dropped into the streaking 
Cleveland’s hands.
During that play, that one shin-
ing moment, Gainesville had hope 
again, and all was right in the world.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgLangworthy and Matthews hit walk-of postseason home 
Gourley tossed two no-hit outings for USA Blue in OKC
the top of the ﬁ  fth of Sunday’s championship. 
Stewart started at third base for the USA 
Red while Merritt took left ﬁ  eld. Both went 
hitless in the ﬁ  nale. Stewart went 1 for 8 in  
the Cup with an RBI, while Merritt reached a 
3-for-10 mark with a home run and two RBIs 
in addition to four walks. 
Barnhill only pitched two innings over 
two appearances for USA Red. The Marietta, Georgia, native didn’t allow a hit or walk in 
either outing and picked up a strikeout in 
each.
Gourley began her tournament with an ef-
ﬁ  cient start against the Czech Republic. She 
didn’t allow a hit in her three-inning, 36-pitch 
outing during the Blue’s 14-0 victory.
The 23-year-old from Lakeside, California, 
returned in the bronze medal game to toss a 
perfect 3.2 innings. She struck out seven Chi-
nese batters and only threw 46 pitches before 
leaving the game. Gourley gave up ﬁ  ve hits and two earned 
runs all tournament and ﬁ  nished with a 3-0 
record for USA Blue. 
Lorenz started Sunday’s third-place ball-
game as designated player and went 0 for 2. 
The native of Moorpark, California, left Okla-
homa City with a 2-for-10 mark for the Cup, 
striking out four times. However, she belted 
a three-run home run on the ﬁ  rst pitch she 
saw against the Czech Republic in the bottom 
of the ﬁ  rst. 
Outﬁ  elder Jaimie Hoover represented Puerto Rico at the International Cup. She 
played in all six games and went 2 for 14 at 
the plate. Yet, the rising junior from Suwan-
nee, Georgia, showed off her slugging ability, 
knocking a double and triple for her country. 
Former UF pitcher Lauren Haeger did not 
compete at the International Cup, but was on 
the roster for Scrap Yard Fast Pitch, an inde-
pendent team from Conroe, Texas.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgAWARDS,  from pg. 14
SOCCER,  from pg. 14