We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF gets in win column
The Gators’ women’s basketball team kept it 
close against T exas T ech throughout the game. 
See who made the difference for Florida in the 
late stages, pg. 14Groggy night out
A man bit a Grog House Bar and Grill bouncer Sunday morning,
and a woman broke her hand taking a swing, pg. 5
What’s the construction at Midtown?
See the new apartments coming for Fall, pg. 4
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 41
FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida’s postseason fate has been re-
vealed, and it will include a familiar foe in a 
different location.
The Gators will face the Michigan Wolver-
ines in the Chick-ﬁ  l-A Peach Bowl on Dec. 29 
at noon in Atlanta. It will be the third time in four years the two teams have faced off and 
the ﬁ  fth time ever.
The Gators are coming off a 9-3 season 
under ﬁ  rst-year coach Dan Mullen with wins 
over ranked opponents LSU and Mississippi 
State. Their only losses came against Ken-
tucky, Georgia and Missouri, all of whom 
ﬁ  nished the season in the top 25.
A New Year’s Six game is a huge turn-around for a team that went 4-7 last year and 
missed out on a bowl appearance.
Michigan went 10-2 with wins against 
Northwestern (who played for the Big Ten 
title), Wisconsin, Michigan State and Penn 
State. Its only losses came against Notre 
Dame, a College Football Playoff team, and 
Ohio State, the Big Ten champion.
The last time these two teams played was the 2017 season opener in Arlington, Texas. 
The Wolverines won 33-17 after throwing for 
218 yards and a touchdown and running for 
215 yards and a touchdown.
The last time they faced in a bowl game 
was the 2016 Citrus Bowl, where Michigan 
obliterated Florida 41-7. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@gmail.comFlorida to face Michigan in Peach Bowl
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Training Manager Laura Hardy teaches Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe the 
ropes Friday on top of the 5001 building at Celebration Pointe during the 
Alachua Habitat for Humanity’s fundraiser for affordable housing. The mayor 
was one of 34 people to descend 80 feet in support of Habitat for Humanity.
A GOFUNDME PAGE RAISED MORE 
THAN $8,000 TO COVER THE 
HORSE’S MEDICAL TREATMENT.
By Kyle Wood
Alligator Staff Writer
Deputies are looking for 
the owner of a horse, nick-
named Teddy Bear Highway, 
after it was found injured on 
Interstate 75 Friday morning.
Deputies hypothesize he 
either fell out of a trailer or 
wandered into the road and 
was grazed by a vehicle be-
fore he was found between the Micanopy exit 
and Wacahoota Road, said Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesperson Lt. Brett Rhoden-
izer. 
Deputies are investigating who Highway 
belongs to and what happened to him, Rho-
denizer said. Rhodenizer did not know High-
way’s exact injuries. 
The horse was taken to the Springhill 
Equine Veterinary Clinic in Newberry. 
The clinic started a GoFundMe page Friday to raise $7,500 for surgery to treat his injuries. 
Within a day, 152 people raised $8,829. 
Thea Mathen, a 63-year-old resident of Fla-
gler County, said she saw the fundraiser on 
her Facebook feed and decided to donate to 
Highway’s cause.
Mathen’s $273 donation was the fourth 
highest contribution to the fundraiser. 
“I’m a sucker for hurt animals, and it looked 
like they were getting a lot of responses,” she 
said. “And I wanted to help them get to the 
next level.”
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce announced Highway’s 
surgery was successful on Facebook Sunday 
morning. The post said Highway was munch-
ing on carrots and taking antibiotics in the 
meantime. 
Highway does not have a microchip or tat-
too to identify him, but Rural Services Depu-
ties determined that he is not a wild horse, 
Rhodenizer said.
Anyone with information can call the Com-
bined Communications Center at 352-955-
1818.
@KKylewood
kwood@alligator.orgAre you looking for your horse?  
Highway the Horse a hit on social media
THE FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF 
LAW ENFORCEMENT COLLECTED 
THE DATA. 
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Crime in Alachua County has increased 
by 10 percent in the ﬁ  rst half of 2018 com-
pared to last year, according to a semian-
nual report.The Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce saw 
a 7 percent increase in crime overall and 
1,352 total arrests, according to data com-
piled by the Florida Department of Law En-
forcement. 
The county saw signiﬁ  cant increases in 
larceny, burglary and aggravated assaults, 
the report said. Meanwhile, crime decreased 
in the state by 8 percent. 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokes-
person Lt. Brett Rhodenizer said the semian-
nual report is just a snapshot of the trends. The agency looks at data in the long term.
“It’s just a reporting period, you’ll see 
spikes and lulls in the data,” Rhodenizer 
said. “We don’t see anything alarming.” 
Rhodenizer said the data doesn’t account 
for repeat offenders. 
The Alachua Police Department had a 
2.6 percent decrease in crime reported.
The Gainesville Police Department had a 
12.5 percent increase in crime rates, with a 
total of 3,033 crimes. The agency saw large 
increases in larceny, burglary and aggravat-ed assault, the report said. 
Gainesville Police Lt. Steven Bradford 
said a rise in burglaries happen because of 
unlocked cars where criminals commonly 
steal spare change, guns and phones.
“Criminals take advantage of easy ac-
cess,” Bradford said. “People have a false 
sense of security and think it’s not going to 
happen to them.”
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Alachua County sees a 10 percent uptick in all crime in 2018Highway
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
HIGH  77° LOW  57°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Don’t stress the (HIV) test
Planned Parenthood 
Generation Action at UF is 
observing World AIDS Day. 
At 6-8 p.m. in Pugh Hall, 
people can get tested for HIV/
AIDS (Courtesy of WellFlorida 
Council, Inc.). In addition to 
the free test, there will be free 
food, therapy dogs, a health 
and wellness organization fair 
and free prizes.
After Kavanaugh: Discussing 
our Current Cultural Climate
The event originally scheduled 
for earlier this semester will be 
taking place at 6:30-7:30 p.m. 
in Reitz Union Room 2320. 
The UF Women’s Student 
Association invites students to 
share their thoughts and feel-
ings regarding Supreme Court 
Justice Brett Kavanaugh and 
the cultural climate that has 
been surrounding women in 
this country. The discussion 
will be facilitated by several 
staff members.
Town hall meeting with UF 
President Kent Fuchs
The Black Student Affairs 
Task Force and Office of Black 
Affairs invite students to a 
town hall with UF President 
Kent Fuchs. One of the rec-ommendations from the 2016 
task force report was to have 
an annual town hall meeting 
with university leadership. 
The town hall is scheduled at 
7-8:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Rion Ballroom.
The event will be livestreamed 
and light refreshments will be 
served. Fuchs will take ques-
tions at the event during a 
Q&A session.
WEDNESDAY
Fall Collection Day event
Sustainable UF is having its 
Fall Collection Day from 7:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. in the northwest 
corner of the O’Connell Center 
parking lot. This event makes 
it easy to drop off unwanted 
household items, clothing, 
hazardous waste, old electron-
ics, furniture, appliances and 
non-perishable food items.
Usable items will be donated 
for use in the community, and 
damaged goods, hazardous 
waste and electronic equip-
ment will be recycled or dis-
posed of safely and responsibly 
by partnering organizations.
Food donations will be donat-
ed to Field and Fork Pantry, 
household items will benefit 
Habitat for Humanity, clothing 
and unopened toiletries will 
be donated to UF HealthStreet, 
and office/school supplies will 
benefit the Tools for Schools 
program.Swamp Records’ Fall Fest
Swamp Records is hold-
ing its Fall Fest from 6 p.m. 
to midnight at The Wooly, 
at 20 N. Main St. Venmo 
“SwampRecords” $12 for pre-
sale tickets or pay at the door 
while supplies last. There is a 
$3 charge at the door for at-
tendees who are under 21. 
The event is 16+. The lineup 
includes flipturn, The Savants 
of Soul, The Forum and Hugo 
$anchez. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.VOLUME 113 ISSUE 41
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Lokela Blanc,
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan Salguero, Annika SefferMikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
New patient appointments are available now.
www.sarkisfamilypsychiatry.com  |  (352) 331-5100  Call today!
Sarkis Family Psychiatry has provided effective, 
customized, and holistic mental health services for 
UF students and others since 1991. We treat ADHD, 
depression, anxiety, and more.
Our psychiatrists, therapists, and nurse 
practitioners are experts in diagnosis and offer 
treatments including:
•    Psychotherapy for individuals, couples, and 
families
•    Medications and supplements
•    Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for depression
•    Mindfulness meditation training
•    EMDR
•    Bioenergetics
•    The Daring WayTM  and others
We have helped thousands of people in a 
confidential and respectful environment.
Let us help you be WELL, not just “better”!THERE WERE MORE THAN 
200 ARTISTS FEATURED. 
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thousands of visitors and art-
ists from around the world ﬂ  ocked 
to downtown Gainesville. 
Streets were closed Saturday 
and Sunday for the 37th annual 
Downtown Festival & Art Show, 
where more than 200 artists sell 
their original work.
Art ranged from original oil 
and acrylic paintings, watercolor, 
sculptures, jewelry, ceramics and 
photography.
Here are three local artists who 
were part of it:
Tina Corbett
Location: High Springs, Florida
For a long time, Tina Corbett 
painted landscapes, but she’s 
evolving to abstract realism. 
“I take an actual object and 
paint it in oil more realistically,” 
she said. “Then I kind of go crazy with the background.”
Although she’s evolving, Cor-
bett, the owner of Lanza Gallery 
& Art Supplies, goes back to her 
humble beginnings by painting 
things like a river in High Springs.
One of her paintings is titled 
“Me Too” and was inspired by 
her mother’s Vogue patterns. She 
originally was going to title it “In 
Vogue” but changed the name 
because it was ﬁ  nished when the 
movement began. The painting 
depicts women of different cul-
tures and eras, including Marilyn 
Monroe.
David Sandidge
Location: Clermont, Florida
David Sandidge spent 20 years 
hand-blowing glass at Disney 
theme parks around the world. 
After his time working for the 
mouse, he decided to work for 
himself. 
“Do you know why mermaids 
wear seashells?” Sandidge, show-
ing his glass mermaid piece said. 
“Because B-shells are too small. I guess I always wanted to see Ariel 
take her top off.”
He said his work also includes 
horses from Ocala, manatees and 
anything you would ﬁ  nd around 
the Sunshine State.
“Looking around my booth, it’s 
very Florida,” he said. 
Michael Braun
Location: Tampa, Florida
Michael Braun started making 
art in Florida in 1966 by making 
fringe shirts, motorcycle jackets 
and crushed velvet pants for Jimi 
Hendrix.
Another customer of his was 
wrestler Randy Savage, for whom 
he hand-painted “Macho Man” on 
hats for TV every Monday.
“All the things that you’re go-
ing to see on the internet that’s 
nuts and crazy, we made for him,” 
he said.
In 1996, Braun found out that 
Steven Spielberg was paying peo-
ple to paint dinosaurs running 
across a ﬁ  eld. This is when he 
started painting on the computer 
through a program called “Paint-er 1996.” After his ﬁ  rst year, he 
heard discouraging critiques.
Today he still uses Painter, the 
2018 version, and virtually hand 
paints his work that can sell up to 
$1,400, he said.“Painting a human on the stage, 
you’re painting someone and mak-
ing clothes that they are wearing,” 
Braun said. “Here, I’m just paint-
ing whatever I want to make. I’m 
painting what I like.”The 37th downtown festival brings paintings, glass, virtual art
Jeana Fraser / Alligator Contributor
Tina Corbett, artist and owner of Lanza Gallery & Art Supplies, works her art booth at the 37th annual 
Downtown Festival & Art Show Sunday. The painting is called “Me T oo. ”
Jeana Fraser / Alligator Contributor
Michael Braun, an artist at the 37th annual Downtown Festival 
& Art Show, holds a picture of Jimi Hendrix wearing clothes 
Braun designed at Woodstock.
Jeana Fraser / Alligator Contributor
David Sandidge’s handblown glass is displayed at the at the 37th 
annual Downtown Festival & Art Show.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
College Park at Midtown
207 NW 17th St.
When it opens:  ﬁ  rst week of July 2019
Prices:
1x1 starts at $970 per month
2x2 starts at $985 per room 
4x4 starts at $794 per room 
Available units: 12 different ﬂ  oor plans;
ﬁ  ve different 1x1s
two different 2x2s 
four different 4x4s
Pet-friendly:  No
Parking:  $150 a month for a car, and $65 
a month for standard scooter parking
Amenities:  washer and dryers, high 
speed cable and internet included in rent 
each month. There will be no separate 
amenities, such as a pool or study area. 
Furnished or unfurnished:  The rooms 
come fully furnished, including the bed-
room and living room.
Leasing deals: None at the moment
Information according to Brett Ducker, full-
time leasing specialist. 
The Quad Luxury Apartments in 
Midtown
219 NW 19th St.
When it opens:  move-in date of August 
15
Prices: 
Studio apartment starts at $1,0501x1 starts at $1,295
2x2 starts at $795 per bedroom
4x4 starts at $750 per bedroom
Available units: studios, 1x1s, 2x2s and 
4x4s
A studio is smaller than a 1x1 and does 
not have anything between the living 
room and bedroom
All 1x1 and studio apartments are sold 
out
Pet-friendly:  No
Parking:  $75 per month for car assigned 
parking, and $120 a year for scooter 
parking
Amenities:  The rooms come with free 
high speed internet, 24/7 emergency 
maintenance, pest control and trash pick up
Furnished or unfurnished: unfurnished, 
but will have a washer and dryer and 
kitchen appliances
Leasing deals:  The current prices are a 
pre-construction special, but the rates 
will eventually increase 
Information according to Sam Armstrong, 
leasing agent for Circa Properties.  
Midtown Apartments
104 NW 17th St.
Available units: studio, 1x1, 2x2, 3x3, 
4x4
The complex’s management declined to 
comment until a later date.Jordan Bourne / Alligator Staff
Three new apartments will open behind Midtown in Fall 2019.
THE HEARING COMES AFTER 
A SEPTEMBER CITY COMMISSION 
MEETING ABOUT OFFICER 
WAGES, SHIFTS.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
After two years of negotiations and four 
months of continued grievances, Gainesville 
will have to answer to its police union. 
The State Labor Board granted the 
Gainesville Fraternal Order of Police, the local 
police union, a hearing for its charges against 
Gainesville Thursday, according to an email 
sent by Matt Goeckel, the police union spokes-
person. The union ﬁ  led unfair labor charges with 
the Public Employee Relations Commission, a  
government-appointed board responsible for 
labor disputes, on Nov. 7,  the release said.  
The charges come after the union claimed 
the city violated the union’s right to bargain 
and schedule work hours and their refusal to 
meet with them, the release said
On Sept. 7, the City Commission voted 4-3 
to approve a proposal which would allow Chief 
Tony Jones to set the ofﬁ  cers’ work hours any-
where from eight to 12 hours at a time. 
At the same meeting, the commission de-
nied the union’s proposal of a “step up plan” 
that would increase ofﬁ  cer wages by two per-
cent every year. Instead, the city passed a mo-
tion for a one-time payment of $800 in addition 
to a ﬂ  at rate wage increase.
Goeckel told The Alligator in September that the commission’s decision was a slap in 
the face.
“We’re not being vindictive other than try-
ing to protect our member’s rights,” Goeckel 
said. 
The union members refused to vote on the 
contract that came out of the meeting. The 
city interpreted the refusal to vote as a rejec-
tion of the contract, according to a memo from 
Scott Heffner, the city’s employee and relations 
manager. Heffner sent the memo to ofﬁ  cers 
Thursday.
Until a new agreement is reached, GPD 
ofﬁ  cers employed as of October 2016 forfeit 
a $1,300 allowance for laundry expenses, an 
$800 one-time payment and the ﬂ  at rate wage 
increase for ofﬁ  cers, the memo said.
GPD declined to comment about the unfair 
labor charges, wrote spokesperson Cpt. Jorge Campos in an email.
Goeckel said the dispute has been killing 
morale. 
“If the city continues to do things like this, 
people are going to look for jobs elsewhere,” 
he said.
The union criticized the city and the agency 
in a letter Nov. 18 for its handling of an event 
where a man was shot after a rap concert.  
Four of the agency’s police ofﬁ  cers resigned 
from its SWAT team in November.
“They support us, at best, as a necessary 
evil,” Goeckel said.  “They have lost sight of 
the fact that their core services are the people 
they need to take care of.”
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Police union granted hearing for unfair labor charges 
THE DATES MAY SHIFT TO 
ACCOMMODATE SPRING 
BREAK.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
High on the list of Student Govern-
ment’s priorities: Spring Break and 
Spring elections.  
The UF SG Senate Judiciary Commit-
tee approved a bill to change the date 
of the Spring SG election at a meeting 
on Sunday morning. It moves the elec-
tion from Feb. 26 and 27 to Feb. 19 and 
20, according to the bill. Students will 
elect Student Body executives and 50 senators from colleges and grades.
The change was made because run-
offs must take place the week after the 
initial election, but this would conﬂ  ict 
with UF’s Spring Break from March 2 to 
9, SG Senate Judiciary Chairman Will 
Sandifer said. 
The SG constitution, which outlines 
the rules for the governing body, also 
mandates that elections take place the 
last Tuesday and Wednesday of Febru-
ary, Sandifer said. Because the date of 
the election is written into the rules of 
the governing body, a bill needs to be 
brought before the Senate to change it. 
A similar change has been needed 
in Spring elections over the past two years, Sandifer said. 
“We just have to move it,” Sandifer 
said. 
The changes will not affect the 
length of the SG election cycle, SG Su-
pervisor of Elections Henry Fair, who 
wrote the bill to change the dates, 
wrote in an email. 
“I made the decision that provides 
the opportunity for the most students 
to participate in the election and be 
in line with the SG constitution,” Fair 
said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.org New SG election dates to comeThree new apartments are opening behind Midtown in Fall
By Associated Press
Florida’s newly elected agriculture commissioner 
is vowing to conduct a “deep dive” into the state’s 
concealed weapons permit program once she is 
sworn into ofﬁ  ce.
Nikki Fried, who appeared on south Florida 
news programs on Sunday, said she has already be-
gun talking about possible changes to the program 
with employees in the Department of Agriculture 
and Consumer Services. Her push to revamp the 
program comes amid a likely legislative battle over 
whether the program should be moved to a different 
state agency.
Earlier this year it was revealed that there were 
lapses in the program that is currently under the 
control of outgoing Agriculture Commissioner Adam 
Putnam. Fried, who is now the only statewide elect-
ed Democrat, will take ofﬁ  ce Jan. 8.
Fried, who says she has had a concealed weap-
ons permit for ﬁ  ve years, contends that gun rights 
groups such as the National Riﬂ  e Association have 
too much inﬂ  uence over the operation of the pro-
gram.
This past week it was reported that NRA lobbyist 
Marion Hammer has suggested placing Republican 
Chief Financial Ofﬁ  cer Jimmy Patronis in charge of 
concealed weapons permits. Hammer told the Tam-
pa Bay Times that Patronis would “continue to run 
it properly.” Democrats in the state Senate, mean-
while, have ﬁ  led a bill to transfer the program to the 
Florida Department of Law Enforcement.
Florida transferred control of the program in 2002 
from the Department of State to the Department of 
Agriculture and Consumer Services at the urging of 
Hammer so that it was under an elected ofﬁ  cial.
Fried, who says she supports transferring the pro-
gram to FDLE, wants to do an audit of the program 
even though state auditors are currently reviewing 
it as part of a routine audit of the agriculture de-
partment. She also said she wants to require that all 
permit background checks be done by full-time em-
ployees. She said part-time employees are currently 
assisting in the reviews.
“This is not a political issue, this is making sure 
safety come ﬁ  rst,” Fried said on an interview broad-
cast on WFOR-TV.
More than 1.9 million people in Florida have per-
mits to carry concealed weapons.Newly-elected 
Florida oﬃ   cial 
promises audit of 
gun program  MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
HER BOND IS SET AT $50,000.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
A heated argument got out of hand 
Friday afternoon after a woman was 
accused of stabbing a man three times 
with a knife, Gainesville Police said.
Shakela “Tomboy” Williams, 41, of 
Gainesville, is accused of pulling out a 
knife on a man before he hit her with 
a pipe in self-defense at Dignity Camp-
grounds, at 3035 NE 28th Drive, ac-
cording to an arrest report. 
The report does not mention why 
Williams and the man were arguing. 
A witness, who works at the camp-
grounds, told police that he tried to 
break up the argument, but the two 
continued to bicker with each other, 
the report said.
Williams began to walk away but 
continued to argue and then came back with a knife in her hand. The 
man threatened to hit her with a pipe 
if she came at him with a knife, the 
report said.  
He then hit her with the pipe, police 
said.
After, Williams stabbed the defen-
dant three times in both arms, the re-
port said. The man was able to stop 
Williams and took the knife away from 
her. 
Another witness told police he saw 
Williams walk up to the man with a 
knife and the man hit her ﬁ  rst with a 
pipe, the report said.
Williams is charged with aggravat-
ed battery, the report said. She is being 
held in the Alachua County Jail in lieu 
of a $50,000 bond. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgWoman accused of 
stabbing man three times
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Three men robbed the chains off a 
person’s neck Saturday, according to UF 
Public Safety. 
Gainesville Police are looking for three 
men suspected of ripping the shirt and 
chain off a person near the UF Delta Up-
silon fraternity house, at 1814 W Univer-
sity Ave., according a UF Public Safety Alert sent to students that morning. 
One man was of medium build and 
wore a blue jacket and blue jeans, the 
alert said. Another was of a small build 
and wore a red shirt. The third man had 
a heavy build, wore a grey shirt and had 
long hair in a bun.
Mitchell Rice, a 20-year-old UF busi-
ness administration sophomore and Del-
ta Upsilon member, said he was at the 
house when he received the alert on his phone. 
Police ofﬁ  cers did not come to the 
house and his fraternity brothers did not 
notice anything out of the ordinary, Rice 
said. 
After leaving a little past 2 a.m., Rice 
said he saw two police ofﬁ  cer cars parked 
on the road behind the house, but he 
didn’t see anything unusual.
Rice said he received a ﬂ  ood of mes-
sages from his friends, but he and his brothers were just as confused as every-
one else. 
“There was no robbery, nobody was 
hurt, “ Rice said. 
Anyone with information about the 
three men can call Gainesville Police at 
352-955-1818.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org GPD looking for three men suspected of ripping chain oﬀ   of neckBy Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
A man left two bite marks on a bouncer 
at Grog House Bar and Grill Sunday morn-
ing, police said.
Malachi Dushun Loﬂ  and, 21, of 
Gainesville, and Shante Michelle Kimble, 
26, of Gainesville, were accused of ﬁ  ght-
ing bouncers at Grog on West University 
Avenue, according to Gainesville Police 
arrest reports.
Loﬂ  and and Kimble were dancing when 
a bouncer tried to escort Loﬂ  and out of the 
bar, the report said. Loﬂ  and bit the bounc-
er on his abdomen and later made another 
bite on his right chest.
Kimble hit the same bouncer on the 
right side of his face and fought with other 
bouncers, the report said. 
The bouncer had cuts on his face and 
two bite marks, the report said. Kimble told police her hand hurt. Medics con-
ﬁ  rmed she broke her hand when she hit 
the bouncer. 
Loﬂ  and refused to get into the ofﬁ  cer’s 
patrol car and began kicking the door and 
windows, the report said. Ofﬁ  cers used a 
Taser on him three times.
Kimble was charged with simple bat-
tery, the report said. She was released 
from the Alachua County Jail on her own 
recognisance Monday afternoon. 
Loﬂ  and was charged with simple bat-
tery and resisting an ofﬁ  cer without vio-
lence, the report said. He was released 
from the Alachua County Jail on a bond 
valued at $5,000. 
Loﬂ  and and Kimble could not be im-
mediately reached for comment. 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Party foul: Man bites bouncer; 
woman breaks own hand at 
Grog, police saidThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORGuest ColumnA kinder and gentler nation. This was the aspiration George 
H.W. Bush had in mind for the United States throughout 
his presidency. Since he left office, the U.S. has tried, 
and failed in some respects, to pursue his lofty goal. But 
we trust that to try, and to keep trying, is enough to 
honor the wish he could not see completed. Bush died on Friday 
at 94 years old after a series of hospitalizations. He followed his 
wife, former first lady Barbara Bush, who died in April at 92. He 
will be buried on the grounds of his presidential library at Texas 
A&M University after he lays in state at the Capitol Rotunda until 
Wednesday morning. Americans will have a chance to pay their 
respects to the 41st president, his leadership during the 1990s, his 
legacy and his vision.
His most prominent roles were of national fame, but his first 
acts of service were of dire national importance. He began train-
ing as a naval aviator after the U.S. was thrust into war when 
the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Bush completed 58 missions 
in total, earning his honorable place in history with the Distin-
guished Flying Cross and two Gold Stars — medals awarded for 
valor and heroism. He asked us to find the kinder and gentler 
solution to warfare he witnessed firsthand.
Going into the presidency, Bush inherited a world still chilled 
by the Cold War. But as the Soviet Union crumbled like the Ber-
lin wall before it, he chose not to gloat or rush to Germany to 
prance on the ashes. He negotiated the Soviet withdrawal from 
Germany and a seat for the newly unified country at the table of 
NATO. Bush may not have ended the Cold War all on his own, 
but he certainly piloted the U.S. smoothly through a titanic shift 
in international power.
Notably, Bush did not make ham-handed threats at dangerous 
adversaries or be a scandalmonger in the press. He conducted 
foreign policy with restraint and wisdom, even if his handling of 
the massacre at Tiananmen Square in China was too restrained 
and not wise in that regard. 
His accomplishments are too numerous to list, but he would 
later orchestrate the coalition that pushed Saddam Hussein out 
of Iraq and nurture a post-presidency dedicated to humanitarian 
causes.
But for all his accomplishment, Bush’s legacy is not without 
tarnish. The AIDS epidemic marred his presidency and nearly 
every position of public office he held. During his presidency, 
Magic Johnson, a member of Bush’s National Commission on 
AIDS, quit out of distaste for Bush’s inaction. Johnson wrote in a 
letter that Bush had “dropped the ball,” adding that he could not 
“in good conscience continue to serve on a commission whose 
important work is so utterly ignored by your Administration.” 
Bush’s legacy cannot, and will not, ever escape all that he could 
have done for the AIDS crisis or those innocent lives lost in the 
middle eastern conflicts he dedicated American firepower to.
Prior to being engulfed in politics, Bush was a generally mod-
est man. His classmates in school nicknamed him “Have-Half” 
Bush because of his tendency to share what he had. We will 
remember him for his presidency and his personhood, but we 
still struggle to answer the question he posed in his 1992 State of 
the Union address.
As Bush once said: “America has always led by example. So, 
who among us will set the example? Which of our citizens will 
lead us in this next American century?”
We ought to ask ourselves that same question as we conduct 
our politics, vote for our leaders and move our country into the 
digital age — being caustic and divisive will only become easi-
er and more instantaneous. We must be increasingly careful to 
honor Bush’s admonition. America can still shine as a beacon 
of honor and integrity, but it will take a leader who forges our 
kinder, gentler nation by deeds, not empty words. The nation mourns 
a president’s vision
Immigrants add a vital spice to our national life
They say a picture paints a thousand 
words. In my time growing up in this 
country, I have been taught about a few 
powerful photographs that stand out 
in history. In the Great Depression, the 
photo was the “Migrant Mother,” during the 
Vietnam War, it was the “Napalm Girl,” and in 
the 1980s, it was the “Afghan Girl.”
Most recently — last week — it was the im-
age of a woman on the San Ysidro border in San 
Diego, California, who was trying to pull her two daugh-
ters away from tear gas. This woman has been identified 
as Maria Lila Meza Castro, a Honduran migrant to the U.S. 
who is seeking asylum.
If you don’t know what happened a few days ago at 
the border in San Diego, California, I’ll break it down for 
you. The port of entry on the Mexican border was closed 
for hours Sunday, after a group of migrants from Tijuana, 
Mexico, entered the area.
This rush of people caused U.S. Border Patrol to release 
tear gas into the area, which led the migrants to flee. How-
ever, this event caused stronger tensions to rise among mi-
grants trying to move through Mexico to get to the United 
States.
As the migrants wait for the immigration process to be-
gin — or finish, for some — President Donald Trump has 
sealed all points of entry to the United States from Mexico 
and pushed to keep the migrants in Mexico.
This topic hits home for me — literally. I was born and 
raised in San Diego, and I am a brown child of immigrants. 
While my parents didn’t flee from their home country to 
come here, I, unlike the unfortunate leader of this country, 
have a heart and still empathize with the families who are 
trying to make safe passage into the United States.
Seeing the photograph of Meza made me frustrated 
about the president’s view of what the U.S. should look like. Our country is, and already has been great 
because of the people who make it up.  
What the president doesn’t understand is 
that not everyone trying to cross the border is 
trying to “steal American jobs.” For Meza, a 
single mother of nine children, moving to the 
U.S. means providing a better life for her kids. 
The majority of the people trying to cross the 
border are just trying to be able to support their 
families.
When I was in high school, I volunteered at an organi-
zation called The AjA Project, whose mission is to empow-
er underrepresented women and children using photogra-
phy as a medium. One of their programs, which started 
in 2016 and is extremely important during this political 
climate is called Border Click. It’s a multimedia project 
that documents the “complexities and everyday aesthetic 
encounters of the transborder experience,” taken by youth 
participants who cross the US/Mexico border daily.
The work that organizations like The AjA Project and 
others do is vital for the progression of this country. Wom-
en and children like Maria and her family shouldn’t have 
to fear for their lives if they are seeking a better life.
The power of photography is incredible. Certain photo-
graphs become impactful because we look at them from a 
privileged perspective, and many of us are empathetic to 
the struggles of other people.
Immigrants are a vital part of this country. We liter-
ally need them to survive. In the wise words of comedian 
Hasan Minhaj, “If these people are willing to risk their 
lives to travel 3,000 miles and apply for asylum at our 
borders, we owe it to them to at least look over their ap-
plication, because at some point someone was willing to 
look over ours.”
A version of this column originally appeared in The 
Daily Free Press.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Namu Sampath
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
All my life there’s been a buzz-
ing. Sometimes it’s a whisper at 
night. Other times it’s a roar in 
the morning that makes my chest 
feel heavy, as if someone had 
their foot on me. 
The buzzing isn’t bad, necessarily. It’s 
pushed me to achieve. I don’t think I’d 
have ever come to The Alligator without 
it. But that push to achieve comes from 
the fear of not ever doing enough, of do-
ing something wrong, of never being cor-
rect and never being allowed to appreciate the work 
I’ve already done. Feel bad about yourself, it says. 
Why did you do that, it says. 
If you did something right, it was luck. If you did 
something wrong, it was all your fault. 
For years I wished I could quiet it. And then one 
day this Fall, sitting in my comfortable chair in the 
back ofﬁ  ce of The Alligator, I realized I had. I felt 
quiet. I felt at home. 
I owe The Alligator everything when it comes to 
being a journalist. But I also owe it so much for mak-
ing me someone who believes in myself, even on the 
hard days. 
When I came to UF I was a sweaty, insecure 
freshman bursting with nervous energy. That energy 
bubbled over and left me sobbing on the phone to 
the Counseling and Wellness Center the week before 
classes even began. I never felt at home on campus, 
and I never felt at home in my body. There was al-
ways a buzz.
Now, nearly four full years later, I do still hear it. 
I have bad days. I have bad weeks. But I feel more 
conﬁ  dent in myself and comfortable with who I am. 
When you’ve been a nomad in your own skin for so 
long, stillness is godly. 
For the past four years, I’ve kept paper journals documenting everything I feel and do. 
They help me channel that buzzing, but 
more than anything I appreciate how 
they let me look back at my own growth. 
Here’s an excerpt from Jan. 4, 2017, 
when I had just begun at The Alligator as 
a staff writer: 
“I went to the staff meeting yesterday 
for The Alligator and felt really uncom-
fortable. At one point when I was just sit-
ting I felt so sad, like I might cry. Because 
in that moment, I wasn’t sure if this pro-
fession was right for me. Maybe I’ve been deluding 
myself. But I’m still giving it a shot. I’m nervous, 
though.”
So you know, I did cry that day. I snuck out to the 
bathroom and wept.
One thing I mentioned early on in those entries 
was that at least the people were nice. And I owe so 
much of my professional growth, but also my per-
sonal growth, to the brilliant editors and writers I’ve 
worked alongside. Thanks for believing in me. You 
all inspire me from near (my fellow editors who I 
spend too much time sitting across from) and afar.  
In a year and a half, I went from feeling so deeply 
uncomfortable in The Alligator’s ofﬁ  ce I had to cry 
in the even more uncomfortable bathroom to ﬁ  nally 
ﬁ  nding my quiet. 
It’s because I learned to trust myself. Besides 
learning how to stay up past 10 p.m., it’s the most 
important lesson The Alligator unintentionally 
taught me. 
Change is incremental. You won’t notice it at 
ﬁ  rst. But when you do, it may not be something mo-
mentous. It may just be stillness. And that’s enough. 
Romy Ellenbogen is a UF journalism senior and 
The Alligator's digital managing editor.Enjoy slow growth, practice ﬁ  nding quietColumn
Romy 
Ellenbogen
opinions@alligator.org
Gainesville is considered a progres-
sive music hub. I’m not sure what 
factors play into making a city 
more “hipster” than others, seeing 
as it’s a pretty subjective descrip-
tor, but I’m not complaining. Maybe that's 
accounting for how many successful musi-
cians have hailed from Gainesville. In that 
case, we have Tom Petty, Stephen Stills, 
Benmont Tench and Don Felder, to name a 
few. So I can see how we’d top the list. Or 
maybe they take into consideration the current state 
of music and art within Gainesville.
Gainesville is home to a booming up-and-coming 
music scene, with bands such as The Forum, The 
Hails, ﬂ  ipturn, The Savants of Soul and Arrows in Ac-
tion. A local student-run record label has signed at 
least three of these groups, putting on shows and pro-
moting these young and talented artists. Swamp Re-
cords draws attention to our city, encouraging bands, 
such as ﬂ  ipturn from Fernandina Beach, to relocate to 
the heart of Florida. 
Swamp Records is hosting Fall Fest this Wednes-
day at The Wooly. Presale tickets are only $12, and 
there will be four performances, so you’re certainly 
getting your money’s worth. It’s important to at-
tend local concerts such as these, since bands such 
as Mudcrutch, which  later became Tom Petty and 
the Heartbreakers, would never have existed without 
support from its hometown. 
Petty and his friends would play gigs for scant com-
pensation at college bars, most of which no longer 
exist. However, local venues such as the High Dive, 
Depot Park, Heartwood Soundstage, and The Wooly 
have come to ﬁ  ll this void. High Dive has recently 
hosted nationally recognized bands including Hippo 
Campus, Magic City Hippies, SALES and Generation-
als. With band names such as these, it’s impossible 
to overlook Gainesville, which is ultimately an under-ground oasis for a blossoming music scene. 
In fact, one could argue that Gainesville is 
the hippest city south of Atlanta. Sorry, Mi-
amians. 
Hear Again Records, my favorite record 
shop, was included in The 1975’s list of lo-
cations to host a listening party for its new 
album “A Brief Inquiry Into Online Rela-
tionships.” Hear Again was one of only 34 
locations that were chosen to host listening 
parties. To be selected by a band as glob-
ally popular as The 1975 is a huge honor and should 
be taken seriously. Not only was Gainesville selected 
by the 1975 as a host city, it was listed among cities 
such as Atlanta, Austin, Nashville, Los Angeles, Port-
land and Seattle. To be ranked among cities like those 
is astounding.
Returning to the topic of record labels, Fueled By 
Ramen, which is home to major punk bands, includ-
ing, but not even remotely limited to, Twenty One 
Pilots, Paramore, Panic! at the Disco and Grandson, 
hailed from a certain small, southern town. Unlike 
most major record labels with roots in Nashville, Los 
Angeles or New York, Fueled By Ramen originated 
in Gainesville. If you’re me, and you’ve traveled the 
southeast to see Twenty One Pilots, this information 
is grounds for major excitement. 
I guess what I’m trying to say is that if you sup-
port local artists and record labels you end up with 
music acts along the lines of Petty and Twenty One 
Pilots. Start showing support by attending events, like 
Swamp Records’ Fall Fest. This past weekend, both 
ﬂ  ipturn and Born Rufﬁ  ans played shows, so hopefully 
you got to attend at least one of those. By fostering 
a community of music and art, Gainesville will con-
tinue to ﬂ  ourish. Keep Gainesville weird.
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.Gainesville can be a music titan, if it stays weird  The Student 
Body of UF 
is currently 
in the midst 
of one of the 
most dangerous and 
depressing seasons 
of all. No, not foot-
ball season— it’s ﬁ  -
nals season. Walking 
around campus af-
ter returning from Thanksgiving 
break is like walking through the 
overworld of a Fallout game, with 
most of the population of the Gator 
Nation either dead or dead inside. 
Like busy ants scurrying around 
for the sake of their survival, stu-
dents rush from classes to libraries, 
cramming for late-semester tests 
given by evil professors (seeming-
ly in the hopes of lowering their 
scores on student evaluations) or 
stressing over the looming threat 
of ﬁ  nals on the not-distant-enough 
horizon. As if the threat of GPA 
homicide was insufﬁ  cient in put-
ting a damper on students’ moods, 
a nice additional barrage of cold 
fronts decide it is time to mosey 
on down to Gainesville and make 
us cold-blooded Gators regret ev-
ery single comment we have made 
about loathing the heat. Seasonal 
depression on top of unbearable 
stress? It is truly the most wonder-
ful time of the year!
A large part of the reason why 
exam season is so difﬁ  cult to bear 
is that it falls in the three week 
period when students are least 
engaged. For this, I blame the pil-
grims and Pope Gregory XIII for 
the timing of Thanksgiving and 
the New Year. Having Thanks-
giving break a mere three weeks 
before winter break leaves stu-
dents hopelessly disinterested and 
absent-minded during this crucial 
last leg of the semester, and while 
it would probably not have been 
a conspiracy between the May-
ﬂ  ower passengers and a 16th cen-
tury Catholic clergyman, it may as 
well have been because the effect 
of these two coveted pauses in 
school are detrimental to count-
less students. 
Thanksgiving break is fun and 
lighthearted, and many students 
believe they will use it to “get a 
head start on studying for ﬁ  nals.” 
These poor souls are almost ex-
clusively naïve, junior-by-credit 
freshmen who have yet to experi-
ence how much of a hot commod-
ity they become upon returning 
home after spending a semester 
on UF President Kent Fuchs’ top 
10 public university campus. Old 
friends miss them, new friends 
keep their pathetic Snapchat streaks alive, parents 
and family want to 
hog them and they re-
ally just want to sleep 
since that isn’t an op-
tion in Gainesville. 
The net effect, 
though, is a warm 
feeling of community 
and belonging. Usu-
ally, this begins to 
manifest on Saturday or Sunday, 
and then they are thrown back 
into the frying pan of stress that is 
ﬁ  nals season at UF.
For most students, winter 
break exists as that person they 
have a crush on, sitting right there 
across the table. They know that 
they could get to them by throw-
ing in the towel and running into 
their arms, abandoning all other 
cares and responsibilities. How-
ever, they also know deep down 
that it won’t help in the long term. 
They could simply give up and fail 
their ﬁ  nals, I mean we all at least 
think of doing so from time to 
time. However, the only way any 
of us would actually act on it is if 
we went to Florida State Universi-
ty, but we aren’t statewide embar-
rassments, so instead we buckle 
down and try to study. With both 
breaks occupying mental space 
like an ex and future lover though, 
it is hard to completely focus on 
the task at hand, as much as we 
know it is what needs to be done.
These three interbreak weeks 
are the most difﬁ  cult ones to deal 
with all semester. An immense 
amount of pride and possibly your 
future are at stake with approach-
ing exams, the weather might 
seem like a good idea from the 
vantage point of a Florida sum-
mer but the cold feels even better 
in reality, and the memory of cozy 
Thanksgiving break combined 
with the temptation of relaxing 
winter break deal a constant and 
devastating blow to the morale 
and motivation of students. How-
ever, we are not deﬁ  ned by how 
we behave without obstacles, 
rather we are who we become 
when our path is lined with ob-
structions. We are a top ten public 
university, not only because of the 
charm and dazzling good looks of 
Fuchs, but also because we per-
form well under pressure. So this 
ﬁ  nals season, keep that in mind, 
go forward, and at least try to pass 
your exams.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF his-
tory freshman. His columns nor-
mally appear on Fridays.Three weeks too long: 
In between breaks
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
“Seasonal depression on top of 
unbearable stress? It is truly the most 
wonderful time of the year!”
- Kyle Cunningham8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
THE EVENT RAISED 
AT LEAST $15,000 FOR 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
By Aaron Ritter
Alligator Staff Writer 
City Commissioner Helen War-
ren spent more than six hours at an 
affordable housing meeting Thurs-
day night. The next afternoon, she 
dangled off the side of a building for 
the same cause. 
Alachua Habitat for Humanity 
hosted its inaugural Over the Edge 
fundraiser Friday where participants 
rappelled off of the 5001 building at 
Celebration Pointe. 
When Warren’s feet touched the 
ground after the five-story descent, 
she said thought of a tune that 
would have captured the moment. 
“They should have played Tom 
Petty’s ‘Free Fallin’,’” Warren said.
Community members, including 
UF students and local politicians, 
took the plunge to raise money and 
awareness for affordable housing in 
Gainesville. Individuals had to donate $1,000 
to rappel off of the building, and 
other participants were sponsors 
and VIPs, said Jocelyn Peskin, the 
development director for Alachua 
Habitat for Humanity. Thirty-four 
people rappelled during the fun-
draiser, and at least $15,000 was 
raised for the Habitat’s affordable 
housing initiative. 
Mayor Lauren Poe was given a 
blue and black harness and a blue 
helmet. After he suited up, he went 
to the roof of the building where 
rope technicians attached him to a 
rig. 
Then he leaned off the building 
and slowly slid down the rope.
Poe smiled and held on tight as 
he descended. He said he was ex-
cited about the exposure for the fun-
draiser. 
“You want to bring awareness to 
folks that aren’t intimately aware of 
the organization,” Poe said.
The need for affordable hous-
ing in Alachua County is increasing 
dramatically, and many families are 
struggling to get by, Peskin said. 
One-third of families are cost-bur-dened or severely cost-burdened.  
Affordable housing alleviates a 
large portion of that financial bur-
den, she said. 
“When you have to spend a huge 
amount of your income on hous-
ing, that doesn’t leave you enough 
money for other necessities,” Peskin 
said.
The organization’s affordable 
ownership initiative builds cost-ef-
fective housing throughout Alachua 
County. The organization has built 
eight homes this year, Peskin said.
Yael Diamond, a 21-year-old UF 
ROTC member and political sci-
ence junior, was invited by Habitat 
for Humanity to volunteer for the 
event, Diamond said.
Diamond and her peers helped 
catch participants as they rappelled 
toward the ground. Doing her part 
to help raise awareness for afford-
able housing was a great way to 
spend her Friday, she said.
“We are always glad to help the 
community,” Diamond said. 
@AaronRitter18
aritter@alligator.org‘Free Fallin’’: Mayor, commissioners descend five stories   
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe descends the side of the 5001 
building at Celebration Pointe Friday during the Alachua Habitat 
for Humanity’s Over the Edge fundraiser. The fundraiser raised 
at least  $15,000 for the organization. “You just lean back and 
enjoy the ride, ” Poe said.
By Marlowe Starling
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville’s religious com-
munity found itself at odds Fri-
day night.
The Rev. Larry Green, of 
Westminster Presbyterian 
Church, bowed his head in 
prayer as he knelt in front of Ig-
nite Life Center, a non-denomi-
national church at 404 NW 14th 
Ave.
He prayed next to a dozen 
fellow protesters with signs that 
read, “Being gay is not a life-
style.” 
Meanwhile, Ignite Life mem-
bers mingled inside as they 
waited for the “Unbound” con-
ference to begin. 
The two-day conference, 
which ended Saturday, was 
held to educate church mem-
bers on how to minister the LG-
BTQ+ community, said Nicole 
Gomez, an associate pastor and 
church spokesperson.
While conference attendees 
listened to testimonials of Ignite 
Life members who said they no 
longer identified with the LG-
BTQ+ community because of 
a relationship they formed with 
the Lord, protestors outside the 
venue called it conversion ther-
apy.  
“We believe that a personal 
relationship with Jesus is re-
ally what causes anybody to be 
awakened or transformed,” Go-
mez said. 
However, about 60 protest-
ers who marched during the 
Free2BU March on Gainesville 
said otherwise. They accused 
the church of conversion ther-apy, which is the practice of 
counseling with the goal of 
changing someone’s sexual ori-
entation.
The group walked down the 
street toward Ignite Life Center 
and circled the building twice, 
chanting “I am gay and that’s 
okay, hate will never keep us 
safe.”
Green said the conference 
promotes a false acceptance 
of LGBTQ+ people into the 
church to ultimately convert 
them to heterosexuality. 
“It’s still conversion therapy, 
it’s still deliverance,” Green 
said. “It’s the false hope, and 
that’s the damaging part of it.”
As a marriage and fam-
ily therapist, Green said he 
witnesses clients experience re-
jection, depression, anxiety, ad-
diction and suicidal thoughts as 
a result of conversion therapy. 
Gainesville became the first 
city in North Florida to ban con-
version therapy for minors in 
April.
Merchandise inside Ignite 
Life Center included a book 
called “Changed: #OnceGay 
Stories,” featuring people who 
left behind their LGBTQ+ iden-
tities. Their testimonials refer to 
their homosexual lives as sinful, 
claiming they found salvation in 
Jesus Christ. 
The event also featured for-
merly LGBTQ+ speakers who 
shared stories of their own 
transformations, Gomez said. 
About 250 people attended the 
conference. 
Gomez denies that Ignite Life 
Center uses any form of conver-
sion therapy on members of the LGBTQ+ community. 
“I understand some of the 
concerns are surrounding con-
version therapy, but that’s 
something we don’t practice, 
don’t believe in and we actually 
shun ourselves,” she said. “We 
don’t agree with people having 
to change to accept God’s love.”
Jose Vega, 36, said he came 
to the protest to speak on his 
experience of surviving conver-
sion therapy. 
In 1999, Vega moved to 
Gainesville to attend UF. He 
said he confided in a pastor 
about his sexuality who paired 
him with an unlicensed practi-
tioner. 
After five and a half years 
of verbal conversion therapy, 
Vega fell in love with a woman 
he later married, he said. They 
had two kids together. 
“I believed it,” Vega said. 
“I was a teenager, vulnerable, 
and you don’t really understand 
what the truth is, so I whole-
heartedly believed in what they 
said.”
Years later, Vega said he 
began to question his sexual-
ity, which led him down a path 
of depression, self-hatred and 
suicidal thoughts. His children 
were his motivation to seek 
help. 
He said he found a licensed 
practitioner who helped him re-
alize there was nothing to fix in 
the first place. 
“God made me perfect. God 
made me beautiful,” Vega said. 
“I am good enough.” 
@StarlingMarlowe
mstarling@alligator.orgMarchers protest church conference, allege conversion therapy
About 60 protesters attended.
Marlowe Starling / Alligator Staff 
Gainesville Free2BU protesters carry hand-made signs Friday evening as they 
march toward the Ignite Life Center where the protestors say the center uses 
conversion therapy on the LGBTQ+ community.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
A UF ORGANIZATION OFFERED LEAFY 
GREENS, BEANS AND SQUASH SEEDS.
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Contributing Writer
Leanne Sheffer stood eagerly in a semicircle of 
about 25 students around a white table holding jars, 
tin cans and cut up egg cartons. 
Sheffer, an 18-year-old UF sustainability studies 
freshman, held a Mason jar in her hands as she wait-
ed for the table to be set up. 
She was waiting for the first Plantsgiving, an 
event hosted by UF EcoReps, Friday afternoon on 
Plaza of the Americas. Students planted vegetable 
seeds into reusable containers. The group aims to 
educate students about sustainable living, said Mar-
lee Wasserman, a group director.
She said the group wants students to appreciate 
the environment and feel thankful for plants.
“It’s really important to see the value of growing 
something yourself,” Wasserman said.
Students planted leafy greens, beans and squash 
with provided soil and packs of seeds, Wasserman 
said. Most students brought their own glass jars, 
while others used the tin cans or cut up egg cartons 
provided to house their seeds.
Planters jostled the table as they painted flowers, 
bold stripes and fading ombre colors onto their jars. 
The bag of soil was used up within the first hour. 
The about 20 students who came later could 
still decorate their jars, but not plant their vegeta-
ble seeds. About 50 students attended the event 
throughout the day.Sheffer chose to plant beans and bell peppers in 
her Mason jar to turn into vegan chili in her dorm 
room. Her tropical spinach, sweet basil and Sun gold 
tomato plants grow outside her dorm window so 
they get enough sunlight, she said.
Sheffer said it’s important for students to host 
events about giving. 
“Mix in plants and a love for the environment and 
you’ve got a beautiful thing,” Sheffer said.
Liam Guerin, a 20-year-old UF public health ju-
nior, clutched his biodegradable plant pot as he 
packed spinach seeds into the soil inside. 
He said he hopes to grow his spinach so he can 
eat it in his apartment, but he hasn’t always been so 
lucky with plants. 
“I had some plants at my old apartment, but un-
fortunately, I have a pretty brown thumb,” Guerin 
said. 
Geurin said the event was a great way to relax 
before the stress of his final exams. He rated his ex-
perience a “zen out of 10.”
Freshman trio Maddie Mendoza, Julieth Sar-
gent and Sherry Zhang stood slightly apart from the 
event’s main crowd admiring each other’s handi-
work. They all planted sunflower seeds to decorate 
their shared dorm room.
Mendoza, an 18-year-old UF psychology fresh-
man, said she and her roommates previously tried 
their luck with Air Plants. Even though those died 
in her dorm, the event left Mendoza feeling inspired 
to try again. 
“It might lead to you growing more plants and 
growing your own food, like a kick-start,” she said.‘Zen out of ten’: Students plant seeds, give thanks to plants
Danielle Ivanov / Alligator Contributor
Leanne Sheffer decorates her recycled glass jar at Plantsgiving Friday 
afternoon before planting beans and bell peppers.
By Valerie Lyons
Alligator Contributing writer
Resistance. Empowerment. Surviving. 
Thriving.
These are the four pillars of healing for 
black women presented by Della Mosley at 
Ustler Hall Saturday afternoon during the 
first open event hosted by The Wellness, 
Equity, Love, Liberation, and Sexuality Col-
lective (WELLS), a healing and research 
collective for those of ethnic minority, and 
queer, transgender and gender-expansive 
people.
A dozen female students sat in the mid-
dle of the building’s atrium as Mosley, an 
assistant psychology professor and founder 
of WELLS, introduced Beyond Insecure, a 
workshop aimed at cultivating academic 
encouragement among black women and 
femmes, or feminine identifying people, at 
UF.Mosley said she wanted to create a space 
for students to become aware of some bar-
riers to academic wellness ahead of finals 
that they may not be aware of.
“I want them to understand that they’re 
not alone with it and to come up with some 
strategies, get some empowerment and feel 
inspired as they go into finals season,” she 
said.
The workshop was an intervention in the 
face of attacks on the self-efficacy of black 
women and femmes in higher education, 
which is the ability to internally motivate, 
Mosley said.
Attendees listened to Mosley speak 
about the different barriers in academia be-
fore sharing their experiences with racism, 
discrimination and tokenism.
Alissa Adam, a 21-year-old UF African-
American studies senior who uses they/
them pronouns, said they often feel they need to take extra steps to prove who they 
are to black professors as well as white pro-
fessors. Black students at UF have to jus-
tify themselves and lay out the reasons why 
they might be able to do things, they said.
“They have worked three times as hard 
to get to where they are, and then they 
expect that from you,” Adam said. “So I 
haven’t found any comfort in most of my 
black professors here.”
Adam and other attendees were told 
about the REST model — which stands for 
resistance, empowerment, surviving and 
thriving — as a way to cope with their barri-
ers through a holistic approach that centers 
black women. The event’s co-host Frances 
Adomako said the REST model addresses 
one of the major barriers facing black wom-
en and femmes — oppression.
“I think sometimes when we are so op-
pressed in the spaces we’re in, it makes it difficult for us to imagine the future,” said 
Adomako, a Howard University doctoral 
student. “When you can’t do that, then 
you’re just stuck and lose all sense of hope.
During the presentation, Mosley and 
Adomako encouraged attendees to write 
raps that “talked back” to barriers they have 
faced throughout their educational journeys 
and create personal timelines mapping out 
the experiences or moments which shaped 
their growth.
Mosley concluded the workshop by 
handing out flashcards to the group and ask-
ing them to write down what their dreams 
were and why they deserved them.
After each attendee read their cards 
aloud, Mosley asked that they all respond 
with a phrase originally said by African-
American science fiction writer Octavia 
Butler: 
“So be it. See to it.”UF students find connection, healing at empowerment workshop
THE GROUP HANDED OUT 
CONDOMS TO RESIDENTS. 
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Two people became infected 
with HIV during the amount 
of time that Teresa Mercado 
livestreamed on Facebook. 
Mercado, 51, an Alachua 
County resident, was one of four 
people marching down the streets 
of Duval Heights for World AIDS 
Day. As cars whizzed past her, Mercado proclaimed to those 
watching her livestream that no-
body is immune to the disease. 
Every 9.5 minutes someone in the 
U.S. becomes infected with HIV, 
according to the National Hispan-
ic Council on Aging.   
“Today’s walk may not have 
many numbers, but we know we 
still have a voice,” Mercado said 
during the livestream. 
Starting at Dayspring Mis-
sionary Baptist Church, located 
at 1945 NE Eighth Ave., activ-
ists walked two blocks Saturday morning. The march was spon-
sored by the nonprofit Black AIDS 
Services and Education.
Mercado said the rain kept 
people from coming to the event.
As the group walked, the pres-
ident of the nonprofit, Joe Reads, 
handed out free condoms to peo-
ple on the streets.
Mercado, the outreach co-
ordinator of the nonprofit, said 
she began her involvement with 
the HIV/AIDS community in the 
1980s when her uncle Felix died 
due to complications from the disease. 
She said she tries to engage 
the community through various 
events to reach everyone. Mer-
cado said she has even trained 
barbers and beauticians on how 
to talk to their clients about AIDS 
and sexual health.
“Everybody has their role in 
getting the message out about this 
issue,” Mercado said. 
Alexandria Walker, who is 
Mrs. Marion County Plus America 
2019, was one of the participants 
who marched.Walker, a 23-year-old Col-
lege of Central Florida criminal 
justice senior, said she came to 
the march because she knows 
many people who are unaware 
of their sexual health status. In 
high school, Walker said HIV was 
known colloquially as “die slow.” 
“Knowing is power,” Walker 
said. “When one person is in-
fected, it affects the entire com-
munity.”
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgCommunity members take to the streets for World AIDS Day10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
TICKETS ARE $250 FOR FACULTY 
AND $100 FOR STUDENTS.
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
On International Women’s Day, UF will 
host a conference to inspire future women 
leaders. 
The UF Distance and Continuing Educa-
tion Department will host its second annual 
Inspiring Women Leaders Conference on 
March 7-8 at the UF Hilton Conference Cen-
ter, said Laurel Brown, the assistant director of professional development at the depart-
ment.
The two-day conference will feature three 
keynote speakers for attendees to gain profes-
sional development and engage with women 
leaders from across the country, Brown said. 
There will also be facilitators and break-
out session speakers that will talk about the 
underlying theme: what it means to lead like 
a woman, Brown said. They’ll talk about 
leading with strengths which affect leverage, 
diversity and inclusion.
“The key to all of this is to show women 
of all ages of their career that leadership is something that we all kind of have within us 
and something that we all can do,” Brown 
said.
It costs about $50,000 to put on the con-
ference. To attend, the conference costs 
$300 for the general public, $250 for univer-
sity faculty members and $100 for students, 
Brown said. 
Although the conference’s target audi-
ence is women, men are invited to attend as 
well, she said.
“We had a handful of men attend last 
year,” Brown said. “We have a male keynote 
speaker and a handful of male facilitators.”This year, one of the breakout session 
speakers is Antonio Farias, UF’s chief diver-
sity ofﬁ  cer.
Farias will speak with Naz Erenguc, an as-
sociate of admissions for the UF Warrington 
MBA program. They both wanted to make it 
a gender equitable experience, he said.
“Part of my role is to take not all of the 
oxygen in the room,” he said.
Farias said he hopes attendees will gain 
knowledge that will lead them to take action.
“For me, the goal is to put enough golden 
nuggets out there that people can say ‘OK, 
that resonates with me,’” Farias said.Second annual two-day women’s conference coming in March
PRICES FOR POINSETTIAS RANGE 
FROM $15-$30. 
By Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
It takes four months to grow poinsettias, but 
they take two days to sell out. 
The UF Environmental Horticulture Club is 
holding its 22nd annual poinsettia sale from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday and 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Friday. The sale will be at the UF Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences horticultural 
greenhouses at 2550 Hull Road.
More than 5,000 plants with 150 types of 
poinsettias will be sold. The most popular are 
the red poinsettias. Every year, attendees rush 
to the greenhouses to get their hands on the 
plants in colors that range from gold to green, 
said Andrew Loufman, a 21-year-old UF market-
ing senior.
“It’s stuff you really can’t buy anywhere 
else,” Loufman, the treasurer of the UF Envi-
ronmental Horticulture Club, said. “That’s why 
I think our sale is kind of more unique.”
Loufman said people should come to the sale 
early to get the ﬁ  rst pick of the plants on Thurs-
day morning.
The plants are grown by students in the club 
and are also donated by national and interna-
tional growers, he said.
With the money generated from the sale, 
club members have been able to go on trips to learn more about horticulture around the 
world, Loufman said. Members have traveled to 
the Netherlands, Ecuador and plan on going to 
Spain next year.
Recently, club members have raised about 
$50,000 to $80,000 from the sale alone. Mem-
bers want to hit these numbers again this year, said Alexandria Garcia, the president of the 
club.
The sale is popular because people like to 
purchase the plants before the holidays. 
“It’s the best time of year for their color,” 
Garcia, a 21-year-old UF plant science senior, 
said.Looking for a holiday gift? UF organization is selling poinsettias
Courtesy to The Alligator
Christian Collazo, former vice president of the UF Environmental Horticulture Club, hands 
out plants in the club’s annual poinsettia sale last year. In its 22nd year, more than 5,000 
plants with 150 types of poinsettias will be sold.
By T aylor Roth
Alligator Contributing Writer
St. Patrick Catholic Church members 
gathered to pray and ring a bell in support 
of ending the death penalty in Florida.
Surrounding the stage inside the church 
were more than 270 tealight candles that 
represented all the people in Florida sit-
ting on death row, and at about 7:30 p.m., 
Michael Elias, the leader of the ceremony, 
rang a bell along with 17 other Catholic 
churches across Florida.
“The Bible says ‘Thou shalt not kill,’” 
he said. “For the state to sentence one to 
death is one of the greatest sins.”
About 20 Gainesville residents gathered 
with Elias at St. Patrick Catholic Church, at 
500 NE 16th Ave., Friday night to unite in protesting against the death sentence and 
to hold a discussion on abolishing the pun-
ishment.
The church participated in the event 
on Cities for Life Day, an internationally 
observed day wherein Catholic churches 
across the world advocate for the abolish-
ment of the death penalty.
Getting rid of the death penalty is im-
portant to Sonya Rudenstine, an Alachua 
County criminal defense attorney, because 
she has defended numerous people that 
were sentenced to death.
African Americans and poor people are 
put at a disadvantage when it comes to 
receiving fair trials, Rudenstine said. This 
is because they are not provided with the 
best attorneys to argue their cases.
The death penalty is especially painful for Herb Donaldson, a Gainesville resident 
who spoke about losing his uncle from the 
sentence.
“My uncle was more of a brother to 
me than anything,” Donaldson said. “The 
memories of him might be old, but he will 
never be.”
Like others who have lost a loved one to 
the death penalty, Donaldson said the pain 
of his uncle’s death stays with him always.
Although the pain felt by family and 
friends of those sentenced to death often 
goes unnoticed, Donaldson said he will 
stop at nothing to share the grief he feels. 
He said he hopes others who have not ex-
perienced losing a family member to the 
sentence will listen to those who have.
“We are here and have never been in-
visible,” he said. “You were just told not 
to look.”
The ceremony ended with church mem-
bers lighting the candles and saying a clos-
ing prayer for inmates on death row.Catholic church members pray for end to the death penaltyHere are the types of 
poinsettias to be sold:
PRICES RANGE FROM 
$15 TO $30
Red
Golden glow
Polly’s pink
Red glitter
Snowcap
Peppermint rufﬂ  es
Winter rose
White and pink Princettia
About 20 people attended.Locations that participated 
in Cities for Life:
Gainesville
Jacksonville
Tallahassee
Pensacola
Daytona Beach
Tampa
ClearwaterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $575/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5Centrally located on bus route. This is a nice 
investment opportunity for parents looking 
for student housing. New Home, no main -
tenance, no yard work, pool included with 
HOA,3 bed/2 bath, luxury master bath. Low 
utility bills. Must see! Call Lou Thurmond- 
Broker/Owner: 352-213-2413
1-7-19-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-13
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    12-
3-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
On the Spot Dry Cleaner is hiring front 
counter staff w/ customer service skills at our 
4 air-conditioned stores. M-F 2:30-7:00 Sat 
9-4. $11/Hr. If interestd, call 352-514-7573.    
1-18-19-9-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports
Hiring PT and FT associates. Must have 
consistent availability including either Sat or 
Sun. each week. Only energetic, positive, 
team minded people please. Apply in person 
only to 1504 NW 13 St. 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St.      1-9-19-5-14
NEED SOME CHRISTMAS CASH? 
Get paid to test our apps on your phone. 
It's easy! It's fun! It pays! 
>>> www.CollegeCash.online <<      1-7-19-
3-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-7-19-
3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health ServicesMONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Get your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
LOSE ONE DRESS SIZE
IN 7 DAYS.
GO TO WEBSITE NOW-
https://1644089.site123.me/      12-5-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1. Who was the last N.L. player 
before the Marlins’ Giancarlo Stanton 
in 2017 (59 home runs) to hit 50 or 
more home runs in a season?
2. In 2017, Boston’s Chris Sale 
became the fastest pitcher to reach 
1,500 strikeouts in major-league his-
tory (1,290 innings). Who had been 
the fastest?
3. How many times did the Min-
nesota Vikings make the playoffs in 
the 10 seasons (1991-2001) being 
coached by Dennis Green?
4. Who was the last men’s basketball 
player before North Carolina’s Joel 
Berry in 2016-17 to score at least 20 
points in back-to-back NCAA cham-
pionship games?
5. How many games did the Wash-
ington Capitals win in their inaugural 
NHL season of 1974-75?
6. The Russian men’s soccer team 
won how many games in its World Cup 
history (1994-2014) before its two-vic-
tory run in the 2018 World Cup?
7. Who was the first British boxer to 
win an Olympic gold medal and a pro-
fessional world title?
Answers
1. Prince Fielder belted 50 home 
runs for the Brewers in 2007.
2. Kerry Wood of the Chicago Cubs 
reached 1,500 strikeouts in 1,303 
innings (1998-2010).
3. Eight of the 10 seasons.
4. UCLA’s Bill Walton, in 1972-73.
5. The Capitals won only eight of 80 
games (they also had five ties).
6. Two (one win each in 1994 and 
2002).
7. James DeGale won the IBF super 
middleweight title in 2015.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
December 3, 2018King Features Weekly Service
By Kurt Krauss
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/03/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/03/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, December 3, 2018
ACROSS
1 “Agreed!”
5 Rose from a 
chair
10 Free ticket
14 Sicilian resort city
15 Houston 
baseballer
16 Salon coloring
17 Passenger train’s 
suitcase carrier
19 “Otello” solo
20 Single-celled 
creature
21 “Platoon” setting, 
briefly
23 Texter’s soul 
mate
24 Former Yankee 
manager Joe
25 Turned down an 
invitation
28 Victorian, for one
29 Puerto Rico, to 
the U.S.
31 Harlem 
Renaissance 
author Zora __ 
Hurston
32 Hissing sound
33 Jets or Sharks, 
in “West Side 
Story”
35 Filled completely
36 Guy acting more 
maturely
39 Some corporate 
jets
42 Japan is in it
43 Actress Ryan
46 Prenatal test, for 
short
47 U. of Maryland 
athlete
49 Affirmative vote
50 Cross between 
a Boston terrier 
or boxer and a 
beagle
53 In one’s stomach
55 French summer
56 Pub pint filler
57 America’s has 
100 seats
58 Euros replaced 
them in Italy
60 Carriage outings
63 Tied, as a game
64 Continental 
divide?
65 Jazzman Allison
66 Cincinnati team
67 Golfer’s “pitching” 
iron
68 Art Deco iconDOWN
1 Arguments with 
teams
2 Captivates
3 Some woolen 
sweaters
4 Bar beer
5 Story spanning 
generations
6 Mao __-tung
7 Like stocks not 
sold on an exch.
8 Sumatran ape
9 Hip-hop 
headgear
10 “Everychild.
onevoice” org.
11 Everglades 
transport
12 Nasal cold 
symptom
13 Supplied with 
personnel
18 Assist with a 
heist
22 Brainy bunch
25 Sonia of “Moon 
Over Parador”
26 Che Guevara’s 
first name
27 Campus bigwig
30 It’s often broken 
at breakfast
34 “Peer Gynt Suite” 
composer36 Naval hoosegow
37 Sicily, to 
Sicilians
38 Scratch or dent
39 Shipping 
department 
gizmo
40 Like tearjerkers
41 Made irate
43 Fighter with a 
cape
44 Exam that 
involves reading 
letters45 Rochester 
brewery or its 
river
48 Jury member
51 Curved macaroni 
shape
52 A trey beats it
54 Cartoon genre
57 “Auld Lang __”
59 “Star Trek” rank: 
Abbr.
61 H.S. equivalency 
exam
62 Prank
By Frederick J. Healy
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/01/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/01/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, December 1, 2018
ACROSS
1 Early Greek lyric 
poet
7 Roll by
13 Strong desire
15 Respectful bow
16 Friendly greeting
18 Eastern religion
19 Novak Djokovic’s 
org.
20 Place to gas up 
for free?
22 Beer __
23 Memorable 
Gregory Peck 
role
25 How work may 
be done near a 
deadline
26 Drain
27 California’s __ 
Verdes Peninsula
29 ’70s radical gp.
30 Singer Stefani 
et al.
31 Reception for 
champions
34 Scrooge types
35 Fruity treat
36 Jazz guitarist 
Herb
37 Terre dans la mer
38 Wetland birds
42 Caffeine-rich 
seed
43 1960 Random 
House acquisition
45 Wild way to run
46 Web crawler, e.g.
47 Hit the skids
49 Pressure meas.
50 Designer Pucci
52 Traditional Dixie 
dessert
54 Comment
55 Reptile named 
for the warning 
sound it makes
56 Stars
57 Death Star 
“super” weapons
DOWN
1 Award-winning 
ESPN writer/
reporter Jeremy
2 Rock & Roll Hall 
of Fame’s first 
female inductee3 Check 
alternative
4 Many a GI
5 Old Ritz rival
6 Afternoon hr.
7 Lamb product
8 Memorable lion 
suit wearer
9 2001 biopic
10 Burro’s baskets
11 Former GM cars
12 Doesn’t act  
well
14 Stage makeup 
staple
17 Programmer’s 
problem
21 McCormick 
offering
24 Gulf of __: Baltic 
Sea arm
26 Modern poster
28 Trees whose 
fruit yields a 
moisturizing 
butter
30 Catch on
32 Bolted
33 Bryan’s “Malcolm 
in the Middle” 
role34 Use a certain 
two-handed 
signal
35 19th-century 
women’s rights 
advocate Amelia
36 “La Dolce Vita” 
actress
39 Flow in small 
waves
40 More inclined 
to pry41 “M*A*S*H” actor 
David Ogden __
43 Screwballs
44 Kind of point
47 Prepared 
(oneself) for 
action
48 “Catch ya later”
51 A.L. West team, 
in crawl lines
53 Some Windows 
systems
1.  ____ iron
1.  Shake back and forth5.  Bride’s partner 
2.  Film ____6.  Limber
3.  Mouse-like animal7.  Type of hound
4.  Plunder, stealALFEFW
LEIGGWOROMG
GLEAI
AOTEFGO
MNMGLIEGLEBAE
ELECFEANSWERS: 1A-Waffle  5A-Groom  6A-Agile  7A-Beagle
1D-Wiggle  2D-Footage  3D-Lemming  4D-Fleece  B-Longfellow12-3-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This poet retired from teaching 
in 1854 to focus on his writing.
BONUS18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 16 Health ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
College Football Playoffs announced
The CFP committee revealed the four teams that will be playing for the na-
tional title on Sunday. Alabama came in at No. 1, Clemson followed at No. 2, 
Notre Dame at No. 3 and Oklahoma at No. 4. Paige Hammons and the Gators 
volleyball team will take on No. 4 
seed BYU in the Regional Semifinal 
of the NCAA T ournament on Friday 
in Provo, Utah.WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
Guard Delicia Washington waited for her 
opportunity like a tiger on the hunt. A pass 
early in the third quarter that hung in the 
air just a little too long allowed the 5-foot-10 
guard to step right in front and take it to the 
other end for an easy basket.
Texas Tech coach Marlene Stollings 
stomped her foot and berated the TTU 
bench as Washington ran, her face redder 
than the scarlet leather jacket she sported.
Key defensive plays and clutch free-
throw shooting handed the Florida wom-
en’s basketball team its first win of the sea-
son Sunday over Texas Tech, 72-67, at the 
O’Connell Center to end the worst start to a 
season in program history.
“I’m proud of our kids. I’m proud of our 
effort,” coach Cam Newbauer said after the 
win. “Not just for today. We fought and 
clawed to get better every day. When we 
had to hit shots today, we hit shots. When 
we had to rebound, we rebounded.”
In the first half, it was close. 
The Gators (1-6) crashed the boards hard 
against a Texas Tech team (5-2) that ranked 
third in the nation in rebounds per game 
(50). UF out-rebounded the Red Raiders 29 
to 21 in the first half and held TTU’s 6-foot-
5 forward, Brittany Brewer, to just seven 
points in the half. But Brewer’s defensive presence kept the 
game close. The big forward planted herself 
in the paint and stuffed five blocks in the 
first half, denying anyone looking to drive 
to the basket. Florida opted for the deep 
shot instead.
Freshman guard Ariel Johnson rained 
big three-pointers all half. She made three 
of her first four shots from beyond the arc 
and finished the game 4-of-9 shooting with 
a career-high 14 points dished and five as-
sists in the win. 
“We knew we needed our freshmen to 
step up,” Newbauer said, “and when they 
did, it was huge.”
Guard Emanuely de Oliveira and for-
ward Kristina Moore, the other two fresh-
men on the team, combined for 16 points 
and four rebounds in the game. Scoring 
by UF’s depth players was a big difference 
maker as its bench outscored Texas Tech’s 
24-1 in the game.
The game was closer in the second half. 
Brewer gave the Gators trouble, this time 
with her offense. The forward went 11-of-
22 and finished with 28 points. Florida kept 
her in check in the paint, but she countered 
with four three-pointers in the second half.
Guard Funda Nakkasoglu, who was held 
to just four points in the first half, opening 
her game and help UF come out on top. Gators beat Texas Tech for first win of season
Alligator File Photo
UF guard Delicia Washington collected 10 rebounds and three assists during Florida's 
72-67 win over T exas T ech on Sunday at the O'Connell Center.
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Former guard Chris Chiozza sank a buzz-
er-beating, three-point floater the last time 
the Gators played in Madison Square Garden.
They hope to capture some of that same 
magic this time around.
Florida (4-3) will take on West Virginia in 
the Jimmy V Classic in New York City tomor-
row night at 9.
The Mountaineers (5-2) are coming off a 
106-72 drubbing of Youngstown State, but 
have somewhat disappointed thus far into 
the season.
“Press Virginia” opened up its season 
with high expectations but fell in its open-
ing matchup with Buffalo 94-99 in OT. The 
next contest saw WVU blow by overmatched 
Monmouth then suffer another loss to a less-
than-stellar Western Kentucky team.But now, the Mountaineers are riding a 
four-game win streak.
West Virginia is led by senior forwards 
Esa Ahmad and Sagaba Konate. Ahmad is 
averaging 16.6 points and 5.4 rebounds per 
game while Konate sits at 14.8 points, 8.2 
rebounds and 2.3 blocks.
UF doesn’t truly have a “clear-cut” leader 
as nearly every player in its (roughly) 12-
man rotation is capable of leading on any 
given night.
But guard Deaundrae Ballard has been 
the go-to guy when the offense fails for the 
Gators. He’s the only member on the team 
averaging double-digits (10.9) points per 
game.
Point guard Andrew Nembhard is the 
most visible player on the team, as he eas-
ily leads all players with 30.9 minutes per 
game. Although lauded more for his passing Florida gears up for West 
Virginia in Jimmy V ClassicJustin Case / Column
Most of the time, it’s not 
goodbye, it’s see ya later. But 
this time, it’s actually the mo-
ment to say goodbye. 
Two years ago, I was walk-
ing through the Weimer Hall 
atrium as a freshman.
I had no clue how to get 
involved in the J-school, but 
I knew I loved sports, and I 
knew I loved talking about them.
I saw a note: "The Independent Florida 
Alligator Open House (follow the signs)."
My naive little self stumbled down the 
stairs, into the closet that is the student 
newspaper’s on-campus office.
There, I met Ian Cohen, the guy who 
gave me my first chance to shine in the 
sports industry.
Yo Ian, if you’re reading this, thanks 
bro.
To Ethan Bauer, who handed me my first beat following the Gators 
men’s golf team, thanks bro.
To Matt Brannon, who 
hounded me for an entire se-
mester about my writing while 
I covered Gator volleyball, that 
semester was hell. But thanks 
bro, you made me a better writ-
er, I think.
To Dylan and Morgan, y’all 
were dope too. Thanks for letting me cov-
er Gator baseball and helping me through 
a giant fact error in my women’s basket-
ball feature (whoops).
To my fellow writers at the paper, 
whether retired from the Alligator or still 
in that newsroom, keep up the grind. Ev-
ery single one of you has the ability to be 
great. Just keep that drive that got you 
into that newsroom and you’ll go places. 
Also, Kyle, Chris, Bryan and Victor, y’all My Goodbye to The Alligator: 
Thanks for taking a chance on me
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
Justin Ahlum
@justinn_case1MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
MEN’S GOLF
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
The black widow is native to the 
Canary Islands, an archipelago off 
the coast of Africa. 
The son of “The Black Widow” 
is as well. That’s the nickname UF 
golfer Manny Girona says his father 
earned from his black hair, trimmed 
into a bowl cut. Manny’s father, a 
soccer goalie, was also notoriously 
competitive. 
It naturally made sense that Man-
ny was too. 
When it came time for young 
Manny to pick up a sport, there was 
hardly any question as to what it’d 
be. Golf practically runs in his fam-
ily’s blood. Girona says his grand-
father was the founder of what was 
allegedly the first golf club in the Ca-
nary Islands. 
Manny and his father learned golf 
together. The elder Girona took his 
son to the driving range as a toddler, 
and the learning curve took off from 
there.
Manny hit his first golf balls out 
on that range. It started as a fun fa-
ther-son outing. But before long, fa-
ther and son competed against each 
other. 
“When I started beating him, he 
quit,” Manny laughed. 
It took time and a move halfway 
across the world for golf to stick with 
Girona permanently.
Girona’s parents owned a jew-
elry store in the islands until Manny 
was five years old. Wishing to pur-
sue other endeavors, the couple sold 
the store back to the franchise and 
moved to the United States.
However, it wasn’t until Girona 
was 10 years old that he started to 
fall in love with the game after at-
tending a couple of summer camps. 
He remembers winning the first golf 
tournament he ever played in when 
he was 11.
“Winning my first tournament I 
ever played, I think, was a big piv-
otal moment just because it was like, 
‘Wow, like, this is fun, winning is 
fun,’” he said. “The funny thing was 
that the week after the tournament, 
I shot 10 shots better than I had the 
week before and lost.
“I remember my dad hugging me 
and telling me how proud he was,” 
Manny said. “That was just like, a 
big, big moment for me because I 
realized I was pretty good at some-
thing, something that I enjoyed do-
ing.”
Girona transferred to Winder-
mere Preparatory School near Orlan-
do midway through his sixth-grade 
year. Heading into seventh grade, he 
decided to try out for the golf team. 
Windermere is a K-12 school, so he 
had to compete against high school-
ers for the team.
Girona made varsity his very first 
year after only playing the sport for 
a year and a half, which he says tells 
you more about the state of the team 
at that point than his own abilities.
It wasn’t until the school hired a new golf coach by the name of Kyle 
McClone ahead of his junior year 
that things started to fall into place 
for Girona. Before McClone arrived 
at Windermere, the team had gone 
through multiple coaches during Gi-
rona’s stint at the school alone.
But with McClone came stability 
and success for both the team and 
Girona as an individual. The small 
private school won districts and re-
gionals to advance to states. With 
three strong seniors and Girona, it 
felt like this was the year for Win-
dermere.
Unfortunately for Windermere, 
it came up short at states, finishing 
in third and losing by nine strokes to 
Lake Mary Prep.
“That was pretty frustrating be-
cause… we thought we were pretty 
screwed because we were losing 
three big guys,” says Girona.
However, Windermere was back 
at states the very next year, armed 
with four seniors, including Girona. 
Windermere came out on top this 
time, beating runner-up Lake Mary 
by seven strokes and validating a 
long high school varsity golf career 
for Girona.
“That was just like the mic drop,” 
said Girona. “After seven years of 
trying to win the state title and all of 
that, it was awesome. I remember 
that day just like it was yesterday.”
Girona’s performance at Winder-
mere didn’t go unnoticed, either. He 
started to receive offers from various 
schools to play golf.
It was Girona’s personality off 
the course that attracted UF men’s 
golf coach J.C. Deacon as much as 
Girona’s performance on the course.
“I liked his personality and his 
demeanor,” Deacon said. “He had 
a really good reputation in junior 
golf with the other kids, and that’s 
shown true in school, too.”
Wishing to stay close to home 
while still wanting to play golf at the 
collegiate level, Girona narrowed his 
choices down to four schools: Au-
burn, USF, UNF and Florida. He saw 
Florida as “the complete package” of 
golf (Girona says that the team was 
ranked second in the country at the 
time of his commitment) and aca-
demics, a value constantly ingrained 
into his head by his parents.
However, just because Florida 
was the “complete package” didn’t 
mean that it was going to be easy. 
Girona found himself behind a log-
jam of older, more experienced golf-
ers his first year at UF as well as 
trying to adjust to college as both 
a student and on the golf course. It 
was decided that it was best for him 
to redshirt.
Girona doesn’t consider himself 
the type to get down on himself or 
quit. Instead, he continued to work 
on his game, playing with other 
teammates and just trying to figure 
out what he could do to improve his 
game.
“He handled it really well,” Dea-
con said. “For him to get a year 
under his belt and see how we do 
things and watch those guys play and see, you know, how good you 
have to be to play at the University 
of Florida, he learned a lot.”
That also didn’t mean that it 
would be easy for Girona to have to 
sit on the proverbial sidelines and 
watch as his teammates competed 
with no opportunity for him to be 
with them. He remembers looking 
on as the team played at Isleworth 
Country Club in Windermere, his 
“home” course that he admits that 
he’s played “over 74 rounds” at.
“That’s when I think it hurt the 
most,” Girona remembers. “That’s 
when I realized I was redshirting 
and… seeing them all play a course 
that I loved and a course back 
home.”
Girona met with Deacon and as-
sociate coach Mark Leon to discuss 
what he was going to do to improve 
his game. Deacon asked him during 
the meeting, “What are you going 
to do to get two, three shots better? 
Don’t answer it, just do it.”
With the season over, Girona 
headed back home and talked to 
his swing coach there. They created 
a plan to accentuate the powerful 
5-foot-11, 200-pound freshman’s 
strengths, specifically his ball strik-
ing with irons.
“He’s a really good iron player, a 
really, really, really good iron play-
er,” Deacon said. “He hits it a long 
ways.”
Girona immediately started to see 
improvements in his game as the 
summer went on and played in vari-
ous tournaments.
“The summer felt like… an okay 
day would be a 70, 71,” Girona said. 
“Last year, during my redshirt year, I 
was grinding out to try to just break 
par.”He mentioned his last tourna-
ment in the summer before heading 
back down to Gainesville this year, a 
tournament in Georgia. Girona was 
one under heading into the final day. 
He felt like he had played much bet-
ter than his score, just waiting for a 
bounce to go his way or for a putt 
to drop.
He scored a 66 on the final round, 
bringing home not only a top-five 
finish but also momentum heading 
into his first fall season.
“It kinda… set the wheels, set the 
wheels running for me,” Girona said. 
“This is my year.”
The departures of Alejandro Tosti 
and Andy Zhang from the previous 
year’s squad created openings in the 
roster. Girona ended up qualifying 
for the team’s first tournament in 
the fall at The Farm Golf Club for the 
Carpet Capital Collegiate.
If this were a Hollywood block-
buster, there would be dramatic mu-
sic leading up to a crucial putt on the 
18th hole for the win.
But this was not a Hollywood 
blockbuster.
He struggled throughout the 
weekend along with the rest of the 
team as he finished 11 strokes over 
par for a 65th-place finish.
Deacon walked with Girona for 
his last 18 holes at the Carpet Capital 
Collegiate, watching and observing 
Girona’s play. Girona remembers 
that he only missed two fairways 
that day but was killed by his put-
ting en route to a 75.
The coach noticed that the 
tempo and swing on his putting 
was off. When the team returned 
to Gainesville, the two used a de-
vice called Blast Motion in Girona’s 
putter to measure the timing of his 
swing. As expected, the pace of his 
putting was significantly off, leading to changes in his swing.
The work behind the scenes paid 
off immediately for Girona after 
qualifying as an individual for the 
Trinity Forest Invitational. He saw 
his best tournament of the fall with 
scores of 70, 71 and 70 and a 19th-
place finish.
He found himself back in the 
Gators’ lineup at their next tourna-
ment at the Nike Collegiate and 
struggled again after a strong first 
round to fall to a 45th-place finish. 
He also narrowly missed qualifying 
for the Tavistock Collegiate to close 
out the fall season.
But the fall season is to help 
golfers put in the work needed to 
prepare themselves for the spring 
season when it counts. The general 
mood around the entire team is that 
it has put in the work to be a high-
caliber team, but the results just 
haven’t matched their level of work 
and effort.
And that rings true for Girona, 
too. Deacon and the rest of the team 
have lauded his hard work through-
out the fall.
“He loves the game… he’s al-
ways excited to be at the course and 
to play and to work at it and get bet-
ter,” Deacon said. “When you got 
a guy who loves it and really tries 
hard, they’re just going to get better, 
especially when he’s here and using 
all of the resources that we have.”
“I’m very proud of the way [he] 
has kind of vaulted his way up the 
lineup,” senior Gordon Neale said. 
“He redshirted last year and now 
he’s becoming very, very solid part 
of our team and he’s playing well for 
us.
“The way he’s really progressed, 
especially over the summer and then 
the early part of this fall has been 
huge compared to how he was play-
ing last year and he’s really going to 
help our team this spring.”
The men’s golf roster is at a cross-
roads. Neale is the only senior on 
the team, and beyond him, the only 
non-freshman who regularly played 
in the lineup was sophomore John 
Axelsen. It also endured a brutal fall 
season in which the team only had 
one top-four finish and just four in-
dividual top-10 finishes. 
Girona, along with freshmen 
Aden Ye and Eugene Hong, repre-
sent the next competitive core for 
the team moving forward. But as 
Deacon points out, that future might 
come sooner than later.
“We don’t have as much depth 
this year and we need a huge con-
tribution from all of our guys, really.
“Manny’s got the capabilities to 
be a really good player, and we need 
him to step up and do it.”
For the kid from the Canary Is-
lands who has hustled since he was 
a seventh grader trying to make the 
high-school varsity team for a small 
private school, it is more likely than 
not that he’ll figure it out. 
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.orgManny Girona embraces one constant through changes
Courtesy of the UAA
Florida golfer Manny Girona finished 19th at the Trinity Forest 
Invitational, his best performance of the fall season.
•   •   ••   •   ••   •   •16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2018
BURGER 
NIGHT
$3.99 BURGERS
(1/2 LB. ANGUS BEEF) 5PM- CLOSE
$5.99 PITCHERSMONDAY NIGHTS
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595In the Creekside Mall Plaza
BURGER 
$3.99 BURGERS
tryna run 5s at Southwest tomor-
row? Let me know.
And to the friends and fam-
ily that read my articles from 
the beginning, thanks for stick-
ing through all of my dependent 
clauses and cliches.
I’m glad to have been a student 
of the craft for you guys, taking 
each article one sentence at a 
time.
To anyone else reading this 
sappy goodbye, thanks for read-
ing. Without you, student news-
papers wouldn’t survive. So keep 
reading, please. They work as 
hard as any other writer cover-
ing these Gators, on top of taking 
courses in one of the more rig-
orous journalism schools in the 
country #top10PublicUniversity.
With all of that said (cliche), I 
have a big capstone project due at 
10:40 a.m. today.
So adios, my beloved reader. 
And remember, UCF wasn’t a 
deserving CFB playoff team (did 
you see that strength of schedule? 
LMAO), Florida MIGHT be a foot-
ball school again and I ﬁ  nished 
this two minutes before my dead-
line set by our amazing sports 
editor Morgan McMullen.
Much love alligatorSports, and 
thanks again for taking a chance 
on me.
Justin Ahlum was a staff writer. 
Follow him on Twitter 
@justinn_case1COLUMN,  from pg 14
- he averages 6.57 assists per game and accounts for 46.5 
percent of all UF assists - he currently is 50 percent from 
three this year as well.
Shooting has been an issue for Florida this year, par-
ticularly from deep. It currently pulls at a clip of 23.3 
threes per game and only hits 36.6 percent.
Senior guards KeVaughn Allen and Jalen Hudson bear 
some brunt of responsibility, as they have shot 25 per-
cent and 24 percent, respectively, from the three-point 
line this season.
Hudson has lost his starting spot this season to fresh-
man guard Noah Locke, who is hitting at a clip of 44.1 
percent from deep.
Mike White’s offense is predicated on the three-ball, 
and if it’s not hitting, the team isn’t scoring.
WVU has had its problems from deep this year as well. 
It has three players shooting better than 42 percent, but 
the team as a whole only averages 35.4 percent.
Expect a low-scoring affair, as neither team is shooting 
lights out. They'll rely on their defensive prowess to carry 
them to wins.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Locke shooting 44.1 percent from the three-point arc
As the Red Raiders keyed on other play-
ers, the 5-foot-8 Australian was given more 
room to shoot, and she took advantage. She 
ﬁ  nished the contest with 21 points and some 
clutch shooting from the charity stripe to put 
the game away.
Nakkasoglu, along with Johnson and soph-
omore Kiara Smith, made eight of their last 10 free throws to ice the game as the Red Raiders 
desperately tried to make their way back. 
“It was awesome,” Nakkasoglu said of the 
win. “We knew there was going to be adver-
sity, but we were so eager to get that win that 
we locked in and ﬁ  nally did it.”
The team effort gave Florida its ﬁ  rst win, 
but interior defense is still something to be 
worked on before the Gators’ next game on 
Wednesday against Bethune-Cookman at the O’Connell Center. 
UF didn’t log a single block in the game and 
allowed too many open opportunities close to 
the basket. Newbauer expressed his frustration 
with the defense earlier in the week and will 
undoubtedly continue to press his team to im-
prove in that area. 
@dyrudolph 
drudolph@alligator.org.WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Gators face Bethune-Cookman on W ednesdayChris O'Brien / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Deaundrae Ballard leads the Gators with 10.9 points per game.
