We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Behind enemy lines
Colorado State is coming off its ﬁ  rst win against an SEC oppo-
nent in school history. Who should the Gators pay attention to 
this Saturday?, pg. 14Gunshot wound? Keep working
After a former employee shot the owner of Bakery Mill & Deli, 
he went back to the job just hours later, pg. 3
Student Government releases platforms
Compare the two parties’ ideas for the Fall, pg. 5FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 10
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
On Saturday, 366 students will 
march to the beat of Aretha Frank-
lin’s “Respect.” The UF marching 
band’s show honoring the late 
singer is the third performance of 
the season rehearsed with a new 
mobile app for learning drills.
The UF marching band has 
been using the Ultimate Drill Book app to learn marching drills 
since before the ﬁ  rst home foot-
ball game Sept. 1 against Charles-
ton Southern. The app removes 
the need to print paper drills ever 
again, said John Watkins, the UF 
marching band director. 
The app takes latitude and 
longitude coordinates from the 
design software Pyware 3D Pro-
fessional and turns halftime show drills into an animated picture 
of shapes and patterns, Watkins 
said. Each student can click and 
interact with coordinates during 
practice to see how they’re mov-
ing around the ﬁ  eld, Watkins 
said.
Previously, the 366 marching 
band students used paper that 
outlined the coordinates of the 
band members for three to ﬁ  ve songs, Watkins said. Thousands 
of sheets were printed for each re-
hearsal, but if any design changes 
were made then the sheets would 
have to be reprinted.
“With an activity like this, it’s 
all kinesthetic learning,” Watkins 
said. “They can see what they’re 
doing, where they’re supposed to 
go. But then it’s about them being 
able to feel it.” The School of Music will save 
between $30,000 and $32,000 in 
paper and printing by using the 
app, Watkins said. The subscrip-
tion for the app is $5 per stu-
dent, which comes out to roughly 
$1,830 paid by the band program. 
The app’s creators and UDB 
co-founders Joshua Gall and his 
brother Luke said they faced is-UF Marching Band to get in formation with help of app
SEE BAND,  PAGE  4HIS DELTA TAU DELTA BROTH-
ERS HELPED RAISE MORE THAN 
$20,000 IN LESS THAN A WEEK.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Ryan Hinterleiter thought his stomach 
pains were just symptoms of appendicitis. 
Since early August, his stinging, contract-
ing cramps worsened until he decided to call 
his doctor. The 20-year-old UF business administra-
tion junior mentioned the softball-sized tumor 
sticking out from the right side of his stomach 
to his doctor. The doctor told him to go to the 
emergency room.
After an eight-hour wait in the UF Health 
Shands Hospital Sept. 5, doctors took a CT 
scan.  Scott Hinterleiter, Ryan’s dad, made a 
three-and-a-half hour drive from Hobe Sound 
when his son told him he may be getting his 
appendix removed.
The doctors knew immediately that the tumor was a form of lymphoma. Hinterleiter  
was ofﬁ  cially diagnosed with Burkitt’s lym-
phoma, a Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma that is 
an aggressive and rare cancer of the cells that 
ﬁ  ghts against the immune system, the next 
day, Hinterleiter said.
Within 12 hours after being diagnosed, 
Hinterleiter said his UF Delta Tau Delta frater-
nity brothers created a GoFundMe page with 
the goal of raising $50,000 for his medical ex-
penses. About $22,200 was raised within six 
days, and the page had more than 2,000 Face-book shares by Wednesday evening.
Sam Ellis, Hinterleiter’s roommate and fra-
ternity brother, said nothing about his friend 
changed since the diagnosis. The two still 
“trash talk each other,” and play video games 
together, Ellis said.
But for Ellis, a 20-year-old UF telecommu-
nications junior, some things are different. 
“I sanitize my hands every time I walk in 
the room now,” Ellis said. “I can’t get sick. 
We’re probably going to have to start wearing UF student, fraternity brother is ﬁ  ghting rare cancer 
Chris Houston / Alligator Contributor
Biker and retired Boston ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter, Manuel Arruda, 67, takes part in the 2018 Brotherhood Ride at 
the ﬁ  fth stop of their journey, Elks Lodge in Gainesville, Thursday evening. Participants of the ride 
started in Naples Sunday and will have covered 600 miles when they end in T allahassee Saturday to 
honor fallen friends and raise funds to support their families.
By Tyler Nettuno
Alligator Staff Writer
People leaving their homes 
to avoid Hurricane Florence can 
take solace in the Swamp.
The UF Athletic Associa-
tion will give free tickets for the 
Gators’ matchup against Colo-
rado State to families evacuating 
from North and South Carolina, 
according to a press release. The 
decision was made following a 
similar choice by the University of 
Tennessee Wednesday, according 
to the release.
Residents of counties under 
mandatory evacuation will be 
able to claim up to four tickets 
to Saturday’s game. The tickets 
can be claimed between noon 
and 2:30 p.m. at the season ticket 
holder representative tent outside 
Gate 2 at the stadium. A valid, 
state-issued ID from North or 
South Carolina is required to re-ceive the tickets, according to the 
release.
Hurricane Florence is project-
ed to make landfall in North Caro-
lina this morning. Six counties in 
South Carolina and 11 counties 
in North Carolina have been or-
dered to evacuate, according to 
the Weather Channel. 
Robert Vonderahe, an 18-year-
old UF accounting sophomore, 
said he was glad the university 
was giving tickets out.
“It gives them an opportunity, 
the people that are going to be 
hurting, to just forget about it for 
a while and enjoy some football,” 
Vonderahe said.
He thinks this will not only 
help evacuees but also UF. 
“It’ll help pack the stadium out 
a little bit,” he said.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgUF gives football tickets to 
hurricane evacueesSEE RYAN,  PAGE  4FEATURE FRIDAYT oday’s Weather
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Path to Fulbright: 
Challenges, Opportunities 
and Rewards with Marcía 
Porter
The UF Fulbright Lecture 
Committee is pleased to in-
vite the UF community to the 
first Fulbright event of the 
semester, which will be held 
at 2 p.m. today at the Music 
Building in Room 101. Marcía 
Porter, an award-winning so-
prano and professor of voice 
at the Florida State University 
College of Music, is an active 
recitalist who has performed 
in numerous venues and pres-
tigious festivals throughout 
the United States, Italy, Brazil 
and the Czech Republic. Porter 
went to Brazil as a Fulbright 
Scholar. There will be a meet-
and-greet after the talk and 
refreshments will be served. 
Come meet new colleagues 
and friends as you learn about 
Fulbright Programs available 
at UF. For additional infor-
mation please contact Claire 
Anumba at canumba@ufic.ufl.
edu. 
GatorNights: That’s Incredible!
Race against your friends at 
Violet’s Zorb Balls, then break 
out from Andy’s Escape Room 
this Friday. Create a master-
piece at our painting class 
(available for the first 100 stu-
dents). Sign-ups start at 7:30 
p.m. in Reitz Union Room 
3315. Don’t forget to head over 
to Nemo’s Jellyfish Plants, A 
Bug’s Life Terrariums, Coco’s 
Crafts and Pixar Coasters. 
Visit our body art and bal-
loon animals stations, and 
enjoy a hilarious performance 
at the Monster’s Inc. Laugh 
Lab. Enjoy popcorn and soda 
while watching “Incredibles 2” 
at  8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. There 
will be free bowling and bil-
liards in the Game Room and 
Remy’s Pasta Bar at Midnight 
Munchies. GatorNights is free 
for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Card at the Reitz 
Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate and are al-
lowed to bring one guest.Florida Museum hosts ‘Viva 
Museum’ Saturday
Celebrate South American 
culture from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Saturday at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History. 
Enjoy the musical group 
Danzas Perujax as they per-
form traditional music and 
dance, and view rare Andean 
artifacts from the museum’s 
South American ethnographic 
collection. This is a bilingual 
family event. Este es un even-
to biligüe y familiar. For more 
information, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/event/viva-mu-
seum or call 352-273-2061.
Local Art
On Saturday, Hardback Cafe 
will host “For Overthinkers & 
Artists.” Join them as art and 
hip-hop combine in celebra-
tion of local music producer 
and artist Nxt Lvl’s new proj-
ect, “For Overthinkers.” Some 
of Gainesville’s artists will 
have their local art on display, 
including a live painting exhib-
it. Nxt Lvl will perform songs 
from his latest project, as well 
as from his vast library of mu-
sic. Special guest Elixir Flow 
from Orlando will open the 
show. Doors open at 7 p.m. 
The event is free and open to 
those 18 and older.
DreamQuilt
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting artists 
and performers for SoulMakes: 
Immersive Art Show from noon 
to 4 p.m. Sept. 22 at Cypress 
and Grove Brewing Company. 
All types of artists are wel-
come, and presenting artists 
are encouraged to do demos, 
talk with guests and work 
on projects right there in the 
available space. Participants 
and guests interact in an open, 
creative environment blend-
ing different forms of art with 
a unique experience for visi-
tors, including a collaborative 
canvas and collage workshops. 
Current students may apply 
to show their work for free. 
To sell art or craft items, a 
booth fee of $15 applies. Learn 
more by emailing booking@
dreamquilt.org or texting 352-
872-2620.
Student Government Elections
Vote for your Student 
Government senator from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Sept. 25 and 26. Polling locations 
include Broward Recreation 
Room, Hough Hall Room 120, 
Health Science Center C2-41C, 
Jennings Hall Library, Levin 
College of Law BGH Student 
Commons, second floor of 
the Marston Computer Lab, 
Murphree Conference Room, 
Norman Education Library, 
Reitz SG Print Lab, Springs 
Area Office Room C202 and 
Southwest Recreation Social 
Lounge. Questions? Visit 
sg.ufl.edu/elections, or email 
Supervisor of Elections Henry 
Fair at elections@sg.ufl.edu.
Bicycle Ride to support Breast 
Cancer Research, Oct. 28
The Pink Pumpkin Pedal-Off 
is a charity bicycle ride to 
raise funds to support local re-
search on treatment-resistant 
breast cancers. Ride distances 
are 10, 22, 40 or 62.5 miles. 
All rides begin and end at the 
Cancer and Genetics Research 
Complex at UF. Register at 
pinkpumpkinpedaloff.org. 
Asian American Journalists 
Association UF Chapter
Join a national network of 
journalists advancing diversity 
in the workplace. With mem-
bership, students get access to 
networking opportunities and 
connections with top editors in 
national media organizations, 
as well as scholarships and 
mentorships. For more infor-
mation, email Alexandria Ng 
at alexandriang@ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 10
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  73°2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Desk Editor
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Jessica Giles, jgiles@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephen Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Meryl Kornfield
Copy Editor Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
Lourdes Hernandez, Juan Salguero,
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Marlowe Starling, Madison Forbis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Assistant Sports EditorBailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.orgMeryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.orgBy Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
Steve Collins was up before the sun Sat-
urday morning to take care of the bakery 
he owns. 
Three hours later, he was back at the 
bakery wearing a hospital gown and a cast 
on his arm. 
The 58-year-old drove to the back of 
Bakery Mill & Deli, at 1143 NW 76th Blvd., 
at 4 a.m. to take out the trash when he no-
ticed a red car parked near the dumpster. 
He didn’t pay it much attention, he said. 
As Collins walked to the dumpster, he 
saw the car pull up next to him.
“Hey, you remember me?” the driver 
said. “It’s Rico.”
Collins did remember him. He was the 
same man who walked out on his job at the 
bakery two years ago. 
Carlos Gilberto Morales Serrano, 34, of 
Gainesville went by Rico when he cooked 
at the Bakery Mill, Collins said. 
Collins thought Morales Serrano was 
leaving when he drove away until he heard 
the engine roar, he said. 
The car turned around and barreled 
toward Collins, he said. Morales Serrano 
slowed down to shoot twice at Collins, hit-
ting him once in the left arm, the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said.
Morales Serrano is accused of driving away, turning around and ﬁ  ring two more 
shots. He made one last U-turn and almost 
came to a stop, Collins said. He feared the 
worst.
Morales Serrano shot once more and 
missed, deputies said. “I’m grateful to be alive,” he said. “I’m 
grateful he was a bad shot.”
While doctors at North Florida Regional 
Medical Center were treating Collins, Mo-
rales Serrano hid in the attic of his apart-
ment building on the 6800 block of South-west Fourth Place, deputies said. 
By 7 a.m., Collins drove back to the 
restaurant, he said. Meanwhile, Morales 
Serrano was in a three-hour standoff with 
deputies outside his home, deputies said. 
He was later charged with attempted ﬁ  rst-
degree murder, according to court records. 
He is being held at the Alachua County Jail 
in lieu of $1.25 million bond. 
The restaurant was surprisingly busy 
for an ongoing crime scene, Collins said. 
About 15 customers were chit-chatting 
over breakfast as deputies worked outside. 
Moe Rancourt, 86, has eaten at Bakery 
Mill & Deli almost every day for more than 
15 years, he said. He walked into the res-
taurant Saturday to treat himself to a West-
ern omelet. 
Rancourt had no idea what happened to 
his best friend, but when he realized Col-
lins was still wearing a hospital gown, he 
wanted to snap a photo, he said. 
“Oh my god, you could’ve been killed,” 
Rancourt told Collins. 
Collins sat down with Rancourt and his 
friends to catch up on the day. The support 
he received from customers reminded him 
how blessed he is, he said. 
“It makes you feel like part of the com-
munity,” he said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.org
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
September 15, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
The Alachua County 
For more information, please contact:
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer 
A Newell Hall staircase remains 
closed after a glass panel on the 
second ﬂ  oor of the study center shattered.
The panel was found broken at 
about 10:30 p.m. Sunday, Associ-
ate Dean of Students SevaPriya 
Barrier said. No one was injured, 
but the staircase below the panel was closed after the broken panel 
was reported. The reason for the 
break is unknown, but it was not 
an act of vandalism, Barrier said.
“We are waiting for a temporary 
solution because we want to make sure that everyone is safe,” Barrier 
said. 
As of Wednesday afternoon, the 
panel was secured with plywood, 
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said. The panel is expected to be 
replaced within the next week.
It will cost about $1,000 to re-
place, and it is unclear how it will 
be paid for at this time, Orlando 
said. If the panel broke because of 
a manufacturing defect, then the 
manufacturer may pay for the re-placement.
Kevin Ward, an 18-year-old UF 
graphic design freshman, spent his 
afternoon sitting on the staircase 
between the third and fourth ﬂ  oors 
of the building. 
“I had to walk up to the second 
ﬂ  oor,” Ward said. “It’s a little out 
of the way but not that big of a 
deal.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgNewell Hall staircase to be reopenedShelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Steve Collins, 58, ﬂ  ashes a thumbs-up Wednesday morning after describing being 
shot in the arm while he worked at his business, Bakery Mill & Deli, on Sept. 8. Collins 
said he was lucky that the incident was not more severe. “This hurts, ” he said. “It’s an 
inconvenience, but it’s not going to change my life. ”
Bakery bounces back after ex-employee shoots owner
A glass panel shattered Sunday nightFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   34   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
sues of losing or damaging the pa-
per drills at rehearsals. Joshua, a 
2014 UF instrumental conducting 
masters alumnus, began develop-
ing the app while at UF. 
“The app is as good as the peo-
ple who use it,” Joshua Gall said. 
“If it’s a great app but no one uses 
it, then it will never really see the 
light of day.” 
Not only are the brothers co-
founders of Ultimate Drill Book, 
but Luke Gall said he and his 
brother use the app every day as 
band teachers. 
“We are finding ourselves in 
the situations where we’re not 
only talking to people who are 
using it across the country, but 
we’re talking to the students who 
we’re teaching right in front of 
us,” Luke Gall said. 
Greta Gallina, a 20-year-old UF 
plant science junior, said the app 
helps her understand what shapes 
in the drill look like from above. 
Before the app, it was difficult to understand. The band members 
only knew what the puzzle they 
were a piece to looked like after 
seeing a video. 
For a Veteran’s Day show, 
marchers morphed into tanks and 
for a Halloween performance they 
turned into a ghost that moved 
across the field.
“It was always a wonder of 
what shape we were supposed to 
be making,” she said. “With this, 
we get to see what the picture is 
and what we’re actually supposed 
to be making.” 
Ryan Klitz, a 20-year-old UF 
music education junior, is one 
of four baritone section leaders. 
Drills are constantly changing and 
require quick mental calculations 
in order to be executed, Klitz said.
“I think it was about like 4,500 
pieces of paper spent on making 
drill cards,” he said. “And we 
only use them for one rehearsal 
and we throw them out or they 
get damaged.” 
This year’s band is one of 
the largest bands UF has had, 
Watkins said. But rehearsals are faster and more efficient than in 
years past. 
Watkins said his personal rela-
tionship with Joshua Gall allows 
him to communicate ideas for im-provement within the app. Soon, 
a GPS attendance feature will 
help them take attendance easier, 
Watkins said. 
“Let’s face it,” Watkins said. “They all have phones anyway. 
We might as well use them.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org BAND,  from pg 1New app helps the UF Marching Band save $30,000masks all the time.” 
When Hinterleiter came home 
from the hospital to their two-
bedroom duplex behind their West 
University Avenue fraternity house, 
Ellis said he expected his friend to 
have a quick recovery from the sus-
pected appendicitis. Ellis and his 
girlfriend even got him a card signed 
by some fraternity brothers that said 
things like, “Screw that appendix,” 
and, “You’ll be OK, buddy.” 
No one thought Hinterleiter’s 
trip to the hospital would be seri-
ous. When Hinterleiter told Ellis 
he had cancer, Ellis said they could 
have heard a pin drop in the room.
“When he told me that it was 
cancer, I was just like, ‘Shut up, 
dude. You don’t have cancer. That’s 
not funny,’” Ellis said. “His dad is 
the only reason I believed him at all, 
honestly, because of the look on his 
face.” 
Hinterleiter is from what he de-
scribes as a small, laid back, beachy 
town in South Florida. He usually 
spent his weekends in his home-
town, Hobe Sound, on the water, 
whether it be at the beach or fishing 
on his family’s boat.
His demeanor matches the re-
laxed atmosphere of his home 
town, he said, even since he was di-
agnosed with stage 3 cancer. Stage 
3 is considered an intermediary-risk 
cancer, while stage 4 is high-risk. 
At South Fork High School, he 
was known for being a team player 
on his soccer and lacrosse teams, 
his mom Nancy Hinterleiter said. 
He was a shy kid growing up, but 
none of his friends in college would 
know that when they are around 
the now-energetic Hinterleiter, who knows the names of all 115 of his 
fraternity brothers. 
He said his love for soccer and 
experience as a midfielder has 
helped him maintain composure in 
facing adversity and be a team play-
er after the diagnosis.
Hinterleiter posted a message 
on his fraternity’s Facebook group 
Thursday to share the news, he 
said. Because of the fundraising 
done by the UF Delta Tau Delta 
brothers, Hinterleiter said his fam-
ily has not had to think about the 
financial burdens and can focus on 
his health.
“There’s a bad stigma about 
fraternities going around now, but 
there’s also amazing things that fra-
ternities can do for you,” he said. 
“Really in this situation, my life will 
be endlessly different because of 
Delt.” 
Nancy Hinterleiter said her son 
feels that there’s no way he can 
repay or thank the people who 
have donated money. She is now 
sleeping on an air mattress in her 
son’s living room for the next three 
months to be with him throughout 
chemotherapy. 
She said she can’t count how 
many times he’s mentioned how 
lucky he is.
“I’ve never once heard him say, 
‘Why me?’ I’ve never once heard 
him say, ‘How could this happen?’” 
she said. 
Once Hinterleiter starts under-
going his 12-week chemotherapy 
process today, his immune system 
will not be able to fight infections. 
Each of his four, six-day chemother-
apy treatments will be three weeks 
apart, he said. 
Then, a two-week period in be-
tween treatments will allow his blood cell count levels to increase, 
and he will be checked back into 
Shands for three more chemother-
apy cycles. 
He said he feels he’s at 90 per-
cent rather than his usual 100, but 
each week of chemotherapy will be 
harder than the last as his immune 
system steadily weakens. 
After his fourth chemotherapy 
cycle, he will have to take upward 
of 15 different medicines to sus-
tain the treatment for a year and a 
half, Hinterleiter said. Doctors told him he will most likely get sick eas-
ily and have to be rushed into the 
emergency room. 
Hinterleiter said he is not afraid 
for what’s to come, and he can’t 
wait to call himself a cancer survi-
vor. He joked with Ellis that once 
he adds “cancer survivor” to his re-
sume, he’ll land any job.
“His spirits are insane. You 
would never know this kid had can-
cer,” Ellis said. “He was cracking 
jokes about it when he found out. 
It’s at the point where I’m cracking jokes now, too, and we’re all laugh-
ing about it together.” 
Ellis is hopeful his roommate 
and fraternity brother will make a 
full recovery and return to playing 
Fortnite and attending classes once 
his chemotherapy ends in Spring.
“If you ever meet Ryan, even 
cancer would not bother this kid,” 
Ellis said. 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgRYAN,  from pg 1Delta Tau Delta brothers have helped organize a fundraiser
Courtesy to The Alligator
Logan, Nancy, Scott, Cori and Ryan Hinterleiter vacation at the shore in Avalon, New Jersey, every 
August. Ryan Hinterleiter’s mom, Nancy Hinterleiter, said they have a close-knit family. 
Courtesy to The Alligator
A screenshot of the Ultimate Drill Book app that the UF Marching Band is using to learn marching drills.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer 
More people may be keeping a 
sober eye on the drunken Mid-
town crowd when the bars strike 
the last call.
A community policing pilot 
program is in the works between 
local law enforcement agencies 
and the Community Redevelop-
ment Agency to promote public 
safety in the College Park area. 
The agency met with the City 
Commission Thursday to update 
the community of its general prog-
ress and discuss which programs 
to prioritize until 2023, such as 
the pilot program and affordable housing. 
Some local officials encouraged 
the CRA to look at partnerships 
with local organizations, such as 
the University Police Department. 
One program from this partner-
ship is the College Park Communi-
ty Policing Pilot, Ori Baber, a CRA 
project manager, said.
This initiative would create 
Midtown Ambassadors to monitor 
the College Park area. 
These people would be liaisons 
between the community and law 
enforcement agencies who patrol 
Midtown at strategic times, includ-
ing 2 a.m., when the clubs close, 
Baber said.
“We want someone who’s there to see everything from a 
safety perspective,” Baber said.
The program, which is still in 
the planning stages, will pilot for 
three years, Baber said.
Mayor Lauren Poe suggested 
another partnership the CRA could 
make is with agencies like Habitat 
for Humanity and Gainesville 
Housing Authority to improve 
its current housing project called 
Heartwood. Poe said building 
affordable housing needs to be a 
priority. 
“The point is to create places to 
go to, not through,” Poe said.
The Heartwood project, which 
began in October 2017, is a 34-
home neighborhood near Abra-ham Lincoln Middle School, Baber 
said. A third of those homes will 
be affordable housing.
The organization’s goal is to 
give renewed life to neighbor-
hoods like Pleasant Street and 
the Porters community, which 
have lost investments over the 
years, said Andrew Meeker, a CRA 
manager.
“We want to see people living, 
working and playing in the urban 
core,” Meeker said.
Other projects on the agenda 
include improving Depot Park and 
building the Heritage Trail. 
The trail will be an art walk 
that celebrates the history of the 
Fifth Avenue and Pleasant Street neighborhoods and will begin at 
the A. Quinn Jones Museum and 
Cultural Center on Northwest Sev-
enth Avenue, Meeker said. 
Sandy Parker, a Gainesville 
resident since 1995, said the CRA’s 
biggest accomplishment was turn-
ing a contaminated railyard into 
Depot Park, where families spend 
time together and children play. 
“It’s one of those things. 
Once it gets going, it’ll take time. 
Patience will pay off,” Parker, a 
45-year-old accountant, said. 
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgUpcoming project to monitor Midtown area discussed Permanently fund more Counseling & Wellness Center mental 
health counselors and Disability Resource Center learning  
specialists
Institute Callisto, a sexual assault reporting program
Provide free anonymous sexually transmitted infections testing 
and discreet 24/7 access to free menstrual hygiene products
Expand healthy, vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, kosher and halal 
options on campus
Extend Uber Safe Rides in zip codes 32607 and 32608, which 
include the west and south of campus
Increase student parking on campus
Expand Regional Transit System routes in underserved areas
Lift open container restrictions citywide on game days and end 
aggressive towing practices
Ensure that Library West or Marston Science Library is open 24/7Expand free printing locations and roll over unused prints across 
semesters
Make class attendance optional on Nov. 6, which is Election Day
Increase Bright Futures awards and oppose block tuition
Maximize ease and security of voting in Student Government 
elections
Elevate the African American Studies Program to departmental 
status
Ensure fair representation for graduate students in the local fee 
committee
Strengthen inclusionary practices within SG and administration
Send constituent listservs and create SG Accountability and 
Transparency AgencyStudent Government parties release platforms for Fall election
Make improvements to the campus blue light system 
List the UF mental health hotline and emergency phone numbers 
on Gator 1 Cards
Covered shelters at busy bus stops on-campus to protect from the 
rain
Lobby for the bonding of state Capital Improvement Trust Funds 
to build a brand-new Health and Wellness Center and other proj-
ects
Opportunities for students to attend meet-and-greets with guest 
artists and speakers at Student Government Productions and AC-
CENT Speakers Bureau eventsCollaborate with Gator Dining to establish a meal swipe program 
for food insecure students
Gator football tickets available on mobile
Expand ATM locations on campus
Create an action plan with the Department of Housing and Resi-
dence Education to begin integrating gender-inclusive housing op-
tions on-campus
Work with administration to align financial aid disbursement for 
graduate and professional students with their academic calendarsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 Editorial
Column
Let’s learn to respect weather, not fear it
Weather is a lot like s---. It just hap-
pens. 
One minute you’re prancing 
through town, dry as a bone and 
without a worry, when suddenly, you 
find yourself soaked to the britches in rainwater. 
Slippery, sad and sopping.  
If you look closely, though, the changing 
weather can be as beautiful as it is unpredictable. 
There is something alluring about a distant thun-
derstorm stirring on the horizon or a powerful hurricane 
brewing in the southern Caribbean. 
The enveloping power of weather — and ultimately 
its effect on humankind — is perhaps the one thing that 
can truly mend human conflict and transcend political be-
liefs. We are all connected under one sky. We breathe the 
same air and drink the same water. My earth is your earth, 
and your earth, mine. Why, then, are we so afraid of the 
weather? The path to answer this question begins where 
most adventures tend to take their hold: in the pages of a 
children’s book.
I recently stumbled upon a copy of “Dangerous Weather 
Phenomena To Look Out For!” – a riveting collection of 
weather factoids written for the average 7-year-old. (Do not 
speculate as to why I was reading a book meant for kids — 
I do not tell you how to spend your Sunday afternoons). 
Deeply rooted in the pages of this children’s story, I found 
something particularly interesting: Nearly every storm, ev-
ery natural phenomenon or act of nature was painted in 
a rhetoric of doom and demise. Hurricanes were “killers,” 
lightning was “deadly” and, as the title of the book sug-
gests, weather in general was simply “dangerous.” 
And then — like a crack of lightning — it struck me: We 
as humans seem to lack a fundamental appreciation of the 
natural world around us. We are raised to fear nature rather 
than to respect it.
Take, for instance, Gainesville’s preparation for Hur-
ricane Irma last year. Nearly a week before landfall, ev-
ery gas station, Walmart and Publix was stripped clean of 
its water and “survival” supplies. Customers bought one, 
two or three cases of water to stow away when the world 
fell into chaos. And yet — besides some strong wind and downed trees — Gainesville’s bout with Irma was 
relatively tame.
The same people who rushed to the grocery 
store to stock up on hurricane supplies were tex-
ting behind the wheel of their two-ton Cadillac 
death machine on their drive home. The irony 
was electric.
You see, we’ve become so accustomed to fear-
ing the things we’re told to fear. A storm or me-
teorological event is “scary” or “deadly” or “the 
worst in history” when we are told so. In the face of a hur-
ricane, we are commanded to evacuate our state or die like 
the naïve fools we are. After all, “Hurricane Matthew will 
KILL you” (Rick Scott, 2016).
Now, it’s no secret that these storms are powerful and 
can dish out personal damage if you’re not careful. That’s 
not the point here. The point is that we need to rethink 
how we approach our rhetoric when discussing natural pro-
cesses.
Mainstream media and government officials paint hurri-
canes and other extreme weather as evil acts of natural ter-
rorism, as if they haven’t been a part of our world for mil-
lions of years. Nature, and its constant state of change, is 
the front-runner on a long list of victims we are told to fear.
Of course, we tend to dominate the things we fear. Mod-
ern movies like “Geostorm” (2017) suggest that humankind 
can willfully change the course of nature with technology. 
Want to stop a global hurricane? Easy! Just reboot your 
worldwide climate control satellites, and you’re good to go.
We take control of the things we are most afraid of. We 
hunt predators to the brink of extinction simply because 
we can, because we, after all, are the strongest beings to 
ever exist. 
As Hurricane Florence barrels towards South Carolina, 
the first priority is and always will be safety. But in the 
midst of the chaos, while everyone floods the interstates 
and fills their gas tanks, shouldn’t we take a second to ap-
preciate just how damn beautiful it really is?
The weather is a lot like s---. It happens. 
Now let’s learn to respect it.
Max Chesnes is a UF journalism and sustainability stud-
ies senior.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
The Krishna lunch you hold in your sweaty palms is sacred. 
It’s a time-honored tradition for you. Walking over to the limit-
ed shade on Plaza of the Americas, you cross your legs and sit 
in the grass. The smell of vegan goodness wafts up from your 
plate. The sunshine is bright but not unpleasant, illuminating 
everything including your lunch in a warm Floridian glow. 
“What a nice day it is,” you think to yourself as you plunge a 
plastic fork into a small mound of Halva. The chirping of birds, 
melodic chanting and acoustic guitar drift in the air. Laughs 
and cheers from students practicing on a slackline punctuate 
your sunny afternoon. The atmosphere around you is filled 
with harmony, peace, love and good food.
Your first bite is interrupted by a roaring engine noise, star-
tling you and causing your first bite to fall into the grass. You 
turn around in annoyance to see a red sports car stopped at the 
intersection of Union Road and Newell Drive. The tires screech 
and the driver does a burnout, rolling black rubber indelibly 
into the pavement. It lurches off, and you get one look at the 
license plate. It reads:
Darts & Laurels
First things first: A laurel to Krishna lunch for saving 
cows and chickens with tasty, meatless substitutes.
The news this week saw its fair share of big stories.
Everyone is worried about Hurricane Florence, so let’s 
dole out some meteorological darts and laurels. The 
military is sending out more than 7,000 service members to be 
ready to assist civilians during and after the storm, so a laurel  
to them for putting themselves in harm’s way for the residents 
of the Carolinas. Florence will be no small storm. Its storm 
surge is already swelling waters, foreshadowing the mass 
flooding to come. About 4.9 million people will experience 
more than 10 inches of rain throughout the next five days, ac-
cording to the National Weather Service. A second laurel to 
those who are taking action to get out of the storm and those 
who are bracing responsibly for it if they cannot leave.
There isn’t a big, bad villain in this story. We’ll just award 
a lone dart to whoever named this storm Florence. It’s hard 
to be mad at it when it was seemingly named after a middle-
aged aunt.
Another big story this week was Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos 
opening a $2 billion charitable fund to help homeless fami-
lies and open preschools in low-income neighborhoods. Well 
done, Jeff. Your charitable giving has landed you a laurel for 
looking out for those in need. But Bezos seems like a wealthy 
guy. How much is $2 billion to the richest person on Earth, 
anyway? His net worth is about $164 billion, according to 
Bloomberg. His spending $2 billion on the fund is comparable 
to the average American spending $1,187, according to NBC. 
We don’t know exactly why, but that merits a dart. Another 
look at Bezos in the news shows he hasn’t signed the pledge 
to give away most of his wealth like Bill and Melinda Gates 
have.
It was Aristotle who once said, “the unfortunate need 
people who will be kind to them; the prosperous need peo-
ple to be kind to.” There’s another dart for making the fund 
seem like a sacrifice. That’s now one dart for every billion he 
pledged to charity. That’ll show him.
Flu season is just around the corner. UF Health doctors 
are urging everyone, including you seemingly invincible 
20-somethings with immune systems built like castles, to get 
a flu shot. Do it. Get the shot. It’ll only hurt for a minute. If 
you don’t do it for you, do it for those around you, so you 
don’t infect others if you fall prey to influenza. If we find out 
you got us sick, have no doubt: We will award you a large 
and sharp dart.
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITOR
Max Chesnes
opinions@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
If you ever are unfortunate enough to be 
my friend on Facebook, you will often see 
me livestreaming Senate meetings Tuesday 
nights. It’s been a responsibility I’ve kept up 
with for the past couple months. It led up to 
last Tuesday night, when I went up in public 
debate and, via limerick, presented Student 
Government with an iPhone, so they can’t 
say they don’t have equipment for future 
livestreaming endeavors.
Livestreaming SG meetings isn’t revolu-
tionary. It’s an established practice, and I believe it’s 
great for transparency and accessibility. Livestreaming 
SG meetings isn’t particularly difﬁ  cult either, but SG has 
a special talent for making easy things difﬁ  cult (and not 
always due to incompetence).
The Senate passed a bill to mandate livestreaming 
back in January, but to make it palatable to the pow-
ers that be, we included a provision that stated the bill 
would only take effect once a majority of the Senate’s In-
formation and Communication Committee voted to make 
it a reality. Dreams do come true.
Our Senate doesn’t have any equipment for livestream-
ing, and the equipment used needs to be SG owned. I’ve 
heard a lot of talk from secondhand sources about the 
committee not having any money to buy things with, 
which is pretty sad since one of the few things SG is 
actually good at is buying things and calling them ac-
complishments.
While we waited with the half-hearted hope that our 
prestigious servant-leaders on the committee would 
straighten things out, a group of Senators including my-
self started livestreaming meetings ourselves. Respon-
sibility for livestreaming meetings eventually fell to me 
since I had prior experience, equipment and a lot of Face-
book friends. I was initially terriﬁ  ed that my constant 
Facebook postings would diminish my social clout, but I 
would do anything for transparency, so I selﬂ  essly took 
the burden upon my swole shoulders.
But as the weeks passed by, I grew impatient. Is it re-ally that hard to get equipment? Probably not, 
but I had a feeling no one really wanted to put 
forth the money toward our initiative, which is 
why it felt like it was stuck in the mud.
So, I did what any reasonable person would 
do and ordered a tripod and phone mount from 
Amazon with my own money. I presented it 
in front of the Senate and let them know they 
could have it whenever they wanted.
Of course that didn’t really help since SG 
didn’t have anything to livestream with, but at 
least it was a start. We joked around about donating an 
old iPad or even buying SG an iPhone to go with the set 
up. It was a joke of an idea until the day I saw a good 
deal for an iPhone zip into my inbox. It was a sexy re-
furbished iPhone SE (a 2016 model) and it was only 20 
bucks. Normally, that’s the kind of “deal” that lands you 
with an iPhone box ﬁ  lled with rocks since it’s actually a 
scam, but the vendor was Walmart, where shopping is 
more or less a pleasure, so I just had to indulge myself.
When the iPhone arrived, I was faced with the ques-
tion of what I would do at Senate. Do I just go up there, 
say “Hey, my dudes, I got y’all an iPhone?” Nah, that’s 
boring. Now I’m sure none of you would have guessed, 
but I really slayed the high school literary fair back in the 
day. Thus, I decided to write a limerick:
“Livestreaming meetings, I’ve been doing alone/Ap-
parently equipment, Student Government doesn’t own/
Months ago, for livestreaming, we passed the legislation/
But it’s clearly apparent that we need a donation/Dear 
Student Government, I bought you an iPhone.”
This isn’t actually the ﬁ  rst time I’ve opened my wallet 
for a SG project since apparently we’re pretty broke (not 
really). But hey, at least SG will always have this old man 
(me) out here willing to buy it nice things like an iPhone.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government. I am the Student Government sugar daddy.Column
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgUF is one of the top 10 pub-
lic universities in the country. 
During the past few years, 
it has been adding accred-
ited faculty and constructing 
new state-of-the-art buildings, 
among other things. All these 
new people and buildings have 
put pressure on the existing 
parking stock by increasing 
demand and limiting supply. 
To keep its infrastructure in 
tune with a world-class campus, the university had two 
choices: fund more parking or fund more and better pub-
lic transportation.
It has chosen the ﬁ  rst. The reason behind it? UF hasn’t 
increased its overall parking supply for at least two de-
cades. While it has built ﬁ  ve parking garages since 1998, 
the overall parking supply has remained steady at around 
24,000 parking spots.
You might think that UF made the right decision when 
you learn that demand for parking decals has been in-
creasing steadily. The root of the problem, however, is 
that faculty, staff and students who drive to campus do 
so because they claim that the public transportation sys-
tem is unreliable. And they’re not wrong. Gainesville’s 
Regional Transit System has been losing ridership during 
the past few years due to subpar service. This year alone, 
it started losing drivers to transit agencies in Jacksonville 
and Orlando who pay their drivers more than Gaines-
ville’s transit system does. Earlier this year, more than 20 
bus routes saw service shortages due to low driver sup-
ply; The Gainesville Sun estimated this would decrease 
ridership by about 190,000 riders last March and April 
alone. While a parking shortage problem might seem 
important, it isn’t compared to public transportation not 
meeting the needs of the most vulnerable.
The estimated cost of Parking Garage XIV is $34.2 
million, or $17,900 per spot, the Alligator previously re-
ported. To put this into perspective, RTS’ entire budget 
for ﬁ  scal year 2018 was $33.65 million. In other words, a 
single parking garage is expected to cost $1 million more 
than the entire public transportation system costs in one 
year.
Exactly $1 million is what RTS will be receiving soon 
from the federal government to add electric buses and 
charging stations. Just imagine how much more RTS 
could do with $34 million. Faculty shuttles, dedicated bus 
lanes, improved bus stop shelters, electronic signage, you 
name it.
Gainesville, as small and compact as it is, is the perfect 
place to move people around efﬁ  ciently, without the need 
for private automobiles. Just look at Archer Road, Univer-
sity Avenue or 13th Street during rush hour and tell me 
we don’t have a car problem. With trafﬁ  c being almost as 
bad as in South Florida and Orlando, the need for better 
public transportation is extremely clear.
UF is not alone. Campuses across the country are try-
ing to ﬁ  x their own parking problems. The University of 
Virginia, for example, prohibits incoming ﬁ  rst-year stu-
dents from parking a car on campus to demonstrate that 
they can use other modes of transportation. Other univer-
sities are building parking structures that can be modi-
ﬁ  ed to suit other purposes for when autonomous mobility 
becomes mainstream and the need for parking becomes 
obsolete. Is UF doing any of these? You guessed it, no.
It isn’t about how to accommodate people’s requests 
for parking decals. It’s about how to make people not 
want parking decals in the ﬁ  rst place. A car-centric ap-
proach for the elite will deﬁ  nitely create more parking 
and congestion problems. Investment in reliable, equi-
table transportation will solve the parking and congestion 
problems. Once UF understands this, it will truly be a top 
10 public university.
Mateo Van Thienen is a UF student and guest columnist.UF should put money into 
RTS, not a parking garageGuest column
Sex. There, I said it: SEX. 
Somewhere along the way, this natural part 
of human existence was dubbed an inappropri-
ate topic, and with that we lost nearly all ability 
to learn about things like consent, contracep-
tion and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
Once again, STD rates have reached an all-
time high in the United States.  According to 
The Cut magazine, nearly 2.3 million sexually 
transmitted diseases were diagnosed in 2017. 
This total blew away the previous record-high from 2016 
by more than 200,000 cases.
If this comes as a shock to you, you’re not alone. 
Because we have categorized sex as an awkward topic, 
Americans have a tough time talking about sex in terms 
of their health. This creates dangerous gaps in knowl-
edge. The fact of the matter is, if we are not talking about 
the reality of STDs and their prevalence, we won’t be 
able to protect ourselves against them.
This continual upward trend is not something that 
should go unnoticed. These alarming statistics show us 
it’s time we stop shying away from conversations about 
the reality of sex and start making it normal to get edu-
cated, and more importantly — get tested.
The Centers for Disease Control reported that young 
people between the ages of 13 and 24 made up 21 percent 
of all new HIV diagnoses in the United States in 2016. 
Every year, half of the average 20 million new STD cases 
reported are among the ages 15 to 24. Additionally, one 
in two sexually active people will contract an STD before 
the age of 25.
Are you noticing a pattern? Young people (hello, us!) 
make up a huge chunk of the population with STDs. This 
isn’t because we have weaker bodies or because the dis-eases are getting stronger. It’s because we ei-
ther are not educated, or just don’t care.
STDs are common, but fewer than a quarter 
of women ages 15 to 44 surveyed by the CDC 
reported having used a condom the last time 
they had sex. Only 33 percent of men in that 
same age group had used one.
Using a condom is one of the easiest ways 
to protect against the spread of STDs, but for 
some reason we are not doing it. Why are we 
putting ourselves at risk?
My belief is that many of us are just ignorant. It is easy 
to think STDs aren’t that common and the chances of 
contracting an STD from your random hookup are slim. 
It’s even easier to reason that you, yourself, do not have 
an STD because you have not shown any symptoms. 
While this thought process might give you peace of 
mind, it puts yourself and your partners at risk. It’s time 
we start making sexual health a priority and normalize 
the idea of getting tested between each sexual partner.
According to PBS, in 2013 only 11.5 percent of sexu-
ally active young adults reported getting tested for STDs 
in the year before. This included 17 percent of females 
and 6 percent of males. This does not mean nearly 90 
percent of the sexually active population was clean. It 
means nearly 90 percent did not even bother to check.  
We need to change the narrative around sex and en-
courage our peers to learn about risk factors and get 
tested. We need to start talking openly about STDs, get 
tested regularly and reduce risk by using condoms. We 
need to take sex seriously.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism and political science 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.For public health, ‘sex’ is not a taboo wordColumnMateo 
Van Thienen
opinions@alligator.org
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
SIGN UP
STEP ONE:
iﬂa.news/get-informed
STEP TWO:
Enter your email 
address
STEP THREE:
Check your inbox 
every day for the 
newsletterFOR THE 
alligator’s 
NEWSLETTER
Christopher  King / Alligator Staff
Sukhmeet Singh, a 24-year-old UF computer science senior, paints the Khanda symbol to represent the Sikh faith on the 34th Street Wall Thursday night. Singh, along with 
members of the UF Student Government Cabinet, painted a “Coexist” mural to show students they are all welcome to Gainesville regardless of the religion they practice.
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Sept. 23, 2018
7am - 2pm
Race starts at 8am
Free Science day filled  
with activites for kids  
and the public!
Resgister for the race at:
microbemeters5k.itsyourrace.com
Microbe Meters 5K
Family Science Day!
Flavet 
Field 
University 
of FloridaJessie White / Alligator Staff
Andrea Moreno, a 19-year-old UF art and technology freshman, tries printmaking at the class.
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Students use block prints and stamps to decorate fabric at Wayfaring Painter’s folk art printmaking 
class Wednesday night at the Alachua County Headquarters Library. 
Fit to print: Class teaches art form UF physicians train South 
Florida doctors to treat 
patients aﬀ  ected by guns
THE TEAM TRAINED 
ABOUT 50 HEALTH 
CARE PROVIDERS FROM 
BROWARD AND PALM 
BEACH COUNTIES.
By Annelise O’Donnell
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Parkland residents recover 
from one of the deadliest school 
shootings in U.S. history, UF phy-
sicians are helping South Florida 
doctors address the community’s 
mental health.
In August, Madeline Joseph and 
Elise Fallucco from the UF College 
of Medicine in Jacksonville con-
ducted mental healthcare training 
sessions for about 50 health care 
providers in the Broward and Palm 
Beach counties, said Daniel Leve-
ton, the media relations manager 
for UF Health Jacksonville. 
The providers were trained to 
improve the screening and treat-
ment of children experiencing 
mental health problems related to 
gun violence.
When Joseph and Fallucco 
reached out to pediatricians in 
the Parkland area after the shoot-
ing, they responded with an over-
whelming need for more training in 
anxiety and post-traumatic stress 
disorder. Teenagers were develop-
ing depression, anxiety and PTSD, 
and those with pre-existing men-
tal health conditions were getting 
worse, Joseph said. 
“Mental health problems result-
ing from gun violence are similar 
to any major trauma,” Joseph said. 
“However, the impact is on the 
entire community, not just an in-
dividual.”
Prior to the shooting, her team 
was applying for a $20,000 grant from the American Academy of 
Pediatrics Disaster Recovery Fund 
aimed at improving screening for 
depression in pediatric clinics and 
increasing the psychiatric options, 
Joseph said.
After the shooting occurred, 
she and her team approached the 
academy again in April for an extra 
$15,000 grant aimed at improving 
the screening and treatment of anx-
iety, depression and PTSD result-
ing from the shooting. The grant 
was approved in June, Joseph said.
The trainings were held Aug. 22 
and 23 in the Simulation Center at 
Florida Atlantic University. 
During the two days of training, 
Joseph and Fallucco lectured on 
screening tools and in-ofﬁ  ce treat-
ments for mental health problems. 
Pediatricians rehearsed what they 
learned in one-on-one scenarios 
with FAU medical student volun-
teers. 
“It was truly amazing to see ev-
eryone coming together to do this 
in such a short amount of time,” 
Joseph said. 
The trainings were recorded and 
Joseph hopes to distribute the ma-
terial to more pediatricians across 
the state.
Zach Xu, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  -
nance junior, graduated from 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School in 2016. While he is happy 
that resources are being allocated 
to help those who have been affect-
ed by the shooting, he would like 
to see these tragedies prevented 
altogether.
“It’s great that they’re starting 
to put such a large emphasis on 
training people to recognize these 
disorders that happen from such 
tragic events,” Xu said. “But they 
also shouldn’t be happening in the 
ﬁ  rst place.”FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   910   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
THE GOLF CART IS WORTH 
$2,300. 
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer 
Rule No. 1 of theft: know how to 
drive the getaway vehicle. 
A man accused of trying to steal a 
golf cart Tuesday afternoon did not get 
very far, Gainesville Police said. He did 
not know how to drive it.
Carlos Dominique Peeples, 19, of 
Gainesville, is accused of trying to steal 
a maintenance golf cart worth $2,300 
from Sunbay Apartments, at 708 SW 
16th Ave., according to an arrest report. 
When police arrived, several em-ployees were with Peeples, who was 
sitting on the curb, the report said.
One employ-
ee told police he 
watched Peeples sit 
in the driver’s seat 
and struggle to drive 
the golf cart. When 
the employee ap-
proached Peeples, 
the cart began roll-
ing backward, the 
report said.
Peeples began to run away, and the 
employee stopped him, the report said. 
The employee showed police pictures 
of Peeples driving the cart. Another em-
ployee said he witnessed the teenager trying to drive the cart and run away,  
police said.
After he was read his Miranda rights, 
Peeples told police he went to the apart-
ment complex to visit his girlfriend, the 
report said. It was too hot to walk, so 
Peeples decided to drive the cart to the 
front of the complex.
Another ofﬁ  cer said she spoke with 
Peeples’ girlfriend, who has never lived 
in Gainesville.
Peeples could not immediately be 
reached for comment. 
He was charged with grand theft and 
was released from Alachua County Jail 
Wednesday afternoon without bond.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgMan accused of trying to steal golf cartBy Jordyn Kalman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kristin Celano’s passion for the 
Gators motivated her fashion business. 
“The university gave me so much 
during my undergraduate experience, 
and now as an alum, I feel incredibly 
fortunate to call UF my home,” she said. 
Celano, a 36-year-old UF alumna of 
public relations and business adminis-
tration, graduated in 2004 and moved 
on to start a gameday fashion compa-
ny, JaneHudson, in 2016. The company was inspired by her experiences as a 
student struggling to ﬁ  nd fashionable 
orange and blue clothing.
“Orange and blue is a tough color 
combination to ﬁ  nd, and (an) even 
tougher one to nail,” Celano said.
When doing research, she noticed 
the market was limited to T-shirts with 
logos, which Celano said lacked a sense 
of style. 
Her clothing line offers dresses, tops 
and skirts that come in the colors of 
about 95 state universities for about $75 
to $110.JaneHudson products can be found 
at Ilene’s Gator Store and Alumni Hall 
shops. Her goal is to open her own store 
in Gainesville.  
Whenever she gets the chance, 2004 
University of South Florida graduate 
Beth Finlay loves to attend Bulls foot-
ball games, preferably in a comfortable 
dress. 
“It reminds me of all of the fun times 
and memories I had,” Finlay said. “I 
like the dresses because they’re loose 
and fun, you can dress it up with a fun 
necklace or it looks good with ﬂ  ats too.” From UF alumna to a gameday girlboss
By Jacqueline Saguin
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time in 24 
years, Fall intramural soft-
ball was cut from UF RecS-
ports’ programming. 
The sport was discontin-
ued for its Fall season be-
cause of a more than 20 per-
cent decline in popularity in 
the last ﬁ  ve years, said Jon 
Broska, the assistant direc-
tor of competitive sports.
Intramural programs 
across the country are ex-
periencing a decline in the 
popularity of its softball 
leagues, Broska said.
Ultimately, the $12,000 
cost may have been more 
than it was worth to keep 
the sport, Broska said. That 
number doesn’t include 
ﬁ  eld maintenance, lighting, 
two umpires, a scorekeeper 
and a site supervisor needed 
to play.
The sport could make a comeback next Fall pending 
an evaluation, he said.
David Berryman’s has 
played in a softball team 
with UF Kappa Sigma frater-
nity members for two years. 
He said it’s been a big part 
of his college experience. 
“I ﬁ  nd it something I look 
forward to all week, as it 
gives me a chance to play a 
sport with many of my close 
friends in a sometimes com-
petitive, always enjoyable 
environment,” the 21-year-
old UF microbiology junior 
said.
Broska said he under-
stood the disappointment 
students like Berryman felt 
by losing the sport all year. 
Recruiting more players for 
Spring, however, can help 
reverse the decline of the in-
terest in softball.
“In a sense, we hope that 
‘absence will make the heart 
grow fonder,’” Broska said.UF RecSports cancels 
intramural softball for 
Fall semester
Peeples
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
BEST BUY ON THE COAST
Yacht Club Homesite with boat slip.
Gated, Luxury, Community.
ONLY $49,880. Way under value!!!
WWW.WATERFRONTLIFEFL.NET
1.855.459.1128
Florida Waterway Sales, LLC.
Licensed Real Estate Broker       9-14-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10On-site only Public Auction
Tues, September 18th, 2018 at 11:00 A.M.
Granite Express of USA, Inc.
1055 S.E. 9th Terrace
Hialeah, FL 33010
3,500+ Granite slabs (various sizes and 
types) including vehicles and forklifts 
Will be sold in (2) bulk lots = Lot #1 Granite 
slabs and Lot #2 Vehicles and forklifts
Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview:
Morning of sale 9AM to 11AM. 15% BP.
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors
Case # 2018-26969-CA-01 (11)
To register: $10,000 refundable certified 
funds deposit and valid driver’s license.
(800) 840-BIDS  
info@moeckerauctions.com
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      9-14-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N      9-14-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-28-18-16-131For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$440/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
9-28-18-27-2
1BR for rent in 2-story house.
Available now for college student. $500/mo 
incl elec. Near UF: 1022 NW 3rd Ave. Call 
352-672-8657    9-14-18-5-2
3BR/2BR HOUSE - WALK TO UF
at 1022 NW 4th Ave. Unfurnished, cent AC/
HT, W/D. No pets. Off-street parking. Lease 
through August. $1260/mo.   352-359-1508    
9-24-18-6-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      9-14-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES now hiring 
for part time - night and day - counter help, 
sandwich makers, and bartenders in a fast 
paced and service oriented environment. 
Reliable transportation required. Applications 
accepted at 2327 N W 13th Street.    9-14-
18-9-14
Big Lou’s Pizzeria
Now hiring delivery drivers, servers and 
kitchen personnel. Please apply in person 
at 5 SE 2nd Ave. in downtown Gainesville.      
9-19-9-14
Seeking P/T Asst Rowing Coach
for local youth rowing team.
Competitive rowing experience required. 
Call: 302-887-6980.
10-1-18-14-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students Only
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     9-14-18-
6-14
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
INDEPENDENT SALES REP
Sell Unique Ad Method
To Local Bars & Restaurants
Very high residual commissions
352-559-5599
9-26-18-6-14
Swim Lesson Instructors
Need transportation
Weekdays 3-6pm with option of 2x/week
Weekends Sat 9-12 Sun 2-5
Call Jill at (352) 335-0518     9-17-18-5-14
How to make an
Extra $500 per week
doing surveys as a student
Go to: www.studentopportunity.services     
9-19-18-5-14
Help Wanted: Customer Service, Data Entry 
and Accounts Receivable for a local pest 
control company. Flexible part time hours. 
Great working environment. Candidate must 
have good customer service skills and a 
positive attitude. $10 per hour.15 - 20 hours 
per week. Please send resume to Jennie@
orkinsolutions.com     9-14-18-3-14
Need Student for yard work, cleaning,
errands, etc.
Part time. $10+ per hour. 
See www.Gator2018.com for more info.    
9-24-5-14
Hiring PT staff to work with girls ages 5-14 
in an after school setting. Must be available 
M-F. Apply online at www.girlsplace.net. 
Contact lynn@girlsplace.net with questions    
9-19-18-3-14.
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    10-5-18-10-14
Learn how to make
an extra $400/wk
testing apps as a student at:
www.collegeopportunity.club         9-17-2-14
Learn how to make extra money at home per 
week completing online and phone surveys. 
Go to collegeopportunity.click.     9-24-18-5-
14
Make extra money at home per week
completing online/phone surveys at
collegeopportunity.click.      9-18-18-3-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.      9-14-
1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Learn how to make an
extra $400/wk doing surveys
as a student at: www.paidcollegesurveys.com   
9-19-18-3-20
Get Paid To Test Apps! College students
can make up to $400/wk
testing apps at: www.testappsforcash.com     
9-19-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
55 GALLON TOP FIN FISH AQUARIUM
BRAND NEW. in box never opened.
$130. YOU CAN'T BEAT IT!
Call 352-327-5978 or edmuck7@gmail.com    
9-21-5-24
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Mortify
6 Late bloomer
11 Education basic
15 Starbucks order
16 Laughing, say
17 Et __
18 Complimentary 
thoughts?
21 Half a Caribbean 
federation
22 Breitling 
competitor
23 Where some 
long drives begin
24 Certain octet 
member
25 Subtitle for 
“Further 
Adventures of 
Jack and Jill”?
32 U.K. singer Rita
33 Like the sticks
34 Tentative 
statement
38 Collaborative 
website
40 Classic slot 
images
41 Emanation
42 “He that hath no 
beard is __ than 
a man”: Shak.
43 Battery post
44 Capt.’s heading
45 Reason to open 
another register?
50 Lean (on)
53 Balloting time: 
Abbr.
54 Flotilla locale
55 Keep up (with), 
as fashion trends
62 Rate hike at a 
tanning salon?
64 Goa garment
65 Edible bulb
66 Macabre fiction 
middle name
67 State of France
68 Some red marks
69 Knish purveyors
DOWN
1 Stage flankers
2 When doubled, 
one of the 
Leeward Islands
3 Trendy berry
4 “Way of the 
gods” belief
5 Get a move on
6 French mine7 Posted
8 Display, with “out”
9 Sea eagles
10 White alternative
11 Class for dogs 
and cats
12 “Guardians of the 
Galaxy” figure
13 Slight suggestion
14 Attacked
19 Squeezed (out)
20 Arias, usually
24 Comrades
25 Postseason 
game
26 Historic canal
27 Runs on
28 Nottingham’s 
river
29 Laugh producer
30 Undercut
31 Comprising 
standard glazing
35 Local bond, 
briefly
36 The Ponte 
Vecchio spans it
37 [What a bore!]
39 “Scout’s honor!”
40 Attacked, with 
“into”
46 Kendrick of “Pitch 
Perfect” films47 Meter, e.g.
48 “Heart of 
Darkness” author
49 Deal in 
electronics?
50 Put out
51 Eye-popping 
display
52 Ancient 
Jordanian 
archaeological 
city55 Trig function
56 Labor
57 Oodles
58 Hungers
59 Prepare for 
sowing
60 Actor Morales
61 They’re often 
secured at  
tellers’  
windows
63 Commitment
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/14/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/14/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, September 14, 2018
ACROSS
1 Minimally
5 Oversight
10 “Man With a 
Plan” network
13 One and only
14 Fads
15 No longer active: 
Abbr.
16 Rolls off the alley
18 “__ we there 
yet?”
19 College Board 
exam, briefly
20 French assent
21 It’s calculated 
using ht. and wt.
22 Make a face, say
23 Swing era dance
26 Loan application 
section
27 Badgers
28 Staff helper
29 “Be My __ Ono”: 
Barenaked 
Ladies song
30 West Coast 
athletic footwear 
company
32 Smoking hazard
36 Got close to 
empty
37 Area to lay 
anchor
38 High style
39 Cry related to 
“hey”
40 Opt out
44 Anticipatory 
counterargument
47 Goldfinger’s first 
name
48 Three-time NBA 
Finals MVP 
Duncan
49 __ Butterworth
50 Post-workout 
lament
51 Open event gold 
medalist in the 
2016 Chess 
Olympiad
52 Dairy implement, 
and a hint to 
what’s hidden in 
16-, 23-, 32-, and 
44-Across
55 Do a 5K, e.g.
56 Meets up with 
the old gang
57 “Makes sense”
58 Conclusion
59 Increase60 Typically round-
neck shirts
DOWN
1 Norse gods’ 
home
2 Head cover
3 Window-
switching 
keyboard 
shortcut
4 Catch a scent of
5 Yellow __
6 “Fifty Shades of 
Grey” heroine
7 Trial episodes
8 French toast
9 Nail polish brand
10 More like Oscar 
the Grouch
11 Hamilton local
12 “In the Heat of 
the Night” Oscar 
winner Rod
14 B.A. Baracus 
player
17 Superlative suffix
23 Copacetic
24 “Makes sense”
25 Old World Style 
sauce
27 Swed. neighbor
29 Retired NBAer 
Ming30 Tax
31 Japanese prime 
minister since 
2012
32 Big name in juice 
pouches
33 Hot
34 Amorphous 
mass
35 Home Depot 
purchase
36 Burst
39 Ready to sire40 Test limits
41 Excite
42 Yes or no 
follower
43 Drama segments
45 Sunspot center
46 Leveled, with 
“up”
47 Theater chain 
initials
50 Form W-9 org.
53 Explosive stuff
54 Fair-hiring letters
By Joe Deeney
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/13/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/13/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, September 13, 2018
1.  ____ sauce
1.  Tracked, followed5.  Ascend 
2.  Disastrous 6.  ____ rings
3.  South ____7.  Real ____
4.  Spring, rebound ATTRRA
CETDRASIAER
OINNO
UUSONIR
ICARAEMAEETTS
NOUBECANSWERS: 1A-Tartar  5A-Arise  6A-Onion  7A-Estate
1D-Traced  2D-Ruinous  3D-America  4D-Bounce  B-Socrates9-14-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This person said, “The greatest way 
to live with honor in this world is to 
be what we pretend to be.”
BONUS
16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsUF masters student Jonathan 
Frish will serve as the honorary 
Mr. Two Bits after winning an 
annual contest. He submitted 
a video spoof of Lonely Island's 
"We Like Sportz. "
Gators give tickets to ﬁ  fth graders
The UAA is offering all Alachua County ﬁ  fth graders free admission to Satur-
day's game against Colorado State. The UAA estimates over 1,500 kids will 
be in attendance. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
O’B-Wan Kenobi / Opinion
My good friend and senior by 
credits, Alanis Thames, wrote in 
her column on Tuesday that Florida 
Gators quarterback Feleipe Franks 
doesn’t deserve all of the blame for 
the team’s record-breaking loss to 
the Kentucky Wildcats.
And she’s right.
The offensive and defensive lines were atrocious, the running 
game was nonexistent until the 
fourth quarter and his receivers 
dropped several easy catches.
But Alanis is also wrong. She 
wrote in her column that whether 
Florida fans like it or not, they are 
stuck with Feleipe Franks. That 
simply just isn’t true.Dan Mullen should bench Franks 
from the starting spot for one very 
important, overarching reason: He 
cannot play under pressure.
It really is just that simple.
He just does not know how to 
lead a team when the team needs 
him to. We saw him crush the dis-Feleipe Franks shouldn’t be the Florida Gators' starting quarterbackFOOTBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Fort Collins, Colorado, isn’t known for 
much. It has an earth science museum and 
several walking trails. It’s the birthplace 
of Jake Lloyd, one of the most forgettable actors in one of the most forgettable Star 
Wars movies. 
The Colorado State Rams were an 
equally forgettable football team before 
last weekend. They’d lost to offensive jug-
gernaut Hawaii in one of the first games of 
the NCAA season. They suffered a blowout at home against Colorado in a game where 
the Rams gave up the most points to their 
in-state rival since 1996. 
But Canvas Stadium in Fort Collins re-
ceived a great deal of notoriety last week-
end when CSU staged its biggest upset in Three CSU players to watch against the Gators  
Jessie White / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Trey Dean III (21) will get his ﬁ  rst start of the season in place of sophomore Marco Wilson. Wilson was lost for the 
season after he tore his ACL during Florida's ﬁ  rst defensive series last week against Kentucky. 
Alligator Staff Report
Listen, my children, and you shall 
hear of the midnight theft of Gators 
fans’ tears. 
It has been a week since both of 
our picks of Kentucky over Florida 
were proven correct. We feel like we 
have to gloat a little since we were 
the only two to pick the Wildcats 
even after the “experts” at the As-
sociated Press, the Orlando Sentinel 
and the Gainesville Sun chose other-
wise. 
But there’s no time like the pres-
ent. This week, we’ve got another 
battle between a multi-island state 
and a service academy. Long-time 
readers will note that we — Alanis 
and Mark — debated over Hawaii 
and Navy a couple of weeks ago and, 
as per usual, Alanis won. And my, 
how the turns have tabled. 
Before we meet our shortsighted 
competitors for this season, writers 
Alanis Thames and Mark Stine will 
debate the highly anticipated match-
up between Hawaii and Army. 
Hawaii (+6) will win because…
The Rainbow Warriors have prov-
en to have one of the nation’s most 
lethal passing attacks. 
Even though they’ll be playing in 
West Point with a six-hour time dif-
ference from Honolulu, Army won’t 
be able to slow down sophomore 
quarterback Cole McDonald. 
The Black Knights of the Hudson 
allowed 307 yards through the air 
last week… to Liberty. Its defense 
against the pass is ranked 93rd in the 
nation, and on ﬁ  rst down opposing 
quarterbacks have completed over 70 
percent of their passes for 345 yards. 
Now Army gets to face McDonald, 
who averages 388.3 yards per game 
(3rd in FBS) and leads the country 
in passing touchdowns (13). Even 
though he has played one more game 
than most quarterbacks, if you take 
away his four scoring strikes against 
Rice last week, he’d still be tied for SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 4 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network / 850 AM
SEE PICKS , PAGE 16
PICKS
SEE COLUMN , PAGE 16SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
Chris O'Brien
@THEChrisOBVOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
The No. 11 Florida volleyball 
team returns to its home court to-
day after a four-match road trip 
to host the Honda of Gainesville 
Gators Invitational. 
The team starts a doubleheader 
against Jacksonville (1-8) at noon, 
then takes on Florida International 
at 7 p.m. UF will close out its non-
conference schedule against Army 
on Saturday.
Today’s matches are the fifth 
and sixth that Florida (6-3) will 
play in a week.
The team saw the reemergence 
of junior middle blocker Rachael 
Kramer, who topped off an impres-
sive road trip with an 11-kill perfor-
mance against rival Florida State in 
Tallahassee on Wednesday.
“This was a typical Florida-Flor-
ida State match with both teams 
playing extremely hard,” coach 
Mary Wise said in a release. “It 
might not have been the cleanest 
match, but it made for great dra-
ma.”
Kramer and the rest of the Flori-
da defense combined for 21 blocks 
against the Seminoles in the four-
set win.
Errors, however, were a signifi-
cant issue. UF recorded 13 service 
errors and 17 attack errors, result-
ing in a meager .242 hitting per-
centage. The Gators need to clean 
this up before the back-to-back 
matchups.Defensive Doubleheader
The Gators enter their second 
doubleheader over the course of a 
week against two defensive-mind-
ed teams. 
Jacksonville’s junior outside 
hitters Mallory Mattingly and Nat-
alie Wehner anchor the defense 
and will be a problem in Florida’s 
first match against the Dolphins. Wehner leads her team in total digs 
with 98 with Mattingly behind her 
at 75.
The Dolphins’ offense, howev-
er, is not as eye-catching.
The team has a lowly .149 hit-
ting percentage on the year, one of 
the worst in the nation. Mattingly 
also remains the only player on her 
team to have over 100 kills on the season (110). The Gators’ strong 
defense is expected to shine in this 
matchup.
FIU (6-3), however, imposes a 
more considerable obstacle.
The Panthers have allowed op-
ponents a mere .153 hitting per-
centage while they average 37.33 
attacks per set. 
Florida should expect to see an aggressive FIU team that swings 
hard and often with a solid defense 
to back it up. 
Redshirt junior Lina Bernier 
leads that defense. The 5-foot-11 
libero from Puerto Rico heads her 
team with 186 digs and ranks No. 
25 in the nation in digs per set at 
5.31. 
Offensive Shootout
Florida will conclude the tour-
nament against a spirited Army of-
fense.
The Black Knights (3-7) barrage 
opponents with constant attacks 
from both sides of the net. The 
team has recorded 536 kills on the 
year with 492 assists, top 50 in the 
nation in both categories.
The talented duo of freshman 
middle blocker Emmy Barnhorst 
and junior opposite hitter Sydney 
Morriss are essential components 
of this effective offense.
The pair has combined for 213 
kills on this season.
What Florida will look to expose  
is the inaccuracy of that offense. 
The Black Knights hold an ineffi-
cient .181 hitting percentage due to 
their aggressive playstyle.
Kramer and senior middle block-
er Taelor Kellum will be tested on 
the block and will look to make op-
posing attackers uncomfortable to 
create errors.
 
Follow Dylan on Twitter at @
dyrudolph and contact him at 
drudolph@alligator.org.Florida returns to Gainesville for home invitational
NFL
By Brendan Farrell
Sports Writer
Debuts, big plays and injuries de-
fined Week 1 for the Florida Gators’ 
NFL alumni. 
Taven Bryan, one of the football 
team’s few bright spots last season, 
was the highest pick (29) in the draft 
from UF and made his regular-season 
debut with the Jacksonville Jaguars 
against the New York Giants on Sun-
day. He is currently sitting behind 
First Team All-Pro Calais Campbell 
and Pro Bowler Malik Jackson on an 
already-stacked Jacksonville defen-
sive line. Bryan still played 18 snaps 
and made one tackle. 
Florida fans who didn’t get enough 
of watching Tommy Townsend punt 
on Saturday were able to watch his 
much-beloved older brother, John-
ny, punt for the Oakland Raiders. 
The older Townsend punted four 
times in his NFL debut, totaling 178 
yards with a long of 55 and an av-
erage of 44.5. Raiders teammate and 
kicker Eddy Pineiro, the other half 
of arguably the most popular special 
teams unit in Florida history, was 
moved to the injured reserve with a groin injury. 
46 former Gators across 25 teams 
were on NFL rosters last week, but 
the Pittsburgh Steelers had the most 
of any NFL team with five. 
Maurkice Pouncey and Marcus 
Gilbert had big days on the Steel-
ers’ offensive line, as they opened up 
holes for James Conner to run through 
all day long to the tune of 135 yards 
on 31 carries and two touchdowns. 
Jon Bostic and Joe Haden both 
started for the Steelers on defense 
with Bostic in particular having a 
solid game and providing stability to 
a Pittsburgh linebacking corps that 
badly misses Ryan Shazier. 
The former Gators that had argu-
ably the biggest impact on their NFL 
teams were with Washington in its 
game against the Arizona Cardinals. 
Tight end Jordan Reed, playing 
his first regular season game since 
Week 8 of last year, caught four 
passes for 48 yards and a touchdown 
to give his team a commanding 21-0 
lead at the end of the first half. Cor-
nerback Quinton Dunbar tallied four 
tackles and an interception as Wash-
ington held the Cardinals to just 153 
passing yards. Dunbar played wide receiver with the Gators but convert-
ed to cornerback as an undrafted free 
agent.  
The Atlanta Falcons headed into 
this season starting a tandem of for-
mer Florida defensive backs, Keanu 
Neal and Brian Poole, for the third-
consecutive season against the Phila-
delphia Eagles. Poole recorded five 
tackles, a sack and a pass defended 
against the defending Super Bowl 
champions. 
Neal, however, saw his season 
come to an end when he suffered a 
torn ACL in a non-contact injury at 
the end of the first half. 
Caleb Sturgis won the Chargers’ 
kicking battle leading up to their first 
game of the season. Sturgis made his 
first two attempts from 39 and 45, re-
spectively, but he missed a 48-yard 
attempt that would have made it a 
one-possession game. The Chargers 
would lose to the Chiefs 38-28. 
New Orleans linebacker Alex 
Anzalone returned to regular-season 
action for the first time since Week 
Four of last season. He had four total 
tackles and forced a fumble.
@Bfarrell727
bfarrell@alligator.org Gators in the NFL: Week 1William Clewis / Alligator Staff
Middle blocker Rachael Kramer (5) managed 11 kills in Florida’s win over in-state rival FSU. 
Alligator File Photo
Defensive tackle T aven Bryan played 18 snaps and recorded 
a tackle in Jacksonville’s Week-1 contest against New York.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
years. The details of that game are astound-
ing. As the clock trickled toward the 2-minute 
mark, Arkansas’ defense retreated into a three-
deep zone coverage. The Rams quarterback got 
about three seconds of protection before be-
ing swarmed by a pair of Razorback defensive 
tackles.  
The quarterback still got the pass off while 
being dragged to the turf. His receiver made 
a spectacular sliding catch inside Arkansas’ 
30-yard line. What followed was a methodical 
drive to paydirt in the closing seconds to secure 
the Rams’ first win over an SEC opponent. 
The players who made it happen are going 
to have to show up once again as CSU prepares 
to take on Florida in Gainesville on Saturday 
afternoon. 
K.J. Carta-Samuels
The redshirt senior from 
Saratoga, California, tossed 47 
passes last week, completing 
32 for 389 yards and a pair 
of scores. Carta-Samuels isn’t 
the most mobile quarterback. 
His longest rush of the season 
(11 yards) accounts for a third 
of his ground production, so 
the Gators defense should at least have an eas-
ier time containing any thoughts of scrambling. 
But Carta-Samuels is more than comfortable 
slinging the rock. He’s averaging over 43 pass 
attempts per game. He also heads the 10th-
ranked passing offense in the nation, posting 
369 yards per game through the air. 
However, Carta-Samuels has also shown a 
tendency to get greedy at times. He threw up a 
jump ball in the closing minutes of the first quar-
ter into double coverage, resulting in an early 
interception. His propensity for hanging around 
too long in the pocket also amplified itself Satur-
day when he lost a fumble in the third quarter. Preston Williams
Carta-Samuels’ favorite tar-
get by far is the redshirt junior 
from Lovejoy, Georgia. The 
6-foot-4 speedster caught 12 
balls for 154 yards and two 
touchdowns, nearly doubling 
his production from his first 
two games. 
Considering Florida lost 
perhaps its top cover man in cornerback Marco 
Wilson for the season with a torn ACL, Carta-
Samuels could look toward Williams often, es-
pecially if he isn’t hounded by UF’s C.J. Hen-
derson. 
Josh Watson
The redshirt senior line-
backer from Blue Springs, 
Missouri, has led his team in 
tackles every game this sea-
son. He accrued a game-high 
12 tackles against Arkansas 
and applied two QB hurries 
coming off of blitzes. 
Watson seems to fancy 
himself a run-stuffer. He only 
has one pass defended on the season. That 
could prove troublesome for a Gators offense 
struggling to get the run game going early in 
the season. UF quarterback Feleipe Franks 
leads the team in rushing so far, eclipsing run-
ning back Jordan Scarlett’s meager 3.8 yards 
per carry. If Watson and the Rams defense gets 
into the backfield often enough, the Gators 
could look to abandon the run outright in an-
other game where he has to throw to win.
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Carta-Samuels has 8 touchdowns this season
mal Charleston Southern defense. 
Wow, how worthy of praise. He tore 
up an FCS team.
Then he faced an actual SEC 
defense, and he looked as lost as 
Brock Lovett looking for the Heart 
of the Ocean in Titanic.
And that SEC defense was Ken-
tucky. Kentucky! Not a team you 
normally associate atop the SEC 
East.
He looked average in the first 
half, sure; just ran the offense, no 
problem.
But when Florida went down a 
score and more was asked of him, 
he completely fell apart.
Franks only logged one intercep-
tion, but there should have been at 
least four, if not five, by my count.
We saw him completely misread 
the defense and throw ball after ball 
right into the UK defenders’ hands, 
only to watch it slip away because 
they were so shocked it was right 
to them.
Furthermore, he has absolutely 
no touch on his throws whatsoever.
There was a UF drive in the sec-
ond half against the Wildcats in 
which there were three straight pass 
plays deep down the right side of 
the field.
Now, there was good coverage 
on the plays, but Franks gave his 
receiver no chance on each throw.
He made several mistakes in-
stead of lofting it far down the side-
line and leading his receiver deep 
into the end zone.
He launched a bullet that hit the defender in the back on the first 
throw. The second, he threw way 
short, and wide receiver Van Jeffer-
son put on an acting job worthy of 
an Oscar to draw a pass interference. 
Finally, on the subsequent play, he 
threw a ball way out of bounds.
What’s so important about those 
three plays? It shows that Franks 
has no idea how to adjust. If he 
does, then he simply doesn’t ex-
ecute. He needs to be benched if 
that’s the case.
Florida needed him badly at the 
time, as momentum was all Ken-
tucky.
But under pressure, he cracks.
He’s like the Last Airbender – 
when he’s needed most, he disap-
pears.
Should he have had the pres-
sure heaped on him last game? No, 
definitely not. But it was, and it’s 
the quarterback’s job to handle it. 
That’s what Tebow did. That’s what 
Will Grier does. But it most certainly 
is what Feleipe does not.
At what point can Florida fans 
tolerate this mediocrity no more? 
Honestly, Dan Mullen, why don’t 
you just trot Kyle Trask out there? 
He’s been working with the first 
team all spring and summer, and 
you’re about to face Colorado State. 
You’ve already lost to Kentucky.
Nothing to lose.
 
@THEChrisOB 
cobrien@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14Franks threw late INT
touchdown lead in the FBS. 
McDonald also has two speedy 
receivers: juniors John Ursua and 
Cedric Boyd. Both average over 
eight receptions per game and 
together have amassed 10 touch-
downs (five each). 
It’ll be a long day of watching 
the ball float through the air for 
the Black Knights. 
-Mark Stine
Army (-6) will win because…
The Black Knights aren’t the 
ones who will have to adjust to 
a six-hour time difference for this 
game. 
The contest is set to start at 
noon eastern time in New York, 
which is 6 a.m. Hawaii time. Army 
will be poised and well-rested 
come time for kickoff while the 
Rainbow Warriors drag their bod-
ies onto the field with drooping 
eyelids and lagging feet. Oh well.
But even without time on its 
side, Army is pretty good. 
The Black Knights finished 10-2 last year compared to the Rainbow 
Warriors' 3-9 season last year.
Army also has a quarterback in 
Kevin Hopkins Jr. who has actu-
ally thrived in the triple option of-
fense. The freshman went 10-of-21 
for 197 yards in his starting debut 
against Duke and added 37 rush-
ing yards on 16 carries. 
But he may not even have to 
throw against the Rainbow War-
riors’ defense.
Hawaii is averaging 5.2 yards 
allowed per carry, and Army’s 
ground attack amassed 450 yards 
last week in the win against Lib-
erty last week.
It’s clearly expected that the 
Rainbow Warriors’ high-powered 
offense will put up points, but that 
means nothing if they can’t stop 
the other team from doing the 
same.
Count this one a win for the 
Black Knights.
-Alanis Thames
Now onto the picks!
In first, at 12-4, is the Alligator’s Alanis “Superior column name” 
Thames, who somehow wooed 
UF J-school Master Lecturer Mike 
Foley with her “Lost City of Ala-
nis” column. We know she thinks 
she’s pretty high and mighty right 
now since Foley hasn’t liked a col-
umn name in decades. Laugh it 
up, Thames. 
Next, at 10-6, is the AP’s Mark 
“Get off your frickin’ phones” 
Long, who yelled at alligatorS-
ports writer Jake Dreilinger for 
being on his phone after Mullen’s 
Monday press conference. Mind 
your own business, Jake was just 
looking to see how long Mullen 
spoke for. Just because you don’t 
know how to work yours doesn’t 
mean you should take it out on the 
rest of us.
In a tie for third at 9-7 is the 
Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Hot 
dog jokes” Hall. Graham used 
some of his valuable time in an 
exclusive Ben Hill Griffin press 
box seat to wax poetic about how 
funny hot dogs can be during the 
Kentucky game. Hey Graham, the 
game is on the field. It’s happen-ing in front of you. You know 
what isn’t happening? Your hot 
dog puns. 
Also at 9-7 is the Alligator’s 
Morgan “I’m too tired for class” 
McMullen, who left his triple-
block class after intermission 
Wednesday to go home and nap. 
Joke’s on you Morgan, it was the 
first class the professor ended ear-
ly this semester. 
The third person tied for third, 
at 9-7, is the Alligator’s Mark 
“Smoked Meat” Stine, who has 
developed his affinity for a grill-
ing pastime in conjunction with 
safeties coach Ron English. It’s yet 
another step in Mark’s ultimate 
transformation into a 65-year-old 
divorced retiree. Have fun hitting 
the links between child-support 
payments, bud. 
In a tie for sixth, at 8-8, is 
the Alligator’s Jake “I’ll hop on 
later” Dreilinger. Jake is part of 
some fraternity. We’re not sure 
about the specifics, but it’s appar-
ently very social, since he’s never 
available to check stories before we post them. Good job losing $20 
in a Melee game while the other 
editors worked, you jerk. 
Also at 8-8 is the Orlando Sen-
tinel’s Edgar “I wear a vest in 
95-degree heat” Thompson. 
Edgar, you were definitely pre-
pared for Dan Mullen’s chilly 
press conference. It might have 
worked at protecting you from 
Feleipe Franks’ cold demeanor on 
both Saturday and Monday, but it 
wasn’t enough to protect you from 
the heat waiting outside for post-
practice interviews.
And finally, in dead last, at 7-9, 
is GatorCountry’s Nick “Crazy 
Magnet” de la Torre. Nick some-
how invites heated debate to his 
Twitter feed, no matter what he 
puts out. Wanna talk about Feleipe 
Franks? Hope you’re in for every 
freezing cold take at once. At least 
nobody accused him of cheering 
in the press bo… never mind. 
See our picks on the back page 
of this issue. PICKS,  from pg. 14Eight Gators beat writers pick eight college football gamesWatson
Williams
Carta-Samuels
ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Sports Meme of the Week “Expert” picks
   Morgan  Jake   Mark S.  Alanis
CSU vs. UF (-20)   CSU   CSU   UF   CSU
UM @ TOL (+10)   UM   UM   UM   UM
FSU @ CUSE (+3)   CUSE   CUSE   FSU   CUSE
BSU @ OKST (-10)   OKST   OKST   OKST   BSU
LSU @ AU (-9.5)   AU   AU   LSU   AU
BAMA @ OM (+21)   BAMA   BAMA   BAMA   BAMA
UH @ TTU (+1)   UH   TTU   UH   UH
HI @ ARMY (-6)   HI   HI   HI   ARMY
   Graham  Mark L.  Edgar   Nick
CSU vs. UF (-20)   UF   UF   UF   UF
UM @ TOL (+10)   UM   UM   UM   UM
FSU @ CUSE (+3)   FSU   FSU      CUSE   CUSE
BSU @ OKST (-10)   OKST   BSU   BSU   OKST
LSU @ AU (-9.5)   LSU   LSU   LSU   AU
BAMA @ OM (+21)   BAMA   OM   OM   BAMA
UH @ TTU (+1)   UH   TTU      TTU   TTU
HI @ ARMY (-6)   HI   HI   HI   ARMYTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
FRIDAY
Volleyball vs. Jacksonville, Noon
Volleyball vs. FIU, 7 p.m. SATURDAY
Women’s Golf @ Michigan St., All Day
Volleyball vs. Army, 2 p.m.
Football vs. CSU, 4 p.m.SUNDAY
Women’s Golf @ Michigan St., All Day
Soccer vs. Vanderbilt, 3 p.m.
MONDAY - WEDNESDAY
Women’s T ennis @ T exas T ech, All DayTHURSDAY
Women’s T ennis @ T exas T ech, All Day
Soccer @ Kentucky, 7:30 p.m.INSIDE
R.J. Raymond’s scholarship was allegedly pulled before coach 
McElwain’s departure. Here’s how he got it back.  
ONLINE
Listen to our alligatorSports podcast Gator Bites for the latest in all UF 
sports.  
Walk-on. Scholarship. Repeat.
How R.J. Raymond’s ifth year on the roster 
resulted in his deinining momentKICK OFF
Editor: Morgan McMullen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Alligator File Photo
Alligator, Friday, September 14, 2018FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR
•   •   •By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
R.J. Raymond knelt down with his 
teammates looking up at the protruding 
Florida head coach Dan Mullen addressing 
the team after practice.
Mullen was lecturing the team on em-
bracing their roles. Seemingly in the heat 
of the moment, he turned to Raymond and 
asked him what his most important job 
was. 
“Special teams,” responded Raymond, a 
redshirt senior walk-on.
Mullen asked a follow up: Which posi-
tion?
“Left shield on punt,” Raymond said af-
ter Mullen made him stand up and tell the 
Gators.
Mullen then turned to fellow walk-on 
Nick Villano and asked the same thing.
“Right shield on punt,” Villano said, 
also forced to stand.
Mullen is known for having a special 
love for special teams. They are the first to 
eat at team meals. They are considered by 
Mullen to be the most important positions 
in the game.
So when Mullen had Raymond and Vil-
lano address the team, he wanted to high-
light just how significant their contribu-
tions were.
“Punt is the most important thing we do, right?” Mullen asked. “So it’s not right 
that you guys are walk-ons. You’re both on 
scholarship.”
Jubilation. Teammates mobbed the 
two walk-on-turned-scholarship players. 
Feleipe Franks nearly starting a dogpile. It 
was a feeling Raymond would never forget.
The words “you’re on scholarship,” 
were enough for Raymond to nearly tack-
le Mullen in pure, unadulterated joy. His 
hard work and years of sacrifice finally 
paid off. In his final semester at UF before 
he graduates, Raymond will have some of 
his expenses covered. 
His journey was nearly coming full 
circle. He’d already earned a scholarship 
before it was taken away for recruiting 
purposes. He’d played under three coaches 
and went through four positions before he 
found his role at tight end. Now, he’d fi-
nally found validation. 
Former UF quarterback Luke Del Rio 
has known Raymond since Del Rio was 16. 
They are best friends, and Del Rio plans on 
making Raymond the best man at his wed-
ding next summer.
In a podcast he tweeted out on Aug. 23, 
the day after Raymond had received his 
scholarship from Mullen, Del Rio dropped 
a bombshell.This was not the first time Raymond has 
been on scholarship. He was given one in 
January 2017.
“And nobody knows that,” Del Rio said.
So what happened? If he had been on 
scholarship before, why was he just getting 
back on it now?
According to Del Rio, former Florida 
coach Jim McElwain held secret meetings 
when it came to giving out scholarships. 
It’s what happened to Del Rio, who had 
walked on when he transferred from Or-
egon State. And it’s what happened to Ray-
mond.
These meetings were so secret that not 
everyone on the team knew if a player was 
on scholarship. Only those close to the 
player ever heard the news. That’s how 
Del Rio knew about Raymond’s situation 
from early 2017.
McElwain’s philosophy, according to 
Del Rio, is that you have to prove you are 
better than some players who are on schol-
arship. It’s not earned through hard work 
alone. 
Raymond was now on scholarship in 
the offseason between the 2017 and 2018 
seasons. There was no surprise video for 
that one. And there was a reason why.
In July, Raymond received his schol-
arship renewal letter, which tells players 
how much money they would be receiv-
ing for the semester. He opened it up and 
on the inside where they put the amount, 
there was a zero, according to Del Rio.
This was how most walk-ons found out 
their scholarship had been pulled. They 
weren’t told in person, they found out 
when that letter came in.
“If you pull somebody’s scholarship,” 
Del Rio said, “you’re basically saying 
you’re off the team.” At the time, Florida probably needed 
that spot for a potential recruit, so it took 
the money back. 
But if you are a walk-on with the Gators, 
you are probably there because you want-
ed to be at the University of Florida. 
For Raymond, that was definitely the 
case.
“I’ve been to a game, at least one home 
game in the Swamp every year since I was 
3 years old,” he said. 
Raymond’s family had season tick-
ets in Touchdown Terrace Section 3 his 
whole life. He would even dress as a Gator 
football player for Halloween. To get that 
scholarship was a dream come true. 
But now, he was without it. And it 
wasn’t like McElwain told him in person, 
according to Del Rio. “This does not hap-
pen anywhere,” Del Rio said. “The way he 
was treating walk-ons was just not accept-
able”.
There was a time when Raymond 
thought playing college football was no 
longer worth it. Especially when he and 
his family were paying for this experience 
out of pocket.
He wasn’t on scholarship, he was try-
ing his hardest on the practice field with-
out seemingly any recognition for it and 
McElwain’s coaching staff was now out at Everybody Loves Raymond
•   •   •
Florida. The university had 
bought out McElwain’s contract 
following his statement about al-
leged death threats that he and 
some players had received. McEl-
wain never released what those 
statements said. He coached the 
Georgia game on Oct. 28, then he 
was gone.
It left Raymond’s future up in 
the air.
“So last year when the previ-
ous staff got let go and the chang-
es were being made,” Raymond 
said, “I was talking with my fam-
ily every day and trying to figure 
out what was next.”
At the time, he figured he was 
done. It was hard enough proving 
himself to McElwain. How would 
he fare proving himself to a new 
coach with just one year of eligi-
bility left?
Raymond participated in Se-
nior Day against Florida State 
on Nov. 22. He heard his name 
called, and his picture was blown 
up on the jumbotron at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium as he ran out 
of the tunnel. His parents were 
there, who he greeted with a hug. 
Del Rio, who opted not to use a 
sixth year of eligibility, was as 
well. 
The only thing missing was 
McElwain. He was not the coach 
who recruited Raymond (that 
honor belonged to Will Mus-
champ), but he was the one that 
helped Raymond grow and gave 
him the chance to see the field on 
special teams.
Raymond went through what 
he had thought would be the 
last game of his career. He didn’t 
record a single stat, but played 
in the game on special teams.
Florida wasted no time in find-
ing a new head coach. Four days 
after the game, former Mississippi 
State head coach Dan Mullen was 
hired to lead the Gators’ football 
program. Raymond might have a 
reason to stay.
“Then I saw coach Mullen was 
hired and I was like, ‘Ya know, 
I love what this guy’s doing over 
at Mississippi State,’” Raymond 
said. “He’s been extremely suc-
cessful over there so I’m gonna, 
I’d kick myself if I didn’t come 
back for my fifth year.”
Raymond always had three 
goals when it came to 
playing college football.
The first, and most 
important in his eyes, 
was that he was going 
to graduate and earn a 
degree from the Univer-
sity of Florida. He’s set 
to graduate on Dec. 15, 
four-and-a-half years 
after he first walked on 
to the team in 2014.
His second goal was 
to earn a scholarship. 
Not just one that will 
get pulled like under 
McElwain, but an ac-
tual one. A scholarship 
that shows just how 
much work he put in all 
these years. And he ac-
complished that when 
Mullen presented him 
with one.
His final goal was 
to earn playing time, 
which he has also com-
pleted. Raymond saw 
more action on special 
teams than any other 
position, but this year, 
he is slated for a much 
bigger role.
Raymond was re-
cruited as a lineback-
er. He played all the 
linebacker positions, 
but didn’t receive any 
playing time. In his 
first year, he redshirt-
ed. Raymond broke his 
foot and didn’t appear 
in a single game the 
next year. 
When he returned 
from injury in 2016, 
he became a defensive 
lineman because Flori-
da lacked depth at the 
position. Then in 2017, 
he moved to fullback, 
where he was only re-
ally used on short yard 
plays, like on the goal 
line. He was a big body 
that could be used to 
block and pave the 
way for runners behind 
him. All the while, 
Raymond played on 
special teams.
Then Mullen be-
came the coach. “When coach Mullen got here 
when I first met with him I was 
like ‘I came here as a lineback-
er, I played D-line and last year 
I played fullback, was meeting 
with the tight ends,’” Raymond 
said. “‘Where do you want me? 
Who do you want me to meet 
with?’”
Mullen told him to stay in the 
tight end room. And so far, he has 
impressed his coaches.
“It’s worked out,” Raymond 
said.
Both tight ends coach Lar-
ry Scott and Mullen have seen 
strides from him. His football IQ 
skyrocketed because of his his-
tory of playing multiple positions, 
and Raymond used that to make 
an impression as a tight end.“R.J. Raymond I think has 
really done a nice job so far of 
playing tight end,” Mullen said. 
“Because of how we use the tight 
end, and they’re used in so many 
different ways, that he can still 
fit that mold. He’s done a really 
good job so far.”
Scott agreed.
“R.J. has been good. He is a 
very good, smart football player,” 
Scott said. “He plays hard and it 
means a lot to him. He is a quick 
learner. R.J. is just one of those 
guys that is just steady.”
Those praises weren’t empty 
statements. They held value that 
translated into more playing time 
for Raymond.
In the season opener, Ray-
mond was a team captain along-side cornerback C.J. Henderson. 
He also became a mainstay in the 
tight end rotation. Listed as the 
backup to C’yontai Lewis, Ray-
mond saw the field right away 
against Charleston Southern. He 
has been targeted, although he 
hasn’t caught a pass yet.
It has been a rough road for 
R.J. Raymond, one faced with 
five positions, four years, three 
head coaches, two scholarships 
and one team. But for Raymond it 
was all worth it.
“It was tough,” he said. “It 
was a hard decision, but it ended 
up paying off. So I’m very glad I 
made that decision.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
FLORIDA defense vs. COLORADO STATE offense
Colby MeeksCK.J. Carta-SamuelsQBWarren JacksonWRIzzy MatthewsRB
Elijah ConliffeNT
Trey Dean IIICB
C.J. HendersonCB
Jabari ZunigaDE
T.J. SlatonDT
Chauncey 
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR
David 
ReeseMIKE
Vosean 
JosephWILLJachai 
PoliteBUCK
Donovan 
StinerS
Jeawon T aylorSTyler BjorklundGBarry WesleyTOlabisi 
JohnsonWR
Jeff T aylorGBen KnoxTCameron 
ButlerTE
Preston 
WilliamsWR
FLORIDA offense vs. COLORADO STATE defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
RBMartez IveyT
Tyler JordanLG
Tyrie ClevelandWRFred JohnsonRG
Jawaan T aylorT
C’yontai LewisTE
Josh HammondWRVan JeffersonWRJosh 
WatsonMIKE
Devin PhillipsNT
Hubbard 
EllisonDTEmmanuel 
JonesDERashad AjayiCB
Richard 
KingDEV .J. BanksCBTre 
ThomasOLB
Max 
McDonaldOLBJordan FogalS
Braylin ScottS
Jordan Scarlett•   •   •