We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gainesville awaits local March For Our Lives
An organizer is expecting about 1,000, pg. 9
Local artists are beautifying a garage
An organizer hopes it will be ﬁ  nished by summer, pg. 3DRESSEL BREAKS 50 FREE RECORD
UF senior Caeleb Dressel shattered the record 
for fastest time ever in the 50-yard free on  Wednesday, pg. 1 5.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 71
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
HE IS BEING PAID $85,000 TOTAL.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld                              
and Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writers
John Mulaney isn’t new in town. He last 
performed on UF’s campus three years ago 
during the 2015 Big Orange Festival.
He will be back again April 19 in the Phil-
lips Center for the Performing Arts. The event, 
which is co-sponsored by Student Government 
Productions and Accent Speakers Bureau, will be one hour and part of Mulaney’s “Kid Gor-geous” tour. Doors will open at 7 p.m., and Mulaney will perform at 8 p.m., Accent 
chairperson Shelby Buchan-an wrote in an email.
The comedian has pro-
duced Netﬂ  ix comedy spe-cials and appeared on Sat-urday Night Live. Buchanan 
said his successful career makes him relevant.
“He is becoming one of the most proliﬁ  c 
and prominent stand-up comedians in the U.S.,” she said.
This is the ﬁ  rst time SGP and Accent have 
collaborated on an event since 2010, when John Legend performed at UF, said Alex DesRosiers, the SGP chairman. Accent paid $60,000 to Mulaney, while SGP contributed the remaining $25,000.
Students with a UFID can pick up to two 
free tickets between noon and 5 p.m. April 18 at the Accent ofﬁ  ce, located on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union. Remaining tickets will be made available to the general public at the Phillips Center box ofﬁ  ce at noon on the day of the event, Buchanan said.
Alec Shearf, a UF computer engineering 
freshman, had considered buying a bus ticket to Jacksonville or Hollywood to catch Mulaney 
perform on tour, but now he just plans on skip-ping calculus. 
The 18-year-old, who is a member of The-
atre Strike Force, a UF student acting group, is 
thrilled to see Mulaney perform at UF not only for the laughs, but also to see a comedian who 
has served as an inspiration for him. 
“I became a really big fan of him,” he said. 
“I think he’s one of the reasons I got into doing 
comedy myself.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.org Comedian John Mulaney to perform at UF next monthFEATURE FRIDAY:
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Staff Writer
Julia Tiplea knows grief.
In October, she mourned the 
death of her friend who was fatally 
shot in the Las Vegas concert shoot-
ing. She couldn’t go back to Las 
Vegas, where she grew up, to visit 
the vigils, light candles or lay down 
ﬂ  owers.
But on Feb. 16, the Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas alumna carefully 
lit long white candles with her broth-
er at the foot of a stage with 17 angel 
statues, adding to the sea of warm 
orange light ﬂ  ickering through Pine 
Trails Park. Her parents laid down the roses her dad had given her mom 
for Valentine’s Day.
Now, ﬂ  ower piles have grown 
in thick stacks to nearly cover the crosses. The browned petals are brit-
tle from baking in the Florida sun, 
and candles have melted into wax 
piles. Red marker ink runs down handwritten cards, forced off the 
page by the spring rain. 
The city is different. People walk 
around wearing maroon and silver 
Stoneman Douglas T-shirts. Dona-
tion boxes for victims are at the local 
Publix. Manicured lawns have ma-roon and silver ﬂ  owers shaped into 
hearts or the letters “MSD.” 
Kids know, too. At Pine Trails 
on a sunny day in March, a woman walked alongside the piles of ﬂ  owers 
and cards with a young boy wearing a backpack half his size. 
“That’s Joaquin,” he said, point-
ing at a candle with an attached 
photo of smiling 17-year-old Joaquin 
Oliver, a victim of the shooting. She watched the kid make his 
way alongside the ﬂ  owers and can-
dles, passing cards with tiny painted 
handprints. 
“What does it mean that there’s 
a lot of stuff?” the woman asked the boy, who was wandering ahead. “That there’s a lot of people that love them, right?”
Yet at the park, away from the 
17 wooden crosses and Stars of Da-
vid under their blue tents, children 
played soccer. Parents and friends 
sweat on the sidelines. 
They’ll pass out water bottles, 
maybe orange slices, and go home 
like they’ve done before.
The city won’t forget, but things 
are shifting to a new normal. A nor-mal where banners from around the nation declaring support hang on the 
school’s chain-link fence alongside 
advertisements for local dentists and 
restaurants.  
“Parkland won’t really ever go 
back to what it was,” said Tiplea, a 
19-year-old UF marine science soph-omore. “But it’ll come back stron-
ger.”
When Tiplea transferred to Stone-
man Douglas in 2014, she felt over-whelmed.
Even though Parkland is about 
20 times smaller than Las Vegas, 
the school of about 3,000 was nearly 
triple the size of her old high school. 
She eased herself into Stoneman  
Douglas, joining the cheer team and 
making friends in class. 
When she reﬂ  ects on high school, 
she still thinks of junior year in the ‘Come back stronger’
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
Julia Tiplea, a 19-year-old UF marine science sophomore, hands out “UF stands with MSD” T-shirts 
Thursday to fundraise for the trip to Washington, D.C., where a groupwill march Saturday.
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
John Mulaney
Parkland is returning to normal, but nothing is forgotten
•   •   •
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
HIGH  72° LOW  44°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Cold Night Shelter Program
City of Gainesville officials antici-
pate severe weather conditions, including temperatures below 45 degrees during evening hours, 
will continue today. The anticipat-
ed temperatures will lead to the continued activation of the city’s Cold Night Shelter Program, and it is expected to remain in effect until overnight low temperatures rise above 45 degrees. St. Francis House and GRACE Marketplace at the Empowerment Center will 
provide CNS services to people 
in need of shelter as long as overnight temperatures remain below 45 degrees. The CNS pro-gram providers serve additional persons in need of shelter so that families and individuals desiring shelter will have a warm place to stay. St. Francis House provides 
temporary shelter that is appro-
priate for families, women and children. GRACE Marketplace primarily serves individual adults.  Centers also offer other services including food, showers and laundry.
Libraries closed for Easter
Alachua County Library District will be closed for Easter all day 
April 1. All branches will be 
closed. Book drops at branches and online services through the Library District’s eBranch at aclib.us will be available. All 12 branch locations and two book-mobiles will resume their regular schedules April 2. For more infor-mation, visit aclib.us or call 352-
334-3900. 
Take Back the Night
Strive UF will hold Take Back the 
Night March and Rally Against Sexual Violence from 5:30 to 9 p.m. April 4 on the Plaza of the Americas. Survivors are invited to speak on the nature of their sexual assault and recovery. Free T-shirts or tank tops are available 
for the first 300 marchers. For 
more information, call 352-273-4450.
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights WorkshopsThe Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 5:30 to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road Library Branch, located at 3020 
SW 75th St. Attorneys from the 
Josiah T. Walls Bar Association and law students from the Levin College of Law will provide one-on-one assistance to those who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in applying to have their civil rights restored. These presentations are free and open to the public. Registration is not required. For more informa-tion, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-
334-3900.
National Library Week
During National Library Week, 
April 8 to 14, Alachua County Library District joins libraries na-tionwide to celebrate the many ways libraries lead their com-munities with the transformative services, programs and expertise they offer. Celebrations include 
National Library Workers Day on 
April 10 and National Bookmobile Day on April 11.
Fulbright Awareness Month
The UF International Center will hold Fulbright Awareness Month until April 12. Multiple informa-
tional sessions for students, schol-
ars, faculty and staff will provide opportunities to learn about the Fulbright application process and hear about the experiences of past scholars and students. This year, information sessions will be led by Peter VanDerwater, the di-
rector of outreach at the Council 
for International Exchange for Scholars in Washington, D.C. To schedule an individual consulta-tion with VanDerwater, email canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. For more information, visit international-center.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Clarification: 
In a story published online titled “See where UF’s Warrington College of Business graduate 
program placed in U.S. News 
and World Report,” the UF Warrington College of Business increased six spots in U.S. News and World Report’s Best Business Schools category, which focuses on the college’s full-time MBA program. The full-time MBA pro-gram has increased in rankings 
from No. 19 to No. 14 among 
public schools.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 71
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
$10 eGift Card
DONATE BLOOD
oneblood.org/gainesvilleFREE OneBlood 
T-shirt & $10 
eGift Card for  
all donors!
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your 
nearest  
Big Red Bus!YouMAKE A DIFFERENCE!Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Alachua artist Sarah Whitmire, 37, participates in the beautiﬁ  cation of a municipal parking lot, located at 105 
SW Third Street, by painting a mural whose working title is “You are the Magic. ”
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Jenna Horner, 26, a local artist from Gainesville, prepares to continue to work on her mural inspired by the poem, “The Negro Speaks of River, ” on Thursday afternoon. 
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Sarah Whitmire poured herself 
a steaming cup of tea to warm her 
orange-and-blue-stained hands. 
Bearing the chilly Thursday 
morning and bundled in layers of 
jackets and paint-splattered jeans, 
the artist carefully dotted handprints and streaks of paint along her mural in the Southwest Downtown Parking Garage. 
“You are the magic,” the mural 
reads. 
The 37-year-old Gainesville artist 
never plans out what her paintings 
will look like, she just waits to see 
where inspiration will take her, she said. Surrounded by other local art-ists creating on the walls around her, the message came to her. “I want to remind people that 
they are the magic,” she said, “that they have it all inside themselves.” 
Whitmire has seen the creativity 
come alive at the Southwest Down-town Parking Garage, located at 105 SW Third St. Through the help of the Urban Revitalization Project, the space is being transformed from sol-id gray concrete walls to ﬁ  ve ﬂ  oors of murals, said Guido Montenegro, program director of Urban Revital-
ization Project. 
There is space for artists of all 
ages and skill levels to create and 
explore using supplies donated by members of the community, Mon-tenegro said. About 50 artists are currently working on the project, a majority of them local. They began painting the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor March 16 and 
will be ﬁ  nished by March 30. Monte-negro hopes to have it completed by 
the end of the summer.
“I wanted to facilitate local artists 
that wouldn’t normally have the op-portunity for exposure and the op-portunity to paint,” he said. 
Urban Revitalization Project is 
a nonproﬁ  t organization that reno-vates overlooked public spaces with the help of local artists. Montenegro said this is the largest project his organization has done. Although 
the artists aren’t being paid, it isn’t 
stopping them from ﬁ  lling every wall with their work. 
The diversity of the artists is re-
ﬂ  ected in the paintings. No two walls look alike. Some of the art comments on complex issues in society, while other walls sport drawings of nature scenes and animals. 
When Whitmire looks around, she is overwhelmed by each artist’s distinct style. 
“I think for most people, they’re 
going to be surprised at how much talent that we have right here,” she said. 
One of the murals stopped 
30-year-old Natasja Bevans dead in her tracks. 
Walking past the garage she 
thought she saw a familiar face out of the corner of her eye. 
There, immortalized in paint, 
was her friend, Mandisa Haarhoff, a UF graduate student and Fulbright Scholar. She whipped out her phone and snapped a photo.
“If you ask anybody who’s down-
town, they know Mandisa. She’s just a really amazing spirit, and it’s pretty cool that she’s going to always be on 
a wall,” Bevans said. Jenna Horner, the artist who 
painted Mandisa’s portrait, was in 
the garage from 9:30 a.m. Wednes-
day to 3 a.m. Thursday, coating the 
wall with shades of blue and purple. 
The professional mural artist is 
seizing the space to comment on social issues, particularly race. Her wall follows the theme of a river and will incorporate two portraits and quotes from former President Barack Obama and Langston Hughes. 
“I wanted to make a pretty delib-
erate statement about humanizing and unifying people,” the 26-year-old said.  
Although she’s used to working 
alone, she’s been energized by the other artists and the differing stories they choose to tell on their walls. 
“So many people have so much 
to say,” she said. 
Local artists bring life and color to downtown parking garage 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Contributing Writer
Every time John Kim goes to his group 
therapy sessions for depression at UF’s Coun-
seling and Wellness Center, he sees people just like him. 
The UF microbiology and cell science se-
nior said the center continued to help him get in touch with a psychiatrist and ﬁ  nd a thera-pist. The process also helped him realize he was not alone — others struggled as well. 
“So many people think that mental health 
is a bad word, but mental health is just as important as physical health,” Kim, 21, said. “You go to the doctors for a physical check-up every so often, so why not seek a mental 
health checkup?”From the 2013-2014 school year to 2016-
2017, there was a 17.6 percent increase in 
students served at the CWC, said Ernesto 
Escoto, director of the CWC. More students 
seeking mental health help is partly due to a decreased stigma among the younger genera-tion, he said. 
“Increasing awareness among mental 
health and educating others about existing re-sources remains instrumental,” he said.
In an effort to continue halting the stigma, 
the CWC held its second-annual UFisAWARE, 
a mental health awareness week, which aims 
to bring attention to these issues and to direct students to campus resources.  
Escoto said about 26 percent of UF stu-
dents participated in some form of mental health treatment prior to attending college. Therefore, they are more familiar with mental health care and likely follow up in college. 
There have also been advances in counsel-
ing and psychiatric care, he said.
Amanda Lawson-Ross, a clinical assistant 
professor and organizer of UFisAWARE week, said the stigma about seeking help is gradu-ally lessening.
“I love seeing students speak openly about 
mental health and know that it can be healing to do so,” Lawson-Ross said.
For the awareness week this year, the 
CWC provided more information about men-tal health and resources, Lawson-Ross said. Some events included a mediation session and painting a mural. 
UF President Kent Fuchs participated in an 
awareness event Monday in which green ﬂ  ags were planted on the Plaza of the Americas lawn to raise awareness for the week.
Fuchs said some people wrote about their 
own experiences with mental health on the ﬂ  ags. One of the ﬂ  ags told about how some-one lost their uncle to suicide and another was about counseling sessions. 
Fuchs said for a number of years, both na-
tionally at universities and at UF, there has been a steady increase of students who reach out to counseling and wellness centers to take advantage of the offered services.
“I’m really pleased that we reach out to the 
whole university community,” he said, “and just make mental health a topic that, ﬁ  rst off, people are aware of, and also just remove the barriers that many of us have as it being a taboo subject.” By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Board of Trustees will 
vote on continuing with designs of a $250 million central energy plan and construction of a $50 million baseball stadium today. 
The board met Thursday in 
Emerson Alumni Hall and split up into different committees to de-cide what should be voted on by the full board today. Things on the table to be passed or crossed off include the construction of a 10,000 capacity Gator baseball 
stadium and the design of a cam-
pus-wide central energy plan.
UF Athletic Director Scott 
Stricklin said the stadium could be ready as soon as the 2020 season, along with renovations to Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
“We have such incredible 
weather here and such a great 
baseball program,” he said. “The 
one thing we’re really missing is a facility that matches those two things.”
UF spokesperson Steve Orlando 
said Stricklin negotiated the loca-tion with the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences to build on some of the institute’s ﬁ  elds, but the stadium’s exact location hasn’t been announced as of Thursday. 
Trustees also discussed a future 
central energy plan to fully update UF’s 50-year-old power grid, re-
moving the need for a third-party 
energy provider in the process.UF should move forward with 
the project, said Charlie Lane, UF’s chief operating ofﬁ  cer. Duke 
Energy, UF’s current utility pro-
vider, plans to shut down its cen-tral electricity and steam facility by 2022, forcing UF to consider other options.
The project is expensive be-
cause it requires building an esti-mated $155 million central energy plant and a complete reworking of 
UF’s thermal infrastructure, an-
other $55 million, Lane said. The plan would reduce greenhouse gas emission by 20 percent. 
The trustees will allow facil-
ity services to continue with the project’s design phase, but they wanted more information before narrowing down funding options. 
“We’re not ready to go and in-
vest in this kind of money,” said Vice Chair Mori Hosseini. 
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
UF’s CWC held second-annual mental health awareness weekBoard of Trustees to vote on $50 million baseball stadiumBy Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Daley and Percy, two 
green sea turtles, were brought into 
the Turtle Hospital in Marathon, Florida, they had multiple external tumors ranging from the size of a 
pencil eraser to a baseball around 
their ﬁ  ns and necks. 
The turtles arrived at the hospi-
tal Oct. 20, 2017, after leaving other facilities in the state for their treat-ment, said Bette Zirkelbach, the Turtle Hospital manager.
They became the ﬁ  rst of their 
species to receive a new tumor-
removal treatment. A UF team of 
veterinarians began treating the turtles Dec. 10 using electrochemo-therapy, a type of chemotherapy applied using electric pulses, said Kyle Donnelly, the lead investiga-tor and a UF veterinary medicine second-year resident. The turtles had ﬁ  bropapillomatosis, a viral dis-
ease commonly found in green sea 
turtles, which sometimes causes tu-mors to form on the soft tissues of the animals. 
The virus was recognized in the 
1980s and has been a serious prob-lem worldwide for turtles since, Donnelly said. 
Following the tumor removal, 
both turtles have shown improve-ments, despite Percy being a bit stubborn. 
“Percy seems like a perky turtle 
even when she’s really sick covered in tumors,” Zirkelbach said. Zirkelbach said the Turtle Hos-
pital couldn’t determine the gender of Percy but knew Daley was male.
As the two are monitored at the 
hospital, Daley is becoming more social. He can be seen nearly jump-ing out of his containment and climbing the walls when someone drops him a piece of lettuce. 
Electrochemotherapy delivers 
chemotherapy through electrical pulses to the animals’ cells, Don-nelly said. This allows for the can-cerous cells to better absorb the chemotherapy drugs. “Hopefully, this treatment that 
we’re working on can avoid a lot of those negative side effects,” Don-nelly said. “We’re cautiously opti-mistic that it’s all going well.”
As opposed to electrochemo-
therapy, the side effects from surgi-cal removal of tumors in turtles can include tumors growing back and a signiﬁ  cant blood loss, she said. 
Veterinarians will monitor the 
turtles’ recovery for about a year, Donnelly said. Once they are back to full health, they plan to release 
the turtles back into the wild.FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Courtesy to The Alligator
The turtles arrived at the hospital Oct. 20 with multiple external 
tumors ranging from the size of a pencil eraser to a baseball around their ﬁ  ns and necks.
Turtles get new tumor treatment
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County School 
Board unanimously voted Tuesday 
to opt out of the Florida program to arm volunteer school employees, including some teachers. 
After Gov. Rick Scott met with 
Parkland shooting survivors March 9, he signed SB 7026, a $400 million bill known as the “Marjory Stone-man Douglas High School Public Safety Act.” 
The bill aims to keep guns out of 
the hands of anyone under 21 years old or who has a mental disability. 
It also establishes the “Coach 
Aaron Feis Guardian Program,” which would allow school em-ployees to opt into being a “school guardian,” or someone who can carry a gun on campus to use in the event of a shooting. The program is named after the Stoneman Douglas football coach who died shielding 
students from bullets during the 
Valentine’s Day shooting.
The program will only be avail-
able in school districts where the school board members and the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce approve it. In Alach-ua, the county school board mem-bers agreed teachers should focus on teaching. Members also ex-
pressed concerns over the amount 
of training school employees would undergo, said ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson. 
As of now, only law enforce-
ment ofﬁ  cers are permitted to be armed on Alachua school campus-es, she said.
“All the vote does is main-
tain the current policy we have in 
place,” Johnson said. 
Every Alachua County school is 
assigned a campus police ofﬁ  cer, al-
though some schools near each oth-er shared an ofﬁ  cer, Johnson said. The Gainesville Police Department will now assign an ofﬁ  cer to patrol each school campus full time.
School administrators got active 
shooter response training last sum-mer, and ACPS maintains strong, constant communication with law enforcement, Johnson said.
“We have a lot of safeguards in 
place, and we’re looking at addi-tional things to add,” Johnson said. “The board just felt that arming teachers is not the way to go.”
Scott also approved prohibiting 
the sale of bump stocks, which are devices that make a semi-automat-ic weapon ﬁ  re like an automatic weapon, and establishing an Ofﬁ  ce of Safe Schools in the Department of Education. The law allocates $99 million for improving school safety, including $1.1 million for Alachua 
County, according to Alligator ar-
chives.
Chris Bell, a UF political science, 
history and Spanish senior, said the school board made the right deci-sion. Bell, the founder of the stu-dent group Gators Against Gun Vio-lence, said the guardian program is a ridiculous idea.
“I don’t think the solution to 
guns is more guns, especially in 
a school,” Bell, 22, said. “It is not 
within a teacher’s job description to fend off shooters and threats.”
Although Bell agrees with in-
creased funding for security meth-ods and mental health programs, he said the law sidesteps around the root of the issue — guns. 
“I think all of these are Band-
Aid solutions to a really larger problem,” he said. 
Not all Florida school districts 
and sheriffs’ ofﬁ  ces have decided if they’ll apply the program yet. Below is a box with those who have, ac-cording to the Tallahasse Democrat: 
Alachua County Public Schools 
opt to not arm school employeesHE TOUCHED AND 
TRIED TO KISS A WORK 
ACQUAINTANCE.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A former county manager was 
charged with simple battery after 
authorities said he tried to kiss a work acquaintance.
On June 10, 2017, Lee Niblock, 
who was then Alachua County Manager, tried to kiss an ac-
quaintance at a professional meeting and said he loved it when she 
showed off her 
legs, according to court records.
Niblock, 64, arranged a meet-
ing with the woman at Volta Cof-
fee, Tea & Chocolate, located at 48 SW 2nd Street, to discuss a future job, according to a sworn complaint. 
Niblock, who was ﬁ  red as the 
Alachua County Manager in Au-gust 2017, was ﬁ  red Monday from his job as city manager of Marco Island and is under investigation in Marco Island for battery, ac-
cording to The Gainesville Sun.
During the meeting, which he 
later called a date, Niblock of-
fered to drive the woman places for her potential job, according to the complaint. 
He touched her thigh and lifted 
the hem of her skirt as they drove on US 441 toward Micanopy, ac-
cording to the complaint. Niblock 
said he loved it when she wore skirts and showed off her thighs. The woman pushed his hand away, according to the complaint. 
When Niblock brought the 
woman to her parked car, he put a hand on her thigh and her shoulder. He leaned in for a kiss, 
but the woman ducked and he 
kissed her temple.
Gainesville Police charged 
Niblock with simple battery on Tuesday afternoon, according to court records. Niblock could not be reached for comment.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgFormer county manager 
charged with battery
School districts that will not allow 
staﬀ   or teachers to carry guns
Broward
Duval
Hillsborough
Leon
Palm BeachSeminole
Miami-Dade
Pasco
Pinellas  
School districts that will 
implement the program
Hendry PutnamNiblock
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
Jadeon Lie, a 22-year-old UF accounting and ﬁ  nance junior, 
participates in the recycling games events held Thursday afternoon by the UF EcoReps on Plaza of the Americas. The event aimed to educate students about composting and proper recycling during the month of sustainability. The UF EcoReps are a part of the Inter Residence Hall Association Environmental Concerns Committee. The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Despite promising yourself you wouldn’t procrastinate on 
your homework this week, you ﬁ  nd yourself deep in the aisles of 
Target with your roommate. 
You came to buy bananas, but your cart already has 10 items, 
none of which you actually need and none of which are bananas. “Well, at least this is a stress reliever,” you reason to yourself.
A little embarrassed by the hodgepodge of useless products 
you collected on your raid, you decide self-checkout is the best option for you. Several scans in, you get an error message. This one, however, is one you’ve never seen before. After clicking “cancel” about 30 times, the screen reads … 
Darts & Laurels
A little more than a month after the school shooting in Park-
land,  Florida, another took place. Tuesday morning, a 17-year-
old student at Great Mills High School in Great Mills, Maryland, shot two other students before the school resource ofﬁ  cer was able to engage him and stop the threat.
According to CNN, Austin Wyatt Rollins shot a female and 
male student before he was later pronounced dead. The female, who Rollins had a prior relationship with, was in critical condi-tion with life-threatening injuries as of Wednesday morning. The male who was shot is in stable condition.
Although Rollins’ actions were truly unforgivable, we won’t 
give him a dart. Instead, we award our ﬁ  rst dart to the politi-
cians who continue to block stricter gun control in our country. 
Young people with this type of disturbed mind should not have 
access to a gun of any kind. It’s time we start taking guns seri-
ously and limiting who has access to them nationwide. It’s time we stop disasters like this from happening.
In an effort to advocate for gun reform, people across the coun-
try will participate in the March For Our Lives protests Saturday. About 20 UF students have been raising money to organize a bus trip so more than 100 students can attend the march in Washing-ton, D.C. They are determined to have their voices heard.
If you plan to march, we’d like to award you with our ﬁ  rst 
laurel of the week. Whether close to home or traveling to a larger protest, we commend you. Your bravery and determination will make a difference, and the whole nation is thankful for you.
Last week, the Islamist militant group Boko Haram kidnapped 
dozens of girls from a school in Nigeria. The girls were released Wednesday of this week with the attached warning, “Don’t ever put your daughters in school again.”
Kidnapping girls who are pursuing an education is not new 
for the group. In 2014, they kidnapped nearly 300 girls from their 
boarding school in Chibok. One hundred of them have yet to 
return home.
According to the Associated Press, Informational Minister Lai 
Mohammed told journalists in the capital, Abuja, the girls were released “through back-channel efforts and with the help of some friends of the country, and it was unconditional.” 
We award a dart not only to the military group, but also to 
the bystanders who continue to let this type of mindset exist in the world. No girl should ever be told she can’t attend school or 
be forced to decide between her life and her education. 
Helping to slowly restore our faith in both humanity this 
week, however, was Gail Johnson. After being elected to the City 
Commission At-Large Seat 1 on Tuesday, she became the ﬁ  rst black woman to be elected citywide in at least 21 years. 
We would like to award a laurel to Johnson for her immense 
success in breaking the glass ceiling and changing the norms that have been in place in Gainesville for nearly two decades. We will also give her opponent, Harvey Budd, a  laurel. It’s not always 
easy to accept a loss, but Budd took it with honor and conceded. He told The Alligator, “She outworked us, and she deserves it.” We wish both the best.Wait, so what is Student Government Senate?
I ask myself the question posed in the 
headline all the time. I suppose it’d prob-ably be good for me to have it out there 
somewhere on the internet for the poor 
souls who miss out on our Student Gov-
ernment Preview tabling.
I always knew I wanted to be involved in 
SG, so as soon as I knew I would be attending UF, I went snooping around The Alligator’s website for an answer to this question.
So, here it is. The most important thing 
our Senate does for UF is setting the budget. I’ve had 
the pleasure of reviewing many current and former 
senators’ resumes, and people love to mention that our Senate controls a $20 million budget.
This isn’t exactly accurate, though. It’s just the nine 
senators who are given a spot in the budget committee. If you happen to ﬁ  nd yourself in the right place at the right time and favored by the right people, you get to be part of the committee that manages the money, which is split between the “big four” entities: RecSports, the Re-
itz Union, SG and Student Activities and Involvement.
Aside from the budget committee, there are nine sen-
ators who receive spots on the allocations committee, 
which doles out $50,000 every year to organizations 
that are not on the budget cycle.
The rest of the senators don’t get to touch a single 
dollar. That doesn’t mean, however, we just sit around 
and do nothing. Senators are usually the ones behind a lot of the outreach that SG does, like the tabling dur-
ing the school year (independent of executive branch 
events), including the tabling during Preview. 
Any senator can also write a bill or resolution. 
Though bills are typically written by the allocations 
committee to give organizations not on the budget cycle 
money, they encompass any legislative change to our laws, known as codes, or our constitution. 
For example, when my party (Inspire 
Party) wanted to mandate live-streaming 
of Senate meetings, we wrote a type of bill 
called a “code revision” to make it happen. Resolutions are just statements of our Senate, representing the Student Body. Depending on 
the strategy behind them, they can either do 
nothing, or they can bring attention to a de-serving issue and hopefully lead to some tan-gible change.
Senators are also expected to work on the behalf of 
students. You could actually be represented by as many as 23 senators, based on where you live and your clas-siﬁ  cation. For example, I represent the 1,000 or so stu-dents in the Murphree Area and am also represented by 
six College of Liberal Arts and Sciences senators, too.
There has been a lot of bipartisan progress in reach-
ing out to our constituents. One senator established a 
Listserv this past semester for all the people that live in his district, a particular zip code, which has allowed 
for all the senators of that district to communicate with 
their constituents directly for the ﬁ  rst time. As a hous-ing-afﬁ  liated senator, I’ve used Listservs in the past to reach out to all the residents in my area as well, and 
that’s led to some initiatives for me to work on during 
my term. A couple of my columns will be dedicated to bringing to light these success stories, giving credit where credit is due.
I hope this trip into SG informs you greatly. There’s 
plenty more to come, which is great, because a column a week is quite a lot of words in a year.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science sophomore. 
His column focuses on Student Government. He’s a sena-
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the EditorFRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
I wish to thank the UF professors, staff, 
coaches and their staff members, stu-dents, alumni and fans for their support, friendship and the excellent education my grandson, Chris “Cheez” Chiozza, has 
received. He has grown into an exceptional young man due to all of you who have sup-ported him. I especially want to thank Coach Mike White and his staff for their dedication to his advancement in the sport he loves. My husband and I met so many wonderful 
fans over the last four years, many of whom became dear friends. In August of 2014, we 
looked forward to the day Chris would be an alumnus of UF. Now that hope is to be ful-ﬁ  lled in May 2018 at graduation, and we kind of wish it was a little further off. Thanks to 
all. - Mary “Grandma Bunny” and Granddad 
Frank Chiozza.
Mary “Bunny” Chiozza is the grandmother 
of UF men’s basketball player Chris Chiozza. Last week, the New York Times 
published a story about a study that had harrowing implications for black boys and cements the idea of white privilege and rac-
ism creating unfair disparities in our society. It seems, even if he is raised in a wealthy family, a black boy is trapped in poverty. Now it’s time to get beyond simple descriptions of in-equality and think of how we got here and what’s next. 
Reports about inequality existing are not new, 
but many people justify them by describing class 
as the real problem or stating differences between 
races are somehow inherent and deserved. The civil rights movement did not end all racism. The fact that inequality exists isn’t surprising — where and why is what’s most interesting. The Times' article confronts assumptions of racism like the idea that black people might have differ-ent cognitive abilities. It sheds new light on the importance of fathers in the neighborhood, not in 
the individual home. 
The scope of the study — made up almost 
entirely of Americans in their late 30s — is what 
makes it most damning. This shows you can’t just boil all inequality down to class: ultimately, a poor white boy still has more privilege than any black boy. White boys raised in a poor family have a chance of rising up the class ladder, but black boys are much more likely to stay poor in 
adulthood. It had surprising ﬁ  ndings about wom-
en: black women and white women raised in similar households do not have an income gap. 
We need more reporting and research that 
goes beyond what we already know, not only showing there are disparities, but how entrenched they are in our society. What we have currently is what some would call equality of opportunity: the opportunities exist, but certain communities 
just don’t go for them or aren’t smart enough to get them. As the theory goes, be-
cause schools are integrated, if black children aren’t doing well in school, it can’t be because they’re getting a sub-par education. This idea is wrong. This 
is not enough to achieve true equality. 
In an ideal world, I wouldn’t be able to predict the next Congress will be overwhelmingly white and male. I also shouldn’t be able to predict it’s harder for a black child to exceed — or even 
maintain — their parents’ socioeconomic status. Race is the main factor to explain these dispari-ties. 
Still, the study leaves much to be desired with 
other groups, like Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander Ameri-cans, whose perceived advantage was not inves-tigated. Instead, it bought into the cheapness of the model minority myth without thinking about the impact of past immigration policies. There are other structural factors to take into account when thinking about which Asian Paciﬁ  c Island-er American ethnicities do well and which don’t, 
and all are still impacted by structural racism. 
When former President Barack Obama was 
elected, I remember hearing statements like, 
“You can’t play the race card when a black man is president.” Still, it appears black men are hard-est hit by racism — with a black man raised by millionaires is just as likely to end up in jail as a white man growing up in a household mak-ing $36,000. Even though things may have im-
proved, this study reveals how far there is to go 
before there is true equity, when perhaps we won’t have to worry about the most qualiﬁ  ed person getting the job or whether one child is born with a higher chance of being incarcerated than another.  
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column focuses on race 
and culture.
One week after his 
in-depth interview touched on the issues of monetary and cor-porate inﬂ  uence on the 
music industry, Julian Casa-blancas’ new album leaked online. Casablancas’ band, The Voidz, is set to release their second album March 30. The album met the fate nearly all anticipated releases face these days: leaks.
The ﬁ  rst leaking victim was Bob Dylan 
in 1969, but the practice didn’t become 
widespread until the advent of the inter-
net in the mid-’90s. According to sites like Pitchfork, album leaks are just “an estab-lished part of the game.”
To me, the most fascinating part of a 
leak is reading the rationale fans conjure up to justify their listening.
“I can listen to a leak because I already 
pre-ordered the album and am seeing the 
band live this summer!” This rationale is 
among the most commonly used, but does it check out?
I read this as, “I spent more money on 
this artist than the average listener, thus I deserve to listen to the leak, and it is not wrong for me to do it because I am im-mune to any moral opposition.”
But how much money or investment is 
necessary to be able to listen to a leak with a clear conscience?
This thinking quickly becomes subject 
to arbitrary rules and a never-ending spi-ral of ever-changing rationales for each listener. It’s introducing subjective moral guidelines into something, in itself, techni-cally immoral. It’s saying, “because of my history and actions, I play by a different 
set of rules of morality than you,” which can become a very dangerous 
idea when translated into other, more serious, contexts.
And who prevents such a 
translation? Morality and eth-
ics are not subjective; there are 
objective truths of right and wrong, regardless of whether you like it. As for the leaking of the music itself, I'm not sure what the ethics of it are. Does it 
depend if you are the initial stealer/leaker? What about just the average listener? My concern is not with the individual’s ethical 
positioning in leaks but more so with the 
listener’s reasoning of it all.
Here’s my verdict: Don’t even try to 
rationalize your listening to a leak. Don’t try to put yourself above others just be-cause of your own arbitrary reasons. You are consuming the leak and standing on the same moral ground as everyone else who does so.
Look at objective actions. You and ev-
eryone else are listening to it. Who cares what each of your rationales were? Who cares about what your intent was? Focus on actions. Upon listening, did you copy the leak onto a CD and sell it? That’s a completely different path to take. Does lis-tening to it then spur you to purchase the album and support the band? Now that’s 
the opposite result, economically. 
The point is an individual could do 
anything with a leak, and these possibili-
ties vary in their own ethics, but listening to the leak is what it is.
Andrew Hall is a UF management 
senior. His column focuses on entertain-ment.
Letter to the Editor from Chris Chiozza's grandmother,"Grandma Bunny" A study ﬁ  nds black men in American 
still face pervasive systemic racismMusic leaks are now the norm, 
but justifying them can get messyColumn Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
school gym for cheer practice and se-
nior year eating lunch in the debate room with friends. 
“Douglas just kind of stands out 
to me now, looking back, just the fact that it’s a close-knit communi-ty,” she said. “It’s a special place.”
Learning about the shooting par-
alyzed her. Tiplea, who missed the initial calls from her dad and texts 
from Parkland friends while in the 
shower, could do nothing but cry. 
Message after message poured in, 
asking about her brother Luke. Ti-
plea didn’t know how to react. She 
called her dad, who was at work in another city and couldn’t get to the 
school. 
Tiplea and her parents texted her 
brother, who hid in a closet, listen-
ing to the gunfire but untouched by it. As he updated them on his loca-tion, she thought how lucky they 
were they could talk. The cell phone 
service was always bad in school.
Despite losing her friend Quinton 
Robbins in the Las Vegas shooting, 
Tiplea felt the Parkland shooting 
was more personal. Her brother was 
in the building. The shooter was ar-
rested outside of her neighborhood.
Still in Gainesville, Tiplea tried 
to sleep that night but couldn’t. She didn’t know who had lived or died. 
When people didn’t respond, she 
didn’t know if it was because they had dropped their phone running or if they were a victim.
She stayed up, texting her friends 
about their siblings, trying to piece together what had happened and 
who had been hurt. 
The next morning, Tiplea and 
a friend made the five hour drive home in silence, both trying to pro-
cess around what had happened.  
At home in Parkland, she stayed 
up until 1:30 a.m., talking and crying with her family in their living room as they held each other close. 
“Time just feels like it’s been al-
most standing still and flown by,” she said.
The names of those who died 
came out late Thursday night: Car-men Schentrup, the younger sister 
of a former classmate of Tiplea’s; 
Coach Aaron Feis, who greeted Ti-
plea and other students with a “good 
morning” each day as he opened the 
gates; Nicholas Dworet, who she 
remembered swimming in the lane next to her each practice at the Coral 
Springs Aquatic Complex. 
This year, Dworet was the swim-
ming team captain, posing for a pho-
to with her brother, a sophomore on 
the team.  
“Seeing his name really hurt,” 
she said. 
While she was home, her fam-
ily tried to maintain a sense of nor-
malcy. They went to Church by the 
Glades and her younger brother’s 
soccer game. It felt good to be out-
side, she said. She saw old friends of 
hers who also came back to Parkland to grieve. Though she was happy to 
be reunited, it was sobering to meet 
at the memorial for the 17 victims. 
Over Spring Break, when she 
came home again, the town still 
felt different. Everyone knows what 
happened. Even if they don’t directly 
talk about it, the mourning hangs 
thick in the air, ever-present. 
Tiplea didn’t go by Stoneman 
Douglas during Spring Break. It’s 
eerie seeing the lines of cars with 
hazard lights flashing, all the peo-ple around the memorials, seeing 
the well-wishes and cards tied to 
the chain-link fence next to regular 
school signs.
“It’s been a rough few months, I 
won’t lie,” she said. “I want to make 
sure no one ever has to feel the way 
I’m feeling.”It’s not that she wants to forget. 
Tiplea just wishes she could go a day 
without thinking about the Parkland shooting, thinking about the terror in familiar hallways.
Every time she opens Facebook, 
Twitter or Instagram, she sees her friends posting about Stoneman 
Douglas, the March For Our Lives 
and the Never Again movement. 
While Tiplea has immersed herself 
in it as part of the UF stands with MSD group, she wishes she could have her old daily routine back. 
“It’s just hard to kind of get back to your regular life when something 
like this happens in your commu-
nity,” she said.
She and other Stoneman Douglas 
alumni from her graduating class 
have organized a bus trip to Wash-
ington, D.C., a vigil on campus and T-shirt sales as part of the UF Stands 
with MSD group. The group raised 
about $18,000.
It helps her feel like she’s making 
progress.
About 12 hours before Tiplea and 
112 other UF students would board 
two buses and head to Washington, 
other leaders in the UF stands with MSD group passed out T-shirts and 
joked about how badly they needed 
to pack. 
Alyson Moriarty, a UF biology 
freshman who went to Monarch High School in Coconut Creek, handed out shirts between flipping 
through her red Smokin’ Notes Biol-
ogy 2 packet. She had an exam that 
night at 6:30 p.m., moved from Fri-
day so she could march. 
She’ll carry a white poster board 
with black text saying, “When is the 
last ‘I Love You,’” and a drawing 
of a text message saying “There’s a shooter. I love you.”
Until she started working to orga-
nize students, Moriarty felt like she wasn’t allowed to feel anything but 
pain. 
“I felt like I couldn’t really smile 
or anything,” she said.
But nearly a month later, Mori-
arty laughed with Jaimie Ivers and Brandon Taylor, two other leaders 
in the UF Stands with MSD group, 
about being unprepared for Wash-
ington’s cold weather and what 
snacks they’d packed. 
Ivers, a Stoneman Douglas alum-
na and Tiplea’s roommate, didn’t re-turn home to Parkland until Spring 
Break. Back in the town she’d lived in all her life, she couldn’t bring her-
self to go to the memorials at Stone-man Douglas or Pine Trails. It was too hard. 
Still, Parkland was eerie, and al-
though she didn’t go inside Douglas, 
in a small town like Parkland, where 
Douglas is the center of the city, 
passing it was unavoidable, she said. 
“The attitude, just the entire at-
mosphere is entirely different,” Iv-ers, a 20-year-old UF public relations 
sophomore, said. “It’s all anyone can 
talk about.”
In the few days after the shooting, 
Ivers kept crying. Seeing the high 
school students who spearheaded 
the March For Our Lives — students who she’d had drama classes with 
— inspired her to take action.
“I needed to get over myself and 
get my s--- together and help every-one,” she said. 
As others passed out T-shirts, 
Tiplea rushed back and forth from her apartment to the post office, 
shipping out shirt orders that came 
in from New York, Los Angeles, Chi-
cago and all across Florida.
On Saturday, in the nation’s capi-
tal, she’ll march alongside other UF 
students and Douglas alumni, one 
of the anticipated hundreds of thou-sands of attendees.
She doesn’t have a sign for the 
march yet. By Thursday night, she still hadn’t packed. But, still, she 
feels ready.
Tiplea doesn’t know what future 
will come after the march but thinks there will be change. 
She knows her friends, family 
and hometown will never forget. But 
she feels things slowly becoming 
okay again, as OK as things can be 
after tragedy. 
“Relief will just come with time, 
and I’m going to give it that time,” she said. 
rellenbogen@alligator.org 
@romyellenbogen
Romy Ellenbogen / Alligator
Seventeen angel statues face outward at the memorial at Pine Trails Park in Parkland, Florida. The 
statues were put up for the vigil on Feb. 15, the day after the shooting. 
Romy Ellenbogen / Alligator
A young boy lays down a flower at the victim’s memorials outside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on March 3.
More than 100 UF students will march in Washington D.C. on Saturday
FEATURE,  from pg 1
•   •   •By Robert Lewis                   
and Elliott Nasby 
Alligator Staff Writers
On Saturday, Gainesville resi-
dents will join a worldwide move-
ment for gun reform. 
As part of March For Our 
Lives, the local movement is one of 832 currently planned across multiple countries. UF mathemat-
ics and microbiology and cell 
science freshman Heather Yu de-
cided to organize the Gainesville 
march after noticing others pop-ping up in big cities. Yu expects about 1,000 to attend, including 
an 11-year-old whose mom con-
tacted Yu through Facebook.
Yu said she created a Facebook 
page at 2 a.m. on Feb. 18 and contacted as many student orga-
nizations, local high schools and 
UF students as she could.  
“I just hoped that it would 
catch on,” the 18-year-old said. 
“Since I’m a freshman, my sphere 
of inﬂ  uence is very limited.”
Mayor Lauren Poe, District 3 
City Commissioner David Arreola and several Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School alumni will speak at Bo Diddley Community Plaza at 111 E. University Ave., Yu said.
Gainesville Police Department 
will be monitoring the march to keep participants safe, GPD spokesperson Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-
bias said. As of press time, GPD 
will not close any streets for the march, but that could change de-pending on the number of protes-tors, Tobias said. He’s expecting 
about 300. 
He said the department will 
have undercover police ofﬁ  cers 
and may call in ofﬁ  cers scheduled 
to be off duty if they feel there is 
the need.
“Our ﬁ  rst priority is keeping 
everyone safe and giving them the ability to express their First 
Amendment rights,” Tobias said.
@Lewis__Robert   
rlewis@alligator.org
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/31/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
Gainesville residents, oﬃ   cials prepare for March For Our Lives
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Brandon T aylor, a 20-year-old computer science sophomore, shows signs 
created for the March For Our Lives event in Washington D.C. on Saturday.Caitlin Ostroff/Alligator Staff
More than 800 marches for Saturday have been organized worldwide. This graphic shows the locations of the U.S. marches.T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff 
A group of students sells “UF stands with MSD” T-shirts on Turlington Plaza to fundraise for their 14-hour trip to Washington D.C. for the national “March for Our Lives” event.
10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
By Vivian Nguyen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Edward Hiraldo was anxious about how 
his “nappy” hair would be received by a 
crowd of about 100 students Tuesday night. 
Growing up with Dominican and Puerto 
Rican roots, it would be the talk of the night if his afro-hair was too puffy or poorly styled. 
His hair stood out as his mark of also being 
black — a quality Hispanics may see as bad. 
“I am, truly, in every sense of the word, a 
minority, and I see it in my face every day,” the 21-year-old UF advertising senior said.
Hiraldo was one of ﬁ  ve students who 
spoke about being Latino with African de-scent at UF’s ﬁ  rst Afro-Latinx panel titled “I Am Enough: Afro-Latinx Panel.” The event was held Tuesday night in Pugh Hall Ocora, said Diego Castillo, the 25-year-old vice presi-dent of the Latino Hispanic Organization of Graduate Students. 
A crowd of about 100 students and faculty 
gathered to hear the discussions on identity, representation, navigating higher education as an underrepresented group, racism and colorism within and outside the Latinx com-munity. 
“The Afro-Latino community has a unique 
experience where, although they may identify as both black and Latino, they may not be ac-cepted by either for various reasons,” Castillo said. 
Two UF professors were also a part of the 
panel: Tanya Saunders from the Center for Latin American Studies and Bryce Henson from the African American Studies program. 
The panel was hosted by the Latino His-panic Organization of Graduate Students, Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, She’s the First 
UF, Hispanic Student Association at UF, UF 
Center for Latin American Studies, the UF African American Studies program and UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs, Castillo said.
The event cost about $300 to cover food 
and parking reservations, the UF information systems and operations management gradu-ate student said. It was funded by Student Government and the co-sponsors. 
“It is important to open the door for dia-
logue and conversation, especially in this day and age where everything and everyone at-tacks each other instead of listening to each other,” Castillo said. 
Shania Stephens, one of the other student 
panelists, said in high school she was told she was too pretty to be black and was asked if she was mixed. People didn’t understand that 
she could be both black and Latinx. Both of 
her parents are black and from San Andrés Isla, Colombia, where she was born. 
She said Latinx people don’t always look 
like what’s portrayed in the media. They come in different shades and sizes. 
“I am proud, I am here, and I exist,” the 
21-year-old UF biology senior said. 
Any Hughes, who graduated from UF 
in 2014 with a bachelor’s degree in applied physiology and kinesiology, said she attend-ed the panel because she is Afro-Latina and wanted to see how the audience would react.
“I learned that there are a lot of people 
that identify and have gone through the same experiences that I have gone through,” the 26-year-old said.About 100 people attend 
UF’s ﬁ  rst Afro-Latinx panel
RANKING ROUNDUP
College of Nursing
UF’s College of Nursing has increased in U.S. 
News & World Report’s 2019 Best Graduate School 
Rankings released Monday. 
UF jumped from No. 44 to No. 28 in the Doctor of 
Nursing Practice section — the highest rated out of all Florida universities. Anna M. McDaniel, Dean of the College of Nursing, wrote in a statement the college 
is proud to have the program move up in the ranks. 
“We pride ourselves on educating the best and 
brightest advanced practice Gator nurses, who trans-
late theory and research to innovation and evidence-based clinical settings as we continually strive to im-
prove patient outcomes,” McDaniel said. College of Education
The UF College of Education’s graduate program 
jumped ﬁ  ve spots in U.S. News & World Report’s 2019 
ranking released Monday. 
The college’s graduate school comes in at No. 24 for 
best education schools, up from No. 29 last year. Thomas 
Dana, the associate dean of academic affairs for the Col-
lege of Education, said the jump can be attributed to in-creased funding for research. 
“I’m thrilled the College of Education is getting rec-
ognition for our excellence across the nation and being ranked so highly,” Dana said. “Our research has im-proved, and the rankings are showing it.”
The College of Education’s Special Education program 
has been one of the top-10 education programs. It was 
ranked No. 5 last year and still remains at that rank. 
David Peyton, a UF student in the Special Education 
Doctorate program, said the increase in rank is great for 
the school because it will catch the attention of future students and possibly bring more grant money. “They deﬁ  nitely earned the ranking,” he said.Warrington College of Business
UF’s Warrington College of Business’ full-time MBA 
program has increased by six spots in U.S. News & World Report’s 2019 Best Graduate Schools Rankings.
The program increased from No. 40 to No. 34 in the 
Best Business Schools category, which focuses on the col-
lege’s full-time MBA program. It remains as the highest-
ranked business program in Florida. John Kraft, dean of the Warrington College of Business, said the college is con-tinuing its efforts to provide scholarships to get the best students and increase in rank for next year.
The UF full-time MBA program has also increased in 
the rankings from No. 19 to No. 14 among public schools.
John Gresley, Assistant Dean and Director of the UF 
MBA Program in the Warrington College of Business, said 
the program wants to invest time into career services. He 
also hopes to ﬁ  nd quality students and top faculty.
“We believe we will be able to improve in everything 
and move forward,” he said.
By Alex Camargo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alan Alvarez/Alligator Staff
THERAPEUTIC ART
Megan Flynn, 19, is a UF biology freshman who painted on a canvas during Therapeutic 
Thursday on Plaza of the Americas. Hosted by the Counseling and Wellness Center, the event celebrated mental health awareness for UFisAware Week 2018. The U.S. News & World Report released its 2019 Best Graduate School Rankings on Monday.  The report calculated the 2019 Best Graduate Schools Rankings on 
two sets of data: expert opinions about the programs and statistics that measure the school’s faculty, research and students, according to U.S. News & World Report.    
The data gathered for the rankings is from statistical surveys of more than 2,012 programs. The reputation surveys are sent to more than 20,500 academics and 
professionals, according to U.S. News & World Report. These surveys were conducted in late 2017 and early 2018.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber anydimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     3-23-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. 
See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-8370
4-6-18-12-2
Several cute & clean houses & apts.for August in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. From $525/mo.Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     3-26-17-5-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
Apply in Person
Cooks, Management, Waitresses
3-23-17-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Archaeologists Needed!
Work in Gainesville area.
Applicant must be in good physical condition.
Anthropology majors preferred.
Full or Part-time (full days).
Contact Wes (713-822-3637).               
3-30-18-4-14
NEEDED:  3.5 HOURS, 1X PER WEEK
TYPE, FILE, OFFICE WORK under my di-
rection at home on Archer Rd. Informal. Must be very good w/Win 10 on my laptop. English composition. I have references. $50/session, paid daily. 352-575-4508         3-28-18-3-14HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 159404 or 160560 at www.gatordining.com     3-23-18-6-14
Psyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14
STEAM Play-Based Day Camp
HIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Flintstones
Vitamins option
5 Chicago Eight
defendant
10 B.C. law
enforcers
14 Big name in
denim
15 Dental
restoration
16 Cause of some
bad apples?
17 Has to pay
18 Part of a script
19 Cyber
phenomenon
20 Turned tail22 Like some
underbellies
23 Memphis-to-
Atlanta dir.
24 Big fuss
25 With “the,” what a
boxer doesn’t
want to hit?
26 Pulse28 High points
31 Latin I word
32 Prepared, as
eggs for eggs
Benedict
34 Votin’ nay
35 Emulate Moses
... and what fourblack squares doin this puzzle
38 Like a breeze?39 August birthstone40 “How you doin’?”41 Lost patience42 “The Beauty
Myth” authorWolf
46 Chip off the old
block?
48 Annoyed
exclamation
50 Greek god of the
wild
51 Needed an
eraser
52 Herbs and spices
55 Bill __ Climate
Lab: formerexhibit atOakland’sChabot Space &Science Center
56 Awaits decision57 Brief refusal to
“Are youhungry?”
58 Nineteenth
Amendmentcampaigner59 Rolex rival
60 Gillette offering61 Book of Mormon
prophet
62 Ready to drop63 Burn a little
DOWN
1 Daisy component
2 Clean some more
3 Plane, for one
4 Ph.D. hurdle
5 “I feel your pain”
6 Went too far7 Protected, in a
way
8 Succeed in
getting
9 Word with private
or public
10 Collegian’s diet
staple
11 Rift12 “Money, Money,
Money” musical
13 Exploits21 Henry __ Lodge:
WWI senator
22 Swedish carrier
25 Surrendered
27 Nashville
highlight
29 “SNL” alumna
Oteri
30 Scout’s honor?33 How some bonds
are purchased
34 Movie role for
Skippy
35 Speaker after
John Boehner
36 Shoot for
37 Air Force pilot
who became a
pop star
38 True nature
41 “__ give you the
shirt off his back”43 Morphine, e.g.44 It’s repeated a lot
45 Ready to go
47 Kevlar products
49 Mideast ruling
family name
52 Rest area
heavyweight
53 Cabinet dept.54 Long and
Vardalos
56 Winner’s
gathering
By Samuel A. Donaldson 
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/23/1803/23/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, March 23, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Fall face first
while skiing, say
6 Mighty silly
11 Part of ROM:
Abbr.
14 Longest-serving
prime minister of
India
15 Austrian actress
Berger
16 Kanye West’s 
“I __ God”
17 Soda fountain
come-on?
19 Monarch catcher20 Brooklyn
Dodgers legend
Campanella
21 In questionable
taste
22 All excited24 Radiant glow25 Italian cheese26 Earthquake
coverage?
31 Aids in illegal
activity
32 Roberts of “That
’70s Show”
33 Comic Martha34 One-named
singer with 15Grammys
36 Neeson of “Love
Actually”
40 Continue gabbing42 Ship’s seepage
43 List in a quiz
program recap?
47 Latin ballroom
dances
48 Berlin octet
49 One of a Dumas
trio
50 Civil rights leader
Chavez
52 __-tip steak55 Barnyard sound56 Lower hulls
fortified?
59 Directional suffix60 Missouri tribe61 Not-giving-up
phrase
62 Completed
63 Fishing boot
64 Taboos, and a
hint to the fourlongest puzzle
answers
DOWN
1 Career for a sci.
major
2 Flight-related
prefix3 Unspecified folks
4 Sportswriter
Berkow
5 Clucks of
disapproval
6 __ School: art
movementfeaturing NYC
scenes
7 Top out8 Very dark9 Abbr. in some
Québecaddresses
10 Contributes11 Oscar-nominated
“Flashdance”song
12 Arise13 San __, California
18 Asian dress
23 Contender for the
crown
24 Steve Rogers, for
Captain America
25 Composer of the
opera “Alfred”
26 At a distance
27 Chicago-based
law org.
28 Illegal fwy.
maneuver
29 Court worker
30 Co. that merged
with Continental34 Queen’s subjects
35 “And how!”
37 Sort
38 Sit in a cellar,
maybe
39 Club __41 Base
entertainment
42 Persian Gulf
monarchy
43 Persian Gulf
native
44 Release45 Egyptian leader
for whom a lake
is named
46 Union foe
47 Gained control of
50 Dressed
51 Advantage
52 1982 sci-fi film
53 Defaulter’s risk
54 Time to beware57 Spanish 
she-bear
58 Frat letter
By Robert and Marlea Ellis©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/22/1803/22/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, March 22, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Earth, for example
1.  Lifting device5.  ____ bus
2.  ____ house6.  Encourage
3.  Lunar ____7.  Contaminate
4.  Type of rental LTEPNA
EYPLULCLLOA
PLIME
OIUCNAT
ESCELIPFCTINE
BTSULEANSWERS: 1A-Planet  5A-Local  6A-Impel  7A-Infect
1D-Pulley  2D-Auction  3D-Eclipse  4D-Sublet  B-Stanley Cup3-23-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The first ____ ____ was awarded in 1893.
BONUS
15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesAlfredo Perez and the Florida 
men's tennis team is taking on Ole Miss today at 5 p.m. at the Ring T ennis Complex in Gainesville.Elite Eight Entrants
Four men's college basketball teams advanced to the Elite Eight of the 
NCAA T ournament on Wednesday night. Michigan defeated T exas A&M 99-72, Kansas State upset Kentucky 61-58, Florida State shocked Gon-zaga 75-60 and Loyola Chicago squeaked by Nevada 69-68.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Amelia Hundley is excited for a fresh start 
heading into postseason action. After com-peting in 10 regular season meets over the past three months, the sophomore isn’t anx-ious heading into the SEC Championships on Saturday. She’s ready.
“These last two weeks, the team has 
been busting their butts off,” Hundley said. “We’ve been working really hard to be pre-
pared for this moment.”
In its last meet on March 9, Florida 
wrapped up regular-season action with a 
197.925-196.700 win over Nebraska. UF is ranked No. 5 in the nation and enters the 
Chaifetz Arena in St. Louis as the No. 2 seed 
in the SEC, trailing only LSU. Florida has ﬁ  n-
ished third or better in the SEC Champion-ships every year since 2006.
The team is hoping to make up for a sec-
ond-place ﬁ  nish in last year’s meet — losing 
to LSU by 0.250 — but is heading into Sat-
urday’s competition with a humble mindset.
“We don’t really go in saying we should 
win this,” Hundley said. “But obviously I 
think that’s the end goal for everyone.”
The Gators (8-2, 5-2 SEC) will have to ad-
just to one facet of the competition, howev-
er. The SEC Championships take place on an elevated podium, something Florida doesn’t compete on in the regular season.
However, coach Jenny Rowland doesn't 
think it will be a problem.
“The majority of these athletes have actu-
ally competed on podium most of their entire life,” she said. “So they actually thrive and Florida gymnastics team ready for SEC Championships 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida's gymnastics team is set to compete against seven conference opponents in the SEC Championships on Saturday. "The team has been busting their butts off, " sophomore Amelia Hundley said. "We've been working really hard to prepare for this moment. "
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16
FOOTBALL
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
Armored in their bulky pads, Florida’s 
football players ran sideline to sideline at the Sanders Practice Field on Tuesday after-noon. One of the bodies charging across the grass wasn’t wearing a helmet, however.
Instead, he was wearing a visor — his 
staple.
Coach Dan Mullen  joined his team in the 
sprints after several of his players were late to class earlier in the week, which resulted in the entire roster running as punishment.
“I don’t control that,” Mullen said. “If 
they don’t want to run gassers, then show up on time for class.”
Obviously, Mullen wasn’t late for class. 
And neither were the majority of his play-ers. But accountability has been a major fo-cus as Mullen and UF's entirely new coach-ing staff have begun to install their system. They want to ensure the standard of Florida football is upheld, a task that requires the commitment of every player and coach.
“I’m part of the team,” Mullen said. “If 
we make mistakes, we’re all going to pay the price.”
Mullen expects each player on the roster 
to understand their role. If they fail to fulﬁ  ll  Mullen, coaching staﬀ   preaching 
accountability in early practices
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16Through the month of March, 
the excitement of high-level bas-
ketball consumes everyone.
Little boys and girls across the 
nation wake up with one thing on 
their minds — ball.
Husbands and wives forget 
about their deteriorating marriag-
es and bunch up on their couches to focus on something more im-portant than work and in-laws — ball.
Drunken uncles do pretty much the same 
thing they always do, which is get drunk, but 
they do it while watching one thing — ball.
But there is an issue here. While college 
basketball is a lot of fun because every team is 
playing for its NCAA Tournament life, another league is playing its most important games of the season as well. I’m talking about the NBA.
People love chirping blasphemous state-ments about the league, saying ignorant things like ‘the season doesn’t even start until the play-offs’ and ‘the NBA is all offense and no defense until April.’
The ﬁ  rst statement is far from 
the truth. The second statement… is kind of true, but still, chill.
Ten teams from both the East-
ern and Western conferences are still ﬁ  ghting hard to make it to the 2018 NBA Playoffs.
And if you’ve been watching the league as 
closely as I have (sitting in your underwear at 1 
a.m. checking the box scores for the late-night 
Brooklyn Nets-Sacramento Kings matchup), then you’ve noticed the uptick in close games.
From the beginning of the month until 
Wednesday, there were already 62 games de-In midst of March Madness, don't forget the NBA$ky Dolla $ign / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebron
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
SWIMMING
WOMEN’S TENNISBASEBALLBy Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Senior Caeleb Dressel con-
firmed what many Florida fans 
already suspected on Wednes-
day night.
On Day 2 of the NCAA Men’s 
Swimming and Diving Champi-
onships in Minneapolis, Dressel 
proved he’s one of the fastest swimmers in the world.
The All-American recorded 
a time of 17.63 in the finals of 
the 50-yard free, shattering the 
record of 18.11 he’d set earlier in the day during the prelims.
In the process, Dressel be-
came the first man in NCAA his-tory to win a national title in the 50 free four times.
“He’s really good any time he 
swims (the 50 free), he gets a 
better feel for it and corrects the 
things he needs to correct,” UF coach Gregg Troy said in a re-lease. “This one was pretty darn 
good.”
Dressel also broke Ryan 
Lochte’s previously held pro-
gram record of seven individual NCAA championships.He — along with teammates 
Jan Switkowski, Enzo Martinez-Scarpe and Mark Szaranek — 
won the 200 free relay with a 
time of 1:14.39. Dressel now has eight individual national titles (four in the 50 free, two in the 100 free, one in the 100 fly and 
one in the 200 free relay).
For UF’s other participants, 
Switkowski took home his first 
individual NCAA championship 
with a time of 1:39.54 in the 200 
IM.
Szaranek also won the 
bronze in that event with a time of 1:40.27.
Florida closed out the day 
on a high note when  its 400 medley relay team received All-American honors following a 
fifth-place finish in the event. 
Dressel, Switkowski, Bayley Main and Maxime Rooney were part of that squad. They set a school record time of 3:03.16.
Florida will be back in action 
today at 11 a.m. for Day 3 of the meet.
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
Senior Josie Kuhlman and freshman Mc-
Cartney Kessler watched closely as the ball 
was hit back to them from Alabama’s side of the court.
It initially looked like it was going to land on 
the baseline, but as the ball approached closer, it sailed harmlessly out of bounds.The duo of Kuhlman and Kessler clinched 
the doubles point in the Gators’ 4-0 victory over the Crimson Tide at the Alabama Tennis Stadium on Thursday night. The win marked Florida’s fourth shutout in its last six matches and also increased UF’s all-time record against Alabama to 42-1.
The doubles point went smoothly for UF 
(11-5, 6-1 SEC), as the pair of senior Anna Danilina and freshman Victoria Emma defeat-ed the Crimson Tide’s Alba Cortina-Pou and Ann Selim 6-1. Kuhlman and Kessler soon fol-lowed, beating Alabama’s Andie Daniell and Kylie Moulin by the same score. The Gators have won five of their last six doubles points.
Up 1-0, Florida continued its strong play 
into singles action, running through the Crim-son Tide (13-9, 0-6 SEC) mostly unchallenged. Danilina readily handled her opponent, Dani-ell, in a 6-2, 6-1 win. Kessler then defeated Se-lim 6-2, 6-0. Finally, with the score set at 3-0, Kubicz delivered the clincher for UF, winning 6-1, 6-4 and completing the Gators’ 4-0 shut-out.
Florida will now square off with No. 15 Au-
burn on Saturday at 1 p.m to complete a four-match road trip.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgBy Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
If Deacon Liput had any doubts 
hanging over his head coming into 
Wednesday night’s game against 
Jacksonville, he let them all blow away with the gusty winds at McK-ethan Stadium.
The shortstop entered the 
matchup hitting a paltry .161 since his reinstatement to the lineup from a 14-game suspension to be-
gin the season. Though he’d come 
through with a game-winning RBI 
against South Carolina on Sunday, 
it was apparent that he was not the same player who’d hit .270 during 
his freshman campaign.
“Obviously, I didn’t get off to the 
best of starts since I came back,” 
Liput said on March 10. “Baseball is a tough game as is, so the second you defeat yourself mentally, then you’re already defeated going into the (batter’s) box.”
Liput looked 
mentally ready on Wednesday though. The ju-
nior from Ovie-
do, Florida, re-corded a hit off 
of every pitcher 
he faced en 
route to a 4-for-4 night from the 
plate. His surge in efficiency comes after being moved up in the batting order from seventh to fifth, a move 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
was a vote of confidence for Liput.
“You can see how I feel about 
(him) offensively,” O’Sullivan said in a release. “I put him right in the 
five hole because he was seeing the ball pretty good. He just had 
not had a lot to show for it.”
Though the team has been mum 
on the exact details of his suspen-
sion earlier this season — simply 
citing off-the-field issues — Liput said he is ready to take the lessons he learned from it and move for-
ward with them.
“Your actions off the field, they 
weigh on more than just yourself,” 
he said. “It has an impact on ev-
erybody outside of that, including 
teammates, coaches, university, family and everything.”
Liput’s bat resurrecting from 
the dead like Frankenstein’s mon-
ster comes just in time for the No. 2 
Gators’ (19-4, 2-1 SEC) three-game series against No. 4 Arkansas start-ing today at 6:30 p.m.
The Razorbacks (16-4, 5-0 
SEC) will send junior right-hander Blaine Knight (3-0, 1.30 ERA) to the mound to counter Florida’s Brady Singer to kick off the series. Knight is coming off his worst start 
of the season last week against No. 
6 Kentucky, where he allowed two runs on six hits through 4.2 innings of work.
However, last week’s “worst 
start” moniker is very much a nit-pick when it comes to Knight. 
Through his 23 innings of work 
prior to his Kentucky start, he had given up just two runs on 15 hits while striking out 21 batters. 
On the other side of the ball, the 
Razorbacks are no slouches. Seven 
of the team’s nine starting batters 
are hitting above .300 for the year. The offense is led by senior left fielder Luke Bonfield and freshman infielder Casey Martin. Bonfield’s 
.524 on-base percentage is good for fourth in the SEC, while Martin is 
eighth in the conference in home runs (7). 
They’ll try to slow down Singer 
(5-0, 1.97 ERA), who has only sur-rendered one run on four hits while striking out 15 batters through his previous two outings. 
With Liput getting back into 
the swing of things at the plate, he could be poised to lead a resurgent Gators offense that launched three 
homers Wednesday night. For now 
though, Liput said he’s just happy to be a part of the team again.
“I’ve really grown as a person,” 
he said. “I was just focusing on 
being the best teammate I could 
throughout my suspension.” 
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgDressel shatters record in 50-yard free on Day 2 of NCAAs
Florida breezes by ‘Bama for fourth shutout this monthLiput finding his swing ahead of series with ArkansasThe Associated Press
Florida senior Caeleb Dressel recorded a time of 17.63 in the finals of the 50 yard free at the NCAA 
Championsips on Wednesday, breaking his own record of 18.11 set earlier in the afternoon.
Liput
SEC Gymnastics
Championships16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 2018
enjoy it.”
Both of Florida’s losses this sea-
son came against SEC opponents. 
The ﬁ  rst was in the team’s home opener against LSU on Jan. 12, when UF fell to the Tigers by 0.125. The Gators also came up short against Missouri on March 2, just a week after 11-time All-American Kennedy Baker tore her right Achil-les tendon to end her collegiate ca-reer.
As the weekend creeps closer, UF is looking forward to the SEC Championships as a chance for a clean slate. 
“The coaches always told us 
it’s an even playing ﬁ  eld once you hit the postseason,” Hundley said. “It’s like a brand new start.”
Florida will begin its rotation 
with LSU, Kentucky and Alabama on the uneven bars at 7 p.m.
“It’s another competition, an-
other step in the process,” Row-land said. “Gators are ready.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14The Gators' rotation begins at 7 p.m.
Who: Alabama, Arkansas, Auburn, 
Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, LSU, 
Missouri
Where: Chaifetz Arena in St. Louis
When: Saturday starting at 3 p.m.
TV: ESPN2it on or off the ﬁ  eld, the team will suffer.
After only three practices — includ-
ing just one in pads — the Gators are 
still covering the basics.
“We just got to get fundamentals 
down,” said John Hevesy, UF’s co-offensive coordinator and offensive line coach. “Fundamentals are founda-tions.”
Considering Florida ﬁ  nished last sea-
son as one of the three most penalized teams in the SEC, mastering the funda-mentals seems like an appropriate ﬁ  rst step.
Hevesy attributes penalties, speciﬁ  -
cally false starts, to insufﬁ  cient focus and a lack of discipline. His goal is to establish strong habits early so that by August, technically-sound football will 
be second nature.
As part of their crusade to funda-
mental excellence, the coaches have at-
tacked every mistake made in prac    tice.
On Tuesday, running back Adarius 
Lemons failed to complete an agility drill on consecutive attempts. Assistant 
coach Greg Knox immediately barked at Lemons and instructed him to perform 
a series of “up-downs,” which — as the 
name suggests — required Lemons to repeatedly jump up to a standing po-sition after dropping face-down to the ground.  
At the same practice, after every 
player completed the gassers and most had returned to the locker room, Heve-sy held behind a handful of players to perform what he called a “three-legged dog.” These players crawled up and down the ﬁ  eld on two hands and one foot to wrap up their over-three-hour-long practice.
With its detail-oriented approach, 
the coaching staff understands the ﬁ  n-ished product lies far ahead. Even be-fore the team's spring game on April 14, the Gators have plenty of work to do.
“Rome wasn’t built in a day,” Heve-
sy said. “We got a w       ays to go.”
 
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 16Florida football team focused on reducing penalties in 2018
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Dan Mullen is holding his team accountable this spring, forcing the entire roster to run sprints if a player is late to class. "If they don't want to run gassers, then show up on time, " he said. 
cided by seven points or fewer.
Competition has been high in 
quality as well. Look no further 
than Monday night’s game between the Miami Heat and the Denver 
Nuggets. Both teams are in the 
thick of the playoff race but haven’t 
solidiﬁ  ed their spots in the 16-team 
tournament yet.
What do two organizations 
ﬁ  ghting to stay relevant in the post-
season picture in mid-March create? Why, only one of the highest scor-ing games in NBA history.
In the 149-141 double-overtime 
victory for Miami, eight players scored over 20 points, and the teams combined for a ridiculous 38 three-pointers.
I’m not saying March Madness 
isn’t exhilarating or any less impor-
tant than the way people are treat-
ing it.
But the No. 3 through No. 8 
seeds in the Eastern Conference are separated by only ﬁ  ve games in the standings, while the No. 3 through No. 10 seeds in the Western Confer-ence are apart by six games.
Those are some exciting, tight 
playoff races.
Basketball is love. Let that love 
extend past March Madness.
Skyler Lebron is a columnist. 
Contact him at slebron@alliga-
tor.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 14