We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
SG parties announce candidates for election
Two parties announced andidates. A new party announces to-
day, pg. 3.
City announces cost of Richard Spencer at UF
The city announced it won’t charge UF, pg. 5GATORS CRUSHED BY BULLDOGS
The Florida women’s basketball team fell to No. 2 Mississippi State 90-53 on Thursday night, pg. 14.By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
When the knock on her door 
came, Avnee Mistry was pre-
pared.
Two of the girls from Mistry’s 
Beaty Towers hall, where she was a resident assistant, stood outside under the ﬂ  uorescent lights, hop-
ing someone was on the other 
side of the door.
There was an incident, one 
of the girls explained, in shock. Without words, Mistry knew 
something bad had happened. 
The second girl was quiet, let-
ting her friend speak for her. She 
had been crying. 
They wanted to talk, so they 
chose their RA, someone they felt close to. Going to the police felt scary for the freshmen, and they didn’t know what else to do.
“You don’t want to assume the 
worst, but it’s always in the back of your mind as a worry,” Mistry, 21, said. 
But before they could speak, 
Mistry had to disclose the limits of her conﬁ  dentiality. Their next words would have to be reported, Mistry explained. 
“I can promise you privacy, 
but I can’t promise you conﬁ  den-tiality,” she said. 
As an employee of UF, she 
had a legal obligation to report to UF’s Title IX ofﬁ  ce, the ofﬁ  ce that manages sexual harassment and 
sexual assault investigations.
When students tell their pro-
fessors, club advisers, resident 
assistants or more about a sexual assault that happened to them, 
that information must be passed 
forward. Only three resources on campus, the Ofﬁ  ce of Victim Ser-vices, the Counseling & Wellness 
Center and the UF Student Health 
Care Center, offer complete conﬁ  -dentiality. 
Hailey Brown, a victim ad-
vocate with the Ofﬁ  ce of Victim 
Services, said students may not 
know what resources are conﬁ  -dential and which aren’t. If they seek a conﬁ  dential resource ﬁ  rst, 
they can learn all their options 
and choose the path that feels most comfortable. But if they conﬁ  de in another employee ﬁ  rst, they may be set down one path 
without realizing it.
“Once you tell someone that 
maybe isn’t conﬁ  dential, it kind 
of spirals out of your hands,” she said.
Russell Froman, the director 
of the Title IX ofﬁ  ce, said they 
always work with the student to 
make them as comfortable as they can be.
“I make sure they are aware VOLUME 112 ISSUE 50
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Christina Morales 
and Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writers
“White Chicks” and “Everybody Hates 
Chris” actor Terry Crews will be speaking at 
UF on Feb. 6. 
Crews will be Accent Speakers Bureau’s 
ﬁ  rst speaker this year, said Accent chair Shelby Buchanan. On Feb. 6 at 8 p.m., he’ll be speaking at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, located at 3201 Hull Road, for about an hour before opening up the ﬂ  oor for a 15-minute Q&A.  UF journalism department chair Ted Spiker will moderate the talk. Crews will be 
paid $40,000 for the en-
gagement, Buchanan said.
About 1,200 tickets will 
be available for the event, 
Buchanan said. Students with a valid Gator 1 Card can pick up a maximum of two free tickets from the 
bureau’s ofﬁ  ce on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union on Feb. 5 between noon and 5 p.m. This will be the ﬁ  rst show for which they’re bringing ticketing to students on campus. 
The public can pick up tickets at the Phil-
lips Center Box Ofﬁ  ce at noon on the day of the event. Crews will touch on topics including his 
football background, acting career and les-
sons he learned, Buchanan said.
“I think he’s just a really positive person, 
but he’s also really eloquent about issues 
that people face,” Buchanan said. “I’m re-ally excited to see how he’s maintained his positivity and sense of humor even when life kind of gets him down.”
Crews has been on Accent’s list of want-
ed speakers for a long time, she said. The organization also conducted a student poll over the summer that helped guide their speaker choice. 
“When we got the opportunity to bring 
him here, we jumped at the chance,” she said. 
Jordan Brown, a 19-year-old UF sustain-
ability and the built environment sopho-more, said she used to watch “Everybody Hates Chris” a lot as a child. Crews’ char-acter, Julius Rock, was always her favorite. The actor’s car dancing scene to “A Thou-sand Miles” by Vanessa Carlton in “White Chicks” was iconic. 
“Terry Crews is this big guy that you 
don’t expect to be as, like, funny and gentle and sort of loving,” she said. “He can’t be anybody but himself, even when he’s act-ing.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org 
 @paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
‘White Chicks’ star Terry Crews speaking at UF next month
Crews
‘Privacy, not conﬁ  dentiality’: reporting sexual assault at UF
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
He will be paid $40,000 to speak on Feb. 6There are only three places on campus where you can get 
conﬁ  dential help in reporting a sexual assault
Counseling & Wellness Center
3190 Radio RoadUF Student Health Care Center
280 Fletcher Drive
Source: Dean of Students Oﬃ   ce
Icon by Creative Stall of the Noun ProjectOﬃ   ce of Victim Services
1515 Museum Road
of the situation when we begin,” 
Froman said. “There’s no ‘got-chas,’ there’s no surprises.”
When the Title IX ofﬁ  ce gets 
word of an assault, they put to-gether a preliminary report out-lining who is involved and the in-cident’s details. A student doesn’t get to choose whether to have the initial report put together if the 
information is already with the 
ofﬁ  ce, but they can choose what next steps to take, Froman said. 
“I think people think they are going to be forced to move for-ward, which is not the case,” he said.
The Title IX ofﬁ  ce will work 
with the victim to help get them resources like academic accom-FEATURE FRIDAY
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 4•   •   •
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
HIGH  68° LOW  51°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
The UF Social Justice Summit: 
For the Gator Good
UF will host a Social Justice 
Summit with a focus of Allyship 
today and Saturday. Keynote speakers will include Dr. Zulema Valdez and Tim Wise. Breakout 
sessions, a UF panel and a com-
munity panel will round out 
the summit. “Voices from the 
March,” an original student-
written play about the Women’s March on Washington, D.C., will close the summit. This event is open to all with an in-
terest in social justice. For more 
information and to register, visit education.ufl.edu/socialjustice-summit.
Fulbright Lecture Series
As part of the Fulbright Lecture Series, Maya Stanfield-Mazzi will talk about indigenous tex-tiles in colonial Latin America 
at 1 p.m. Wednesday at the 
UF International Center in the Hub. Stanfield-Mazzi is a UF associate professor of art his-tory, specializing in art of co-
lonial Latin America. This first 
2018 Fulbright lecture, entitled “Indigenous Textiles in the Colonial Latin American Home: 
Luxury, Lineage and Leisure” is 
a free event and open to the pub-lic. Refreshments will be served.
Tango Classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? The UF Argentine Tango Club will hold free classes for all UF students. No dance experience is 
necessary. Join them from 6:15 
p.m. to 8:15 p.m. Sundays at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A.
Florida Museum to host 5K race 
Feb. 10Registration is now open for the "Watch Your Step!" 5K race 
Feb. 10 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 
a.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Late or race-day registration is $30, or $25 for UF 
students with a valid Gator 1 
Card. For more information, vis-it floridamuseum.ufl.edu/event/watch-your-step-5k or call 352-273-2055.
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-zation, is holding “Stomp the 
Swamp for Autism” to ben-
efit UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities (CARD) at 10 a.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Autism is a develop-mental disorder that affects one 
in every 68 children and their 
families. In the Gainesville and surrounding areas alone, over 3,500 families are affected by au-tism. CARD supports individuals 
with autism and their families 
through training and assistance. To learn more about autism and register for “Stomp the Swamp,” 
visit card.ufl.edu or check them 
out on Facebook. 
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ race
Registration is now open for 
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers’ “Five Points of Life Race Weekend” on Feb. 17 and 
Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. 
Gainesville’s largest running race begins on the UF Cultural Plaza. There will be free coffee and pastelitos from Mi Apá Latin 
Café from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. Feb. 
18. All proceeds go to the Five Points of Life Foundation, which educates and raises awareness 
for the five ways to share life 
with others through the dona-tion of blood, apheresis, mar-row, cord blood, organ and tis-sue.
Free Citizenship Classes 
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship classes 
from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. every 
Thursday until March 29 at the Millhopper Library Branch, lo-cated at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawom-
ensleague.org.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
A picture is worth a thousand 
words. Write yourself into the art museum.  Words on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing com-petition at the Harn Museum of 
Art for UF and Santa Fe College 
students inspired by art. The se-lection of artwork features a va-riety of media including Asian, 
photography and modern collec-
tions. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guide-lines at harn.ufl.edu/wordson-canvas. The deadline to apply is 
Feb. 25.  
Spring SG Elections Qualifying 
and SlatingSpring Student Government 
Elections are almost here. Qualifying and slating for candi-dates will be in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, Suites A and E, on the following days/times: 
from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. Sunday; 
from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday; and from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday. Spring SG Elections will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 
8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and Feb. 21 
at locations across campus. For more information, visit sg.ufl.edu/elections.
Let's Talk: Meaningful Dialogue 
in Difficult TimesThe Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere is hosting 
Libby Roderick, the associate di-
rector at the University of Alaska and associate editor of Difficult Dialogues National Resource 
Center, for a public lecture re-
garding difficult dialogues in the humanities at 2 p.m. Feb. 3. This free lecture will offer several strategies for effectively and re-
spectfully engaging with fellow 
citizens on the most important topics of our times. For more in-formation on the event, visit in-
tersections.humanities.ufl.edu/
index.php/upcoming_events/libby-roderick/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Correction: In a story published 
Jan. 16 titled "GPD: FGCU stu-
dent pulls out knife in a fight 
at midtown," The Alligator in-
correctly reported Jose Javier Navas Heredia was released to U.S. Immigrations and Customs 
Enforcement, as originally told 
to reporters by jail staff. The magistrate's report does not in-clude that information.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 50
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez de Sotomayor,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alain Harb,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
A former Student Government 
Pro Tempore who accused Impact 
Party of tokenizing minorities wants to be the next Student Body president.
In an announcement to the Al-
ligator on Thursday, Janae Mood-ie said she is running for Student Body president with a new party.
The party’s name, president  
and executive ticket will be an-nounced Friday afternoon. The party also intends to begin slating Sunday, said Wayne Selogy, the 
party’s campaign manager. 
“We encourage students of all 
backgrounds and any or no afﬁ  lia-
tions to slate with Janae Moodie’s party,” Selogy, a UF African Amer-ican studies senior, said. “We’re looking for driven students who want to make a difference.”
Selogy, 22, said the party is a 
grassroots movement. 
“There will be a clear distinc-
tion throughout this campaign of Janae’s ability to lead, her expe-rience in leadership and her abil-ity to bring issues that candidates have been very afraid to bring 
up in the past that are necessary 
to move our university forward,” Selogy said. 
Moodie, a UF psychology se-
nior, said she decided to form the party last week after the new party president wrote to her on Facebook. 
“It was actually because I had 
overwhelming support from peo-ple from both parties asking me to step up,” Moodie said. “The party president actually reached out to me and told me about a vision he had of serving students and that aligned with what I said in my speech. I felt like that was the an-swer I was looking for on how to 
serve the students best.”
Moodie said people are excited 
about the prospects of the party, 
and so she is. 
“Transparency is so important 
to me but also increasing diversity initiatives to make it more repre-sentative of the campus demo-graphic,” she said. Impact, Inspire and new party release executive tickets
Inspire Party
SG Senator Ben Lima announced Inspire Party’s 
executive ticket Tuesday afternoon by sending an 
email to The Alligator and through Facebook. 
The ticket includes Revel Lubin running for Stu-
dent Body president, Bijal Desai running for Student 
Body vice president and Alyssa Bethencourt running 
for Student Body treasurer. 
Lubin, a UF criminology and African American 
studies sophomore, will serve as the Student Body 
treasurer until April. Lubin disafﬁ  liated with Impact 
Party, the party he ran with last year to become trea-
surer, over a week ago and announced he would af-ﬁ  liate with Inspire.
Lima, 19, who also serves as the Inspire president, 
said they decided on the executive ticket this month. 
“We’re really happy that we’re able to get these 
three extremely passionate and qualiﬁ  ed individuals 
to run with Inspire Party,” Lima said. “We’re seeing 
the enthusiasm and positive reactions on social me-
dia.”
Lima, a UF political science sophomore, said he’s 
excited to have Lubin on board because of the experi-ences he gained from serving as treasurer. 
“Revel is someone who does what he thinks is 
right in his heart,” he said. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgImpact Party
Impact Party announced their executive ticket 
Tuesday morning on Facebook. 
The ticket includes Ian Green running for Student 
Body president, David Enriquez running for Student 
Body vice president and Stefan Sanguyo running for Student Body treasurer, Enriquez said. 
Enriquez denied to comment further.This will be the second year the Impact executive 
ticket will not have a female candidate.
Omarley Spence, Impact president, said even 
though there’s no female on the ticket, everyone in 
the party is excited for the candidates. 
“I really strongly believe you don’t have to be a fe-
male to advocate for female issues,” Spence, 20, said.
Impact will introduce the candidates Friday at 1 
p.m. on Plaza of the Americas. 
Spence, a UF economics junior, said they decided 
on these individuals because they’ve given back to UF 
in different ways. 
“We felt that each of them not only has experience 
serving the university, but also they can serve the uni-versity in the capacity as candidates that they’re run-ning for,” Spence said.
Spence said he’s fortunate to get to know the peo-
ple on this ticket.
“I’m very optimistic about us being able to do very 
well in this campaign going forward,” he said.4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
modations or rooming changes, 
he said. They’ll also conduct an investigation to send to the Stu-
dent Conduct Ofﬁ  ce if a victim 
chooses.
Tanja Philhower, the assistant 
dean of students, said there’s 
nothing new about people report-
ing their sexual assaults to people other than the police.
“Reporting to law enforcement 
feels really signiﬁ  cant and really 
overwhelming,” she said. 
Philhower, who used to be a 
victim advocate, said people may 
worry they would ruin the life of 
the person who assaulted them 
by reporting to police, especially if the person was a peer.
She also said people naturally 
seek out those they’re close with, 
like RAs and professors, thinking 
they’re conﬁ  dential.
“I think it is difﬁ  cult to pro-
vide that clarity for people about 
where there are conﬁ  dential re-
sources and where there are not,” she said. 
Philhower works with the U 
Matter, We Care team — but she 
said having a victim of sexual as-
sault email them directly isn’t the best option, because they then have to disclose the information, 
when the victim may not have 
known all their choices.
Sometimes, it’s not even the 
student who sends an email, but a friend or a parent. A report on the 
student will still have to be ﬁ  led 
— even if they didn’t know about the email. A well-meaning par-ent can put the student through 
a process they didn’t expect, Phil-
hower said. “It still can feel really outing 
and feel re-traumatizing when there’s a mandatory report that 
has to be made,” she said.
Brown said more people tend 
to seek action with UF rather 
than with law enforcement if they move forward, but there’s no one way someone processes sexual assault. Some seek the law. More 
seek disciplinary action. And 
some just don’t want to think about it.  
But they may not know all of 
the options, or the best option for them, if they don’t go to a group like Victim Services ﬁ  rst. 
In 2017, Brown’s ofﬁ  ce saw 67 
people come through to discuss 
sexual assaults in conﬁ  dence, 
60 of them students. From 2014 to 2017, nearly 200 people came to the ofﬁ  ce to discuss sexual as-
sault.
The ofﬁ  ce helps victims with 
anything they may need — they’ll 
sit with them in court rooms and hospital rooms, answer their late-
night calls and tell them whatever 
they need to know. 
“You can come here and ex-
plore all your options,” she said. 
The only thing Victim Services 
passes along are details of an on-campus assault, without names or identifying information, to Uni-versity Police through the Cam-pus Security Authority program. 
The Campus Security Authori-
ty program was created under the Clery Act, a federally mandated program that requires colleges to report on-campus crimes. 
Major Brad Barber from UPD 
said not all victims, especially with assault, come to the police. In 2016, only 10 reported sexual assaults to law enforcement
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
UF has about 1,400 Campus Security Authorities. They go through training and are mandated by the 
federal Clery Act to report incidents of sexual assault on campus. 
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Shown are the number of sexual assaults that occurred on campus and were reported, according to the federal Clery Act.
About 1,400 Trained CSAs are at UF each Year
= 100 Campus Security Authorities
Source: University Police   Icon by Kero of Noun Project
Some of UF’s 1,400 Campus Se-
curity Authorities — people like professors, housing staff, security 
guards and Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol drivers — pass along information about on-cam-pus crimes so the police have a 
better count.
Of reported on-campus sexu-
al assaults in 2016, only 10 of a 
total 23 individuals reported di-rectly to the police. Eleven were 
passed through Campus Security 
Authorities. In 2015, a year with 18 reported on-campus sexual as-saults, seven students reported to the police. 
Barber said Campus Security 
Authorities encourage victims to go to the police, but it’s a person-al decision.
“We have seen a slight in-
crease (in reporting to Campus Security Authorities) over the years, which I think is a direct result of our continuing efforts to 
assist those in need and provide 
alternatives to reporting to law enforcement,” Barber said.
Rita Lawrence, the Interper-
sonal Violence Coordinator at 
GatorWell, said she knows when 
someone is assaulted, they almost always turn to a friend ﬁ  rst.
“Criminal justice numbers are 
ever only going to catch a small portion of people reporting be-cause most survivors choose not to report to police,” she said. 
Lawrence encourages people 
to go to a conﬁ  dential ofﬁ  ce, like Victim Services, ﬁ  rst to learn their options. 
Gizem Toska, a licensed psy-
chologist with the Counseling & Wellness Center, said they have emergency walk-in appointments available to students from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. every day. They also 
screen students’ paperwork for 
references to sexual assault and would then call the student right away, she said.
They’ll never push a student to 
reveal more or do anything they don’t want, she said — a beneﬁ  t of being conﬁ  dential.
“An assault is a signiﬁ  cant 
boundary breach,” Toska said. “So as providers, we will be as sensitive as possible to not do fur-ther harm while trying to help.”
She said speaking out and 
leaving that conﬁ  dential space happens at a different pace for everyone.
“It’s okay if you’re not ready, 
and it’s okay if you are ready,” she said. 
Staff Writer Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
contributed to this report. 
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org•   •   •FEATURE,  from pg 1FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
THE VANDALS SPELLED 
GAINESVILLE WRONG.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student took part in spray-
painting grafﬁ  ti, which included the 
words “F--- Gainsvile (sic),” onto the wall of an Alachua County build-ing downtown early Wednesday, 
Gainesville Police said.
Marta Semeao Rebeiro, 19, was ar-
rested with Kaden Charles Rhoades, 
20, at about 1 a.m. for vandalizing the Alachua County Administration Building, according to an arrest re-port. A man witnessed the pair spray-painting on the building and told po-lice, according to the report.
Police found multiple markings on 
the southwest and southeast corners of the ofﬁ  ce, located at 12 SE First St., according to the report. They also found the empty spray can the witness said Rhoades dropped when he ﬁ  nished marking up the building, police said.
On the southwest corner of the 
building, the pair wrote an expletive 
and spelled Gainesville incorrectly 
in black spray paint on the red brick wall. “I am Inim” was written on an electrical box, and “No means no,” was written twice on the building’s southeast corner, according to the report.
When police arrested Rhoades, 
Rebeiro came up to them and said 
he had nothing to do with the graf-
ﬁ  ti, according to the report. She took responsibility for the spray-painting and took police to where she said she had marked the building. She did not point to the markings the witness saw Rhoades making, police said.
Police estimated the damages to 
be less than $1,000, according to the report. 
John Hines, a UF spokesperson, 
wrote in an email Rebeiro is a UF lin-guistics junior.
After their arrests, Rhoades re-
fused to answer questions and told police he was going to Colorado the next day. Rebeiro took responsibility for the grafﬁ  ti.
They were both charged with 
criminal mischief and taken to the Alachua County Jail where they were released on their own recognizance Wednesday afternoon. 
Neither could be reached for com-
ment.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
UF student told police she spray-painted a government building
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer 
The City Commission decided Thurs-
day it will not charge UF for the more than $224,000 in public security costs for the Richard Spencer event on cam-pus. 
A report, presented to the commis-
sion in a General Policy meeting Thurs-day, outlined both city and county costs incurred from the October event. The City of Gainesville spent $224,105 on overtime pay, meals, travel and supplies, according to the report. The commission decided not to ask UF for reimburse-ment, although they may send a letter to UF detailing the breakdown of costs, city spokesperson Chip Skinner said . 
UF has not disclosed its own expens-
es, although they were estimated to be more than $500,000, according to an earlier UF statement.
UF declined to comment on the city’s decision to foot the bill. 
Alachua County sent an itemized 
invoice for $302,184 more than two weeks ago for the cost of public safety resources provided for Spencer’s event on campus in October, according to Al-ligator archives. 
City Commissioner Helen Warren felt 
the costs the city paid were fair, and UF shouldn’t be punished for bad luck. 
“I think it was the luck of the draw 
that this individual chose to speak on campus property,” she said. “He could easily have come into the city’s limits.”
Warren believes providing services 
without the expectation of reimburse-
ment helps maintain a strong partner-
ship between the city and UF.
“I just feel that we are doing so much 
as a city to improve the town and gown relationship that this was one of those exercises,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgCity will not bill UF for SpencerRobert Lewis / Alligator Staff
A UF student spray-painted “I AM INIM” onto the wall of an 
Alachua County building downtown early Wednesday.
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
All Florida schools would be required to dis-
play “In God We Trust” come July if this bill 
passes.
The House Pre K-12 Innovation subcommittee 
unanimously backed the bill, HB 839, Tuesday, 
which would mandate buildings used by a district 
school board to display the state motto, “In God We Trust,” in a prominent location. It now awaits consideration in the House Education Committee.  State Sen. Keith Perry, (R-Alachua), has ﬁ  led a similar bill in the Senate. 
The bill’s primary sponsor, Rep. Kimberly 
Daniels (D-Duval County), is a Christian author and founder of Kimberly Daniels Ministries Inter-national. She said the bill will educate children on Florida’s history.
“This motto is inscribed on the walls of this great capitol and inked in our currency, and it should be displayed so that our children will be exposed and educated on this great motto, which 
is a part of this country’s foundation,” she said. 
Daniels said the cost schools will be small.
Alachua County Public Schools spokesperson 
Jackie Johnson said it’s too early to determine how much this bill would cost schools. 
“I think it’s safe to assume that (the school 
board) would have some concerns about whether or not it’s constitutional,” she said. 
Jennifer Scott, who has six children in ACPS, 
is torn about the bill. She said, as a Christian, it is exciting to see God included in public schools but knows that not everybody has the same beliefs. 
“There are a lot of people who aren’t Chris-
tians, and I feel like I hate to impose my beliefs on 
people,” she said. 
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgFlorida legislator want schools 
to display “In God We Trust”The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Gambling and video games should never mix
Less than two months ago, video game gi-
ant Electronic Arts (EA) released one of 
the most highly anticipated games of the 
year, “Star Wars Battlefront II.” Bolstered by the powerful “Star Wars” brand, the 
game was preordered by millions of movie and video game fans across a wide spectrum of ages. 
Despite being a “shooter,” the game deliberately 
leaves out any blood, guts and cursing and is rated appropriate for teenagers, likely a move by EA to ensure THE most potential consumers can 
buy it.
The enforcement of age ratings in video games has al-
ways been nonexistent. A notoriously vulgar and violent 
game like Grand Theft Auto (rated “M” for mature), has online lobbies littered with squeaky-voiced preteens and 
“your mom” jokes. You have to be at least 17 to buy these 
games, but parents do all the purchasing because they likely do not fully understand what is actually In the game or, even more likely, do not want to deal with a whining child when they refuse to buy them a game that “all of their 
friends have.”
The drama surrounding the release of “Battlefront II,” 
however, was about a growing problem in the gaming in-
dustry — gambling mechanisms. Both Denmark and the 
state of Hawaii have taken legal action, with Belgium send-
ing its gambling commission to investigate and Hawaii seeking legislative action to prevent such games from being sold to underage consumers.
The issue centers around “loot boxes.” Loot boxes are 
in-game crates that reveal randomized rewards upon open-ing. The rewards gained from a loot box can then be used to customize or enhance your online player, essentially giv-ing you an upper hand over those who did not receive the same goodies from their boxes. Injecting the randomized 
beneﬁ  ts and slot machine-luck mechanics into already ad-
dicting games is bad enough, but what makes it worse is that you can use real-world money to buy more loot boxes, thus increasing your odds of winning something great. 
Layered within the loot box gambling debate is a com-pletely separate, but equally serious, issue: in-game purchases with real world money. What 
started on mobile apps a few years ago — the 
ability to enter your credit card information into a game in order to instantly buy improvements — has reached the traditional gaming consoles. Loot boxes take this connection and ease of ac-
cess to the player’s real-world funds and mixes 
it with the psychologically manipulative ele-ments of gambling.
The problem is not that loot boxes (and the 
ability to use real money to purchase them) exist. EA and other video game developers and publishers are companies with their own terms of service agreements, so they can do whatever they want (within reason). The problem is that they’re incredibly popular. Companies wouldn’t include 
loot box purchases if nobody bought them.
The idea of a loot box within a game is not terribly prob-
lematic. What is problematic is tapping into the brain’s sus-
ceptibility to gambling and establishing a streamline to a player’s wallet. What makes everything worse is that a sig-
niﬁ  cant percentage of these games are played by kids, often 
entering parents’ credit cards into the system.
Gambling quickly turns into an addiction when the 
player in the casino refuses to leave because he wants just 
“one more game,” and the same phenomenon is experi-
enced with “one more loot box.” If you’re an adult and want to buy loot boxes, then go ahead, but we shouldn’t make these options accessible in games that are also aimed at younger audiences (like “Star Wars”). Apart from intro-
ducing a “pay-to-win” element in these online games, pur-
chasing loot boxes introduces kids to attractive forms of gambling at a dangerously early age and, in a way, is far more tempting to them than traditional gambling games. Before companies go for this easy money grab, they must 
consider the implications such actions will have on their 
audiences.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
focuses on entertainment.ColumnIt’s the third week of the Spring semester. The poor deci-
sions you made during syllabus week have ﬁ  nally caught up to 
you, and you’re now coming to terms with the fact that your classes are going to require a lot more effort than you initially anticipated. 
Once you fail your ﬁ  rst organic chemistry quiz of the se-
mester, you have a serious reality check that leads you back to the hallowed halls of Study Edge. After dishing out the $50 for your coveted gold membership, you feel a wave of relief wash over you. Sure, maybe you don’t have enough money for groceries this week, but at least you’ll pass your classes.
Bright blue packet in hand, you make your way to Marston 
Science Library and ﬁ  nd yourself a perfectly secluded desk in 
the basement. You plug in your headphones, sip your coffee 
and prepare for what is sure to be a very long night of study-ing. 
After some mental preparation, you ﬁ  nally crack open your 
packet. Oddly enough, when you open it up, there is no scien-
tiﬁ  c wording to be found. No equations, no compounds and no 
experiments to study. Instead, the words inside read...
Darts & Laurels
After a marathon trial in Michigan, former USA Gymnas-
tics and Michigan State University doctor Larry Nassar now faces a prison sentence of up to 175 years. He was sentenced Wednesday for criminal sexual misconduct, after more than 
160 women appeared in court to share their stories of sexual 
assault at the hands of the doctor.
The utter disgust we have for Nassar is challenging to ar-
ticulate. As such, we award Nassar our ﬁ  rst dart of the week.
The New York Times reported more than 160 women have 
said Nassar sexually abused them. Their testimonies were 
both heart-wrenching and disturbing, but most importantly, they were courageous. The women who stood in the court-room and revealed some of their most traumatic experiences did so after many of them had already reported him to no avail. Nonetheless, they persisted. They persisted to get Nas-sar the damnation he rightfully deserves.
We believe victim Kyle Stephens said it best in her testi-
mony when she said, “Little girls don’t stay little forever. They grow into strong women that return to destroy your world.” We would like to award a laurel to the strong and brave women who grew up and returned to destroy Nassar’s world.  
On a similar note, we must also praise the newspaper that  
ﬁ  rst reported Nassar’s crimes in August 2016. We shall grant a laurel to the Indianapolis Star, which carried out a ﬁ  ve-
month investigation on the topic. Without this paper’s efforts, 
Nassar might still be abusing kids today. In a time where the 
media is being highly criticized by many, we must take the time to recognize good journalism matters.
Closer to home, we were once again faced with disappoint-
ment at the hands of the Impact Party. On Thursday morning, 
the party announced their executive ticket on Facebook. For 
the second year in a row, no females will appear on the ticket. The lack of female representation once again shed light on the lack of gender diversity within Student Government.
It was clear the party was cognizant of a need for diversity, 
as there are candidates of several different ethnic backgrounds represented on the ticket. The effort was there. We recognize that, but, in our opinion, they still fell short. Thus, we award our last dart to Impact and their lack of female representa-
tion.Editorial
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Marijuana wasn’t always prohib-
ited. Due to the 1910 Mexican Revolution, many Mexican refu-
gees migrated to the U.S. With an 
inﬂ  ux of immigrants of a different 
culture came the rise of xenophobia along the Mexico-U.S. border. According to Eric 
Schlosser, author of the article “Reefer Mad-
ness,” Texas police ofﬁ  cers reported mari-juana incited “a lust for blood” in Mexicans who used the drug that gave them “superhu-man strength.” To further stir fear, rumors 
began to spread that Mexicans were giving 
this “killer weed” to American children. 
The origins of the illegalization of mari-
juana in the U.S. are pages of history some 
wish to skim over. Nevertheless, today we 
are left dealing with the consequences of un-informed decisions of those in the past cen-tury. 
As states began to legalize the recreation-
al use of marijuana in 2013, the Former Pres-ident Barack Obama administration issued a memo indicating states could pursue their own marijuana laws without much federal 
intervention. However, Attorney General 
Jeff Sessions rescinded the memo Jan. 4, which left the government’s current stance on marijuana in limbo. Congress responded to Sessions by introducing multiple bills to 
alleviate the growing confusion over mari-
juana policies. One proposed bill intends to decriminalize marijuana use and possession on the federal level. Some congressmen also hope to 
remove marijuana as a Schedule 
One substance under the Con-trolled Substance Act, where it currently ranks alongside heroin 
and above cocaine for potential 
of abuse. 
Public opinion may push Con-
gress to act even further. A recent Gallup poll revealed about 64 percent of the 
population supports legalizing marijuana for 
recreational use. Although it seems like the opportune time for Congress to legalize the drug, people should not anticipate the feder-
al government making that decision anytime 
soon. Instead, Americans must patiently wait for scientiﬁ  c evidence to develop. 
The only way to deﬁ  nitively transform 
public opinion to fact is through the support 
of scientiﬁ  c evidence. Lack of substantial 
marijuana research for the past decade stems from the difﬁ  culty in studying an illegal sub-stance. The National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering and Medicine recently published 
a 354-page report based on scientiﬁ  c litera-ture surrounding the effects of marijuana. The report stressed the importance for more research to be conducted on the health ben-
eﬁ  ts and risks from marijuana use. Cur-
rent scientiﬁ  c evidence only supports three beneﬁ  ts: lessened chronic pain, reduced chemotherapy-induced nausea and relief from some 
symptoms of multiple sclerosis.
More beneﬁ  ts could come, but 
the government restricts marijua-
na research. Currently, research-
ers interested in studying mari-
juana must be reviewed by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Drug En-
forcement Administration (DEA). 
If approved, researchers can then only 
get marijuana for research under the NIDA Drug Supply Program, which currently has 
only one facility. Yes, one facility at the Uni-versity of Mississippi supplies all marijuana researchers with the range of strains and po-
tency they may need. On top of that, canna-
binoid products available in state-regulated markets are still unavailable at the federal level.
Research funding for marijuana currently drives the scientiﬁ  c discussion on the drug itself. Most funding comes from agencies looking to study the negative effects of the 
drug, ignoring other areas of the debate. Ac-
cording to the agency itself, the NIDA, which funded around 60 percent of all cannabinoid research in 2015, only devoted 16.5 percent 
of annual funding to the therapeutic beneﬁ  ts 
of cannabinoids. 
The Department of Veterans Affairs still 
refuses to authorize studies on the effects of marijuana on post-traumatic stress disorder, 
even though it could potentially serve as a 
viable alternative to prescribing opioids. Dif-ferent factions of government may be divid-ed on the question of legalizing marijuana, 
but all should support research to ﬁ  nd the 
ultimate answer of whether it's good or bad for people.
Although many are eager for marijuana 
to ﬁ  nally become legal, Americans must stay 
patient. Congress doesn’t mind delaying pol-
icymaking in many areas. We must support a current delay in deciding on legalization until science can properly promote policy-
making. 
  
Joshua Udvary is a UF environmental 
engineering junior. His column focuses on science.
Government must facilitate research on marijuana before crafting policiesColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
Letters to the Editor
Last week, the Budget and Ap-
propriations Committee met to discuss the code revision for the 
Gators Matter, Period. initiative, 
and did not vote in favor of the code revision to allow student organizations to purchase men-
strual hygiene products for dis-
tribution using the Activity and Service Fees. However, the de-cision made by the Budget and Appropriations Committee does not reﬂ  ect Student Government’s 
stance on the Gators Matter, Pe-
riod. initiative. Rather, SG stands ﬁ  rm in their support for the Gators Matter, Period. initiative, 
and is currently working to fund 
this project through Facilities Ser-vices and GatorWell.Members from both parties, 
along with Student Body Presi-dent Smith Meyers, Women’s 
Student Association President 
Rebecca Kravitz and Gators Mat-ter, Period. coalition leader Chase Werther, are working together to 
make this student idea a reality 
across campus. We are excited to expand access to menstrual hy-giene products on campus. As we work toward this goal, menstrual hygiene products will be avail-
able in the Reitz Union, Newell 
Hall and other locations across campus by April.
Until this project is complete, 
students can access free menstru-al hygiene products as needed through the Field and Fork Pan-try, which is supported by SG. The Field and Fork Pantry is lo-cated east of McCarty Hall B and is available to all students with a 
Gator 1 Card.
Branden Pearson (Inspire, 
Lakeside) is an SG senator 
and Emily Dunson (Impact, 
District A) is the Budget and 
Appropriations Committee 
chairwoman.
Hello Gators! My name is Erica Baker, 
and I am the supervisor of elections for Student Government. I am writing to you 
to discuss the importance of SG Elections. SG impacts the campus in a number of ways, through their ability to advocate on 
behalf of the Student Body at UF and in the 
state and federal government.
There are multiple ways to get involved 
with SG. You can run for a Student Senate 
position, campaign or, most importantly, 
you can vote. While the majority of stu-dents do not run for Senate, I do not want to diminish the importance of running for a position. That being said, I would encour-
age anyone who is considering it to attend 
the elections informational meeting today in the Senate Chamber to learn more about running for a Senate position. At this time, 
however, I would like to focus on the im-
portance of being an educated voter.
Elections will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 
8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and 21. The Spring elec-tion is different from the Fall election in that it is based on your credits instead of 
where you live. You will be considered a 
freshman, sophomore or you will be cate-gorized based on your college. This means the 50 senators elected this semester will 
represent freshmen, sophomores and each 
of the colleges on campus. This election is also different because students will be voting for the next Student Body president, 
vice president and treasurer. 
Much like city, state and national elec-
tions, it is important for people to take ad-
vantage of their right to vote in order to have their voices heard on important is-
sues. And, like the aforementioned elec-
tions, we, as students at UF, have more than one way to vote. You can either vote at a designated polling location or you can 
vote by absentee ballot. If you wish to vote 
by absentee ballot, you can ﬁ  nd the sign up form on the SG elections page. The sign up form will be open until  at 5 p.m. Feb. 7. Beyond asserting your right to vote, it 
is also crucial to be an educated voter. By 
being an educated voter, you are ensuring 
that your voice is heard and properly rep-resented. Parties and candidates may have similar stances on certain topics, but they 
differ on others, and I would encourage ev-
ery student to ask questions and ﬁ  gure out who they want to represent them and their beliefs.
How can you become an educated vot-
er? An easy way to start is to do research on the internet. With the election cycle be-ginning today, each party will likely have their own social media accounts where you 
can ﬁ  nd more information on them. Later, 
once the platforms are released by the par-ties, you will also be able to ﬁ  nd a PDF with all of the parties and their platforms 
listed on the SG elections website. 
You can also talk to them in person. Af-
ter the election cycle has begun, the parties 
and candidates will campaign around cam-pus. You can approach them in person and learn more about them. I would encour-
age students to take the time to talk to the 
candidates in person. Some candidates will run independent of a party, and, to truly be an educated voter, you should talk to everyone who is running to represent you. 
Third, you can attend the SG debate 
Feb. 13 at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. At the SG debate, the presidential tickets will answer various questions about their 
platforms and goals for the campus. 
Lastly, I would encourage everyone to 
check out the SG elections website. You 
will be able to ﬁ  nd the codes governing elections, a list of important dates and oth-
er important documents pertaining to the 
elections. After Feb. 12, you will also be able to ﬁ  nd the ofﬁ  cial list of candidates who are running. One can never be over-
educated when it comes to elections. If you 
have any questions, feel free to email me at elections@sg.uﬂ  .edu. Thank you for taking the time to read this and being an educated voter, and, as always, go Gators!
Letter to the Editor from SG Supervisor of ElectionsStudent Government Supports Gators Matter, Period.“The only way to deinitively transform 
public opinion to fact is through the 
support of scientiic evidence.”
Joshua Udvardy
ColumnistONE TYPE OF INFUSION 
IS CALLED “CHICKEN 
NOODLE SOUP . ”
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
For the first time in Gainesville, 
people feeling sick, tired or dehy-
drated can buy an IV infusion.
Revival IV Lounge, a business 
that specializes in providing cus-tomers with vitamin-infused IV 
solutions, opened at 10 a.m. Thurs-
day at 3300 SW Archer Road, Suite 
110. Nichole Pogue, the founder and owner, said injections range in price from $85 to $175, depending 
on the ingredients and are not cov-
ered by medical insurance.
“Our goal is to make it as relax-
ing as possible but also get you in 
and out because we know every-
one has a busy life,” said Pogue, 
a 34-year-old nurse anesthetist, 
nurse practitioner and UF almuna. She graduated with a major in psy-chology from UF in 2006, she said.
Some of the featured infusions 
include “Migraine Buster,” “MVP,” and “Stress Relief,” according to its website.
She got the idea for her com-
pany in October while traveling to 
other cities and seeing similar busi-
nesses. 
“The more I researched it, the 
more I realized that it would ben-efit the residents of Gainesville,” Pogue said.
Though this is the first business of its kind in Gainesville, Pogue said the concept has been around since the 1950s. A doctor named 
John Myers invented the “Myers’ 
Cocktail,” which Pogue said she 
bases her own infusions on.
Pogue said the IVs are given by 
registered nurses and paramedics, 
and the lounge is overseen by a 
physician. 
Pogue said coming from a hos-
pital background has prepared her 
and her staff to keep the same stan-
dards followed in a hospital.
“All the vitamins come from an 
FDA-approved compounding phar-
macy,” Pogue said.
A customer will walk in, fill out 
paperwork, have their medical his-
tory reviewed, browse the menu of 
IV infusions and then wait while 
the chosen infusion is prepared to 
order. It takes about an hour to ad-
minister an infusion to a customer.
Different vitamins can help 
with different needs, ranging from 
workout recovery and hangover re-
lief to immune system and energy 
boosts. Because the vitamins go 
straight through the IV and into the 
bloodstream, customers absorb 100 
percent of the vitamins instead of 
the 30 to 40 percent they’d receive 
from a pill, Pogue said.
Pogue said people are welcome 
to come in groups or individually.
Monika Baldwin, 27, and Robyn 
Szabo, 39, of Gainesville were Re-vival IV lounge’s first two custom-
ers. The two friends were excited 
for the opportunity after they saw 
the store’s opening on social media.Baldwin said she normally has 
about four infusions a year at a doctor in Clearwater, Florida, or while she’s traveling but may have 
them more often since she now has 
this local option.
“I haven’t been sick in four 
years,” Baldwin said.
She said she was starting to feel the signs of a cold, so she ordered 
the “Chicken Noodle Soup” infu-sion in hopes of keeping the streak alive.
Szabo, who owns Gainesville 
Cryotherapy, a whole body cryo-therapy business, was receiving her first IV infusion, she said.
She said she wanted to learn more about the health and wellness treatment.
“I’m really glad Gainesville has 
this service, because I think we’ve 
been lacking in this type of preven-
tative self-care,” Szabo said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Revival IV Lounge is Gainesville’s newest health spa that aims on rejuvenating customers through 
vitamin-infused IV drips. In addition to these treatments, the lounge also offers a variety of intramuscular shots that help boost energy and promote weight loss.
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Revival IV Lounge focuses on the drip method of vitamin ingestion because “when taken by mouth, the body typically only absorbs 20 percent to 30 percent” of vitamins, compared to the “100 percent absorption rate” of bypassing the digestive system with an IV drip.
UF alumna introduces city’s first IV infusion lounge 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Grace Pickron, a 20-year-old UF public relations sophomore, examines the drip menu at Revival IV Lounge. The spa offers drips for hydration and vitamin infusions for fat loss, fatigue, hangover relief and overall wellness.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
FUN AND
FITNESS
2018
Help students gain a 
healthy perspective by advertising in The Alligator’s Fun & Fitness section, which is  
dedicated to giving students tips about healthy living and excercise.
Contact Your  
Sales Rep Today
advertising@alligator.org
352-376-4482Deadline: Wed., Jan.  31
Run Date: Wed., Feb. 7
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTEBy Maggie Spillane
Alligator Contributing Writer
Adam Fehrenbacher grew up appreciating 
a good sausage.
The 37-year-old opened Fehrenbacher’s 
Artisan Sausages on Saturday with 50 home-
made sausage and cured meat ﬂ  avors to 
choose from, and he plans on adding more 
every day. The sausage shop, located on 411 SW Fourth Ave., seeks to ﬁ  ll the niche market for artisan meats.
“We want people to feel like we’re welcom-
ing them into our home for dinner,” he said.The opening night menu included Pate 
en Bleu, which is green peppercorn pate with Siembra Farm arugula and Danish blue 
cheese. There was also Bavarian bratwurst 
served on a pretzel bun with Dijon mustard and a lamb sausage gyro.
Within an hour and a half of opening, the 
bratwurst and gyro were entirely sold out. Prices for the sausages vary but usually range from $8 to $12.
Michael Helsinki, 36; Thomas Reed, 29; 
and Kevin Choate, 38, came in for a meal for 
the ﬁ  rst time Wednesday. They ate two Fili-
pino Longaniza sausages and a Salt & Pepper Smokeys sausage on the open-air back porch.
“It was very good,” Choate said. “I always 
eat local.”
Fehrenbacher grew up on a farm in south-
ern Illinois, the son of German immigrants. He and his father would spend the winter making about 100 pounds of sausage, which would last until the next winter when they would start the process all over again.
After he graduated with a bachelor’s in 
culinary arts, he worked in Europe and south Florida for years until he eventually found 
himself in Gainesville, where he’s now been 
for ﬁ  ve years.At the Gainesville restaurants he’s worked 
in, he’s made his sausages as part of his dish-es, but customers loved them so much they 
would specially ask to take extras home.
In January 2017, he resigned to pursue his 
dream of becoming a unique sausage produc-
er, making and selling only high-quality sau-sages and cured meats.
With the help of his wife, Tatania Fehren-
bacher, who has more than 10 years of experi-ence in the hospitality industry, he said he felt he is ready to open his own storefront.
And after a year of preparation, they were 
ready to open their doors.Gainesville store to oﬀ  er 50 homemade sausage ﬂ  avors By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
City ofﬁ  cials hope to create a 
more equal Gainesville in 2018. 
At the State of the City Address, 
held Wednesday afternoon at the Gainesville Police headquarters, 
local ofﬁ  cials highlighted the ac-
complishments of the past year and projects of the upcoming year. They hope these projects will make Gainesville a national model of the New American City, a city other cit-ies look to as a model. 
To do this, Mayor Lauren Poe 
said the city will need to not only 
incorporate technology-driven ini-
tiatives and continued development but also address the racial and socio-economic disparities in Gainesville. 
“Not until every one of us is wel-
comed, not until every one of us has the same opportunity and not until every one of us is able to achieve their full potential, will we rest,” Poe said. 
He also praised the city for its re-
silience during a tumultuous year. Both Hurricane Irma and Richard Spencer prompted a state of emer-gency and ultimately demonstrated the strength of the community, he said. 
“During two of the most stress-
ful and chaotic moments in recent 
memory, we showed our unity, sup-
ported one another and lived our values,” Poe said.
Gainesville Regional Utilities 
manager Edward Bielarski celebrat-ed the city’s decision to purchase the Deerhaven Renewable Energy Cen-ter. Since the purchase was made Nov. 7, the plant has saved GRU 
more than $9 million, he said. 
GRU is working with the City 
Commission to help Gainesville look to the future. This will include the 
installment of smart streetlights that have sensors to adjust the amount of 
light they emit, which the city esti-
mates will save millions of dollars, said city manager Anthony Lyons. The city also announced it will be deploying four driverless buses in the spring. 
The city also unveiled its new ta-
gline, “Gainesville. Citizen centered People empowered,” which was de-
veloped with the help of Parisleaf, a 
local web design and branding agen-cy, to replace its current slogan, “Ev-ery path starts with passion.” Lyons said the tagline and its design may be adapted over time. 
“These pieces intentionally are 
ﬂ  uid and will evolve over time be-cause at the end of the day, the es-
sence of Gainesville’s brand is its 
people, not a symbol,” Lyons said. 
Lyons said the tagline will ap-pear on uniforms, business cards, letterheads and other city material to reinforce their mission of being a 
citizen-driven city. 
Poe acknowledged work left to 
do. One of the biggest obstacles to 
the growth of Gainesville is the glar-ing inequality that persists through-out the city, he said. 
More than 35 percent of African 
Americans and just over 30 percent of non-white Hispanics live below 
the poverty line in Alachua County, 
Poe said.
To combat the racial and eco-
nomic divide in Gainesville, the commission will be implementing policies to keep young men of color out of the criminal justice system, he said. 
Poe said the commission will 
work with police to develop a strat-egy to arrest fewer people. 
Tom Mason, 53, tuned into the State of the City Address via Face-book Live. The Gainesville resi-dent was pleased to hear the city 
was turning its attention to racial 
and socioeconomic inequality in Gainesville. 
“I completely agree that that has 
to be at the top of the list,” he said. “One of the things I think that we really need to work on is the great divide of the city between the East and the West.” 
Mason supported the develop-
ment projects on the east side of Gainesville, such as Depot Park and the Heartwood Community. 
The various projects of 2018 are 
all focused on making Gainesville a citizen-centered city, Poe said. 
“When I see a complete commu-
nity, I see a Gainesville where every 
person, regardless of income, race, 
ethnicity, gender or geography is able to succeed,” he said.
City leaders highlight triumphs, trials, plans for future10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
By Nicole Williams
Alligator Contributing Writer
Martin Luther King Jr. 
didn’t only give the “I Have a 
Dream” speech. 
He preached, prayed and 
was targeted by the FBI. 
Gerald Smith, a University 
of Kentucky history profes-
sor and King scholar, spoke 
to about 60 people Thursday afternoon in Pugh Hall Ocora about the history of King that was left out in textbooks. He 
came to honor the 50th an-
niversary of King’s assassina-tion this year on April 4. 
The event was sponsored 
by the African-American Studies department, with sev-eral other UF co-sponsors.
The speech, “Rediscover-
ing the Committee Work of 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.,” 
focused on the compassion King had, despite opposition from powerful figures, nota-
bly the FBI.
A tape recording meant to blackmail King, using his al-
leged sexual adultery, along with a letter encouraging King to commit suicide, was 
sent to his wife, Coretta Scott 
King, Smith said.
“(The Southern Christian 
Leadership Conference) was aware of the FBI placing re-
cording devices in their ho-
tel rooms, hoping to tarnish King’s image,” Smith said. 
Smith also emphasized the 
impact King’s pastoral du-ties had on his social justice work. 
“What kind of sermon do 
you preach to people when 
they’re faced with that kind 
of hatred?” Smith said. 
Sade Richardson, a 
20-year-old African Ameri-
can studies junior, said she 
only knew the basics of King during her history courses in grade school. 
“I knew he was a pastor, 
but I didn’t know how much that went into his speeches,” she said. Scholar honors Martin Luther King Jr.’s legacy, life 
The National  Archives
Martin Luther King Jr. speaks at a Civil Rights March on Washington, DC, on Aug. 28, 1963. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Lake Foreclosure Resale $29,900Before foreclosure sold for $134,900.Special Financing.Selling- off Jan. 27thInfo: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com877.712.3650 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.     1-26-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
MIAMI-DADE COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE TO SELLPERSONAL PROPERTY OF FORMERMIAMI BEACH REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER THOMAS KRAMERAT PUBLIC SALE ON FEBRUARY 14.The Sheriff’s Sale will take place Wednesday, February 14, 2018 at 11 A.M. at the Miami-Dade County Sheriff's Office, 60l NW 1 Court, 9th Floor, Miami, FL. Inspection: Tues, February 13, 2018 from 9:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M. at two locations: 4 Star Island Drive and 5 Star Island Drive, Miami Beach, FL 33139.Exceptional, one-of- a-kind luxury items rep-resenting Kramer’s well-known extravagant celebrity lifestyle are available for sale includ -
ing European home furnishings, artwork, ex-quisite home decor, sculptures, oriental rugs, mask collections, life-size collectible figures and statues, electronics, audio/video equip -
ment, book collections, office equipment, office furniture, patio furniture, concrete out-door décor/statues, hand tools, power tools, restaurant equipment, fitness equipment and much more. A 2011 Toyota Tacoma truck will be sold separately. All other personal prop-erty will be sold as one lot via Sheriff's sale.The contact person for sale inquiries is:Latasha Gethers Hines, Esq.Kozyak Tropin & Throckmorton2525 Ponce de Leon Blvd., 9th FloorMiami, Fl 33134Direct 305.728.2966 | email: lgh@kttlaw.com     1-26-1-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
Designated drivers are the greatest1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
40 acre Private horse farm Micanopy of-fers room share housing with horse sta-bling available 25 min to uf,furnished,2014 Mobile home ,Amenities WiFi,cable,washer dryer,pool, bbq,pets considered,75x200 arena,roundpen,12 x12 stalls,cement block barn and more,rents starts at $600 month w/ 9 or 12 monthlease & 1/3 electric,Call Faith. 352-361-1454,no texts or emails.    1-29-18-7-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, Coins, Currency, CollectiblesCall: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $13.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com      1-31-18-6-14
ATTENTION:Looking for a dependable, caring caregiver to care for my daughter and help her with daily activites & personal care. Female only please.  Call Marilyn at 352-339-2798    1-26-4-14
Experienced Musicians Wanted
- Keys and Guitar - Musicians needed to 
play Sundays at local church. Will be
paid for their time based on experience
and skill. Call (352) 371-9646. Address:
7003 NW 39th Ave, Gainesville, FL.
2-2-18-5-14
ATTENTION STUDENTS, RECENTGRADS, PILOTS, ASTRONAUTS, ANDEFFICIENT INDIVIDUALSResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-2-18-5-14
HOUSE/DOG-SITTING OPPORTUNITYMay 28th - June 22nd. 2 acres in McIntosh, FL (16 miles south of Gainesville). 5 dogs $900 plus bonus if job done well. Please call 352-207-2717    2-5-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedFRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatestIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Another Saturday night 
without a date?
Read The Alligator.
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Big sister?
7 Way more than a
whimper
11 Pixie
14 Circus equipment
15 Online
marketplace
16 Madhouse
17 First U.S.
national park
19 Syncopated
piece
20 Calvin Klein or
Perry Ellis
21 Caution
22 Spilled the beans23 Love personified24 Letter writing,
some say
26 Oenophile’s
concern
28 Bear with a
purple bow tie
32 “Yada yada
yada” letters
35 Co-star of the
1955 comedy“How to Be Very,Very Popular”
38 Revolutionary
murdered in atub
40 Groom’s garb41 Generous slices42 Subject of a 19th-
century famine
45 Menu general46 Tar pits site47 “Pretty please?”49 Che’s given
name
52 State-spanning
rds.
56 Cross by wading
59 Digging
60 The good dishes
61 “The Mikado”
band?
62 Aquanaut’s
workplace ... or a
hint to what’sgraphicallyrepresented fourtimes in thispuzzle
64 Dram65 Thailand, once66 Recess67 Fictional
vigilante’s mark
68 Ballpark figs.69 Christian of “Mr.
Robot”
DOWN
1 Sanctuaries2 Substitute
players
3 Frodo inherited
his ring
4 Queen of mystery5 Small-runway
aircraft acronym
6 Spokane-to-
Walla Walla dir.
7 Software to
debug
8 Scrub, at NASA
9 Aspirant
10 Drano compound
11 Biblical reformer12 Library
transaction
13 “Around the
World ... ” hero
18 Affirmed in court22 Happy hour
perch
24 __-di-dah25 Lighter brand
27 Bible book read
during Purim
29 Frank’s cousin
30 Gambling
parlors, for short
31 Very32 Expressionist
painter Nolde
33 Plantation near
Twelve Oaks
34 Nursery
purchase36 Rural road
feature
37 One demanding
payment, say
39 Comparable to a
beet
43 Pressed
sandwiches
44 Confucian ideal
48 Cornell’s city50 Conclude by51 Parts of some
flutes
53 First of a series54 __ of Hearts,
accused tartsthief
55 Cavalry sword
56 With “the,” TV
character who
first jumped theshark—literally
57 Village Voice
award
58 Harvest-ready60 Spreadsheet box62 Employ63 KLM rival
By David Poole©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/26/1801/26/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 26, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Apple Store
display
5 Centipede
developer
10 Farm digs
13 Tennis legend for
whom a
“Courage Award”is named
14 French upper
house
15 Hershey bar16 *Tony Hawk
legwear
18 Helps out19 Unpretentious20 Turned it down22 Nadal’s
birthplace
23 Snatch, as a toy?24 Composer Franck26 Luggage
attachments
29 Soak up the sun32 Blue Grotto
resort
34 Boy king35 “That’s gross!”36 *Stick in the
snow
38 Premier __: wine
designation
39 Word before
watch or window
40 Signs away
41 Israeli politician
Barak
42 Nurses, as a
drink
44 Chills out
47 “No harm done”49 Waited
nervously,perhaps
52 Wheat protein
53 Tree with durable
wood
55 Fellas56 *Drawing needs59 Inauguration
words
60 Dairy mascot
61 Canal completed
in 1825
62 Belly dance
muscles
63 Kennel cries
64 “Hairspray” mom
DOWN
1 British side
2 Words on a help
desk sign3 Ring leader?
4 Reversal of
fortune
5 Trees of the
species Populus
tremula
6 “Eat Drink Man
Woman” drink
7 Former Texas
governor
Richards
8 “Midnight
Cowboy” conman
9 Delivery room cry
10 *Medicated
dermal strip
11 Fuss
12 Cen.
components
15 1978 Peace 
co-Nobelist
17 Tahari of fashion21 Many a low-
budget flick
23 Decorator’s
choice
25 Corrosive liquid27 Expert28 Drywall support29 Spill catchers
30 Smoothie berry
31 *Military
chaplains33 Sit for a snap
36 Hurry along37 Creator of
RandleMcMurphy andChief Bromden
41 Search dogs’
target ... and aphonetic hint tothe answers to
starred clues
43 Flatten45 Garage units46 Dash dial
48 A high-top hides
it
50 Hallmark.com
choice
51 Bumped off52 Snatch54 On the Pacific
55 Showgirl’s
accessory
57 Course for intl.
students
58 Lead
By C.C. Burnikel©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/25/1801/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, January 25, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Quiet way to walk
1.  Amuse 5.  Slender boat
2.  ____ fund6.  Picture
3.  Run 7.  Bug
4.  Mother or father POTTEI
CLIETKNOCEA
GIMEA
EOINPSN
TRPOEEACSTEIN
ANETPRANSWERS: 1A-Tiptoe  5A-Canoe  6A-Image  7A-Insect
1D-Tickle  2D-Pension  3D-Operate  4D-Parent  B-Al Pacino1-26-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This actor turned down the role 
of Han Solo in “Star Wars.”
BONUS
19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 21 Entertainment
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.
23 Rides 24 PetsFlorida's football team 
announced the hire of Larry Scott as its new tight ends coach on Thursday.Florida women's tennis team competes this weekend
The Gators are taking on Cal State Fullerton on Saturday at 9 a.m. and will 
face either Louisiana-Monroe or Marshall on Sunday. Read UF women's ten-nis writer River Wells' match preview online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
For the second time this season, the 
UF gymnastics team will host a No. 1 
team at home. The No. 5 Gators (2-1, 
1-1 SEC) are set to take on No. 1 Okla-
homa (3-0, 1-0 Big 12) tonight at 6:45 in the nation’s top gymnastics match of the weekend. 
Florida’s first matchup with a 
top-ranked team took place on Jan. 12, when the then-No. 7 Gators lost 197.250–197.125 to LSU in front of a sold-out O’Connell Center. 
“Who can say they competed back-to-back home meets against a No. 1 team?” coach Jenny Rowland said. “The Gators are always up for the chal-
lenge and this weekend is not gonna be 
any different.” 
As UF heads into its much antici-
pated matchup with the Sooners, one 
aspect Rowland is focused on is the 
team’s lineup. She recognizes the kind of competition that exists between the gymnasts and encourages the team’s friendly rivalry to get a place on each 
meet’s lineups.  
“Depth is a wonderful thing,” Row-
land said. “To find out what our best Florida faces Oklahoma 
tonight at O'Connell Center
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Mike White stood in front of reporters 
on Thursday morning and was immediately 
asked about the amount of breakdowns Flori-
da had in its three-point defense against South 
Carolina on Wednesday.
His response? “Oh my goodness,” the UF men’s basket-
ball coach said. “A bunch.”
South Carolina forward Maik Kotsar and 
guard Evan Hinson opened up the scoring with three-pointers on the team's first two possessions. Later in the first half, Gamecocks 
guard Wesley Myers drained back-to-back un-
contested three-pointers. Florida (14-6, 6-2 SEC) wasn’t getting to South Carolina's shoot-ers fast enough, and it showed.
During No. 20 Florida’s 77-72 loss to South 
Carolina on Wednesday at the O’Connell Cen-ter, the Gamecocks found open looks from the perimeter.
White said the little things, such as not 
fighting through screens with urgency and giving up shots late in the shot clock, allowed the Gamecocks (13-7, 4-4 SEC) to make 52.4 percent of their attempts from long range.
“We have to know the clock,” White said. 
“Three seconds on the shot clock. At that point, we’ve got to make guys drivers, as op-posed to accepting the late-clock threes.”White, UF hoping to bounce 
back against Bears on SaturdayGYMNASTICS
SEE MEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16MISSISSIPPI STATE 90, FLORIDA 53
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
It was sink or swim for the Florida wom-
en's basketball team as it hit the road to play 
against the second-ranked team in the nation 
on Thursday.
Despite trailing by only two with six min-
utes to go before halftime, the Gators found a 
way to drown against Mississippi State as the 
Bulldogs (21-0, 7-0 SEC) handily defeated UF 
90-53 in Starkville.
Even with the 37-point loss, coach Cam-
eron Newbauer said after the game he’s proud 
of his team for the effort they put forth against the No. 2 team in the country.
Florida (10-11, 2-6 SEC) couldn’t find the 
bottom of the net in the contest, shooting 23-
of-58 from the field and only 4-of-18 from be-
hind the arc. It was an all-around struggle for nearly everyone in the Gators starting lineup. 
Forward Paulina Hersler, who was averag-
ing 12.3 points per game prior to Thursday night, didn’t score her first basket until half-way through the fourth quarter.
Guard Delicia Washington, who has been 
praised over the past few weeks for her prog-
ress and ability to control her pace mid-game, 
committed nine turnovers, two more than the entire Bulldogs team.
One of the few bright spots from Thursday 
night’s game was the performance of guard Funda Nakkasoglu.
The former Utah State transfer notched 19 
points on 7-of-13 shooting to go along with three assists in 30 minutes of play.Gators flounder in blowout defeat against No. 2 Bulldogs
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu scored 19 points on 7-of-13 shooting in the Gators' 90-53 loss to Mississippi State on 
Thursday night. 
SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS,  PAGE 16FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
GRAND OPENING
SATURDAY 01.27.18
FOR 4 HOURS ONLY get up to 20% off the entire store!
SALE starts 1:00pm - 5:00pm1029 W. UNIVERSITY AVE.
 @CLIMAXSMOKESHOPGAINESVILLEFREE FOOD AND PRIZES! 
FLASH SALES ALL DAY 
LONG ON CERTAIN ITEMS!
(352) 872-5161
1236 NW 21st Ave
(off of 13th St.)
OPEN Monday - Saturday
11AM–7PM
Closed Sunday
(352) 260-6958A perfect study & meeting spot...URBAN
THREAD
OPEN  
Monday - Friday 11–7, 
 Sat 11–6, Sun 11–5HARPER’S CORNER
at
URBAN THREAD
2 LOCATIONS:
1236 NW 21ST AVE
(352) 271-1179
802 W. UNIVERSITY AVE
(352) 727-7500
MEN’S TENNIS
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s tennis 
team is looking to start dual-
match play 2-0 for the eighth consecutive season this week-end.
After defeating UCF 6-1 on 
Monday, the Gators will take on South Alabama on Satur-day to open the Florida Re-
gional ITA Kick-Off Weekend.
The event will be held at 
the Ring Tennis Complex, 
where South Florida and Pep-perdine will also compete in 
a two-round draw. The tour-
nament’s winner will earn a spot in the ITA National Team Indoor Championship in Feb-
ruary.
Florida enters the tourna-
ment as the No. 9-ranked pro-
gram in the country. While USF did receive votes in the preseason top 25, none of the 
three teams joining the Gators 
are ranked.
South Alabama ﬁ  nished 
second in the Sun Belt Con-ference Tournament last year 
and is coming off a dominant 
6-1 defeat of Xavier (LA) in its spring opener.
On Sunday, the Gators will 
face either USF or Pepperdine to wrap up the weekend.
The Bulls enter the tourna-
ment 0-2, most recently fall-ing to Tulsa 5-2. Pepperdine 
traveled to No. 6 UCLA last 
week and was swept 7-0 by the Bruins.
Florida is scheduled to play 
South Alabama at 3 p.m. on Saturday.
@bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.orgUF hoping to secure bid 
to indoor championshipBy Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s No. 1-ranked men’s 
and No. 5-ranked women’s track 
and ﬁ  eld teams will head to Ar-kansas to compete in the Razor-
back Invitational this weekend 
for the Gators’ fourth meet of the 2018 indoor season.
The Gators are looking to re-
main focused entering the meet, 
which takes place today and 
Saturday, and hope to continue 
their early-season success.
Redshirt junior AJ McFarland 
broke his own school record in the weight throw by seven centi-meters (21.74 meters) last week-end at the Clemson Invitational, but he isn’t satisﬁ  ed.“When you achieve one 
thing, there’s something else to strive for,” McFarland said.
Sophomore Grant Hollo-
way will compete in his ﬁ  rst long jump competition of the 
2018 indoor season exactly one 
week after tying the third-fastest 60-meter hurdles time (7.49 sec-onds) in collegiate history.
The time earned Holloway 
the USTFCCCA Division I Men’s National Athlete of the Week and SEC Men’s Co-Runner of the Week.
Junior Sharrika Barnett was 
part of the women’s quartet that clocked the ﬁ  fth-fastest time in UF history last week in the 4x400 relay at 3:31.17. To stay focused, Barnett said she concentrates on controlling her nerves.“I just try to focus on run-
ning… or executing how coach (Mike) Holloway says I should,” Barnett said. “It’ll all fall in place when I do that.”
Barnett — along with male 
sprinters Kunle Fasasi and fresh-man Benjamin Lobo Vedel — will compete in their ﬁ  rst quar-ter-mile this weekend.
Coach Holloway said that 
after the teams’ success at the Clemson Invitational, it was im-portant for his athletes to come back with a clean slate.
“We always talk about leav-
ing your failures (and) successes in the building,” Holloway said. “Our mindset is always that we’re just trying to get better.” 
@alanisthames Florida looks to continue success this 
weekend at Razorback InvitationalSWIMMING
By Jacob McManamon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and women’s 
swimming and diving teams will be in 
Knoxville today at 1 p.m. to take on the Tennessee Volunteers.
The No. 4 UF men’s team (6-1) enters 
the meet coming off a 183-114 win over SEC rival Auburn last Saturday.
Following a strong 
performance against the Tigers, senior Ben 
Lawless said the team 
will continue to work 
on the fundamentals in preparation for Ten-
nessee’s No. 12 men’s 
team.
“Tennessee is one 
of the best teams we will face,” Lawless said. “They are really talented up top, but they are not as deep as we are.”The men’s team will look to pick up its 
sixth straight win this season.
The No. 16 women’s squad (4-4) has 
a tough task ahead after losing to Auburn on Saturday by 21 points. It will face Ten-nessee’s No. 9 women’s team.
After UF freshman Taylor Ault’s 
breakout performance against Auburn — one that saw her record wins in the 
500 free and 1000 free — she said the key 
is to keep practicing and working on her weaknesses.
“I probably need to continue to im-
prove on my speed-work and getting out 
with enough speed,” she said.
Despite the UF’s loss, Ault said she 
was happy with the way her teammates performed against Auburn.
“We did so much better this year, 
and I was really proud of how far we’ve 
come, especially in a midseason meet,” Ault said.
@jmcmanamon97 Gators take on Volunteers 
this afternoon in KnoxvilleTRACK & FIELD
This Weekend in UF Sports
Friday, Jan. 19
Men’s/Women’s Swimming & Diving 
   @ T ennessee, 1 p.m.
Gymnastics 
   vs. Oklahoma, 6:45 p.m., SEC Network +
Men’s/Women’s Track & Field    @ Razorback Invitational, All Day, SEC Network +
Saturday, Jan. 20
Women’s T ennis 
   vs. Cal State Fullerton, 9 a.m.
Men’s Basketball 
   vs. Baylor, Noon, ESPN
Men’s T ennis 
   vs. South Alabama, 3 p.m .
Men’s/Women’s Track & Field 
   @ Razorback Invitational, All Day, SEC Network
Sunday, Jan. 21
Women’s Basketball 
   vs. Georgia, 2 p.m., SEC Network +
Men’s T ennis 
   vs. Pepperdine/South Florida, TBD
Women’s T ennis 
   vs. Louisiana-Monroe/Marshall, TBD
Photo credit: Alan Alvarez / Alligator StaffLawless
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 26, 2018
lineup is, who works best in what spot... 
that’s what we’ve been doing over these last couple of competitions.”
The last time Florida faced off against the 
Sooners in the regular season was on March 6, 2015, when the Gators lost by just 0.4 points.In Oklahoma’s last meet on Jan. 21 
against Iowa State and Texas Woman’s Uni-versity, OU put up the nation’s third-highest score this season (197.525).
Florida is coming off a 196.325-195.950 
win over Kentucky, a match that brought the Gators their ﬁ  rst SEC win of 2018. The two teams meet as the winners of the past ﬁ  ve NCAA team titles.For the Gators, it will be their ﬁ  rst time 
competing against the Sooners in the regular season in three years. Although some time has passed since the two teams met, Florida 
enters the match with the same conﬁ  dence 
it uses to hype itself up for every meet. 
“When we went one-on-one with OU, we 
were at the end of the season and it was at their home meet,” senior Kennedy Baker said. “This year it’s deﬁ  nitely a little differ-
ent, and we’re facing them earlier on in the 
season.” 
One gymnast who is more than ready 
for the match is sophomore Rachel Gowey. In UF’s last competition against Kentucky, 
Gowey claimed both the uneven bars and 
balance beam titles for the Gators.
“We really can’t go anywhere but up 
from here,” Gowey said. 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.org
GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 14Gators coming of victory against KentuckyAgainst Kentucky on Sat-
urday, the Gators did just that. They held the Wildcats 
to four three-pointers on 17 
attempts, rarely giving them good looks. Against South Carolina, though, Florida did 
the opposite, unable to de-
fend from deep.
When UF faces off against 
Baylor (12-8, 2-6 Big 12) this Saturday at noon at the 
O’Connell Center, White will 
look for his team to bounce back from its loss to the Gamecocks.
One thing White views 
as a challenge is the Bears’ size. Seven-foot tall big man Jo Lual-Acuil Jr. controls the boards, averaging 9.4 re-
bounds per game (third best 
in the Big 12), while 6-foot-8 forward Terry Maston aver-ages 6.3 rebounds per game. 
Baylor’s leading scorer, 
however, is its smallest player. Manu Lecomte, a 5-foot-11 redshirt senior, av-erages 16.6 points per game, good for sixth best in the Big 12. White said he’s looking forward to the matchup be-
tween Lecomte and UF guard 
Chris Chiozza, who's averag-ing 12.2 points per game.
“(Lecomte has) got the 
whole package,” White said. “He’s a terriﬁ  c point guard with a lot of experience, and we’ve got one as well. That’ll be a great matchup at 
the point.”
Overall, White said he 
wants the Gators to focus 
on their attention to detail 
against the Bears, some-
thing that eluded them on Wednesday.
“Our attention to detail 
was better Saturday (against 
Kentucky),” White said. “It’s 
been better at times. It’s got to be better this Saturday to have a chance.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14Florida faces Baylor on Saturday afternoon
Nate Bustamante  / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White said UF's attention to detail must be 
better this weekend against Baylor.
Guard Dyandria Anderson also had a re-
spectable game, making 80 percent of her 
shot attempts, ﬁ  nishing with nine points and 
three rebounds.
But the No. 2 Bulldogs were too much for 
the Gators as they came out of the gate with a 
press defense that Florida couldn’t handle in 
the second half.
Junior Teaira McCowan led all scorers with 
23 points on 9-of-13 shooting. The 6-foot-7 
center also collected eight rebounds against the Gators.
Mississippi State also found production 
from its senior leaders. Guard Victoria Viv-ians had 17 points on 8-of-17 shooting, while Blair Schaefer, daughter of Bulldogs coach 
Vic Schaefer, scored all 15 of her points from 
downtown, knocking down ﬁ  ve of her eight shots from three-point territory.
“There’s a reason they’re the No. 2 team in 
the country,” Newbauer said. “They showed 
it tonight.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.org WOMEN'S HOOPS,  from pg. 14Vivians shot 8 
of 15 from ield