We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Report cards: Grading every Gators position
The bye week brings us all closer to UGA week. In lieu of a game, 
the alligatorSports staff breaks down every position on offense 
and defense, pg. 14Hotel, motel, Hotel Indigo 
A new hotel is coming to Celebration Pointe, pg. 5
UF alumna to stay in Israel
After being detained for more than two weeks, the Isreali Su-
preme court decided she can stay, pg. 3FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 25
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Khadir Trowell, 21, dances as “Rose Chamellion” Thursday night at 
the ﬁ  rst-ever UF Gaytor Drag Race in the Rion Ballroom of the Reitz 
Union. Trowell earned the titles of best dancer and best outﬁ  t and 
won the competition overall. The prize for the winner was a time-
slot to perform at the University Club on Friday night, Gainesville 
Pride on Saturday and The Copa Nightclub in Ocala, Florida. Go to 
page 8 for more photos.
FEATURE FRIDAY
By Jessica Curbelo 
and Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writers
People ran away in horror when a 
man with a swastika print T-shirt ap-
proached the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts. 
One year ago, instead of ﬂ  eeing, 
Omar Syed put his hand on the man’s 
shoulder to escort him out of white su-
premacist Richard Spencer’s speech. 
“I told him, ‘You’re not welcome 
here,’ and he just smiled,” Syed, a 
25-year-old UF psychology senior, said. 
Syed was one of the thousands of 
protestors who spent more than nine 
hours shouting and waving signs Oct. 
19, 2017, at the UF venue, at 3201 Hull 
Road, protesting white supremacist 
Richard Spencer’s speech. For many 
like Syed, this marked the date they lost 
faith in the university. 
“There is a person that my univer-sity hosted who wants to take away my 
life,” Syed said. 
From the outside, Syed witnessed 
people pushing and spitting at the Spen-
cer supporter and eventually saw some-
one throw a punch at his face. 
“He was punched rightfully,” he 
said. 
Inside the entertainment center, 
Timothy Tia, a 22-year-old UF econom-
ics graduate, was one of the hundreds 
who grabbed a ticket to hear Spencer’s 
speech. 
Protestors chanted “Black lives mat-
ter” and “Let’s go Gators.” Their words 
echoed in the center and drowned 
Spencer’s speech, Tia said.   
“There was an electricity in the room 
among protestors,” Tia said. 
Spencer and his supporters may 
not have gotten the reaction they had 
initially hoped for, UF President Kent 
Fuchs said, and because of that, groups 
like Spencer’s have largely stopped coming to campus. 
The speech cost the university more 
than it cost Spencer, Fuchs said. He 
paid $10,564 to rent the space, but UF 
spent almost $600,000 on increased se-
curity.
The event caused people to talk 
about their values and the need to 
counter hate with words of support, 
Fuchs said.   
“In some sense, the freedom of 
speech really isn’t free,” Fuchs said. “It 
comes at a price not necessarily to those 
expressing it but to those who have to 
listen to it and endure it.” 
Since the speech, the university re-
viewed its policy that allows speakers 
to rent space on campus even if they, 
like Spencer, are not afﬁ  liated with a 
student group. Ultimately, UF decided 
not to change the policy because the 
facilities of the university are valuable 
to the larger Gainesville community, ‘I don’t feel like a Gator:’ A year 
after Spencer, students reﬂ  ect
SO FAR, ABOUT 130 
AFFECTED STUDENTS 
WERE CONTACTED. 
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Tonia Perkins’ neighborhood 
was unrecognizable. 
Perkins, a 37-year-old UF On-
line business administration junior, tried to look for the house she has 
lived in for 30 years in Callaway, 
Florida, from the shattered window 
of her parents’ car. 
Her house was in the path of 
Hurricane Michael. 
“There were people walking up 
and down the street,” Perkins said. 
“I had to ask them what road is 
this.”
About 160 UF Online students, 
like Perkins, might live where Hur-ricane Michael hit, said Evangeline 
Cummings, the director of UF On-
line. Advisors contacted about 130 
affected students as of Thursday.
Hours after searching for her 
home, Perkins ﬁ  nally found it with 
her garage destroyed, sunroom 
shattered and with extensive water 
damage. 
At least the house was standing. 
Even with her circumstances, 
Perkins said she did not want to withdraw from the two courses in 
which she is enrolled. 
“I don’t want to redo it,” Perkins 
said. “I don’t want to start over.” 
Advisers are contacting stu-
dents to tell them that instructors 
are aware of their hardships, Cum-
mings said. 
“We don’t want them to worry 
about contacting us, but we want 
to check in,” Cummings said.
Cummings said they are telling affected students about available 
resources such as U Matter, We 
Care and Aid-A-Gator, an emer-
gency hurricane funding program. 
“We are here to help them re-
cover,” Cummings said. “We want 
them to know that the University of 
Florida stands with them.” 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgAbout 160 UF Online students might have been in Michael’s pathBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Chris King felt disappointment and 
peace when he lost the Florida Demo-
cratic nomination to Tallahassee Mayor 
Andrew Gillum in August, he said. 
Days after Gillum won, King was 
surprised and honored when Gillum in-
vited him to Tallahassee to ask him to 
run as his lieutenant governor, he said. 
King talked to The Alligator about 
health care, education and equity.Q: How did you meet Andrew Gil-
lum?
A: I met Andrew when we were both 
running for governor. We competed 
against each other over and over and 
over again for 18 months. I spent about 
as much time with Andrew as I did with 
my wife during that period of time.
Q: Having gone to law school at 
a Florida university, what are your 
thoughts on the current state of educa-
tion?
A: Overall, our thoughts are that it has been underfunded or unfunded at 
key areas of the educational spectrum. 
When we say education, we’re thinking 
about everything from early childhood 
education to university education. May-
or Gillum and I believe very strongly 
that the best states and the best econo-
mies invest signiﬁ  cantly in preparing 
the workforce for the future. That starts 
as early as early childhood education. 
So, we have a plan to invest nearly a 
billion dollars of new resources in early Q&A: Democrat Lt. Gov. candidate Chris King 
SEE KING,  PAGE 4SEE SPENCER,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
HIGH  88° LOW  69°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
GatorNights - Twisted Fairy Tales
GatorNights guests can escape 
a locked tower at the fairytale 
escape room and revel at the 
“Greeks Got Talent Showcase” 
tonight at the Reitz Union. Guests 
can also become a “fairy god-
parent” to a child at UF Health 
Shands Hospital at the Global 
Coffeehouse Pumpkin Service 
Project. Popcorn and soda will be 
offered at the Auditorium for the 
showings of “Christopher Robin” 
at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. There 
will be free bowling and billiards 
in the Game Room. GatorNights is 
free for UF students with a Gator 
1 Card from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at 
the Reitz Union. Attendees must 
be current students to participate 
and are allowed to bring one 
guest.
Want to learn Argentine tango? 
Join the UF Argentine Tango Club 
6:15-8:15 p.m. Sunday at the 
Reitz Union Dance Studio B for a 
free tango class with a guest art-
ist. Prior dance experience is not 
necessary. Find us on Facebook 
under “UF Argentine Tango 
Club” for schedule and events.
Girls Who Code
Girls Who Code Gainesville is 
officially up and running for the 
2018-19 school year. This non-
profit organization is geared to-
ward closing the gender gap in 
technology careers and encour-
aging young girls to pursue com-
puter science and related inter-
ests. The new Gainesville chapter 
is looking to register more girls, 
grades six through 12, to take 
part in this free after-school ac-
tivity, which will be held 7-8:30 
p.m. Thursdays at the Alachua 
County Headquarters Library. 
Three female UF affiliates run the 
citywide club: Natalie Remón, a 
graduate student in information systems and operations man-
agement; Gabriela Buraglia, an 
undergraduate student studying 
industrial and systems engineer-
ing; and Lauren Laboissonniere, 
a postdoctoral researcher at 
the Department of Molecular 
Genetics and Microbiology. 
Young women interested in com-
puters or generally curious about 
technology can visit the organiza-
tion’s Facebook page at facebook.
com/GWCGainesville. No previ-
ous experience is required. All 
genders are welcome.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of individuals 
who desire to recover from eat-
ing disorders. If you feel guilty 
about eating, are at times un-
able to start or stop eating even 
when you want to, or if you feel 
disgusted or powerless over your 
eating, this group may be for you. 
Everyone is welcome, regardless 
of age. For times, locations or 
more information, please email 
GainesvilleEDA@gmail.com or 
text/call 954-319-6365. You can 
also visit www.4EDA.org for 
more information. 
My Fulbright in Seven Minutes
UF Fulbright Programs will host 
“My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” 
5:30-7:30 p.m. Oct. 25 at the UF 
International Center in the Hub. 
Guests can learn about Fulbright 
grants and network with U.S. 
and international Fulbright 
participants. These seven-min-
ute presentations are concise 
and fast-paced. They are en-
titled: “From Legend to Science: 
Geomicrobiology of the Fountain 
of Youth” by Adrian Barry Sosa, 
“Regenerative Medicine – From 
Tail-regenerating Lizards to 
Organ-regenerating Humans?” by 
Ruxandra Sava and “Heat Stress 
and Fertility: The Answer from 
Cows” by Ali Husnain. Light re-freshments will be served. To 
RSVP, email UFFulbrightRSVP@
gmail.com. The event is free and 
open to the public. For more in-
formation, contact mcardec@
ufic.ufl.edu.
Apply Now for 2019-20 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. Students can now file a 
2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s “On-Time” 
deadline to receive the results of 
students’ 2019-20 FAFSA from 
the federal processor is Dec. 15. 
Apply before Dec. 15 to ensure 
that the federal processor has 
time to analyze and send the re-
sults of the FAFSA to UF Student 
Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, first-
served basis, so it is recommend-
ed to apply as early as possible to 
be considered for the most aid. 
The 2019-20 FAFSA will be avail-
able on a new phone app called 
myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 25
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Sabrina Conza, Sarah Breske, 
April Rubin, Mikayla Carroll, 
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Samantha MarshallJuan Salguero, Paige Arneson,Marlowe Starling, Lourdes Hernandez,
Madison Forbis
JOB RECRUITMENT 
EVENT
NOV . 13, 9am - 5pm
Best Western Gateway Grand
4200 NW 97th Blvd.  
Gainesville, FL 32606Managers will be on site to 
conduct on the spot interviews
NOW HIRING
• Nurses
    -CNA, LPN, CMA
• Financial Services  
Representatives
• Patient Advocates
• Finance Clerks
• Marketing & Outreach  
Positions
• Medical Providers
• Dental Assistants
• Pharmacy T echniciansQuestions? Contact:
Jessica Bongiavonni HR Recruiter
HR@palmsmg.org
For these positions and others, save time by
applying in advance at www.palmsmg.org
Click on the “Careers” tab and “Apply Online” .
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Emily T artaglia, a 19-year-old UF criminology junior, could not pass up the chance to tie-dye a free 
T-shirt Wednesday afternoon. The UF Student Honor Code Administration provided free tie-dying for 
students on the Plaza of the Americas to promote Conﬂ  ict Resolution Week. 
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Muskan Shah, an 18-year-old UF health sciences freshman, is all 
smiles Wednesday afternoon while she tie-dyes a shirt on the Plaza 
of the Americas; 190 people tie-dyed shirts for free during the event. 
More free T-shirts? Nearly 200 students attend tie-dye event
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF alumna Lara Alqasem was grant-
ed permission to enter Israel after being 
detained for more than two weeks in 
an Israeli airport. 
After ﬁ  ghting deportation, the Israeli 
Supreme Court overturned previous 
decisions that banned her from enter-
ing the country, the Associated Press 
reported.
Alqasem, 22, appealed to judges so 
she could enter Israel to start a master’s 
program at the Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem. Both of her appeals to lo-
cal and regional courts were initially denied.
The decision was overturned be-
cause her desire to study in Israel was 
more important in the court’s eyes than 
her alleged previous involvement boy-
cotting Israeli companies, AP reported. 
In her appeal, Alqasem said she 
does not participate in boycotts now or 
in the future.
Israel previously passed a law that 
banned anyone who “knowingly issues 
a public call for boycotting Israel” from 
entry. The state wanted to use Alqa-
sem’s past involvement as evidence 
against her, but the Supreme Court de-
cided this evidence was not enough to 
use the anti-boycott law. Alqasem’s lawyers said she has 
been released from the airport. She said 
she was “relieved at the court’s deci-
sion,” in a statement.
William Christou, a 22-year-old UF 
international studies senior, said he fol-
lowed Alqasem’s case from the begin-
ning. He said he felt less anxious once 
he realized the state had a weaker case 
and saw a picture of her leaving the air-
port, bags in hand.
“It was really amazing to see Lara 
free from foreign detention and free to 
pursue her education,” Christou said. 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org UF alumna will not be deported from Israel after court decision
Timeline of Alqasem’s detainment
• Oct. 2 - Lara Alqasem is detained at the Ben Gurion Airport in Israel for 
alleged involvement in a group that boycotts Israel.
• Oct. 5 - Local court appeal for entry into the country was denied. She is still 
living in the Ben Gurion Airport.
• Oct. 12 - Alqasem’s second appeal to the Tel Aviv District Court is denied.
• Oct. 14 - Court agrees to a third hearing regarding whether or not Alqasem 
can enter Israel and study at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.  
• Oct. 18 - Israel Supreme Court accepts Alqasem’s appeal, allowing entry into 
the country.4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
By Samia Lagmis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Angie Suarez only expected a 
free meal when she went to Fast-
A-Thon for the ﬁ  rst time last year. 
The 20-year-old UF public 
health junior was pleasantly sur-
prised to learn about Islam and 
what fasting means to Muslims, 
she said. She came back to the 
O’Connell Center with a group of 
friends and an appetite Thursday night.
“It was about so much more 
than food,” Suarez said.
More than 450 students ate a 
traditional Mediterranean dinner 
during Islam on Campus’ 15th an-
nual charity fundraiser.
The group raised more than 
$4,000 for Islamic Circle of North 
America Relief’s Transitional 
Women’s Homes in Florida and 
the Edhi Foundation, a social 
welfare organization in Pakistan, said Sana Nimer, the group’s 
president. 
Islam on Campus will donate 
to the charities on behalf of each 
student who signed up to fast 
from sunrise to sunset.
“We choose to fast because it 
unites us with those who are less 
fortunate,” Nimer said.
Students ate hummus as an ap-
petizer; Kefta, a traditional beef 
dish, with rice; a Mediterranean 
salad as an entree; and cake for dessert.
The majority of students who 
attended were not Muslim, said 
Mariam Abouzied, an executive 
board member.
“I believe that Fast-A-Thon 
will show that anyone can make 
a difference,” she said. “College 
students in Florida can be impact-
ing lives across the world.”
The dinner also featured guest 
speakers UF President Kent Fuchs 
and Imam Abdurrahman Sykes, a Muslim community leader from 
Orlando.
Sykes began fasting as a Chris-
tian 46 years ago, he told stu-
dents. He converted to Islam after 
researching fasting in different 
religions and in Muslim commu-
nities. 
“Fasting involves more than 
just being hungry and thirsty,” 
Sykes said. Islam on Campus hosts 15th annual Fast-A-Thon
Fuchs said. 
Tia said he thinks university 
administration should have fought 
to bar Spencer from speaking by 
bringing him to court, even if it is 
likely Spencer would have won. 
If the university had the funds to 
spend on the security, it could af-
ford to take on a legal battle, Tia 
said.   
“They decided to let it happen,” 
Tia said. “They thought that was 
the path of least resistance.” 
---
Syed spent the duration of the 
day standing outside, shoulder-to-
shoulder, with thousands of protes-
tors and law enforcement ofﬁ  cers. 
Sometimes, he felt outnumbered by law enforcement by as much as 
two-to-one. 
And for much of the time, he 
said he felt uncomfortable with the 
heavy police presence, with many 
ofﬁ  cers dressed in riot gear while 
Syed only held a poster. 
“It felt that the university was 
trying to contain us,” Syed said. 
“We cried for help, but for them, 
it wasn’t about who was being tar-
geted.”
About a thousand ofﬁ  cers trav-
eled into Gainesville from all over 
the state, said University Police 
spokesperson Capt. Jeff Holcomb. 
The majority of law enforce-
ment was concentrated on campus 
and around the Phillips Center, 
Holcomb said. 
“This is one of those things 
where you’d rather not have to deal with something like that, but 
in our profession, we don’t get to 
pick and choose what we get to 
deal with,” Holcomb said.
Ofﬁ  cers arrested two men, one 
for possession of a ﬁ  rearm on 
school property and the other for 
resisting an ofﬁ  cer, according to 
a press release. Fire rescue teams 
treated ﬁ  ve injuries.
Two brothers and a friend drove 
from Texas to Gainesville to listen 
to Spencer speak. They were ar-
rested later that day.
Colton Fears wore a Nazi-era 
pin. William Fears told journalists 
that whites should take control of 
their destiny.
An hour after the event, the 
Fears brothers and Tyler Tenbrink 
stopped their car at the corner of 
Southwest 34th Street and South-west Archer Road to argue with 
protesters. 
The brothers encouraged Ten-
brink to shoot when he stepped 
out of the car, police said. He shot 
once. No one was injured.
Colton Fears pleaded guilty to 
three counts of accessory to at-
tempted murder. He will be sen-
tenced Nov. 21. 
Tenbrink sits in the Alachua 
County Jail waiting for his trial 
date to be set. He was charged with 
attempted ﬁ  rst-degree murder and 
possessing a weapon as a felon. 
---
A year later, Syed still demands action from the university admin-
istration. 
He wants UF to cater to its mar-
ginalized students. For “The Good 
Life” class to be replaced with a 
course on fascism and hate speech. 
For students to have the power to 
veto speakers like Spencer.
He no longer feels welcomed by 
his own university.
“I don’t feel like a Gator,” Seyd 
said. “I don’t.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.org
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgSPENCER,  from pg. 1UF spent about $600,000 on security SPENCER EVENT BY THE NUMBERS
• Spencer spoke from 2:30-4:30 p.m. Oct. 19, 2017.
• Classes were not canceled.
• Spencer payed $10,564 to rent space in the Phillips Center.
• UF spent almost $600,000 when he came to campus.childhood education, in K-12 public edu-
cation and in technical and vocational 
education.
Q: What do you think can be done to 
facilitate racial equity in Florida universi-
ties and colleges?
A: You’re talking to the ticket that I 
think represents the future of Florida, 
even in its racial makeup. We look like 
Florida, and I think that positions us to 
know how to advance the types of poli-
cies at every level of government.
Q: Why do you think people, and more 
speciﬁ  cally college students, should vote 
for Gillum?
A: We’re the only environmentalists 
running. We’re the only folks who are 
talking about science and environmental 
policy-making. So for all those reasons, I 
think college students are like, ‘These are 
two young, entrepreneurial progressives 
and forward-thinking type people who 
want to shoot for the stars,’ or as we often 
say in our race, ‘swing for the fences.’ I 
think students are very idealistic.
Q: What would you say are the top 
three issues that you and Mayor Gillum 
are hoping to work on?
A: Number one is health care. We’re 
20 days from the election, and we’re run-
ning against a candidate who’s been run-
ning for 261, and he doesn’t have a plan 
for health care in Florida. This should be 
very important to college students who are coming out of college and are looking 
for affordable health care. 
Number two is public education. May-
or Gillum, who was educated during high 
school in Gainesville, is a passionate be-
liever in the connection between invest-
ing in public education and growing the 
workforce of the future, the economy of 
the future. So this is the ticket that is talk-
ing about public education everywhere 
we go, from early childhood to univer-
sity education. You hear crickets from the 
other side.
Third is the environment. We are liv-
ing in a state right now that’s almost a 
science ﬁ  ction novel in the sense we have 
all these different forms of algae ringing 
our coast. Our seas are rising. Our climate 
is warming, and storms are strengthening. 
We need the next governor of Florida to 
be very assertive and entrepreneurial and 
environmental and building the clean en-
ergy economy of the future.
So I would say those are the big three: 
health care, public education and the en-
vironment. I think we are in a class above 
Ron DeSantis, and I’m hoping younger 
voters — both high school-aged 18-year-
olds and college students — vote this elec-
tion.
Editor’s note: This Q&A was edited for 
length and clarity.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgKING,  from pg. 1He is running with Gillum
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Lt. Governor candidate Chris King visits Gainesville Wednesday afternoon to speak with 
The Alligator about his campaign with Andrew Gillum. King discussed health care, public 
education and the environment during the Q&A. King was selected as Andrew Gillum’s 
running mate after he lost the Democratic nomination for Florida governor.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Student Member at Large
This position may be filled by a graduate or undergraduate student.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each Tuesday through 
Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, 
October 19. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. 
Further written information is available at the time an application 
is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at 
that time to read information regarding the application process. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator by Tuesday, 
October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held 
at the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on 
Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must be present at 
that meeting to be considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking 
college or university students. Preference will be given to those 
who have experience with The Independent Florida Alligator.
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law Angela DiMichele / Alligator Staff
Hotel Indigo will open by mid-November at 5020 SW 30th Lane in Celebration Pointe. The small 
boutique hotel has 140 rooms with music, nature and animal mural walls in each one. 
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Bats, alligators, horses, Tom 
Petty and Bo Diddley decorate the 
bedrooms of one of Gainesville’s 
newest hotels. 
Hotel Indigo, a six-story hotel 
at 5020 SW 30th Lane in Celebra-
tion Pointe, is set to open mid-No-
vember, said operations manager 
John Goodner.
Hotel Indigo’s art, architec-
ture and more than 200 local 
Gainesville workers make the ho-
tel stand out, Goodner said. The 
InterContinental Hotels Group, the 
hospitality company that owns Ho-
tel Indigo, crafted the 140 rooms 
with Gainesville’s “neighborhood 
story” in mind. 
Henry Hinojosa, the project su-
perintendent, said each room has 
a brightly painted mural wall with 
music or nature scenes. One of the 
murals displays a horse trampling 
an alligator after a video of a stal-
lion attacking a sunbathing alliga-
tor at Paynes Prairie Preserve State 
Park received 2 million views.
“Celebration Pointe is a very 
upscale, high-end retail develop-
ment, and we wanted to tie that 
back into the hotel,” Goodner said. 
Some rooms will cost around 
$130 during weekdays, Goodner 
said. He expects prices to increase during busier times, such as foot-
ball season. 
The hotel features a bar, res-
taurant, pool, gym, computer 
room and four conference rooms, 
Hinojosa said. Visitors walking 
into the hotel are greeted by cir-
cular sofas, wooden tables and a 
6-foot white alligator attached to 
the lobby ﬂ  oor. 
About 80 percent of the sub-
contractors who worked on the 
project live in Gainesville and Oc-
ala, Goodner said. Car-sized boul-
ders of limestone underneath the 
dirt uncovered during the exca-
vation project were used around 
and in the hotel.
Larger pieces of the stone were 
used as landscaping features, and 
smaller brick-sized pieces were 
used on walls, Goodner said. 
Hinojosa said he did not know 
about Gainesville’s large bat pop-
ulation until he saw the creatures 
in murals, framed photos and 
decorations around the hotel. 
“This hotel to me is unique 
because of its design,” Hinojosa 
said. “The interior design, the 
murals and the music — it’s all 
a part of the Gainesville atmo-
sphere.”
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org Luxury hotel to open mid-November at Celebration PointeThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORSitting on the grassy banks of Lake Wauberg, you won-
der silently to yourself about the weather. The gusts of 
late October wind are warm but only mildly. They tell 
you all you need to know: Summer is ending. Florida is 
slow to chill but that now seems inevitable. Through the 
darkened lenses of your sunglasses you can see the sun already 
retreating at 4 p.m. You remove your shades. For the past week, 
cold fronts have stalked the summer heat like a tiger in the bush, 
waiting for a lull to go in for the kill — leaving the throne empty 
and ready for autumn.
The signs of seasonal change are all around you. Pumpkin 
spice is back in fashion. Your roommate has a two-pound loaf 
of pumpkin bread sitting in the refrigerator at home, which she 
bought at a pumpkin patch that sprung up near your house last 
week. Your very in-fashion friend has been wearing burnt or-
ange, vermilion and persimmon since September. You cannot 
differentiate between the shades of orange but smile and nod 
politely as she monologues excitedly about bittersweet shimmer 
and atomic tangerine.
Deep down, you mourn summer’s passing. You missed wear-
ing ﬂ  ip ﬂ  ops to class and lying out by the pool. Spooktober 
memes just won’t ﬁ  ll that hole in your heart. The fond summer 
memories evaporate as you walk mouth-ﬁ  rst into a Florida sum-
mer staple: a buzzing cloud of tasteless gnats. Instead of exple-
tives, you sputter and cry out:
Darts and Laurels
The end is upon us. Not just the end of summer, but the end 
of cannabis prohibition in Canada. Wednesday was the ﬁ  rst day 
of legal sales there. Canadians waited for hours in line to get 
their ﬁ  rst taste of state-sanctioned cannabis smoke. A countdown 
party in Toronto was comparable in scale to that of a New Year’s 
countdown party. Canadians symbolically lowered a large bud 
of cannabis (which was really a gargantuan wad of what looked 
like green crumpled paper) at midnight the evening prior to legal 
sales.
It looked more like a sickly jalapeño, but we applaud the To-
rontonians for their gumption and initiative. We accordingly be-
stow a laurel to the sculptor of the misshapen pepper.
The largest producers and growers of the drug in Canada are 
now valued in the billions, according to The New York Times. 
The world cannot know what lies in wait for Canada — what eco-
nomic, cultural, spiritual and gastronomical impact legalization 
of cannabis will undoubtedly have. We cannot help but wonder 
about what type of pancakes the ﬁ  rst bottles of cannabis-infused 
maple syrup will be used on. We ponder about how much more 
relaxed and polite Canadians will become, if such an improve-
ment is even possible.
A laurel is awarded to Canadian Parliament for having the 
good sense to legalize the recreational use of the drug. A second 
laurel is proffered to the brave souls who waited in line in a 
freezing Canadian October to make their historic purchases. A 
dart to the U.S. for lagging morally and continuing to wage a 
war on drugs.
In more serious news, the alliance between the U.S. and Saudi 
Arabia is starting to show cracks after new and more gruesome 
evidence of Jamal Khashoggi’s killing was revealed. Khashoggi 
was a prominent Saudi dissident journalist who lived in Virginia 
and contributed for The Washington Post. He walked into the 
Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2. Two hours later, he was 
dead, dismembered and beheaded, according to The New York 
Times. Audio recordings described by the Turkish government 
purportedly show that 15 Saudi agents, some with ties to Crown 
Prince Mohammed bin Salman, were waiting to murder him 
when he arrived.
It is hard to overstate how odious, vile, ruthless and cruel this 
killing was. There are no laurels involved here. Only darts for the 
Saudi government and the agents who committed murder under 
the guise of nationalism or pretense of duty.
If we do not levy heavy sanctions against Saudi Arabia, it will 
send a message that the U.S. does not protect its own dissident 
journalists. Maybe the end will be upon us after all.Just over a year ago, The Alligator reported 
on a fateful meeting in which Student Gov-
ernment ofﬁ  cials voted against a proposal 
to provide permanent funding for new 
counselors at the Counseling and Wellness 
Center, igniting a conﬂ  agration of student outcry.
I didn’t take the decision well and wrote a let-
ter to the editor lambasting the decision entitled 
“SG kills mental health funding: A travesty of 
priorities.” I expressed my agitated feelings and 
it seemed that many others felt the same way, 
responding to my call to come down and share 
their stories at the next Student Senate meeting.
I burned a lot of bridges. The Student Body President at 
the time came down to Senate and pointed out “inaccura-
cies” in my letter, but after I debated with him, we all real-
ized that his reading comprehension wasn’t that great and he 
was grasping at technicalities.
One of the members on the local fee committee criticized 
me for not reading up on the “publicly available minutes,” 
but as it turned out, the minutes for the meeting were never 
published. Awkward.
The SG ofﬁ  cials on the committee opted to redirect fund-
ing from elsewhere to the CWC by working with UF’s Chief 
Financial Ofﬁ  cer, but they failed. (And y’all really think they 
were involved with expanding Bright Futures? They couldn’t 
lobby a squirrel to climb a tree.)
When the dust settled, our university administration ul-
timately provided the funding. SG played the rat race for 
credit, banking on the fact that, at the end of the day, we got 
the funding without having to raise fees.
But here we are again, a year later. Students are still tell-
ing their stories about how they face difﬁ  culties getting the 
help they need at the CWC. My friends have given up on 
getting help from the CWC and now scour the outside com-
munity for counselors. Unable to get regular sessions with 
counselors, they have ended up in group therapy. 
Some of you may have seen a petition circling around 
on Facebook, advocating for increased funding for the CWC. The author is in the process of medically with-
drawing from classes.
The CWC is doing what it can. I know it is hir-
ing folks, but if it has a proposal in for this year’s 
local fee committee meetings, it means it needs 
more help.
Here’s how it will go. Likely within the next 
month, the CWC and other campus entities will 
submit fee proposals. Last year, the CWC wanted 
to raise the health fee by 71 cents per credit hour.
Multiply that per credit amount by the num-
ber of credit hours you are taking, and you will 
ﬁ  gure out how much more per semester you’ll pay. Seventy-
one cents per credit hour multiplied by the 13 credit hours 
I’m taking would mean an additional 9.23 dollars per semes-
ter I will pay if the increase goes into effect.
Note that there are a lot of big “ifs” upcoming: I have 
not conﬁ  rmed if the CWC has submitted a proposal, and the 
amount of the increase would have a big impact on its palat-
ability with the Student Body. Additionally, even if the local 
fee committee does approve any increases, it is simply the 
ﬁ  rst step before going to the university president and then 
the Board of Trustees and Board of Governors. Should all 
the hurdles be cleared, then it would go into effect next Fall.
There’s also the issue of affordability. A mainstay buzz-
word of the majority party, affordability was the reason why 
the students on the committee last year denied all the pro-
posals. I’m not sure if I buy it, though. I look up how much 
SG folks’ homes are worth just for fun and, disheartened, I 
chuckle. I can’t really say SG does a great job of representing 
lower-income folks. I like to think that they are the people 
who especially beneﬁ  t from services offered by entities such 
as the CWC (seeing how it’s free counseling.) 
I hope people share their stories, someone actually de-
cides to collect some data and we talk about this decision as 
a community. Here is a link to the petition: goo.gl/3oY4Vz.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and Mur-
phree Area Senator. His column appears on Fridays.Student Government’s mental  health debacle
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
I read Wednesday's letter to 
the editor regarding greyhound 
racing in disbelief. The writer 
says greyhounds are not abused. 
That may be true for his hounds, 
but it is clearly not true at other 
Florida racetracks. I have a friend 
who rescues racing greyhounds 
that have been abused. As one ex-
ample, Cami’s paws were so badly 
damaged that several operations 
have not been able to remedy them. She now wears soft padded 
shoes and still has pain when she 
walks. Initially, she shook and 
trembled when strangers arrived; 
she would quickly hide behind 
her rescuers. Please vote YES on 
Amendment 13 to ban dog racing 
and end the mistreatment of these 
beautiful animals.
Alice Gridley is a Gainesville 
resident.
I recently saw a post 
on one of those 
semi-annoying-but-
can’t-look-away  
meme accounts. The 
photo was of a group of 
girls getting ready in 
front of a big bathroom 
mirror, and they were 
all wearing practically 
identical iterations of the same 
thing: a denim skirt and a white 
tank top. The caption said as if to 
be sarcastic, “Yeah, girls don’t all 
wear the same thing.” 
Most of the time, I scroll, pause 
on a meme, view it for a moment 
and go about my day. But the im-
age and message attached to this 
post left me puzzled, and even a 
bit defensive — which led me to 
ponder personal style in terms of 
how today’s college students ex-
press themselves through cloth-
ing in the digital age.
How do the aspirational posts 
we see on Instagram — as well as 
our personalized algorithms that 
somehow know what styles we 
enjoy (or want in our wardrobe) 
— shape our ideas of personal 
style? Also, is the idea of personal 
style still considered “personal” 
when so many of our style choic-
es are (consciously or subcon-
sciously) inspired by the images 
we see on our social media feeds? 
For one thing, there’s more 
than meets the eye to that meme I 
described above. Users who com-
mented on the post seemed quick 
to describe the way the girls were 
dressed as “basic” — an adjective 
that has taken on its own border-
line-derogatory deﬁ  nition among 
my generation — but the idea of 
following trends or fads is noth-
ing new.
In fact, I would argue that hu-
mans are inherently basic when it 
comes to being followers in social 
situations or feeling comfortable 
in familiar environments where 
we have a sense of belonging.
I think our style choices can 
be tied to this human desire to ﬁ  t 
in with a community. Expressing 
ourselves in a way that’s familiar 
and likable at the moment can 
bring about a sense of belonging (and, not to mention, 
the fashion industry es-
sentially thrives on con-
sumers who subscribe 
to the ﬂ  ow of trends).
Also, in our culture, 
where having a strong 
or unique personal 
brand seems to rank 
high on the importance 
scale in determining aspects of 
our career or future, there’s pres-
sure for people in my generation 
to establish and express a distinct 
sense of style while still maintain-
ing a brand that is likable.
Even though social media is, 
on one hand, a haven for diver-
sity in how people express them-
selves, I think for college stu-
dents, personal style is often tied 
to our environment and the social 
norms attached to our campus. 
There seems to be an unspoken 
rule that wearing anything but 
athleisure to class means you ei-
ther have an interview or a group 
presentation, and veering too far 
from other style trends (for both 
men and women) can bring about 
social sanctions, or punishments 
(like being stigmatized), for going 
against the grain. 
It’s not groundbreaking that 
some groups of people within 
the same cohort dress similarly 
to one another, but perhaps now 
that social media is an outlet for 
students to document their own 
style philosophies and get in-
spired by others’ fashion choices, 
my generation is acutely aware of 
the trends that ﬂ  ood its Instagram 
feeds and which styles stand out 
from the pack. This makes for as-
sumptive labels or generalizations 
like the meme alluded to: “Yeah, 
girls all wear the same thing.”
In order to discover and cel-
ebrate our own personal style and 
those of the people around us, we 
would do well to step back from 
the comments and embrace what-
ever speaks to us — whether it’s 
basic or not.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column normally ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Has the age of 'basic' 
impacted personal style?Column
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgI want to tell you about George 
Starke Jr., the ﬁ  rst African 
American student to enroll at 
UF.
Born in Orlando the son of 
a librarian and a doctor, Starke at-
tended Morehouse College in At-
lanta, then served four years in the 
U.S. Air Force before applying to 
three law schools: Northwestern, 
Washington University and UF. 
His LSAT scores were excellent 
and all three schools admitted him. 
He always wanted to attend UF, 
and that’s what he chose.
His ﬁ  rst few weeks of class in 
Gainesville were far from ordinary.
As he wrote in The Orlando Sen-
tinel last September, a video avail-
able on YouTube shows him seated 
in University Auditorium on the 
ﬁ  rst day of class as reporters and 
photographers take notes and snap 
pictures of him.
Until Thanksgiving break, he 
was unknowingly escorted around 
UF by Florida Highway Patrol 
troopers in plainclothes posing as 
students, ready to intervene in case 
he was threatened.
Last month marked 60 years 
since Starke took that brave ﬁ  rst 
step onto our campus and opened 
the doors that had been closed to 
black students since the universi-
ty’s foundation.
What has changed since that 
day in Fall 1958?
Starke became one black stu-
dent out of only a handful at UF 
in the early years of integration. 
We are much more diverse today, 
though our population of black stu-
dents remains far too low.
In his era, the UF band played “Dixie” at football games, and stu-
dents waved the Confederate ﬂ  ag. 
Today, we are a campus that 
celebrates and welcomes all people 
and cultures. Indeed, when white 
supremacist Richard Spencer be-
came an unwanted visitor to cam-
pus a year ago, he and his racist 
hatred were viliﬁ  ed by everyone at 
UF.
What has not changed over the 
past six decades?
Starke recalls being generally 
welcomed by students, and he ex-
perienced no violence. 
But as the only black student on 
campus, he was isolated. The other 
students who integrated UF also felt 
isolated and lonely.
Unfortunately, some current Af-
rican American students at UF con-
tinue to experience those same feel-
ings of isolation. We have also not 
been free of racist incidents, though 
we denounce all forms of racism 
and seek to hold accountable those 
responsible.
In June, UF welcomed its ﬁ  rst 
chief diversity ofﬁ  cer, Antonio Far-
ias. In a cabinet-level position, he is 
responsible for establishing a new 
standard of excellence in equity, di-
versity and inclusion.
Last month, construction began on a $10 million project to create 
two new buildings for UF’s historic 
Institute of Black Culture and Insti-
tute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures. 
It is my hope that when these 
beautiful new student-driven insti-
tutes open next Fall, they will serve 
not only as embracing centers for 
African American and Hispanic/
LatinX students but also as beacons 
of anti-racism and love for all peo-
ple on our campus.
Starke, whose admission to 
UF was made possible by the pio-
neering civil rights efforts of Vir-
gil Hawkins, did not complete his 
studies at UF.
He withdrew in early 1960 and 
instead pursued a successful career 
in business in the Northeast. Now 
retired, he enjoys a strong relation-
ship with UF and the Levin College 
of Law.
On Nov. 7, the UF Law Center 
for the Study of Race and Race Rela-
tions will commemorate 60 years of 
desegregation at UF. 
The event, set for 3 - 4:30 p.m. 
in Room 180 in Holland Hall, will 
feature reﬂ  ections from students 
and alumni and, ﬁ  ttingly, a tribute 
to George Starke Jr. — the coura-
geous trailblazer who helped set UF 
on the right course so many years 
ago.
As a gentle and beautiful re-
minder to UF’s core values, music 
professor Laura Ellis is scheduled 
to play “Lift Every Voice and Sing” 
at 12:35 p.m. today on the Century 
Tower carillon as she did so power-
fully on Oct. 19, 2017.
Kent Fuchs is the UF president. 
His column appears monthly.The future of race and diversity at UF is brightColumn
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
The worst part about getting attached 
to a TV show is that you never want 
it to end. We love the idea that our 
favorite shows will go on forever. In 
theory, this is great. In reality, it’s 
impossible to execute. No matter how much 
the creators and fans want more content, 
there are only so many stories to tell.
Sure, if the actors are on board, this 
could mean a show still lasts quite a few 
seasons. Take “Orange Is the New Black,” 
for example. Jenji Kohan and the cast just announced 
that season seven, to be released in summer 2019, will 
be the last season of the show. With the exception 
of getting rid of a few fan favorites, the show man-
aged to keep its cast largely intact — at least enough 
that the story could continue cohesively. Another 
great example of this is “Game of Thrones.” Sure, the 
show lost some great characters, but we never saw a 
prominent character (say, Jon Snow) leave the show 
prematurely. 
Not all shows (and fans) can be so lucky. For the 
number of shows that willingly end on a high note, 
there are just as many that hang on to every last 
thread they can until the show falls apart. As a fan, 
it’s sad to watch. A few years ago, Nina Dobrev left 
“The Vampire Diaries” at the end of season six, just as 
the show was reaching the height of its popularity. So, 
despite the fact that she played arguably the most piv-
otal character on the show, the CW renewed the show 
for two more seasons without her. Needless to say, it 
wasn’t pretty. Of course, the rest of the cast continued 
to give fantastic performances and the quality of the 
show never wavered, but there were not any compel-
ling stories to be told without Dobrev’s presence, and the show ended on an incredibly low note.
In recent months, two actors from Show-
time’s “Shameless” — Emmy Rossum and 
Cameron Monaghan — have announced 
their departure from the show. In their an-
nouncements, both made it clear that they 
hoped the show continued without them 
because there were so many more stories to 
be told. It’s a nice sentiment, but it’s just not 
true. The characters that these two portray 
are essentially a large part of the glue that 
holds the show together. Without them, there is no 
reason for it to continue. However, instead of ending 
the show after nine seasons on a high note, the net-
work will make the grave mistake of continuing until 
ratings show it failing without its main characters.
I’m sure anyone can think of another show that 
has gone down the same route. As terrible as it is, 
it makes sense. Networks know that devoted view-
ers will tune in for at least one terrible season, if not 
more, in hopes that the show will return to its former 
glory. Those views are often more important than the 
integrity of the content. They would rather pour their 
effort into a show they know will generate buzz than 
try their hand at a new show that has to ﬁ  nd a new 
audience. 
Just because it’s logical does not make it less of a 
cop-out. As fans, we should demand more from the 
creators of our favorite shows. As much as we want 
to see our favorite shows continue for as long as pos-
sible, wouldn’t we rather see them end on a great note 
— with the entire cast, an interesting story and 100 
percent of our investment? I know I would. 
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.The proper way to put a TV show to restColumn
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.orgBy Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
Juan Leguizamon plans on pulling up to Jack-
sonville in a rented orange and blue car to watch 
the Florida-Georgia football game next week.
Leguizamon, a 21-year-old UF computer sci-
ence senior, would not normally use Zipcar, a 
car-sharing service, but is making an exception 
for the game, he said.
“I personally love seeing Gator spirit wherev-
er I go and seeing a Gator car on the road would 
definitely put a smile on my face,” he said.
Zipcar wrapped a Ford Focus Hatchback in 
a Gator-themed design and nicknamed it “The 
Swamp” to build excitement for the Florida-
Georgia game, said spokesperson Katelyn Ches-
ley.
Here are three things to know about the orange-and-blue car across the street from the 
Reitz Union bookstore.
How long will The Swamp be on campus?
The car named after Ben Hill Griffin stadium 
is available to rent for the entire Fall semester, 
Chesley said.
Who can rent the car?
Students and faculty can reserve the car on 
the Zipcar app or website for a designated time 
slot, Chesley said. The car can be rented for up 
to 14 days for $8.50 an hour or $65 per day.
Does the University of Georgia have a 
decorated Zipcar?
UGA does not have a bulldog-themed car on 
its campus. UF is one of 12 colleges participating 
in the company’s school spirit campaign, Ches-
ley said.
“The car is really all about school spirit and 
celebrating UF and football season,” Chesley 
said.8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Breathe in, breathe out
Melissa Montero, an 18-year-old UF biomedical engineering freshman, follows 
a guided meditation at Marston Science Library Wednesday morning. This 
guided meditation event is comprised of six sessions, each focusing on a differ-
ent type of meditation. Two more sessions will be held at the library on the first 
and third Wednesdays of November..
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Performers Grey and Inertia embrace as they are crowned 
king and queen. It was a first-time performance for Svetlanna 
“Grey” Feddersen, an 18-year-old UF marketing freshman.Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Blake Konkel, an 18-year-old UF art history sophomore, commanded the stage as his drag persona Allison 
James while dancing to Demi Lovato’s “Confident” during the UF Gaytor Drag Race. More than 100 people 
came to the event hosted by UF’s LGBTQ Affairs and the Center for Latin American Studies.
Drag queens, kings take the stageJeana Fraser / Alligator Contributer
The Ford Focus Hatchback Zipcar nicknamed “The Swamp” sits across the street of the 
Reitz Union bookstore. 
Three facts about the orange and 
blue car across from the Reitz UnionFRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator 
office, located at 2700 SW 13th Street, Tuesday through Friday 
between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. from now until Friday, October 
19th. Look for the Alligator sign located in the lobby. No phone 
calls, please. Allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information 
regarding the application process. The application must be returned 
to The Alligator by Tuesday, October 23 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board 
of Directors will be held at the Alligator offices in a meeting open 
to the public on Friday, November 16 at 1 p.m.  Applicants must 
be degree-seeking college or university students. Preference will be 
given to those who have experience with The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the spring semester:
Shot for shot: UF vs. FSU
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff 
UF Student Health Care Center hosted “Chomp the Flu” Wednesday afternoon 
on the Reitz Union North Lawn. The vaccination event offered students with 
qualifying health insurance free ﬂ  u and Meningitis B shots. The center competed 
with its Florida State University counterpart to vaccinate the most students.
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff 
Anabel Javier, a 20-year-old health education and behavior junior, receives a ﬂ  u shot 
from Jessica Prentiss, a registered nurse with the SHCC. 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
THE REFERENDUM WOULD 
CREATE AN OVERSIGHT 
BOARD FOR GRU.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
With 20 days until Election Day, 
voters are still seeking clarity about 
the Gainesville Regional Utilities Ref-
erendum. 
The referendum would let voters 
decide if an independent ﬁ  ve-mem-
ber board with candidates appointed 
by the City Commission would over-
see GRU instead of the commission directly. 
A moderated panel of the bill’s 
key players answered the public’s 
questions at Inﬁ  nite Energy, a nat-
ural gas and electricity company, 
Wednesday night. 
The four panelists — Mary Al-
ford, the chair of the GRU Utility Ad-
visory Board; Darin Cook, the CEO 
of Inﬁ  nite Energy; Sen. Keith Perry; 
and Harvey Ward, a Gainesville 
city commissioner — spoke on the 
bill’s pros and cons to an audience 
of about 75 people. All panelists said 
there would be no guarantee that the 
bill would lower rates.“So many had this issue on so 
many people’s lists, but we had the 
opportunity to list out both pros and 
cons,” said Julie Waldman, the pres-
ident of the Leadership Gainesville 
Alumni Association, who hosted the 
forum about the bill. 
Ward said the bill would not 
work because an independent board 
would take power away from the 
city to make decisions about how it 
uses its utilities, he said.
“Oversight is at its best by the city 
of Gainesville,” Ward said. “The idea 
of rolling the dice and ﬁ  lling in the 
blanks later is irresponsible.”An independent authority board 
would not be held accountable, Al-
ford said. 
“Because they’re not elected, 
because the City Commission can’t 
actually remove them from power, 
then there would be no repercussion 
for that,” she said. 
Proponents of the bill defended 
its practicality. Cook volunteered to 
be on the independent board. 
“I think the independent utilities 
board, full of experts, would do a 
better job in the long term,” Cook 
said. 
Cook, who strongly opposed the biomass decision, said voters would 
be stuck with decisions made by past 
city commissions. 
Melvin Flournoy, a retired edu-
cator, said he attended the forum 
because he had unanswered ques-
tions about the bill. After the event, 
he said he still opposed it, but he 
had more information to back up his 
stance. 
“I came to really understand the 
bill, so we can persuade other peo-
ple,” Flournoy said.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgCommunity leaders weigh in on GRU bill at panel eventTHE PHARMACY FILLED OUT 
ABOUT 5,000 PRESCRIPTIONS 
IN ONE YEAR.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
After providing health care in Haiti and 
Nicaragua, friends Tim Rogers and Harvey 
Rohlwing wanted to bring care to their own 
community.
The pair, a pharmacist and the president of 
Grace Healthcare Services Corp.,  started a free 
nonproﬁ  t pharmacy at Grace Marketplace to-gether, which ﬁ  lled more than 5,000 prescrip-
tions last year.
“I like to call it the pharmacy without a cash 
register,” Rogers said.
Open from 1-5 p.m. Tuesdays through Fri-
days and from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturdays, the 
pharmacy operates solely on donations and 
volunteers.
Rogers volunteers at the Grace Healthcare 
Services Corp, which is funded through private 
donations and provides free prescription medi-
cine and health care services to those without 
health insurance in Alachua County. 
 “I realized medicine is a real issue, and so 
many people with prescriptions can’t afford it, so what good does it do?” Rogers said.
Rogers sees about 25 patients per day, in-
cluding those who live outside of Grace Mar-
ketplace.
Rogers and Rohlwing, a retired physician, 
spent years volunteering abroad on medical 
missions before they decided to open the phar-
macy in 2017.
“We’re doing this in developing countries, 
so why can’t we do this sort of thing at home?” 
Rohlwing said.
Kimberly Atkinson, a 25-year-old third-year 
doctoral candidate, has seen the harsh reality 
of homelessness  while volunteering. 
“I truly feel like I’m helping somebody,” Atkinson said.
Grace Healthcare Services commonly pro-
vides blood thinners, antibiotics, psychiatric 
medication and more. However, Rogers said 
the pharmacy is in need of inhalers and seizure 
medications, which can be $15 to $20 each. 
Rogers and Rohlwing hope to move to a 
larger building at Grace Marketplace. 
“You can’t save the world, but you can 
make a little piece of it better for someone 
else,” Rogers said. 
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Free pharmacy at Grace Marketplace celebrates one yearBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Final Liquidation Closeout
Originally sold for: $85,900
Liquidation Price: $29,900
Well Established Luxury Lake Community
Watch Video: www. LakeLotsCloseout.com
877-712-3650
Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed 
Real Estate Broker.      10-19-1-5
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Dental Practice Liquidation. Dentist is mo -
tivated to sell any and all equipment, older 
but in good working order, along with instru -
ments and supplies. 1000-B NW 8th Ave, 
Gainesville 32601. Mondays and Tuesdays 
Only. 352-373-7582     10-24-18-3-10SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N      10-19-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    10-
24-18-6-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.Young professional female in Alachua recov -
ering from a health issue needs assistance 
with driving to appointments, household 
tasks, running errands. $15/hr. 15 - 20 hr/wk. 
Contact biopressadmin@gmail.com.     10-
19-18-7-14
ON THE SPOT DRY CLEANERS
is hiring front counter staff w/ good customer 
service skills for all 4 locations (m-f 2:30-7:00 
sat 9-4) weekly pay $11.00/Hr. If interested 
call 352-514-7573      10-19-18-6-14
Hagios Early Learning Center is hiring for a 
part-time preschool teacher, 3:30 p.m. to
6:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Pay rate 
is $9.00 per hour. Please call Denise Brown
at (352) 260-4477.           10-19-18-5-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
SERVERS NEEDED!!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
11-2-10-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    11-2-18-10-14
Real Estate Job in Gainesville
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email resume to
contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com       10-26-
18-5-14
Take surveys and get paid!
You can make $800/week
completing surveys online!
Free to join!
Go to: www.OnlineOpportunity.club     10-29-
18-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing, af -
terschool, day camps and much more. 
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs      
10-24-18-14-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, 
Delta and others- start here with hands 
on training for FAA certification. Financial 
aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance 888-242-2649.      10-19-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
MASTER YOUR Midterms w/Power Up! 
Natural Focused Energy in a Capsule! $0.75 
each.  www.MindSharpenPro.com  Use 15% 
Discount Code:  UF1853      10-22-18-5-16Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.     10-
19-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Make an extra $400 or more per week
in the comfort of your dorm.
Go to: www.collegeopportunities.net       10-
29-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
By Craig Stowe
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, October 19, 2018
ACROSS
1 Trendy
8 No longer 
outstanding
14 Catch-22
15 “Am I the 
problem?”
16 Physician for 
Dickens’ Miss 
Havisham?
18 Morales of 
“Ozark”
19 Canada’s Buffy 
Sainte-Marie, by 
birth
20 Math functions
22 Fleur de __: sea 
salt
23 Clever remarks
24 Sedate
25 Station for 
exercisers on 
wheels?
29 Earth tone
32 Ancient 
colonnade
33 “Disgusting!”
34 Diamond figure
37 Play seriously
39 “... this night, 
being __ my 
head”: Shak.
40 Hideout
42 Soft touch
43 Expert guard 
dog?
47 Foil relative
48 Couple
49 Andean stew 
veggie
52 Rapper Ice 
Cube’s first name
54 Clothes to clean
55 Zipcar parent 
company
56 Cool cat’s 
affectionate 
friends?
59 Texas oil city
60 State
61 Waver
62 Computer input
DOWN
1 Stained glass 
settings
2 Slip
3 Type similar to 
Helvetica4 Nail treatment
5 Has too much
6 One involved in 
a memorable 
“bubble”
7 Puts forth
8 Tease
9 Juan’s “that”
10 Selfies, e.g.
11 Ancient region 
ruled by Athens
12 Small portion 
explanation
13 Ones neglecting 
their duties
17 Score marks
21 Soul singer 
Robinson’s debut 
album
23 Material for 
Michelangelo’s 
“David”
25 Train bottom
26 Series-ending 
abbr.
27 Pal of Piglet
28 Stepped (up)
29 Words from a 
balcony
30 Unsportsmanlike 
conduct31 Baseball, in old 
slang
35 Former Mideast 
gp.
36 Member of the 
fam
38 __ value
41 Control tower 
device
44 Mobile home?
45 Hurried
46 Islands VIP49 Some Viking 
appliances
50 “Odyssey” 
sorceress
51 Plus
53 Kind of D.A.
54 Diminish slowly, 
with “off”
55 Lí quido para café
57 “The Cocktail 
Party” monogram
58 Grasped
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/18/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/18/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, October 18, 2018
ACROSS
1 Cartman on 
“South Park”
5 John follower
9 European 
farewell
14 Default takeback
15 Formal 
agreement
16 Two-time 
Argentine 
president
17 Famous __
18 Keys for Elton
20 They may be 
added to soup
22 Tennis’ Open __
23 Smooth-talking
24 Fight
28 “25” album 
maker
30 Federal URL 
ending
31 Lennon’s lady
32 Recognition 
event
36 Prop for Frosty
38 Crown installer’s 
org.
39 Short strings?
40 Camp activities
45 Inventor’s 
monogram
46 Head for Vegas?
47 Carpenter’s joint
49 Like Justice 
League 
members
51 Stub __
53 Stroke that 
doesn’t count
55 Vegas device 
used literally 
in three puzzle 
answers
58 Prime hotel time
61 Assessment
62 Comforting 
words
63 Support at sea
64 Destructive 
Greek god
65 Genres
66 Watch pair?
67 Sly attention-
getter
DOWN
1 Rub out
2 Rider on a shark3 Audio system 
connector
4 Cuban thing
5 Hotter
6 Color named  
for a sea  
animal
7 Detective role for 
Beatty
8 Cleaning area
9 Say yes
10 Reason-based 
faith
11 Lyricist 
Gershwin
12 Many ages
13 Mattel game 
since 1992
19 Furnishings and 
such
21 Root beer 
alternative
25 Proprietors for 
word lovers
26 Diarist Frank
27 Elves’ output
29 Ram fans?
30 Camping stuff
33 Root beer since 
1937
34 Epidemic-
fighting agcy.35 You won’t 
see one at 
Westminster
36 Trail
37 Requiem Mass 
hymn word
41 They’re assumed
42 Mother-of-pearl
43 Bottom lines
44 Feudal estate
48 John Wick 
portrayer50 Natural clay 
pigment
51 Evaluate
52 More of that
54 Secret 
rendezvous
56 Title for Helen 
Mirren
57 Flutter
58 Baseball stat
59 Standoffish
60 Mountain pass
1.  Chinese boat
1.  Ice cream ____5.  Registered ____
2.  Deserved 6.  Mythical creature
3.  Excellent 7.  Onset
4.  Fish or hairstylePASMNA
ANESDURNEUS
LRLTO
EMIEDRT
ESEAMWOVDNATE
ULTLMEANSWERS: 1A-Sampan  5A-Nurse  6A-Troll  7A-Advent
1D-Sundae  2D-Merited  3D-Awesome  4D-Mullet  B-Louis Pasteur10-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This scientist was born 
on Dec. 27, 1822. BONUS
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Mullen lands on award watch list
Coach Dan Mullen was named to the Paul "Bear" Bryant Coach of the Year 
Watch List on Thursday. Mullen has led the Gators to a 6-1 record so far in 
his ﬁ  rst season as the team's head coach.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsUF senior Jalen Hudson was 
selected as a preseason Second-
T eam All-SEC on Thursday. The 
Gators were predicted to ﬁ  nish 
ﬁ  fth in the conference.Picks Column: 
Week 8
Staff Report
Ah, the bye-week blues. Nothing 
but golf courses and hours on the con-
soles playing Black Ops or Fortnite. 
Not here at alligatorSports, though. 
Our writers will be slaving away 
watching 12 uninterrupted hours of 
college football. Do you think we do it 
for our amusement? 
Heck no! We do it for you, the fans, 
because you deserve it. 
This week, we have Gus Malzahn 
coaching for his job/a $38 million 
buyout, a UCF team searching for rele-
vance and a suddenly high-and-mighty 
Tennessee squad looking to keep it 
within the four-touchdown margin 
against Alabama at home. 
Before we meet our competitors, 
online editor Mark Stine and editor 
Morgan McMullen will debate the 
highly anticipated slobberknocker 
between Old Dominion and Western 
Kentucky. 
Old Dominion (+5) will win be-
cause… 
It beat Virginia Tech! Who cares if 
the Big Blue lost to Liberty by 42, or 
Marshall by 22. They beat the Hokies 
in front of a 20,532-person home envi-
ronment. 
Old Dominion has quarterback 
Blake LaRussa, who amassed 495 yards 
and four touchdowns through the air 
against Virginia Tech. The junior has 
been in a groove since, passing for at 
least 250 yards and two touchdowns 
over the next three contests. 
LaRussa’s best targets, seniors Jon-
athan Duhart and Travis Fulgham, av-
erage over 15 yards per reception each 
and hauled in 10 combined touch-
downs this year. Running back Kesean 
Strong is also a reliable check down, 
averaging nine yards per catch and just 
over two receptions per contest. 
Western Kentucky is looking for its 
ﬁ  rst home win, while Old Dominion is 
trying to ﬁ  nd its ﬁ  rst road victim. I’ll 
take the Big Blue. They’ve surprised 
odds makers once this year, and they’ll 
do it again. 
-Mark S.
Western Kentucky (-5) will win 
because…
You ever meet the WKU Hilltopper? 
I have. It’s intimidating, yet caring. It’s 
fearsome, yet loving. It also doesn’t 
have a gender, so don’t attach your la-
bels to them, please. 
Superior mascot aside, WKU has 
superior players. Sophomore quarter-
back Steven Duncan led a fourth-quar-
ter comeback against Ball State with 
not one, but two late scoring drives. 
Duncan hasn’t even played that much 
this season, lending credence to the 
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 16FOOTBALL
Staff Report
A bye week in football is like passing a class 
with a C: You hate to experience it, but you wel-
come it nonetheless. 
Speaking of report cards, we at alligatorS-
ports feel this week would be an excellent op-
portunity to grade the Gators’ offense, defense 
and special teams. The midway point of the sea-
son brings the opportunity to reﬂ  ect on Florida’s 
performances in all three facets of the game 
while not missing out on the exciting opportu-
nity to preview games like Missouri and Idaho.
Quarterback: B- 
Feleipe Franks has completed 56.6 percent 
of his passes this season, slightly above his 
54.6 mark from 2017. However, his ball secu-
rity has improved immensely. Through seven 
games in 2017, he threw four picks on 125 pass-
es. Through seven weeks this season, he has 
thrown ﬁ  ve while attempting 57 more passes. 
Even without his ﬁ  ve-touchdown performance 
against Charleston Southern, he still has more 
TDs than he had last year. If Franks can keep 
up this performance through the FSU game, his 
grade should rise to an A. 
Running Back: B
Losing Malik Davis (broken foot) and Adari-
us Lemons (transfer) didn’t do the Gators’ back-
ﬁ  eld any favors. However, the duo of Jordan 
Scarlett and Lamical Perine — along with fresh-
man Dameon Pierce coming in as the change-
of-pace back — have carried the load admira-
bly. The rushing attack still has more work to 
do with the team squarely in the middle of the 
SEC pecking order in yards per attempt and to-
tal yards. 
Receiver: B+
Ole Miss transfer Van Jefferson has been 
a huge lift for the Gators receiving corps. He 
leads the team with 265 receiving yards and 
four touchdowns. Josh Hammond and Fred-
die Swain have also emerged as reliable targets 
for Feleipe Franks. The unit as a whole has lacked explosiveness despite doing well enough 
through the ﬁ  rst part of the season. And none 
of Florida’s receivers have recorded a 100-yard 
game this season.
Tight End: B
Florida has gotten much better production 
from its tight ends as the season has progressed, 
especially since the Gators started incorporat-
ing Moral Stephens more into the offense. He’s 
caught three touchdown passes this year with 102 receiving yards. And even though R.J. Ray-
mond had a couple drops in the ﬁ  rst two games 
of the season, he had a critical 1-yard touch-
down catch against Tennessee and has taken on 
an important role as a blocker. 
Offensive Line: C
Left tackle Martez Ivey and right tackle 
Jawaan Taylor continue to show a lack of sub- Midseason grades: How UF has done so far
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Feleipe Franks has completed 56.6 percent of his passes this season, an 
improvement from his 54.6 mark a year ago.
Becky Burleigh’s Florida Gators 
have been sitting comfortably for 
quite a long time.
They’ve only missed the NCAA 
tournament two times since their 
ﬁ  rst season in 1995, and they have 
yet to post a losing record in the 
regular season (they went .500 
in 2002). When she was asked if 
she was thinking about the SEC 
tournament after UF’s win against 
Georgia on Thursday, however, 
Burleigh gave what is very likely 
a rare answer.
“Hell no!” Burleigh said, vig-
orously shaking her head. “I’m 
thinking about Missouri. The SEC tournament is a ﬁ  gment 
of our imagination at 
this point. We still have 
games to play to get 
there.”
There was a time 
when a losing record 
was a ﬁ  gment of Flor-
ida’s imagination, but 
here it is, sitting at 
5-8-3. On top of that, 
the Gators have been 
shut out in 10 games this season, 
once in a streak of six and later in 
a streak of four. Though they did 
manage to ﬁ  nd the back of the net 
in their 1-0 win against Georgia to break the four-game 
streak, their past sins 
are far from erased.
With almost a com-
plete lack of offense 
and a growing sense 
of urgency, there’s a 
simple question to be 
asked.
What happened?
To start, the wom-
en’s national teams 
all over the globe are gearing up 
for the 2019 World Cup. Deanne 
Rose, UF’s leading scorer from 
last year, has only just returned 
from an extended stretch with the Canadian National Team, and 
freshman defender Georgia Eaton-
Collins is also back after playing 
in her home in England. Their 
late return certainly didn’t help, 
but it could be argued that the 
Gators’ opponents have been go-
ing through the same thing with-
out the losses to show for it.
Injuries have also plagued 
Florida’s team. It has been with-
out Rachelle Smith, Parker Rob-
erts and Kit Loferski for the season 
which, piled on top of the absenc-
es of Eaton-Collins and Rose, be-
gins to add up. The team can’t af-What ever happened to the Florida Gators soccer team?Hells Wells / Column
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
River Wells
twitter: @riverhwellsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
SWIMMING
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Florida’s swimming and diving teams 
will be back in action this weekend, 
matching up against two of the better 
swimming and diving programs in the 
country in Texas and Indiana. The meet 
is scheduled for today and Saturday and 
will take place in Austin, Texas, at the 
University of Texas Swimming Center.
The No. 8 Gators men’s team sits at 
2-0 after a couple of blowout victories 
to start the season. Things figure to be 
different this weekend, however, with 
Texas (0-0) being ranked No. 1, while In-
diana (3-0) comes in ranked third. 
Last season, the Gators split the meet-
ings with Texas, winning the regular 
season matchup but losing in the NCAA 
Championships. The Hoosiers defeated 
Florida twice last season, once in the 
regular season and also in the NCAA 
Championships.
Junior Maxime Rooney continues to 
shine for the men, picking up SEC Men’s 
Swimmer of the Week honors after win-
ning two individual events against LSU. 
Rooney holds times that are in the top 15 
nationally: the 100-yard butterfly (7th), 
200-yard butterfly (11th) and the 100-
yard freestyle (15th).
Fellow junior Grant Sanders is third 
nationally in the 200-yard individual 
medley, and his time in the 200-yard 
breast is the ninth-fastest in the country.Freshman Trey Freeman was named 
SEC Men’s Freshman of the Week for 
the second-straight week on Tuesday af-
ter another impressive showing against 
LSU. Freeman won the 1000-yard free-
style with the fastest time in the SEC at 
9:02.58.
The No. 19 Florida women’s team 
will be tested this weekend. It’ll put its 
undefeated record on the line against No. 
4 Texas (0-0) and No. 6 Indiana (2-0-1). 
Both teams out-played UF in last sea-
son’s matchups, but early success this 
year should give the Gators some confi-
dence heading into the weekend.
Freshman Vanessa Pearl continues 
to receive accolades after her success-
ful start to the season. The McKinney, 
Texas, native was named SEC Women’s 
Swimmer of the Week for the second 
time in as many weeks. She collected 
three individual wins against LSU last 
weekend, and her time of 4:13.32 in the 
400-yard individual medley is the fourth-
fastest time in the country.
Mabel Zavaros is another freshman 
in Florida’s lineup who has impressed 
this season. She holds the eighth-fastest 
NCAA time in the 400-yard individual 
medley, and the 10th-fastest times in the 
both the 200-yard back and 200-yard but-
terfly.
The meet is scheduled to begin at 5 
p.m. on today and 10 a.m. on Saturday.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.orgUF faces off with 
Texas and Indiana this 
weekend in AustinSOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
What happens when a stop-
pable force meets a movable 
object?
The Florida soccer team 
provided the answer Thursday 
night, defeating Georgia 1-0 at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium in 
Gainesville.
It figured to be a low-scoring 
affair from the onset. Florida 
was marred in a four-match 
scoreless streak heading into 
the game and hadn’t scored in 
10 of its last 13 games. Geor-
gia (4-8-4, 1-5-2 SEC) had fared 
even worse of late with a six-
match scoreless streak of its 
own.
The Gators (5-8-3, 3-3-2 
SEC) broke through early cour-
tesy of Tess Sapone’s first goal 
of the season. In the 14th min-
ute, Sapone fielded a clever 
through ball from Mayra Pelayo 
then beat her defender with 
her first touch. From there, she 
just had to beat Georgia keeper 
Emory Wegener, and she did 
just that with her left foot from 
eight yards out. Wegener de-
flected the shot, but she didn’t 
get enough of it to stop the ball from trickling into the net.
“Mayra played a fantastic 
ball across,” Sapone said. “First 
touch to break the line from me 
and then pass it into the net.”
There were chances aplen-
ty for Florida throughout the 
match. The Gators led the 
shot count 12-5 and probably 
should’ve scored more than 
just the one goal. In the 22nd 
minute, Briana Solis’ free kick 
from outside the box brought 
the fans to their feet – until they 
realized Georgia was taking a 
goal kick. Solis’ wonder-goal 
was actually an optical illusion, 
the ball sailing high of the net 
and deflecting off the brick wall 
behind the goal before settling 
against the netting.
Defender Sara Wilson made 
a bid of her own in the 37th 
minute. Dribbling to her left, 
Wilson’s screamer from just 
outside the box rattled the 
crossbar for three or four sec-
onds.
The unsung hero was Florida 
goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese. 
Despite only facing five shots 
in the game, she made two cru-
cial saves in the first half. In the 
10th minute, Marckese saved 
Katie Ralys’ close-range bul-
let using her face. In the 15th minute, she made another good 
save off a shot from Jessie Den-
ney. From there, it was mostly 
smooth sailing.
The X-factor might’ve been 
forward Deanne Rose. Rose, 
All-SEC last year as a freshman, 
didn’t start and was appearing 
in just her fifth game this year. 
Injuries and national-team com-
mitments have kept her out of 
the lineup, but she made her 
presence felt against Georgia. 
Though she didn’t factor into 
UF’s goal, she was all over the 
pitch, dribbling around defend-
ers and registering three shots.
“She stepped off a plane and 
played,” Burleigh said. “That’s 
not easy to do. Credit to her for 
being willing to do that.”
With just two regular season 
games left, the Gators have an 
RPI of just 52 and are in dan-
ger of missing the NCAA tour-
nament for only the third time 
in program history. For now, 
Burleigh is trying to take it one 
game at a time.
“I’m thinking about Mis-
souri,” she said. “The SEC 
tournament is a figment of our 
imagination at this point.”
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgGators snap scoreless streak, defeat Georgia 1-0
MEN’S TENNIS
By Kyle Wood
Sports Writer
For the second time this season the Florida 
men’s tennis team is in two places at once.
Freshman Sam Riffice and sophomore Oliver 
Crawford have been competing in the USA F28 
Futures in Harlingen, Texas, while the rest of the 
team begins play this weekend at the ITA Region-
al Championships in Athens, Georgia.
The U.S.A. F28 Futures began Tuesday with 
Riffice competing in the main singles draw against 
Jack Findel-Hawkins (Great Britain). He fell in 
two sets (4-6, 2-6) and was eliminated in the first 
round. 
Crawford matched up against Jonathan Chang 
(U.S.A.) in the first round of the singles main 
draw and moved on with a two set win (6-1, 6-2). 
He defeated Ronnie Schneider (U.S.A.) in the sec-
ond round (6-3, 6-3) and advanced to the quarter-
finals against Maxime Creasy (France) which will 
be held today at 11 a.m.
Riffice and Crawford teamed up in the dou-
bles main draw on Thursday against Trent Bryde 
(U.S.A) and Patrick Kypson (U.S.A.) with the 
Gators coming out on top in two sets (6-3, 6-2). 
In the quarterfinals Riffice and Crawford fell to 
Maxime Cressy and Nicolas Meister (U.S.A.) (2-6, 
1-6) and were eliminated.
The rest of the Gators team will kick off the ITA 
Regional Championships this weekend. Freshman 
Greysen Cacciatore will play in the qualifying 
singles draw while freshman Lukas Greif, sopho-
mores Duarte Vale, Andy Andrade and Brian Ber-
dusco, junior Johannes Ingildsen and senior Mc-
Clain Kessler will compete in the main draw for singles.
Cacciatore will play Stephen Madonia (Miami) 
Friday at 11 a.m. Berdusco will play against Alex 
Knauff (Florida State) Saturday at 8:30 a.m. At 
10:30, Vale will play Felipe Escobar (Florida Gulf 
Coast), and Kessler will play Antoine Sanchez 
(Stetson). Greif faces off with Alan Rubio (Central 
Florida) at 11:30, and Andrade battles Blake Croy-
der (Georgia) at 12:30. Ingildsen plays last for UF 
against the qualifying singles finalist.
UF also has three duos in the main-doubles 
draw, which will take place after singles. The 
teams are Andrade and Greif, Berdusco and In-
gildsen, and Kessler and Vale.
All three doubles teams have first-round byes, 
and their opponents will be based on the first-
round results. Ingildsen and Berdusco will play 
the winner of Felipe Ramirez and Feliksas Saka-
lauskas (Florida Gulf Coast) and Bryn Nahrung 
and Richard Thongoana (Florida State) at 5:00 
p.m. on Saturday. 
The winner of Alan Rubio and Manoel Alencar 
(Central Florida) and  Andrei Duarte and Roberts 
Grinvalds (Georgia State) will play Andrade and 
Greif at 5:30. Also at 5:30, Kessler and Vale will 
see the winner of Diego Padilha and Bailey Show-
ers (Georgia State) or Luis Fernandez Labarta and 
Thomas Guy (Florida Atlantic).
The Gators’ last doubles victory at the ITA 
Regional Championships was in 2016 when Al-
fredo Perez and Ingildsen claimed the title. As for 
singles, UF’s title drought stretches back to 2012. 
Bryan Shelton’s squad will look to put an end to 
both of those streaks this weekend.
@Kkylewood
kwood@alligator.orgFlorida to compete in ITA 
Regional Championship, USA 
F28 Futures events this weekChristopher King / Alligator Staff
Midfielder T ess Sapone notched the lone goal in Florida’s 1-0 win over 
Georgia on Thursday night. The goal snapped a four-game scoreless streak. 
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
NIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY
 NIGHT  7 pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
WKU coaching staff’s brilliance in 
sitting their star QB until he was ab-
solutely needed.  
Duncan is completing a stagger-
ing 65.7 percent of his passes. Old 
Dominion isn’t going to have a ton 
of ﬁ  lm on him, making its job on de-
fense that much harder. 
Duncan alone should give the 
Hilltoppers the boost they need to 
take down a team with one single 
win on the season. Quit resting on 
your laurels, Old Dominion, and 
do something against Liberty. Lord 
knows history repeats itself, so I 
guess the Monarchs couldn’t do 
much against Liberty. Book the same 
result against WKU. 
-Morgan
Now onto the picks…
Once again in ﬁ  rst place at 31-
25 is alligatorSports football writer 
Alanis “I Hate Country Music” 
Thames, who went to Nashville, the 
country music capital, with a pure 
hatred for “southern music.” It’s okay, Alanis. We all have our ter-
rible hot takes sometimes. But we’re 
99 percent sure you were out there 
learning how to line dance at some 
point during the night, rocking out to 
that music you claim to hate. 
In a ﬁ  ve-way tie for second at 28-
28 is the Gainesville Sun’s Graham 
“Transcription Machine” Hall, 
who wound up transcribing coach 
Dan Mullen’s 30ish-minute-long 
postgame press conference after the 
Vanderbilt game. Wanna get out of 
that next time? Drive up like the rest 
of us. We’re sure there’s some spare 
room in the trunk of the alligatorS-
ports car. 
With Hall is alligatorSports online 
editor Mark “Triangles Are People 
Too” Stine, who made some inter-
esting assumptions with the Heider-
Simmel experiment. Some folks say 
they’re just shapes running around. 
Not Mark Stine. “They’re jealous lov-
ers!” he’ll shout to the amusement 
of nobody. Go look up the Heider-
Simmel experiment on YouTube and 
prove him wrong!
Also at 28-28 is alligatorSports assistant editor Jake “Go for Two” 
Dreilinger, who doesn’t believe in 
kicking in Madden. Under no cir-
cumstances will Jake kick the extra 
point, and even on ﬁ  rst-and-goal 
from the opponent’s two he won’t 
run the ball, which cost him when he 
threw an interception. First, you’re a 
Jets fan, now the questionable Mad-
den strategies, Jake. We’re really be-
ginning to question who you are as 
a football fan at the alligatorSports 
desk. 
Alongside those three is Gator-
Country’s Nick “I’m going to get 
hammered” de la Torre, who re-
minded all of us in the press box 
roughly 30 times about how trashed 
he would be getting on Broadway 
Street after the game. Hey Nick, we 
all know you want to relive your col-
lege experiences from 20 years ago, 
but relax. You’re starting to sound 
like a college freshman about to at-
tend his ﬁ  rst frat party.
Finally, in a tie for second is the 
AP’s Mark “Bye Week, My Week” 
Long, who despite always blasting 
Graham Hall about not showing up to Florida head coach Dan Mullen’s 
Monday pressers, failed to make an 
appearance at the Gators only media 
availability of the week. There’s pre-
cedence with Hall, but that doesn’t 
mean the standards are any less for 
you, Mark.
Alone in seventh at 27-29 is the 
Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “They’re 
Mad at You, But I’m Not” Thomp-
son, who proceeded to paint the al-
ligatorSports crew in a bad light in 
Nashville when he convinced total 
strangers that we hated them. To be 
fair, we did. But they didn’t need to 
know that! What happened to soli-
darity? Next time, just hop in the car 
and start yelling at them like the rest 
of us.
Fittingly in last at 26-30 is alli-
gatorSports editor Morgan “Makes 
Your Ears Bleed” McMullen, who 
put on a wonderful rendition of “A 
Thousand Miles” that involved an 
AC/DC mashup. We understand, 
Morgan, it technically worked. But 
working doesn’t mean it’s good. It 
quite possibly is one of the worst 
songs in existence. PICKS,  from pg. 14
ford to lose anyone else, and although 
Melanie Monteagudo’s absence against 
Georgia due to a late red card in the 
team’s previous game didn’t hurt the 
Gators this time, they’ll need to stay 
disciplined and avoid any further slip-
ups as their SEC Tournament hopes 
grow slimmer and slimmer.
These aren’t the Florida Gators that 
soccer fans are used to seeing, and this 
isn’t a culture that the Gators’ seasoned 
veterans have grown accustomed to, 
either. With two games left in the sea-
son, Florida will need to win out and 
get its currently abysmal offense ﬁ  ring 
if it wants to have any chance of mak-
ing the postseason.
River Wells is a sports writer at The 
Alligator. Follow him on Twitter @
riverhwells and contact him at rwells@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
stantial improvement from the beginning of the 
season. Guard Brett Heggie has been on and off 
the ﬁ  eld after an early season injury forced him 
to miss some time. Overall, it has been hit or 
miss with the O-line. One play, the guards will 
pull and make excellent blocks down ﬁ  eld. The 
next, they’ll allow defenders to harass Franks in 
the pocket. 
Defensive Line: A- 
Jachai Polite, CeCe Jefferson and Jabari 
Zuniga have led a renaissance in Florida’s pass-
rushing. The team is second in the conference 
in sacks (21), and the trio has contributed to the 
team’s seven interceptions with its consistent 
pressure. The only thing keeping this unit from 
grading out higher is its run defense. The Gators 
still give up over four yards per run and 163.1 
yards per game on the ground. Linebacker: B-
The return of David Reese has made all the 
difference in the world to this group. The effort 
on his ﬁ  rst defensive series against Tennessee 
showed the type of leadership the unit was sore-
ly missing. Rayshad Jackson ﬁ  lled in admirably 
in Reese’s absence and stepped up with Vosean 
Joseph’s ejection against Vanderbilt. Speaking 
of Joseph, the junior has stepped up as second-
in-command on the Gators’ defense and earned 
himself an SEC Defensive Player of the Week for 
his efforts against LSU. 
Cornerback: B- 
Marco Wilson going down on the ﬁ  rst series 
against Kentucky probably didn’t do the corner-
back unit any favors, and it largely affected how 
the corners played. Wilson’s injury exposed 
Florida’s lack of depth in the position, now left 
with just sophomores C.J. Henderson and Brian Edwards, and freshman Trey Dean. Freshman 
C.J. McWilliams stepped up to help ﬁ  ll the void, 
but his inexperience showed against Mississippi 
State on its ﬁ  rst three offensive drives. Hender-
son and Dean have played well in their starting 
roles, combining for eight pass breakups, and 
Henderson continues to be the backbone of 
that unit with an interception and two forced 
fumbles.
Safety: A-
Florida’s safeties have surprisingly been one 
of the team’s strongest units this season. Espe-
cially at the end of football games. Donovan 
Stiner’s sack of Mississippi State quarterback 
Nick Fitzgerald on a safety blitz to end the game 
stands out as one of the Gators’ biggest plays of 
the year. Both Brad Stewart and Stiner’s fourth-
quarter interceptions of LSU quarterback Joe 
Burrow — Burrow’s ﬁ  rst two of the season — 
also helped seal UF’s biggest wins of the season.FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Florida is second in the conference in sacks
Sports Meme
by River Wells