We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF student copes with father’s deportation 
Viviane Charlestin assumed her father was at work one summer 
day in 2003. He was actually in a detention cell, pg. 5
A look at GPD’s newest four-legged recruits
Meet the K-9 units and the men who trained them, pg. 9Fall 2018 recruiting preview
A look at the biggest incoming freshmen and transfers for the UF 
football, volleyball and soccer teams, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 100
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Eight men sat along a wooden 
table. Ninety-six hot dogs waited in 
front of them. Behind them, a gold-
en trophy and a belt ﬁ  t for a cham-
pion. They were eating to win.
At the ﬁ  rst annual “Sausages 
for Safety” event, two teams of 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters were not only eating to 
win, they were eating for a cause. 
The hot dog eating contest, hosted 
by Mayﬂ  ower Cellars and First 
Magnitude Brewing Company on 
Saturday, was organized to raise 
money for the upkeep of Kiwanis 
Gainesville Fire Rescue Safety City, 
a free facility for children to learn 
about safety.
The event took place from 2 
to 6 p.m. at First Magnitude on 
Southeast Veitch Street. Safety 
City did free bicycle helmet ﬁ  ttings 
for children and worked with the 
Gainesville Fire Explorers to put 
together an obstacle course called 
“The Kiddie Combat Challenge.”
Red Cross had a table where 
kids could draw on a pillow case 
with markers and then ﬁ  ll it with 
supplies like tissues, Band-Aids 
and ﬂ  ashlights. Rosemary Jones, 
the Red Cross representative, said 
the kit is meant for children to start 
thinking about disaster preparation.
For 3-year-old Max, the ﬁ  retruck 
was her favorite part. Gainesville 
Fire Rescue brought the ﬁ  retruck, 
and kids had the opportunity to sit 
in the truck and have their pictures 
taken.
“I think it’s amazing,” Emi Melk-
er, Max’s mother, said. “I came to 
visit with friends. I was worried 
there wouldn’t be enough for Max to do while we hung out, but she 
loved it. It’s educational while hav-
ing fun.”
Just past 5 p.m., almost 50 
people gathered inside the venue 
to see the main event: a hot dog 
eating contest between Gainesville 
Fire Rescue and Marion County Fire 
Rescue.
Each team had four members, 
and each member had a plate 
stacked with 12 hot dogs in front of 
them. They had ﬁ  ve minutes on the 
clock. The goal was to eat as many 
hot dogs — buns included — as 
possible.
Contestants quickly learned to 
soak the buns in glasses of water, 
otherwise the bread would dry out 
their mouths and slow them down. 
Hot dogs disappeared, consumed 
quickly in an attempt to win the 
trophy, decorated with a hot dog on 
top, of course.
As the piles dwindled, volun-
teers brought out plates with six 
more hot dogs. Competitors shook 
their heads, threw their hands up in 
the air, groaned and continued eat-
ing. At 10 seconds left, the crowd 
cheered them on.
Jon Pilgrim, owner of Mayﬂ  ower 
Cellars, announced the winners.
GFR’s team, named “Just Try 
and Ketchup,” won with 25 hot 
dogs eaten. MCFR’s team, “Hot Dog 
Furies,” ate 18 hot dogs. 
Lt. Sean Withers from GFR, after 
eating eight hot dogs, received the 
grand champion belt for eating the 
most.
“I wanted to clear my plate,” 
Withers said. “I wanted to win, so 
I just kept shoveling them in. To 
tell you the truth, I’m a little disap-Fireﬁ  ghters down hot dogs in inaugural charity event 
Matthew Goldman / Alligator Staff
Lt. Sean Withers from Gainesville Fire Rescue won the championship belt for eating the most hot dogs 
(eight) by himself. Withers and other members of GFR were awarded ﬁ  rst prize during the competition. 
T ogether, they consumed 25 hot dogs.
 SEE HOT DOGS,  PAGE 3
By Carly Rogers
Alligator Contributor Writer
The Accent Speakers Bureau chairman 
said students were so excited about Tues-
day’s event, they were ask-
ing for details as the post-
ers for it were being hung 
up.
Comedian and “Satur-
day Night Live” alumnus 
Jay Pharoah will be per-
forming a stand-up act 
tonight from 8 to 9 at Uni-versity Auditorium, located at 333 Newell 
Drive next to Century Tower. The doors will 
open at 7 p.m.
“We went through some options, and 
when I got to Jay Pharoah, it was a no-brain-
er,” chairman Gregory Wolf said. “He’s an 
excellent talent, he’s hilarious, he’s super 
creative and he’s someone everyone can re-
late to.”
Anticipation for the event doesn’t end in 
Gainesville. Some students are making plans 
to come back to campus just to catch Phar-
oah’s act.
“I’m really excited to see Jay Pharoah,” said Dylan Pinard, a UF aerospace engineer-
ing major. “I’m not in Gainesville for the 
summer, so I’m coming from home and stay-
ing with a friend to see his show.”
Students may receive up to two free tick-
ets per Gator 1 Card. Tickets have sold out, 
but there will be a stand-by line prior to the 
show, according to a Facebook announce-
ment.
Wolf said Pharaoah will receive $52,000 
for performing.
Pharoah is most famous for his time at 
“Saturday Night Live,” where he gained fame 
doing impressions of different celebrities, including former President Barack Obama, 
Drake and Jay-Z. He was there for six years, 
but he left about one year ago to star in mov-
ies and do a stand-up comedy tour.
“Accent doesn’t usually do a Summer 
show, so we thought that it’d be a really 
good idea to bring somebody to do a high-en-
ergy show that everyone can come together 
and enjoy,” Wolf said.
More information about the event can be 
found on the event’s ofﬁ  cial Facebook event 
page and on the Accent website.Jay Pharoah to perform stand-up tonight at Accent event
Pharoah
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 100
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
HIGH  95° LOW  73°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
City Commission special meeting 
agenda for Thursday
The Gainesville City Commission is 
holding a special meeting Thursday 
at 1 p.m. in the Roberta Lisle Kline 
Conference Room, which is lo-
cated at 200 E. University Ave. in 
Gainesville.The agenda includes 
a discussion of the Community 
Redevelopment Agency. For more 
information, contact the City of 
Gainesville Communications Office 
at 352-334-5017 or email gainesvil-
lepio@cityofgainesville.org.Florida Museum hosts free 
Creative B movie ‘Dracula’
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is hosting a screening 
of “Dracula,” released in 1931, 
at the museum Friday at 7 p.m. 
Visitors will have the chance to 
discuss the film with a panel of 
scientists, artists and special ef-
fects experts. The museum and 
Creative B will screen the movie 
and explore the balance between 
science and art with an expert 
panel. The panel discussion starts 
at 7 p.m., followed by the movie. The museum’s permanent ex-
hibits will be open to the public 
for extended hours until 10 p.m. 
Parental discretion is advised. For 
more information, visit floridam-
useum.ufl.edu/event/creative-b-
dracula or call 352-273-2061.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 100
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
pointed with eight.”
Withers does plan to defend his title next 
year and beat his record of eight hot dogs.
Safety City was created by GFR and the Ki-
wanis Club of Gainesville and opened in 2002. 
The 2-acre facility is located at 1025 NE 13th 
St.
Safety City requires no entrance fee and 
includes a pavilion, a fire station building, 
working crosswalks, streetlights and more. 
Children, usually brought on field trips, can 
learn about topics such as fire safety, bike and 
pedestrian safety, electrical safety and how to 
call 911.
“If we go out and we just talk to kids, they 
might remember a small percentage of what 
we say,” Krista Ott, coordinator for Safety City, said. “If we involve them a little bit, they’ll re-
member a little bit more, but we know if we 
get them hands-on doing what we’re doing, 
they’ll remember it much greater.”
Pilgrim hopes to build on this year’s mo-
mentum and have “Sausages for Safety” grow 
and include more organizations. He and his 
wife, Kerry Pilgrim, co-owner of Mayflower 
Cellars, first thought of the event when their 
business opened two years ago.
“Mayflower Cellars made its name with 
house-made sausages,” Jon Pilgrim said. “It 
took one summer to know that we should do a 
hot dog eating contest. I feel like any business 
that cares about the community should help 
local charities.”
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgHOT DOGS,  from pg. 1Organizers said event meant to encourage hands-on safety tips
All photos by Matthew Goldman / Alligator Staff
Above: Members of Marion County Fire Rescue wait to begin the first annual 
“Sausages for Safety” hot dog eating competition on Saturday afternoon. Each 
competitor began with a plate of 12 hot dogs during the contest.  
Left:  Children participated in a “Kiddie Combat” obstacle challenge during 
Saturday’s “Sausages for Safety” fundraiser.  
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies.Vegan/gluten free 
options. Like us on Facebook.  436 SE 2nd 
St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide array of 
desserts and treats made daily. Bring your own cup 
for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot parking. Indoor and 
Outdoor seating. Next to the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . 
Introducing the Side Car Our Gourmet operations 
has expanded to include a swanky next door bar! 
Rotating taps, excellent wine selection. Open Late
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover lots of 
vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-made desserts, 
craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic 
Gulf Oil building or outside under the modern portico. 
1511 NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for 
dinner 5:30-9 Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.comBy Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
New evidence shows moths with elongated 
tails and hindwings have a better chance of es-
caping a bat attack.
In a study published July 4 in Science Ad-
vances, researchers at UF and Boise State Uni-
versity teamed up to ﬁ  nd out why tails help 
moths escape bats.
“(This study) is really kind of a major step 
forward in trying to understand how insects and 
their primary predators, bats, are able to interact 
with each other and get away from each other,” 
said study supervisor and associate curator of 
lepidoptera and biodiversity at the Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History Akito Kawahara.
Kawahara said the yearlong study took place 
at both UF and Boise State in Idaho. UF’s re-
search focused on understanding the evolution 
of tails on moths. He said if tails are important 
tools for escaping bats, over time, more moths 
would tend to have these features.
The team tested four hindwing shapes in 
real time battles between moths and bats to see 
which moths were the most successful at escap-
ing.
According to the study, the attacks were 
able to be seen using high-speed videography. 
The videos showed moths with longer tails and 
hindwings have a higher escape rate.“There’s so many new things we are discov-
ering with this new technology,” Kawahara said 
about high-speed videography. “Ten years ago, 
20 years ago we probably wouldn’t (have) been 
able to do some of this work in the way we did 
because we didn’t have the tools we do now.”
The same team released another study in 
2015 that showed moths with tails survive bat 
attacks better than those without, said co-author 
and Boise State doctoral student Juliette Rubin.
Rubin said her favorite aspect of the study 
was the process of data collection, watching 
and videoing the bats and moths duke it out in 
the live “dogﬁ  ght” room.
“It was always fun to collaborate with the 
Florida team, and it was neat for us to meld our 
worlds together,” said Rubin. “Seeing the inter-
actions (of the bats and moths) unfold in real 
time is really impressive.”
Kawahara and Rubin emphasized the impor-
tance of the 160,000 moth species in our world 
as they are an important component of the nat-
ural environment.
“It’s important to broaden our understand-
ing of the natural world,” said Rubin. “As the 
world and biodiversity changes, we’ll (be able) 
to understand how things have evolved to our 
present day.”
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org The Associated Press
WASHINGTON (AP) — President 
Donald Trump chose Brett Kavanaugh, a 
solidly conservative, politically connect-
ed judge, for the Supreme Court Monday 
night, setting up a ferocious conﬁ  rma-
tion battle with Democrats as he seeks 
to shift the nation’s highest court ever 
further to the right.
A favorite of the Republican legal 
establishment in Washington, Kavana-
ugh, 53, is a former law clerk for retiring 
Justice Anthony Kennedy. Like Trump’s 
ﬁ  rst nominee last year, Justice Neil Gor-
such, Kavanaugh would be a young addi-
tion who could help remake the court for 
decades to come with rulings that could 
restrict abortion, expand gun rights and 
roll back key parts of Obamacare.
“He is a brilliant jurist, with a clear 
and effective writing style, universally 
regarded as one of the ﬁ  nest and sharp-
est legal minds of our time,” Trump said 
in his prime-time televised White House 
announcement. He added: “There is no 
one in America more qualiﬁ  ed for this 
position, and no one more deserving.”
With Kavanaugh, Trump is replacing a swing vote on the nine-member court 
with a staunch conservative. Kavana-
ugh, who serves on the Court of Appeals 
for the D.C. Circuit, is expected to be 
less receptive to abortion and gay rights 
than Kennedy was. He also has taken an 
expansive view of executive power and 
has favored limits on investigating the 
president.
Speaking at the White House, Kava-
naugh pledged to preserve the Constitu-
tion and said that “a judge must be inde-
pendent and must interpret the law, not 
make the law. A judge must interpret the 
Constitution as written.”
A senior White House ofﬁ  cial said 
Trump made his ﬁ  nal decision on the 
nomination Sunday evening, then 
phoned Kavanaugh to inform him. The 
ofﬁ  cial said Trump decided on Kavana-
ugh because of his large body of juris-
prudence cited by other courts, describ-
ing him as a judge that other judges read.
On Monday, Trump phoned retiring 
Justice Kennedy to inform him that his 
former law clerk would be nominated to 
ﬁ  ll his seat. Trump signed Kavanaugh’s 
nomination papers Monday evening in 
the White House residence.UF researchers study moths as prey  Trump picks Kavanaugh for courtTUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Victoria Chin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Viviane Charlestin remembers wearing a 
red dress when her family drove to West Palm 
Beach on a hot day in 2003.
Her mother, Ruthe, said they were visiting 
Viviane’s father before he left for a vacation. 
Viviane and her siblings waited in a dark, gray 
room with prison-like windows.
Her older sister came out of another room 
crying and wouldn’t tell Viviane why.
It wasn’t until Viviane was 11 years old 
when she found out her father, Villiance, was 
being held in jail that day, before being deport-
ed to Haiti.
“I didn’t even realize he was in jail. All 
I knew as a kid (was) Dad wasn’t there,” 
20-year-old UF English major Viviane said.  “I 
figured he was at work because that was the 
situation most of the time.”
When Viviane and Ruthe heard about the 
U.S. government separating families who are 
crossing the border illegally to seek asylum in 
the U.S., Viviane said her mother cried the en-
tire day.
“I hope that people just learn how difficult 
(immigration) is and the effect that it has on 
family,” Viviane said. “It’s affecting the kids 
the most. And it’s really sad because their par-
ents came here for them, and now you’re tak-
ing them away.”
Before Villiance was deported, the Charles-
tin family moved to Fort Pierce after their house 
in Orlando was foreclosed. Six kids shared the 
two-bedroom, one-bathroom apartment. Vivi-
ane’s parents slept on the living room floor.
Villiance picked oranges in the morning and 
ran a car mechanic business in the evening. 
Viviane remembers her ffather being strong, 
proud and hardworking. 
When Viviane was 4, her father’s friend 
needed help moving a car overseas. In the 
process, the two were questioned about their 
documentation. Villiance’s visa had expired, 
and he was jailed. 
Villiance told Viviane his first days back in 
Haiti were filled with tears. He felt like he was 
losing time.
As the family’s sole provider, Ruthe worked 
for a housekeeping company before it was shut 
down and got a job at McDonald’s. She hated it 
but knew someone had to pay the bills. 
After two years, the family eventually 
moved into a duplex-style home through Sec-tion 8 housing. Ruthe paid $300 a month there 
but still couldn’t afford the rent.
“We didn’t see it as like, ‘Oh, government 
housing is bad. You’re on welfare,’” Viviane 
said. “We saw it as, ‘We get a house, like, a big 
house. Two bathrooms!’”
Ruthe received about $500 each month in 
food stamps, but the family still went hungry 
some nights. Ruthe pawned her wedding ring 
for food money and sold a necklace her son 
bought her for Mother’s Day to pay for the light 
bill.
Their neighborhood on 23rd Street was un-
safe. Frequent gang violence forced Viviane 
and her siblings to stay inside after school.
Ruthe studied English at night school and 
reviewed a CD and booklet every day before 
becoming a U.S. citizen in 2012. During this 
time, the family moved back to Orlando with 
no plan.
Ruthe got a well-paying housekeeping job, 
but the Charlestins went homeless again in 
2013 until Viviane found an apartment for the 
family near Oak Ridge, Florida.
Viviane attended Oak Ridge High School 
before convincing her mom to move into low-
income housing in Gainesville to be closer to 
her sisters, who were attending UF.
Through it all, the family preserved their 
culture by cooking Haitian food, going to a Haitian Baptist church, speaking Creole and 
celebrating Haitian holidays. The family re-
mained in contact with Villiance, but phone 
calls to Haiti were laborious at the time.
On June 19, the Charlestins flew to Port-Au-
Prince, Haiti, and Viviane saw her father for 
the first time in 15 years.
Villiance met his family wearing an orange, 
short-sleeved button-up shirt with jeans and 
black boots. He had buzzed-cut gray hair and 
wrinkles. Viviane did not recognize him at all.
“I felt like our conversations were just dry 
and fake,” Viviane said. “He knew nothing 
about me. He missed every graduation, he 
missed every birthday. Not because it was his 
fault, but just in general.”
Villiance was unemployed, and the only 
person sending him food or money was Ruthe.
“The job he wants to do is be a mechanic, 
and that’s what he’s good at,” Viviane said. 
“That’s what he learned.”
But many people do not own cars in Haiti, 
nixing the need for mechanics.
Sometimes, Villiance is homeless. Other 
times, he lives with family. Ruthe paid about 
1,000 gourdes for a rental house for their visit, 
where Villiance would be able to live for the 
rest of the year.
While visiting Haiti, Viviane and her fam-
ily only had electricity every other day for an hour. Water came in plastic bags, and ice-filled 
coolers were used to keep things cold.
“It’s really crazy to see how even (about) 10 
years after the earthquake, it’s gotten worse,” 
Viviane said.
They visited initially to get a waiver from 
Haiti’s U.S. Embassy for Villiance to come 
home. However, the embassy in Haiti told 
them to go to America to get the waiver. But 
they had been told in America to go to Haiti to 
get the waiver.
The family started Villiance’s case in 2008, 
but it was canceled because his phone was 
often stolen, making communication with his 
case workers difficult. Viviane said everyone 
except Ruthe gave up on bringing him back 
long ago.
“We’re just going to have to move on with 
it and just accept the fact that he can’t stay 
here anymore,” Viviane said. “And it’s a re-
ally sad realization, but at the same time, it’s 
almost like we’re numb to it.”
The family started the expensive process of 
filing for Villiance’s visa again when they re-
turned to the U.S. on June 29.
“For one application paper, it’s $300, anoth-
er is $250, and it’s just money that my mom 
doesn’t have,” Viviane said.
Viviane said she would like to volunteer to 
help other first-generation Americans and their 
families. She thinks Americans should treat im-
migrants better.
“They’re not stealing your jobs,” she said. 
“They’re taking the jobs that you don’t want.”
Not enough people understand how diffi-
cult the immigration process is, Viviane said. 
People try their hardest, but sometimes they 
still can’t get in.
“Of course, people are going to sneak in 
because they want a better life,” Viviane said. 
“It’s because they want to come here for their 
children, even it means in five days they get 
deported, but their kids are safe. They’re will-
ing to take that risk.”
Viviane’s oldest sister is now getting her 
doctorate at the University of Notre Dame. Her 
other sister plans to become a teacher.
Viviane wants to work in the film industry 
to change the perception of Haitian culture in 
the media.
“I really just want to put Haiti on the map 
and hopefully make it successful enough that 
I can give my mom everything and more…” 
she said, “and hopefully even write her story.”Fifteen years later, UF student fights against father’s deportation
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Filipino President Rodrigo Duterte’s war 
on drugs has led to the deaths of thousands 
of people, catching the attention of student 
groups at UF.
A public forum was held in a Reitz Union 
classroom Sunday afternoon to discuss 
Duterte’s human rights violations and how 
to stop the unjustified deaths.
Since 2016, more than 26,000 people 
have been killed in Duterte’s violent war on 
drugs, Malaya Movement Coordinator Yves 
Nibungco said. The 12 people that attend-
ed talked about the threat of Duterte’s war 
against the Filipino people — particularly 
poor, indigenous populations.
“The common scenario is that (Filipino 
citizens) are accused of being drug users with 
no trial and are killed in police operations 
with no due process,” Nibungco said. “They 
have no way of defending themselves.”
The forum was organized by UF’s Asian 
American Student Union and included speakers from the International Coalition for 
Human Rights in the Philippines (ICHRP) 
and the Malaya Movement.
“There’s a huge population of Filipinos 
here in Florida,” Nibungco said. “We believe 
it is important to bring awareness here.”
Nibungco explained how people in the 
states can help, including calling their U.S. 
representatives. He said it is important for 
U.S. residents to join in outreach to support 
the growing resistance of Filipino people.
“We are concerned about our tax dollars 
being spent in the Philippines in the form of 
military aid,” Nibungco said. “About $5 mil-
lion goes to train the law enforcement direct-
ly participating in Duterte’s war on drugs. 
We believe people should be aware of that.”
For UF sustainability studies senior Priya 
Pershadsingh, 20, the presentation was in-
formative, inspiring and even a bit shocking.
“I actually have a really close friend who 
is from the Philippines, and he doesn’t really 
talk about situations like this,” Pershadsingh 
said. “It was really eye-opening.”Advocates speak out against 
Filipino war on drugsBy Anais Roache
Alligator Contributing Writer
The City of Gainesville has announced a tree 
team to develop an urban forest management 
plan to act as a roadmap that will enhance the 
city’s current tree canopy, which is the layer 
of tree brush that covers the city when viewed 
from above, and maximize its ability to provide 
benefits for all citizens.
The tree team will also be working with 
Gainesville Regional Utilities on tree-trimming 
operations so certain areas won’t fall victim 
to tree limbs falling on power lines, affecting 
electricity during hurricanes and large thunder-
storms. 
Chip Skinner, public information officer for 
the City of Gainesville, said the team has been 
in planning since the city’s Blue Ribbon report, 
which called to put citizens at the front of the 
city’s decision making process.
“The team will be able to open up our eyes 
and put us on the flip side, into the citizens’ 
shoes,” Skinner said. “Instead of just being a 
city employee, we’re taking into account (citi-
zens’) feelings and thoughts on different pro-
cesses as well.”
Skinner said the biggest issue currently fac-ing the urban forest is development along Ar-
cher Road and people who do not adhere to 
the current mitigation process of the city’s tree 
canopy, which calls for replacing trees that 
have been removed with new ones.
Despite these obstacles, Skinner said he 
feels the city is still doing well in terms of tree 
cover, as it has been considered  a “Tree City 
USA” for more than 30 years, a status given 
to cities that meet certain standards of urban 
forestry management.
City arborist Matthew Mears said the city’s 
tree canopy offers a number of benefits to citi-
zens like providing shade, clean air, ground 
water and even a sense of place.
“When I think of Gainesville, I think of its 
really beautiful and thick tree canopy, and I 
think it’d be quite a different place if there were 
no trees for sure,” Mears said.
Mears said community members can get 
involved with the development of the manage-
ment plan by attending public meetings with 
the city’s Tree Advisory Board once a month.
“It’s really important for the community to 
get involved because the urban forest is a ben-
efit to everyone and it affects everyone,” Mears 
said.City to review tree canopyCourtesy to The Alligator
Viviane Charlestin (right) poses with her father, Villiance, for a selfie in Haiti in June. 
Editorial
ColumnTwo common 
myths of journalism
Don’t settle for a situation that only hurts
I’m an introvert through and through. As a 
person who is an avid listener, I haven’t 
always been the best at speaking up for 
myself. For me, part of the silver lining of 
having a chronic illness has been ﬁ  nding a 
voice beyond one that’s on paper or in print. 
I’ve learned to be an advocate for others and 
myself.
I’m writing this column after leaving a doc-
tor’s ofﬁ  ce that I’m not going back to. This 
isn’t the ﬁ  rst time this has happened. 
Doctors take an oath to do no harm. However, I’ve 
been traumatized by many doctors. This sounds dramat-
ic. However, during a visit to the doctor, my heart rate 
and blood pressure can rise. Sitting on the medical table 
can give me ﬂ  ashbacks to times of physical and mental 
pain brought on by doctors I have seen in the past.
I’ve been dismissed and given the opposite of care. 
I’ve left ofﬁ  ces in tears, in agony not only from the pain 
I went in for, but also from the pain of being unheard. 
I’ve been chastised and spoken down to. I’ve been called 
crazy and told I’m faking. I’ve been shot down, just to 
ﬁ  nd out later I was right in knowing something was 
wrong only after being heard when an older adult is in 
the room or when another doctor took the time to listen 
and believe me.
Even when I’ve spoken up, doctors haven’t listened. 
That’s where I’ve learned there’s more than one pathway 
in life. I just have to make a new path in another direc-
tion.
My journey is full of branches. It’s a crazy tree with 
weird limbs. Some are short blunt points, signs of new 
ideas or attempts that didn’t work out. Setbacks have 
helped me grow roots to help anchor the tree that I’m 
still trying to nurture. Sometimes, like during the lowest 
lows at the doctor’s ofﬁ  ce or in the hospital, I feel like I’m wilting and can’t support myself. Other 
times I’m able to stretch out and grow. 
This has come partly from knowing when to 
walk away. When something isn’t going as it’s 
supposed to, whether that be in a friendship, 
relationship, job or classroom, it’s important to 
speak up against injustice or something that’s 
causing more harm than good. This is the way 
things can change.
Don’t settle for a situation that only hurts. 
However, not settling doesn’t mean everything is imme-
diately ﬁ  xed. It can feel like a never-ending ﬁ  ght.
I’ve been seeking an answer to new symptoms that 
started in February. It’s been months, but it could be 
years. In the world of medicine, you can ﬁ  nd reports of 
stories from patients who waited years for a diagnosis.
In life, your gender, race or socioeconomic status can 
affect everything. It can affect your health care, educa-
tion, opportunities and more.
In dealing with less than ideal situations, I am even 
more driven to be a journalist who can write articles that 
can be available to anyone. I want to report on stories 
that help other people learn and be aware. More than 
anything, I want people to read about how they matter 
and how one person can make a difference.
In the isolation of sickness, reading articles on stories 
of injustice in medicine has given me knowledge for my 
journey, and I hope to do that for others. 
Sophie Feinberg is a UF journalism junior. Her 
column comes out Tuesday and Thursday.TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Are we missing anything? How much does the 
thing cost? When and why did the thing become 
an issue? Who does the thing affect and how?”
Those are all questions we ask ourselves 
here at The Alligator when researching, writing 
and publishing a story.
There are several misconceptions in the public about the 
decision-making process that goes on behind the scenes at any 
publication. We believe that some of these misinterpretations 
about what the media does, and how it does it, often leads to 
further mistrust of our institution.
Therefore, in the spirit of a neat meme making the rounds 
on social media, we will attempt to dispel two common news 
media myths our readers may believe that seem obviously 
false to journalists. As always, please feel free to engage us 
on the topic on Twitter @TheAlligator and tell us where you 
believe we’re right and wrong. 
The objective of this endeavor isn’t to point at media con-
sumers and laugh like Nelson from “The Simpsons.” Rather, 
we believe it is our — both The Alligator and the news media 
in general — duty to make our process more transparent.
1.) Balance does not always equate to the truth and is not 
always necessary or right. For example, if 97 percent of sci-
entists agree that humans signiﬁ  cantly contribute to global 
warming, then it’d be ethically irresponsible to give the 3 per-
cent of scientists who disagree equal time in a story on the 
topic.
Getting 97 percent of any community to agree on some-
thing is, in our opinion, nearly impossible in the modern cli-
mate of discourse and contrarianism.
That’s not to say that a minority viewpoint shouldn’t be 
covered. People in America have fought and died for the rights 
of those in the minority. But the opinions covered deserve 
proper context, perhaps in saying, “So-and-so is in the minor-
ity in their opinion. Only X percent of people in their occupa-
tion believe this.”
A false balance of any subject — implying that both sides 
of an issue are equally valid when they aren’t — is how you 
end up with issues like “whataboutism” and false equivalence.
2.) Objective journalism isn’t a real thing. True objectivism 
implies that writers or editors have never formed an opinion 
on anything relating to the issue they’re covering.
This isn’t to be misconstrued as all journalists and newspa-
pers “having an agenda.” Our business is ﬁ  nding out the truth 
and telling people’s stories and not in perpetuating a person-
ally motivated political ideal.
Sure, some of the larger 24-hour media outlets have shifted 
more toward opinion and forced roundtable discussions where 
most sentences spoken begin with “I think…” Yes, you’re cur-
rently reading an editorial, which is a personal point of view. 
But the local news sources of the U.S. don’t have massive bud-
gets to spare of political castaways spewing bad hot takes.
Please don’t misconstrue any of this as us trying to brush 
off allegations of bias with a simple, “Everybody does it!” It 
is just to say that reporters are people too, and that’s a pretty 
important prerequisite in gathering information about — and 
disseminating it to — other people.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR“
Sophie Feinberg
opinions@alligator.org
“I want people to read about how they matter 
and how one person can make a diference.”
Sophie Feinberg
Alligator Columnist
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Walking down the break-
fast aisle of the gro-
cery store, a rainbow 
of boxes scrolls past. 
Mascots like Tony the 
Tiger and Lucky the Leprechaun 
jump out from each rectangle. The 
obvious conclusion is that a lot of 
these cereals are aimed at kids. 
Turn those boxes over and you’ll 
ﬁ  nd most of them are high in sug-
ar and, for some, extremely high. Improving 
public health isn’t a simple topic, but one 
common sense move is obvious: We should 
stop marketing sugary cereals to children. 
Let’s start with the more obvious: A diet 
high in sugar is not healthy. The Ameri-
can Heart Association (AHA) has continu-
ally adjusted sugar intake recommendations 
downward. We’re slowly starting to realize 
that fats are not the biggest culprit. Sugar 
intake has been shown to contribute more 
to obesity than fats. Not only does sugar 
harm you in a direct way when eaten in 
excess, it leaves less room in your diet for 
healthy foods like fruits, vegetables, whole 
grains and low-fat dairy products.
Eating lots of added sugar early in life is 
linked with obesity, high blood pressure and 
type 2 diabetes, according to the Cleveland 
Clinic. Those are factors that lead to heart 
disease in both children and young adults.
The new AHA guidelines call for less 
than 25 grams of sugar per day for children 
between 2 and 18 years old. One serving 
of Lucky Charms, for example, contains 10 
grams of sugar. That doesn’t leave much 
more room for sugar consumption in the 
rest of the day. According to the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA), most people 
eat more than 30 percent of the serving size 
listed on the nutrition facts label. That turns 
10 grams into 13 grams. Marketing target-
ed at children aims to further increase that 
amount.
Let’s take a look at why marketing to kids is unethical. Lucky the Lepre-
chaun, mascot of Lucky Charms, 
was created in 1963 to give the 
cereal a friendlier, more youthful 
face. The shape and color of the 
marshmallows changed to appeal 
to young consumers. These tactics 
were used because children aren’t 
won over by nutrition labels. They 
convince their parents to buy ce-
reals that are the most fun, have 
the most color and excitement and have the 
catchiest theme songs. 
Children are not persuaded by nutri-
tion labels. They can’t be expected to un-
derstand them — especially when portion 
size doesn’t accurately reﬂ  ect how much a 
typical person eats. Worse, kids are already 
eating two to three times the daily recom-
mended amount of sugar, according to nu-
tritionist Dawn Undurraga. Parents are fur-
ther misled when thinking cereal is “part 
of a complete breakfast” when really that 
statement only means it shouldn’t be eaten 
alone. Cereal is no more part of a complete 
breakfast than a slice of cake is part of a 
complete dinner.
The Federal Trade Commission only acts 
to prevent commercial speech to enforce the 
law, e.g., preventing Camel cigarettes from 
marketing to children because kids aren’t 
old enough to buy cigarettes legally. Be-
cause Uncle Sam won’t step in to help, we 
should solve this sugar overdose by educat-
ing parents to the harmful effects of sugar 
and ask marketers to think and act ethically. 
Unfortunately, those are the only ways out 
of this Trix rabbit hole.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political sci-
ence junior. His column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday. Silly cereal industry, Trix aren't for kidsColumn
Stephan 
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.orgAmericans have re-
cently discovered 
the harm of plastic 
straws to the en-
vironment and the 
animals that inhabit it. Over-
night, it seems that many 
young people have begun 
urging each other to stop us-
ing the thin drinking tubes. 
When I ﬁ  rst heard about this movement, 
I didn’t understand why straws were 
any worse than other plastic pollution. 
I ﬁ  gured all plastic was bad. Why are 
we singling out straws? This week I set 
out to ﬁ  nd the reason so many environ-
mentalists were warning us about these 
seemingly innocent tools. 
The ﬁ  rst thing that makes straws a 
bigger challenge than other plastics 
is that we often don’t think to recycle 
them. They can’t be recycled — they’re 
too small to be processed by the ma-
chines at recycling plants. Americans 
use 500 million straws per day and their 
average life span is 20 minutes. Be-
cause plastic never fully biodegrades, 
the straws will live the majority of their 
life littered somewhere or will make the 
journey to a “continent” that is a third 
of the size of North America: the Great 
Paciﬁ  c Garbage Patch.
When animals are swimming in more 
plastic than water (One study predicts 
pollution will outweigh marine life by 
2050), they can inhale it or eat it. Ac-
cording to onegreenplanet.org, up to 50 
percent of sea turtles ingest plastic. This 
can cause them to get sick and die or be 
unable to digest food. When we lose one 
part of the ecosystem, it affects many 
other species — including humans! Peo-
ple should take the endangerment/ex-tinction of animals personal-
ly. It might not directly affect 
you, but it will at some point. 
It’s just cruel that an innocent 
animal should have to suffer 
because of our actions. 
It’s a bit ridiculous that 
we are so addicted to a prod-
uct with literally no purpose. 
When did we become too lazy 
to lift a glass up? Straws are one of the 
top 10 items found in beach clean ups. 
Straws serve little to no purpose and are 
handed out excessively by restaurants 
and bars. It’s hard to believe we still use 
them when it costs zero dollars to just 
drink out of a cup.
There are compostable plastic straws, 
but these are meant to be broken down 
at a facility — not by the ocean. Paper 
straws can be a good alternative, but 
they quickly turn to mesh. Your best op-
tion, if you’re looking to give up straws, 
is to buy a reusable metal or wooden 
straw. Or you could always just take the 
lid off your drink and go strawless.
Not using a straw might seem like 
an inconvenience, but we have to draw 
the line somewhere. I think we are ac-
customed to a level of luxury that isn’t 
sustainable. For me, living in a second-
world country taught me about living 
with less unnecessary comforts. Giving 
up straws to protect the wildlife from 
consuming them and dying seems worth 
it to me.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising 
junior. Her column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday.How to quit sucking: the problem 
with plastic strawsColumn
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
Still rock ‘n’ roll to Baby Gators 
Above: Campers learned about Native American innovations and artifacts during Monday’s 
“Archaeology Rocks!” event.  
Below: Young campers from Baby Gator listen as speakers from the Florida Public Archaeology 
Network talk about stone tools and hunting technology during Monday’s “Archaeology Rocks!” event.Above: Eager campers wait to have their questions answered 
following the presentation.
Below: Campers listen carefully as a member of the Florida Public 
Archaeology Network gives a slideshow presentation on different 
rock types.Photos by Matthew Goldman
Alligator StaffTUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
When Gainesville Police officer Ed Ratliff 
and his K-9 partner, Ace, patrolled along 
Southeast Eighth Avenue, they weren’t ex-
pecting to find their first suspect as a solo 
team.
Ratliff and the German shepherd/Belgian 
Malinois mix had been working solo for two 
months since their certification in April. Late 
on June 16, Ace spotted him first. 
Laying in the bushes, a man accused of 
robbing a Dollar General with a handgun had 
covered himself in leaves. Once Ace alerted 
him, Ratliff noticed the man’s shoes sticking 
out from the bushes. He called for other of-
ficers and waited for them to arrive before ap-
proaching the man and apprehending him.
“If it wasn’t for Ace, we wouldn’t have 
found him,” Ratliff said. “I was really happy, 
like a proud dad.”
Ace, almost 2 years old, is one of seven dogs 
in GPD’s K-9 unit. For about five months, the 
dogs and their handlers train together before 
being certified to do patrol work by the Florida 
Department of Law Enforcement, Ratliff said.
GPD officer Joshua Meurer and his dog, 
Ranger, were most recently certified June 28. 
The 18-month-old puppy was flown in from 
Germany four months before.
“He wouldn’t sit still when he got here,” 
Meurer said. “He was running around the 
house. He had never seen a screen porch 
before, so he ran at it and bounced off the 
screen. He just shook it off.”
When looking for K-9 candidates, people 
search all over the world for dogs that display 
a high drive to go after and find things. The 
dogs should have the ability to listen and to 
use their noses — instead of just their eyes — 
to look, Meurer said.
At GPD, five of their dogs are dual-purpose 
while the other two are single-purpose. Officer 
Rob Rogers’ dog, Nero, is a dual-purpose dog 
trained to sniff out narcotics and apprehend 
individuals. In about three or four months, 
Ranger will also be dual-certified.
In the meantime, Ranger and the rest of 
the GPD unit train 10 hours every week, more 
than the mandatory amount, according to 
Rogers.
The unit trains at “the barn,” a nickname 
for the fleet operations facility where the city 
of Gainesville services all city vehicles.
The large fenced-in field being next to the 
parking lot makes “the barn” a good place to 
train, Rogers said. There’s space to train and 
hide scents for the dogs to find — without 
worrying about anyone being harmed.
All seven dogs have obedience training 
where they’re expected to remain at their han-
dler’s side as they turn, walk and run around 
the field. They are also expected to lay down 
at a hand gesture and stay in the position until 
they’re given another gesture.
The dogs being trained for certification 
each had individual obedience training. Be-
fore they were certified, Ranger and a visiting 
K-9 from St. Johns County Sheriff’s Office had 
to lay down in the middle of the field, with-
out their handler, while two officers walked 
around the dog to see if they would stand up 
or ignore them.
In another exercise, an officer shot blanks 
off to the side while the dog walked next to his 
handler, testing to see if they would respond 
to the sound of the gun. Cpl. Jeff Kerkau said 
it’s important to train them not to go after gun-
fire because the person shooting the gun may 
be another officer.
Cpl. Dylan Hayes-Morrison, Ares’ handler, 
said, “I could’ve never anticipated how dif-
ficult being a K-9 handler is. It’s impossible 
to really recreate scenarios, so every call is a 
challenge. The pressure falls on us. We can’t 
just say, ‘this person is too dangerous.’”
The dual-purpose K-9s also had to search 
through the parking lot full of cars to find a narcotics scent that was planted before they 
arrived. The handlers brought out each dog by 
themselves to sniff at the cars and alert them, 
either passively or actively.
Dogs like Nero have an active alert, letting 
their handlers know they’ve found something 
by scratching at it. Other dogs sit down in-
stead and stare, not letting their handlers pull 
them away until the spot’s been checked.
At UF, the police department employs four 
bomb dogs. Because they’re detecting explo-
sives and don’t want to accidentally set them 
off, their dogs have passive alerts.
Boomer the bomb dog, a black Labra-
dor with a habit of nibbling grass when he’s 
bored, is trained to detect about 22 different 
odors. Along with Boomer, UPD has two other 
Labradors and a German shepherd.
Officer Dale Holmes, Boomer’s handler, 
said the Labradors are better for crowds since 
they’re not stereotyped as police dogs.
“With a dog that’s a little bit less scary,” 
Holmes said, “we can get up and close to a 
person through crowds without being too 
scary and making people move away from 
him. I want to be able to get close to some-
body.”
Since GPD doesn’t have bomb dogs, UPD 
brings in their dogs if there’s a situation around 
Gainesville that may involve explosives.
The bomb dogs are trained to identify the 
spot of the explosives as accurately as pos-
sible. Like a gradient, the strength of the scent 
helps the dogs narrow down the location. 
The closer they get to the scent, the stronger 
it gets. Once the scent starts to weaken, they 
know they’ve passed the area and backtrack.
Like most K-9 dogs, Boomer is rewarded 
with a toy after he identifies a scent, encour-
aging him to alert his handler for specific 
scents. Each dog has their own reward toy, 
and Boomer and Holmes enjoy playing tug-of-
war with a rolled-up cotton towel.
“He loves coming into work,” Holmes said. 
“Every day is play time.”
At the end of the day, the K-9 dogs go 
home with their handlers. Several officers said 
their dogs can tell when they’re off the clock. 
GPD Cpl. Kerkau said it’s important to let 
their K-9s just be dogs at home. Kerkau’s dog, 
Roo, knows the work day is over once his 
work collar is off and hung in the garage.
Ratliff, who takes his dog on family walks 
with his fiancée, said, “When we pull into the 
neighborhood, Ace almost sighs because he 
knows we’re home.”Law enforcement trains, employs newest K-9 officers
Jessica Curbelo / Alligator Staff
GPD dogs walk with their handlers during obedience training. Part of the training makes sure the dogs will remain next to their 
handlers when running or walking.
Jessica Curbelo / Alligator Staff
Ares and Cpl. Hayes-Morrison pose outside of the building where the unit meets up 
before going to training at “the barn. ”
10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
NEED A JOB? 
WORK  WITH  GATOR DINING!
TM
APPLY TO POSITION:
STUDENT WORKER - UNIV. OF FLORIDA-MAIN 
AT WWW.GATORDINING.COMNOW HIRING
FOR SUMMER B & FALL 2018!· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
When a man was stopped by 
Gainesville Police after a chase Saturday, 
he allegedly tried to eat a small plastic 
bag of cocaine.
Javontea Black, 22, was charged with 
grand theft auto, possession of a con-
trolled substance and drug parapherna-
lia, not having a valid driver’s license, 
aggravated ﬂ  eeing and attempting to 
elude a police ofﬁ  cer. 
The ofﬁ  cers knew Black was travel-
ing from Alachua to Gainesville with an 
active warrant from the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. Alachua Police was able 
to tell GPD that Black was driving a sil-
ver Honda with a black hood, according 
to the report.
The warrant from ACSO was for bat-
tery, aggravated assault with a deadly 
weapon and elderly abuse. It was issued 
April 18 with a $105,000 bond, accord-
ing to the report.
He is also facing charges from APD 
for a crime he committed Saturday for 
grand theft of a ﬁ  rearm and two counts 
of possession of a weapon or ammo by 
a convicted Florida felon for a $100,000 
bond, according to the Alachua County 
Clerk of Court website.
On Saturday around 10:40 p.m., GPD ofﬁ  cers ran the license plate of a silver 
Honda Civic on Northwest 13th Street, 
according to the report. When the plate 
was ran, ofﬁ  cers saw it was reported sto-
len July 2 out of Hillsborough County.
The ofﬁ  cers signaled Black to stop as 
he turned on Northwest 23rd Terrace, 
according to the report. 
Black refused to stop and made mul-
tiple turns before he attempted to drive 
between two buildings and hitting a 
mailbox, according to the report. 
When the car came to a stop, the back 
and front seat passengers ran from the 
car, according to the report. Black tried 
to leave through the front passenger win-
dow, but he was taken into custody.
During the search, a GPD ofﬁ  cer 
found a small plastic case in Black’s 
pants pocket which had drugs, accord-
ing to the report. Black had also spit out 
a small plastic bag containing powder 
cocaine.
Black suddenly said the cocaine was 
thrown into his lap by one of the passen-
gers in the car and he tried to eat it when 
the ofﬁ  cers were behind him, according 
to the report.
Black remains in Alachua County Jail 
in lieu of a $305,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgGPD: Man tried to eat evidence 
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
A woman was found sleep-
ing on a man’s couch after bur-
glarizing his home on Northeast 
Fifth Avenue on Saturday, then 
gave her 19-year-old daughter’s 
name when she was arrested by 
Gainesville Police, according to 
the arrest report.
Janice Williams, 34, was 
charged with unarmed burglary 
to an unoccupied conveyance, 
burglary of a dwelling, grand 
theft from a dwelling and giving 
false name or ID to law enforce-
ment ofﬁ  cers.
The victim was arrested June 
27 and taken to Alachua Coun-
ty Jail, according to the report. 
When he was arrested, he called 
his sister and told her to come 
and get the keys to his apart-
ment so she could check on it.
On Friday around 2:30 p.m., 
the victim’s nephew went to the 
apartment, took a shower and 
left, according to the report. He 
locked the front door but be-
lieved he left a window open in 
one of the bedrooms.On Saturday around 4:30 
p.m., the victim’s sister went 
to check on the apartment and 
found Williams asleep on the 
living room sofa, according to 
the report.
Williams was allegedly sleep-
ing next to two bags of house-
hold items containing about $75 
worth of food, about $150 worth 
of men’s clothing and random 
items from the kitchen and 
bedroom. The sister checked 
with the nephew to make sure 
the apartment was in order and 
all the food was in the kitchen 
when he left.
Before leaving the apart-
ment, the sister watched Wil-
liams open the driver side door 
of her Ford SUV without her per-
mission and take her purse, ac-
cording to the report. Williams 
left before ofﬁ  cers arrived, and a 
check of the SUV found items on 
the ground that were previously 
inside the vehicle.
The victim was told what 
happened and said he did not 
know Williams and did not 
give her permission to enter his 
apartment or take any of his things, according to the report.
Williams was found at 1500 
NE First Ave., according to the 
report. After being read her Mi-
randa Rights, Williams said she 
had gotten permission to sleep 
at the apartment before the vic-
tim went to jail.
The nephew told police he 
saw Williams two days before, 
according to the arrest report. 
He said he told Williams the 
victim was arrested and that she 
didn’t know, which contradicted 
what she told police about hav-
ing the victim’s permission.
An ofﬁ  cer spoke to another 
witness Sunday around mid-
night. The witness told ofﬁ  cers 
that Williams falsely used her 
name instead of Williams’ real 
name. She said Williams is her 
mother and did not give her per-
mission to use her information.
Williams has an active war-
rant in her name for possessing 
and using drug paraphernalia, 
according to the Alachua Coun-
ty Clerk of Court website. 
Williams remains in Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $9,000 
bail.
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 19-year-old 
Lake City man Thursday for allegedly sexually 
battering a minor at The Oaks Mall.
Jeremy Dixon and the girl were reportedly 
friends at the time. On April 22, they went 
shopping at the mall on Newberry Road. While 
in Dillard’s, the girl said she wanted to try on 
some dresses and went to the changing room.
Dixon reportedly followed her inside. When 
she said she didn’t feel comfortable changing 
in front of him, Dixon replied that he would 
“see it anyway.” According to the report, the 
girl was confused by his statement but started to change into the dresses.
She told ofﬁ  cers that she left her jeans on 
because she was so uncomfortable with Dix-
on in the room. At one point, Dixon allegedly 
stopped her from changing and began to kiss 
her. The victim said she tried to stop him, but 
he continued and started groping her breasts 
and kissing her neck. He stopped for a mo-
ment, and she began changing again.
Again, Dixon reportedly stopped her and 
began to kiss her, unbuttoning her pants to take 
them off. The victim tried to hold her pants up 
and told Dixon to stop, but he didn’t listen and 
pulled her pants down from her waist. The vic-
tim told law enforcement that she was scared 
and froze, not knowing what to do.After he forcibly pulled her pants down, 
Dixon allegedly began to perform oral sex on 
the victim. Eventually, she was able to get him 
to stop by saying that her parents had arrived 
to pick her up. Dixon then left the changing 
room, according to the report.
Dixon was reportedly standing at the door 
and said she wasn’t allowed to tell anyone be-
cause he would get in trouble.
A short time later, they were both picked 
up by the girl’s parents. According to the re-
port, Dixon spoke to the victim afterward and 
again told her not to tell anyone. He allegedly 
stated that he was already under investigation 
in another county for a similar situation with 
another minor.GPD arrested Dixon on Thursday after-
noon, more than two months after the events 
happened. Dixon reportedly told ofﬁ  cers that 
he was aware of the girl’s age.
He said that he followed her into the dress-
ing room and stayed there after she told him 
that she was uncomfortable. As she was chang-
ing, he did begin to kiss her and use his ﬁ  ngers 
to rub her vagina. Dixon allegedly said that he 
then put his mouth and tongue on her vagina. 
According to the report, he left the changing 
room before telling the victim not to tell any-
one because he would be in trouble.
According to Alachua County Jail records, 
Dixon is charged with sexual assault on a mi-
nor. His bond is set at $100,000.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgWoman charged with unarmed burglary
Man charged with sexual battery in Dillard’s dressing roomBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873  or 352-514-0487        
7-31-18-11-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
Designated drivers are the greatestGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
7-31-18-8-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$1900/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-19-18-4-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Students can earn extra income
in spare time to
copy and paste on social media.
Go to >>>http://www.v102fm.com/     7-10-
18-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Seeking part-time copy editor/technical writ -
er. Must have prior editorial/copy editing ex -
perience and must have advanced grammar 
knowledge. Rate is $12/hour. Please send 
resume and cover letter to pda@gue.com.  
7-19-18-5-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
"The Language of Love" 
ECK Light and Sound Service, Sun., July 15    
1:00 PM, Courtyard By Marriott 
3700 SW 42nd Street  
Eckankar in Gainesville:  378-3504
www.eck-florida.org
Everyone welcome!
7-12-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Chatting online,
for short
6 Little
troublemakers
10 Invitation letters
14 Indiana hoopster
15 Like frat brothers
16 Keep __: persist
17 Fast train in the
Northeast
18 Ideal occupations
20 Scrambled words
newspaper game
22 Crosswalk user,
briefly
23 Prodigal __
24 Garden tools
25 Hosp. drips
27 Vaudeville bit
28 Car music source
32 Baghdad native
35 Mystical glow
37 Eyeglasses glass
38 Fashionably
ripped denim
41 So totally gross
42 Fencing sword
43 “Therefore ... ”
44 Matthew and
Mark wrote two
of them
46 Pained cries
47 Gave lunch to
48 Surrealist
Salvador
50 Ike’s monogram
53 Medical ins. plan
55 Copier
malfunction
59 Off-color humor
61 Get ready to hit
the road
62 Chicago paper,
familiarly
63 Sign of the future
64 “__ you ready
yet?”
65 November
honorees
66 Get fresh with
67 Moth-eaten
DOWN
1 Apple tablets
2 Chinese
gambling mecca
3 Strand at the ski
lodge, maybe
4 Women’s
basketball
analyst Fortner
5 It may be a result
of stress, some
say
6 “My luck HAS to
change!”7 Quaint
schoolteachers
8 Roman
commoner
9 __ the deal
10 Indian friend of
TV’s Sheldon
11 Comes to a
complete halt
12 Vague feeling
13 Condition once
called “shell
shock,” for short
19 Israel’s Golda
21 Trot
26 “Donna” singer
Ritchie
27 One usually
dressed for
success
28 Liberate
29 Alfred E.
Neuman
magazine
30 Road trip
stopovers
31 __ buco: veal
dish
32 Beatnik’s
“Gotcha!”
33 Puerto __
34 Ignores warnings
to behave, say
35 Once-sacred
snakes
36 Employ39 Long, thin fish
40 Talking endlessly
to
45 Whirlpool
46 Fútbol fan’s cry
48 Noblemen below
princes
49 Chorus from the
pews
50 Track mix for a
party, and what
the five longest
Across answers
comprise51 Intimidate
52 Running 
on __
53 RCA 
product
54 Swampy 
area
56 Spanish 
eyes
57 Deep sleep
58 “Sharknado”
actress Reid
60 Atlanta-based
cable channel
By Bruce Haight
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/10/1807/10/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 10, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Blustery, rough
1.  Draw off5.  Agent
2.  Smelly6.  ____ layer
3.  It’s danced around7.  Property
4.  Loving touch TRMOYS
OSHPNIXRYPO
ZOOEN
USODOOR
AYEPLMOSTASES
SARSECANSWERS: 1A-Stormy  5A-Proxy  6A-Ozone  7A-Assets
1D-Siphon  2D-Odorous  3D-Maypole  4D-Caress  B-Pony Express7-10-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The ____ ____ operated from  
1860 to 1861. BONUS
1. Five pitchers have tossed a no-hit-
ter in both the American League and the 
National League. Name three of them.
2. Dave McNally won 20-plus 
games for four consecutive years for 
Baltimore (1968-71). In how many of 
those years did at least one teammate 
also win 20 or more games?
3. When was the last time before 2016 
that Penn State’s football team won an 
outright Big Ten championship?
4. In 2017, Chris Paul became the 
third-fastest NBA player (806 games) 
to reach 15,000 points and 8,000 
assists for a career. Who was faster?
5. When was the last time the Caroli-
na Hurricanes made the NHL playoffs?
6. In 2017, Christian Pulisic became 
the youngest winner (19) of the U.S. 
Soccer Federation’s Male Player of 
the Year award. Who had been the 
youngest?
7. When Manny Pacquiao became 
the first boxer to win world titles in 
eight weight divisions, how many of 
them were considered lineal titles?
Answers
1. Jim Bunning, Randy Johnson, 
Hideo Nomo, Nolan Ryan and Cy 
Young.
2. Three — 1969 (Mike Cuellar), 
1970 (Jim Palmer, Cuellar) and 1971 
(Pat Dobson, Palmer and Cuellar).
3. It was 1994.
4. Magic Johnson (765 games) and 
Oscar Robertson (784).
5. It was the 2008-09 season, when 
Carolina lost in the conference finals.
6. Landon Donovan was 21 when he 
won the award in 2003.
7. Five (flyweight, featherweight, 
super featherweight, light welter -
weight, welterweight).
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
July 9, 2018King Features Weekly Service15 Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides
ACROSS
1 Kid
5 Affected
10 Layered hairstyle
14 Germany’s von
Bismarck
15 Capital on the Aar
16 Relate
17 *Footwear that
slows you down?
19 Pro __
20 Fancy pillow
material
21 Takes a gander
at
22 Urban
extensions?
23 Dutch export
25 Backpack
features
27 Prepare
30 Clipped to a
greater extent
31 Ramp sign
32 Glorify
34 Virtually can’t be
beaten
37 Flee
38 *Satchels with
vents?
40 Big Ten sch. with
eight national
football
championships
41 Request before a
shot
43 Diminish
44 “In your dreams!”
45 “Walker, Texas
Ranger” star
47 Name on the
cover of “Death
in the Afternoon”
49 Goes overboard,
in a way
51 Furniture giant
52 Jewelry location
53 Muffin choice
55 “But I don’t want
to go among mad
people” speaker
59 Singles
60 *Headwear with a
power supply?
62 What flowers
may do
63 Kitchen
additions?
64 LPGA golfer __
Pak65 1974 Peace
Nobelist from
Japan
66 Passes out cards
67 Hardy title
teenager
DOWN
1 Positions
2 Other, in Oviedo
3 Stolen bases,
e.g.
4 Most contrived
5 Hunk’s pride
6 Bring up again?
7 Horse victim?
8 Treated as
unimportant
9 Polite affirmation
10 Highway
markings
11 *Leg covering
with a warmer?
12 Make changes to
13 Wine __
18 Köln closing
24 Hun king, in
Norse legend
26 Pitchfork-shaped
letters
27 Some goop
28 Knowledge
determinant29 *Trouser support
with rhythm?
30 Big brass
33 Resolve, in a way
35 Medical suffix
36 Clump
38 Space beginning
39 Computer whiz
42 Finishes behind
44 Wall Street figure
46 Massaged
48 Tail49 Farm equipment
50 Ancient Greek
region
51 Debriefing info
54 “__ girl!”
56 Cold drink brand
57 What the
answers to
starred clues are
part of
58 Christian denom.
61 Curved shape
By Susan Gelfand
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/06/1807/06/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, July 6, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols LewisFormer UF forward Devin 
Robinson had his second-
straight 20-point outing in the 
NBA Las Vegas Summer League 
last night.UF FOOTBALL TO REVEAL JORDAN JERSEYS JUL Y 17
The university will host a rally at the World Congress Center in Atlanta, 
Georgia, at 7 p.m.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
An Alligator Sports 
Staff Report
There are many incoming fresh-
men and transfers joining UF Ath-
letics for the 2018-19 season. With 
the first sporting event of the 2018 
fall sports season under one month 
away (soccer exhibition match at 
Florida Gulf Coast on Aug. 7), it’s 
time to get acquainted with some of 
the new faces of the Florida Gators. 
Sports writers Chris O’Brien, An-
drew Huang and Mark Stine high-
light newcomers to watch for the 
upcoming football, volleyball and 
soccer campaigns.
Chris: Dan Mullen, in his first 
cycle in which he arrived late on the 
scene, pulled in a decent recruiting 
class for the Gators this year. Let’s 
take a look at some of the newcom-
ers that are expected to have the big-
gest impact:
Wide receiver Jacob Copeland, 
a stocky six-foot, 192-pound re-
ceiver, has a chance to be the best 
recruit in the 2018 class. No writers 
have had a clear look at the Pen-
sacola product since he stepped on 
campus in Summer B, but his high 
school tape speaks for itself. Over 
his prep career, he collected 85 re-
ceptions for 1,648 yards and 14 re-
ceiving touchdowns – all in the span 
of three years.
Coming in as a transfer from Ohio 
State, wide receiver Trevon Grimes  has the potential to be the best play-
er every time he steps on the field. 
He’s got crisp route-running, elec-
tric speed and a vertical jump that 
should help him high-point lots of 
balls. Expect to see Grimes be a fo-
cal point this year.
Another wide receiver transfer, 
this time out of the mess that Hugh 
Freeze caused at Ole Miss, Van Jef-
ferson figures to have a big impact 
as well. He’s a little thin, only listed 
at 181 pounds, but has some of the sharpest route-running I’ve ever 
seen. Grimes’ routes are adequate, 
but Jefferson runs his on a tee. He 
has extremely quick feet and I fore-
see him lining up in the slot often 
this season.
Quarterback Emory Jones is 
intriguing. He’s one of the highest-
rated QB recruits to come to UF, but 
he’s a little undersized and looked 
raw over spring. Look for him to 
have a 2006-Tebow-like role this 
year, mixing him in some run-pass options with either Feleipe Franks or 
Kyle Trask.
Running back Dameon Pierce is 
also an interesting case. He looked 
spry in the spring and has great cut-
ting ability and speed, but his posi-
tion is loaded with great players in 
front of him like Jordan Scarlett, 
Malik Davis and Lamical Perine. An 
injury or two would put him right 
in the mix and he has the ability to 
make an impact.
After Florida lost kicker Eddy Pi-ñeiro to the NFL, it needed to land a 
kicker in the recruiting class. Evan 
McPherson is that kicker. He’s no 
Piñeiro, but he’s the real deal. The 
Gators should have a satisfactory 
special teams unit this season.
Defensive backs Trey Dean and 
Amari Burney could make an im-
pact on a unit young and thin on 
players. Offensive tackles Richard 
Gouraige and Noah Banks should 
be featured on an offensive line 
that will be rotation-heavy. Finally, 
JUCO tight end Lucas Krull was 
a late addition to the class. He’s  a 
hulking 6-foot-7, 255 pounds and 
was relatively unknown until he de-
cided to switch from baseball back 
to football.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
 
Andrew: The 2017 season 
marked the end of an era for Gators 
volleyball. After leading UF to the 
national championship match, star 
players Rhamat Alhassan, Carli Sny-
der, Shainah Joseph and Caroline 
“CK” Knop ended their college ca-
reers as Florida legends.
The Gators face the harsh reality 
of life without them in 2018 but can 
rest easy knowing that Thayer Hall 
has arrived, signaling the beginning 
of the next era of UF volleyball. 
Hall’s resume is impeccable: 2017-
18 Gatorade National Player of the Top incoming recruits/transfers rundown for fall sports
SEE RECRUITS,  PAGE 16
The Associated Press
MOSCOW (AP) — Two wins from be-
coming the first foreign coach to win a 
World Cup, Roberto Martinez always will be 
known as Frankie to his former boss.
“He reminded me of those wonderful 
what I call zoot-suited American vocalists, 
like Bobby Darin, Frankie Avalon, Frankie 
Valli,” Everton chairman Bill Kenwright 
said. “And I christened him Frankie from the 
first day I met him.”
Martinez had more hair then. Now bald-
ing, the Spaniard has led Belgium to a World 
Cup semifinal against France on Tuesday 
night, three days before his 45th birthday. 
All 20 previous World Cup-winning coaches 
were born in the nation they led to the title.
“He’s a genius tactically,” said American 
goalkeeper Tim Howard, who spent three 
seasons with Martinez at Everton. “He al-
ways finds a weakness in the opponent. He 
prepares his teams to break down the op-ponent. No game is the same — he changes 
tactics every game.”
Belgium beat five-time champion Bra-
zil 2-1 in the quarterfinals when Martinez 
switched to a new formation — a 4-3-3 with 
star forward Romelu Lukaku on the right 
wing. If Belgium gets past the French, The 
Red Devils would play England or Croatia 
on Sunday with the chance to win their first 
World Cup title.
Englishman George Raynor’s Sweden 
team advanced to the 1958 final at home but 
lost to Brazil, and Ernst Happel of Austria 
led the Netherlands team to the 1978 final, 
an extra-time defeat to host Argentina. Mar-
tinez hopes to succeed where they failed by 
employing a two-year process to ensure “this 
is a team, this is not a group of individuals.”
“There’s more feeling of trust in each oth-
er,” midfielder Kevin De Bryune said.
Martinez is familiar in the U.S. from his 
work for ESPN as an analyst at the 2010 and 
2014 World Cups, the last two European Championships and the 2013 Confederations 
Cup. He insisted the network install a screen 
that showed the overhead tactical camera.
“Roberto only wanted to watch that,” 
said Amy Rosenfeld, ESPN’s senior coor-
dinating producer for soccer. “We always 
had a setup where everybody else could see 
the main feed, and Roberto had a separate 
monitor where he could just watch the entire 
game from his high end zone. That’s how 
he could consume the match, interpret the 
match, look at shape, look at formation, look 
at vulnerabilities, passing lanes.”
Martinez impressed colleagues with his 
focus, especially after the Seine flooded ES-
PN’s set in Paris two years ago.
“Rats that I think were living in the Juras-
sic era emerged, and we could not get rid of 
them. These things could have been in the 
fourth race at Belmont — these were enor-
mous rats,” Rosenfeld said. “The rats are 
running past Roberto — he doesn’t miss a 
beat. He’s doing his analysis, one take usu-ally, it may have even been live. There was 
a rat chewing on Roberto’s laces.”
In Britain, he remains somewhat of a mys-
tery, at least his name. While he pronounces 
it Mar-TEE-nez, English media often stress 
the first syllable and say MAR-tin-ez.
He grew up in the Catalonia city of 
Balaguer and left the youth system of his 
hometown club at 16 to join Zaragoza. He 
played for a series of small clubs and became 
known for his move to third-tier Wigan for 
the 1995-96 season along with Jesus Seba 
and Isidro Diaz, a trio quickly dubbed the 
“Three Amigos.”
He quit as a player at 33 when Swansea 
offered the manager’s job in February 2007, 
and in his first full season earned the club 
a promotion that put it back in the second 
tier for the first time since 1983-84. Marti-
nez moved up to the Premier League with 
Wigan in June 2009 and after a bizarre Belgium coach could be first to win for other nation
SEE WORLD CUP,  PAGE 16The Associated Press
Wide receiver Van Jefferson transferred to Florida from Ole Miss for the upcoming season. He is 
expected to be eligible immediately after a scandal befell coach Hugh Freeze and the Rebels in Oxford.
TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Support the Red Cross Ser-
vices to Armed Forces and 
change a life, starting with 
your own.
Call 1-800-RED-CROSS
or visit  
redcross.org
Blake Snell 
has been 
one of 
the most 
dominant 
starting pitch-
ers in all baseball 
through the 2018 
season. During 
his third season in 
Tampa Bay, he’s unexpectedly 
led the Rays to a record on the 
plus-side of .500 (45-44) and 
put himself in serious conten-
tion for the American League 
Cy Young Award.
However, it seems that be-
cause Snell doesn’t play rou-
tinely in the national spotlight 
for a blue-chip club, his All-
Star ability is going unnoticed 
by much of the country. The 
Rays only posted one All-Star 
selection in Wilson Ramos, a 
catcher in a league without 
great depth behind the plate. 
All of the AL’s starting 
pitcher selections play in mar-
kets much larger than Tampa. 
The Yankees, Red Sox and In-
dians lead the majors with ﬁ  ve 
All-Stars, and each contrib-
uted two pitchers along with 
the World Series champion 
Astros.
Of course, the selections of  
the Yankee’s Luis Severino, 
the Red Sox’s Chris Sale, the 
Astros’ Gerrit Cole and the In-
dians’ Corey Kluber and Trev-
or Bauer are undisputed. 
However, Snell has posted 
a better earned-run average 
than all of them (2.09), as he 
leads the AL in that statistic. 
He’s also second only to Sev-
erino in the MLB in wins (12) 
and 10th in the AL in wins 
above replacement regardless 
of position (4.3). Even though the crop consists 
of established, 
elite talent, Snell 
deserves a nod 
over at least one 
of these All-Star 
mainstays. 
Jose Berrios 
of the Minnesota 
Twins and J.A. 
Happ of the Toronto Blue Jays 
were both selected to the AL 
All-Star roster instead of Snell. 
Both Berrios and Happ are not 
featured in the Leagues’ top-
10 in ERA, WAR among pitch-
ers or strikeouts. Snell appears 
on all three lists. 
Berrios (8-7) and Happ (10-
5) headline their respective 
rotations but have both strug-
gled as of  late. They’ve  each 
lost their last two starts, giving 
up at least three earned runs 
in their respeective outings. 
Snell (12-4), on the other 
hand, has four-straight victo-
ries and hasn’t relinquished 
more than one earned run in 
each of those starts. 
The hot arm is who the 
American League should be 
going to in the All-Star game. 
Snell has been pitching better 
than both Berrios and Happ 
lately and would be comfort-
able on the mound with Ra-
mos behind the plate.
Perhaps if the Astros’ Jus-
tin Verlander isn’t available 
in time for the contest on July 
17, Snell will ﬁ  nd himself with 
his ﬁ  rst All-Star selection by 
replacing the injured right-
hander. 
Mark Stine is a sports 
writer. Follow him on Twitter 
@mstinejr or contact him at 
mstine@alligator.org. Blake Snell’s All-Star snub 
is because of where he playsMark My Words
Read the title. Then read it again, 
and again and again.
Read it until it becomes common-
place for you.
No, seriously, I mean it, STOP GIV-
ING COVERAGE TO TIGER WOODS.
Not only is he a terrible role model, 
but he’s completely washed up too! 
Face it, all you golf schmucks, HE’S 
NOT COMING BACK. Find someone 
new you can really feel good about 
sinking a 12-footer on 18 at Augusta.
Since 2018 began, out of 12 tour-
naments, only three times has he ﬁ  n-
ished better than 10th. He has yet to 
win a tournament, and he’s missed 
the cut twice.
But here’s the problem: when 
I turn on the TV, there’s only one 
name I see. Tiger Woods.
No matter what channel or net-
work, it’s always the same. You turn 
on ESPN, Tiger Woods. Golf Chan-
nel, Tiger Woods. FOX Sports, NBC 
Sports, CBS, Tiger Woods.
Shame on the networks. It’s a pity 
that they care more about money 
than the people who actually should 
be receiving attention.
At the Quicken Loans National 
two weekends ago, I couldn’t tell you 
off the top of my head who won, but 
I could damn sure tell you that Tiger 
ﬁ  nished fourth.
It’s an absolute travesty that I had 
to look up the fact that Francesco Mo-
linari won the tournament by EIGHT 
STROKES. The Italian shot a 21 un-
der, absolutely torching the previous  
tournament record of 14 under. He 
carded 21 birdies, an eagle and just 
two bogeys in a showcase of some of 
the ﬁ  nest golf of the year!
But did you know that?Chances are, you probably didn’t 
because every network is focused 
on Tiger, who, might I remind you, 
hasn’t won an event since the WGC-
Bridgestone Invitational in 2013 or a 
major since the U.S. Open in 2008. 
He’s No. 69 in the world golf rank-
ing, yet he garners the most attention 
from media, and the discrepancy isn’t 
even close.
I previously mentioned that he’s 
a terrible role model, and that’s 100 
percent accurate. Tiger Woods is not 
someone you bring home to intro-
duce to your teenage daughter…or 
even your divorced 45-year-old sister 
in-law.
Where do I even begin?
How about his inﬁ  delity scandal 
in 2009, where he had extramari-
tal affairs, in which he conﬁ  rmed to 
have relationships with over a dozen 
different women?
Or how about the treatment of his 
ex-caddie, Stevie Williams? Williams 
went on the record in 2015 to say, “It 
was like I was his slave.” After Ti-ger ﬁ  red Williams, the caddie aided 
Adam Scott, who went on to win a 
tournament shortly thereafter.
Still believe Tiger is a great guy? 
Okay, one more example. How about 
when he was arrested as recently as 
2017 for a DUI of prescription drugs? 
If you have a child, is this really the 
guy you want them taking an exam-
ple from? Yet, once again, he receives 
more media coverage than any other 
golfer.
I truly, truly do not understand 
the love affair between golf fans and 
Tiger Woods. Is he a top-three golfer 
of all time? Absolutely. Was he once 
the most masterful player of his time? 
Absolutely. Was he fun to follow be-
tween 1997 and 2009? Absolutely. 
But is he fun to watch now? Please, 
I’d rather watch Keeping Up with the 
Kardashians over Tiger Woods.
 
Chris O’Brien is a sports writer. 
Follow him on Twitter @THEChrisOB 
and contact him at cobrien@alligator.
org.Please... stop giving coverage to Tiger WoodsO’B-Wan Kenobi 
Chris O’Brien
Twitter: @THEChrisOB
The Associated Press
Tiger Woods hasn’t won a tournament since the 2013 WGC-
Bridgestone Invitational or a major since the 2008 U.S. Open. 
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mrstinejr16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 10, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)  
BAR BINGO @ 7:30pm2-4-1 Tacos 
(Steak, Chicken, or Red Fish)
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYS
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueYear, 2017 MaxPreps Female Athlete of the 
Year and the No. 1 overall recruit from the 
class of 2018, according to Prepvolleyball.
com. Hall was a three-time South Carolina 
High School Miss Volleyball (2015, 2016, 
2017) and won a gold medal, along with 
MVP honors, as a member of the USA Vol-
leyball Junior National Team at the 2017 Un-
der-20 Pan-American Cup. We’ll also throw 
in her 2014, 2016 and 2017 AAU Academic 
All-American honors.
But Florida fans should be just as interest-
ed in what the Spartanburg, South Carolina, 
native will bring to the table as a freshman 
this fall.
Hall (6-foot-3) plays the same position, 
outside hitter, as the departed Snyder and Jo-
seph (both 6-foot-1). Snyder led the Gators in 
points a year ago, capping off an illustrious 
four-year career in Gainesville. Joseph caught 
ﬁ  re as a redshirt senior, earning herself a spot 
on the 2017 All-America Second-Team next 
to Snyder. Needless to say, Hall’s skill set, 
athleticism and competitive spirit should be 
on full display in 2018.But the void in this team includes Alhas-
san and Knop, too – the 2017 SEC Player of 
the Year and a 2017 All-America Honorable 
Mention, respectively.
Florida needs another star to pair with 
middle blocker Rachael Kramer. The 6-foot-8 
Kramer had a breakout 2017 campaign, earn-
ing herself All-America Third-Team honors.
Hall is exactly the player UF needs in 
2018.
Mark: The UF soccer team is integrating 
ﬁ  ve newcomers as it prepares for an exhibi-
tion match with Florida Gulf Coast on Aug. 7. 
The Gators’ best addition is perhaps de-
fender Georgia Eaton-Collins. She's from 
Ipswich, England, and has experience play-
ing for the England’s Under-19 national team 
and the Arsenal youth system. She was voted 
the Arsenal women’s Under-20 Player of the 
Year. 
Eaton-Collins' addition is especially criti-
cal after the graduation of defenders Cassie 
Owens and two-time All-SEC talent Kristen 
Cardano left Florida with little depth in its 
central defense. 
In February, the program announced the 
addition of junior-transfer Carina Baltrip-Reyes from Florida International and three 
national signees: attackers Cassidy Lindley, 
Mary Peace and Samantha Tobar. 
Baltrip-Reyes started eight games at mid-
ﬁ  elder as a freshman at FIU but was injured 
for the entire 2017 season. However, she 
made an impact in UF’s spring game against 
Florida State on March 23. She assisted at-
tacker Laís Araujo two minutes before half-
time in the 1-1 tie. 
Lindley hails from St. Theodore Guerin 
Catholic in Noblesville, Indiana. She led the 
Golden Eagles to the 3A Girls State Champi-
onship match in her senior season. Lindley 
also scored two goals and three assists at the 
2017 High School All-American Game held in 
Orlando on Dec. 2. 
Peace and Tobar are both in-state recruits. 
Peace, daughter of former Gators All-
American quarterback Wayne Peace, created 
25 goals and 21 assists for Lakeland Christian 
last season and earned Division 1A District 
12 Player of the Year honors.
Tobar comes to Florida after playing three 
seasons at Marjory Stoneman Douglas in 
Parkland. 
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org  RECRUITS,  from pg. 14UF volleyball will be bolstered by the No. 1 recruit in the country
2012-13 season, when Wigan was 
relegated while winning its ﬁ  rst 
FA Cup, he switched to more pres-
tigious and ambitious Everton, 
where he would coach Lukaku and 
Marouane Fellaini, a pair that has 
combined for ﬁ  ve of Belgium’s 14 
World Cup goals.
Martinez wasn’t thought of as a 
tactician at the club level. He was 
ﬁ  red with one match left in his 
third season at Everton following fan protests as the Toffees headed 
to their second straight 11th-place 
ﬁ  nish. The Royal Belgian Foot-
ball Association, which ﬁ  red Marc 
Wilmots after a 3-1 loss to Wales in 
the 2016 Euro quarterﬁ  nals, hired 
him three months later.
Martinez brought in former star 
Thierry Henry of France as an as-
sistant, wanting his experience 
as a World Cup and European 
champion. Players were booed in 
Martinez’s ﬁ  rst match, a 2-0 loss 
to Spain, but the Red Devils are 
unbeaten in 24 matches since (19 wins). A month before the World 
Cup, he was rewarded with a new 
two-year contract running through 
the 2020 European Championship.
He speaks English and Span-
ish, looking casual at news con-
ferences, sometimes with several 
days of stubble. His workrate is 
impressive. One hour after the 3-2 
win over Japan in the round of 16, 
Martinez texted Kenwright that he 
already was planning tactics for 
Brazil. Martinez waits until three 
hours before kickoff to reveal his 
lineup to his players.Kenwright praises Martinez for 
being “an extraordinarily good 
man” admired by club employees 
from top to bottom.
“He truly is, truly, truly, truly, 
24-7. I don’t say that thinking, 
well, he’ll take an hour off on Sun-
day. He won’t. He takes no time 
off at all,” Kenwright said. “The 
World Cup this summer has not 
been about superstars, but has 
been about teams and particularly 
their coaches and their managers. 
And that’s why people like (Mar-
tinez) and Gareth Southgate stand out.”
Martinez has been married 
for nine years to the former Beth 
Thompson — they met when he 
was playing in Scotland — and 
they have a 4 1/2-year-old daugh-
ter Luella. Coaching families al-
ways have to be prepared to move. 
Before the quarterﬁ  nal, Martinez 
was asked at a news conference 
whether he was interested in 
coaching Spain. He deﬂ  ected.
“He can name whatever job he 
wants,” Howard said. “Maybe the 
U.S. soccer job?” WORLD CUP,  from pg. 14Martinez brought in Thierry Henry as an assistant coachipswichsportinglunchclub.co.uk
Defender Georgia Eaton-Collins was voted 
Arsenal's 2017 Under-20 Player of the Year.
