We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
City considers building international center 
It is looking at the land where Leonardo’s Pizza is located, pg. 10
Norman Hall renovations continue
The renovations are expected to ﬁ  nish in 2019, pg. 4GATORS WRAP UP RECRUITMENT
Columnist Ethan Bauer names four Florida 
football recruits who could see playing time next season, pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 56
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was convicted Wednes-
day of sex trafﬁ  cking by force and promoting 
prostitution, the Department of Justice said.
Arthur Larange Lee Jr., 34, was convicted 
in the U.S. District Court in Gainesville for ab-ducting a drug-addicted woman from the park-ing lot of a Gainesville church where she was 
attending a Narcotics Anonymous meeting in 
August 2016, according to a DOJ press release.
He took the woman’s phone, ordered her to 
drive to a nearby hotel and photographed her for an advertisement on a personal advertise-
ment website, according to the press release.After Lee told the woman he would “break 
her in,” he raped, burned and committed other 
acts of violence against her, the DOJ said.
For two days, Lee forced her to engage in 
sexual acts in local hotels and private residenc-
es with customers, keeping the money.
According to the DOJ, the woman was able 
to escape after a customer agreed to help her.
She ﬂ  ed with Lee’s phone and called police, 
who arrested Lee at the hotel she escaped. The 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and Federal Bureau of Investigation investigated the case.
For the sex trafﬁ  cking charges, Lee faces a 
minimum of 15 years and maximum of life in 
prison. Lee faces a maximum of 5 years in pris-
on for the promotion of prostitution charge.Gainesville man convicted of 
drugging, sex traﬃ   cking
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested Tues-
day for sexual battery more than a 
year after the incident, Gainesville Police said.
Christopher James Podlin, 21, 
raped his date in the Kappa Sigma Fraternity house, located at 1120 SW 9th Rd., on Dec. 7, 2016, according to an arrest report. Podlin had met the victim through Instagram about a month earlier when she was 17, po-lice said.
Four days before the alleged rape, the victim refused Podlin’s romantic 
advances when the 
two met to study to-
gether, according to 
the report.
In the early 
morning hours of 
the next day, the 
victim responded to Podlin’s texts 
and said, “I’m ﬁ  ne, I just don’t want to give you the wrong impression 
(because) I’m not going to hook up 
with you,” according to the report.
Podlin and the victim attended GPD: UF student arrested 
for sexual battery
SEE BATTERY,  PAGE 5FEATURE FRIDAY:
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
When Libby Rowell started 
feeding Mama Kitty in 1997, she 
never expected to bury the stray in her backyard nearly 15 years later.
Mama, a black tortoiseshell 
cat who lived by the UF Physical Plant buildings on Radio Road, knew the sound of Rowell’s voice and the time she got to work. The small stray would meet Rowell at her ofﬁ  ce door every day around 8 a.m., looking up at Rowell with her “pug-like” face and upturned 
nose.
Even after 15 years of feeding 
her, Mama wouldn’t let Row-
ell touch her — not until about a week before she died in 2012, looking up at Rowell for one of the last times with her golden eyes.
“After all those years, she nev-
er let me pet her until she knew 
she was sick,” Rowell said, tears 
in her eyes. “I guess she knew she was loved and I would take care of her.” 
Mama, who cared for genera-
tions of orphaned kittens like her own litter, inspired Rowell’s inter-est in helping the colony of about 15 cats living along Radio Road, 
she said. 
Rowell, a senior ﬁ  scal assistant 
for UF’s Central Stores, has fed 
the colony every day for 20 years, despite UF’s policy against feeding feral cats. She brings whatever cat food she can ﬁ  nd on sale, spend-ing about $15 a week. 
After bonding with Mama, she 
found homes for three of her lit-ters and kept the last three of Ma-ma’s kittens, Gracie, Buddy and Casey, for herself.
“I never wanted to draw atten-
tion to myself,” Rowell, 56, said. “I’ve never asked for help, never asked for money.” 
Rowell is one of many UF staff, 
faculty and students who feed cats on campus despite UF policy pro-hibiting it. 
“I know some people discour-
age it,” Rowell said. “I feel like me taking them, trapping them and ﬁ  nding so many homes for them is more of a service than a disser-vice.”
Although UF bans feeding fe-
ral cats on campus, employees are not punished for doing so, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said. 
The number of stray cats on 
campus is unknown, said UF Pest Management Coordinator Don Orth. 
Orth said he sees cats all over 
campus but complaints are rare. Pest management receives calls to help kittens stuck in pipes less than once a month. 
To enforce UF’s policy, the em-
ployees also pick up bowls of food left out for cats, which Orth said could attract other animals like raccoons.  
Strays tend to congregate at Mama Kitty’s legacy: A look at stray cats around the city
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Callie is one of several stray cats that have been regularly fed and cared for by Gainesville natives over the 
years. This group of felines regularly wander the streets and sewers of the University of Florida.
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 8
Podlin
on for the promotion of prostitution charge.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
HIGH  77° LOW  61°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Camp GatorNights
The Reitz Union will hold Camp 
GatorNights today. The event will feature four square, teth-erball and an obstacle course, as 
well as a tent-building contest. 
A Campus Movie Fest premiere will take place 8:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom. 
GatorNights is always Friday 
and always free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card. 
Attendees must be current stu-dents, and they’re allowed to bring a maximum of one guest.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday 
in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to at-tend and open to all. For more information, visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
American Association of 
University Women MeetingThe Gainesville Branch of the American Association of University Women will meet 10 
a.m. Saturday in Meeting Room 
A at the Millhopper Branch Library. The program topic, "Implicit Bias," is in commemo-ration of Black History Month. The presenter is Katheryn Russell-Brown, professor of law and director of the Center for Studies of Race and Race 
Relations, UF College of Law.
Tango classes
Want to learn Argentine tango? 
The UF Argentine Tango Club will hold free classes for all UF students. No dance experience is 
necessary. Join them from 6:15 
p.m. to 8:15 p.m. Sundays at the Reitz Union, Dance Studio A.
RZIM Free Lunch and Talks
Ravi Zacharias International Ministries is coming to UF next week, Feb. 12 to Feb. 16. They’ll 
be hosting free lunches at the 
Reitz Union at 11:45 a.m. and 12:45 p.m., engaging students in topics regarding spirituality and God. Talks are given by RZIM team members, addressing ques-tions such as “is God sexist?” “can the Bible be trusted?” and “who is Jesus?” centered around 
a theme of “hungry.” The talks 
will be Monday through Friday in the Reitz Union Chamber. For more information, visit face-book.com/HungryUF/.Florida’s Jewish Community 
Centers at Midcentury: Southern, Northern, or Exceptional?Civil rights activists against dis-crimination in public accom-modations and civic institutions 
prompted Jewish Community 
Centers in both northern and southern cities to debate wheth-er to admit black members. Abigail Oren will present the topic at 5:00 p.m. Tuesday in the Judaica Suite inside Smathers Library. 
Free Citizenship classes
The Latina Women’s League will offer free citizenship class-es 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. every Thursday until March 29 at the Millhopper Library Branch, lo-cated at 3145 NW 43rd St. To register, email info@latinawom-ensleague.org.
Stomp the Swamp for Autism
Impact Autism, a UF organi-zation, is holding Stomp the Swamp for Autism to benefit the UF Center for Autism and Related Disabilities at 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Feb. 17 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. CARD supports 
individuals with autism and 
their families through training and assistance. To learn more about autism and to register for “Stomp the Swamp,” visit card.ufl.edu or search the Facebook event page.
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers’ raceRegistration is now open for LifeSouth Community Blood Centers’ Five Points of Life Race Weekend on Feb. 17 and Feb. 18 at fivepointsoflife.com. Gainesville’s largest running race begins on the UF Cultural Plaza. Both days will include 
food, free massages and mu-
sic. All proceeds go to the Five Points of Life Foundation, which educates people on ways to share life with others, including the donation of blood, organs and tissue.
Student Government Elections
Spring Student Government Elections will be held 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Feb. 20 and 21 at locations across campus. Visit sg.ufl.edu/elections to request an absentee ballot before the deadline.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing CompetitionWords on Canvas is a poetry and prose writing competition at the Harn Museum of Art, lo-cated at 3259 Hull Road, for UF and Santa Fe College students inspired by art. The selection of artwork features a variety of me-dia, including pieces from Asian, Contemporary and Modern col-lections. Winning contestants will be awarded prizes. See guidelines at harn.ufl.edu/word-
soncanvas. The deadline is Feb. 
25. 
Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights WorkshopsThe Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present Law in 
the Library: Restoration of Civil 
Rights Workshops 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. March 22, at Cone Park Branch, 2801 E. University Ave., and 5:30 p.m to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road Branch, 3020 SW 75th Street. Attorneys from Josiah T. Walls Bar Association and students from the UF Levin 
College of Law will provide one-
on-one assistance to persons who have been convicted of a felony and are interested in ap-plying to have their civil rights restored. Also, the attorneys will meet with people who are in-terested in having their records sealed or expunged. These pre-
sentations are free and open to 
the public. Registration is not required. For more information, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
jtavel@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please mod-el your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
Correction
In an article published Feb. 7 titled "Free concert downtown to celebrate Black History Month," The Alligator incorrectly reported 
one band would be performing. 
Two bands will be performing during the concert: The first band is Dr. Neu & BlujaFunk and the second band is Billy Buchanan with his Rock 'n Soul Revue.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 56
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org 
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone,
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt,   
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny, 
  Alain Harb, Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Take these steps to prevent the spread of 
influenza (flu) to you and others:
• Wash your hands often! 
• Cover your cough or sneeze into a tissue.
• Avoid touching your face (eyes, nose or mouth) .
• Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
• Clean surfaces frequently. (Door handles, work areas, keyboards)
• Practice self-care for a good overall health!
Most people with the flu have mild illness and do not need 
medical care or antiviral drugs. If you get sick with flu symptoms, in most cases, you should follow the CDC’s advice and stay home for the first 24 hours until after your fever is 
gone. Additionally, avoid contact with other people except to get medical care.
For more information on preventing and treating flu, 
visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu
(352) 392-1161 | shcc.ufl.edu | @ufshcc
1236 NW 21st Ave
(off of 13th St.)
OPEN Monday - Saturday
11AM–7PM
Closed Sunday
(352) 260-6958A perfect study & meeting spot...URBAN
THREAD
OPEN  
Monday - Friday 11–7, 
 Sat 11–6, Sun 11–5HARPER’S CORNER
at
URBAN THREAD
2 LOCATIONS:
1236 NW 21ST AVE
(352) 271-1179
802 W. UNIVERSITY AVE
(352) 727-7500
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government political 
parties met with students to come 
up with campaign platform ideas Thursday. 
While Challenge Party released 
its entire platform, Impact Party only released ﬁ  ve platform points. Inspire Party has yet to release its platform. 
Challenge Party released its en-
tire platform on social media Thurs-day. 
Janae Moodie, who is running for 
Student Body president, said Chal-lenge would like to pilot an online 
sexual assault reporting program, 
which will track reported sexual as-sault on campus and ensure privacy in reporting.
“We’re hoping this will ultimate-
ly make our campus more safe for students,” Moodie said. 
Impact released its ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve plat-
form points through social media 
Wednesday and Thursday.
Omarley Spence, Impact presi-
dent, said the party wants to fo-
cus on diversity by revitalizing the Student Government Diversity and Programming Committee under the executive branch. 
“That’s going to be an amazing 
program that’s going to focus on all 
of the different ideas that would fo-
cus on diversity,” Spence said. 
Spence said he’s excited to advo-
cate for online students in the Path-way to Campus Enrollment program and Innovation Academy programs when they’re away in the Fall. He suggested creating virtual ofﬁ  ce hours with Student Body executives. 
“We realized that there’s not a 
huge platform for students that may not be on campus,” Spence said. “It will be a revolutionary step to engaging with students on a whole other level.” 
Nick Poindexter was approached 
by Impact while walking to the Reitz Union. 
The UF electrical engineering 
junior said he stopped to ask them to lobby for a better student health care plan. After he dislocated his left shoulder two weeks ago when he fell from the bleachers at a gym-nastics meet, he needed an MRI that would cost him about $1,300 after the copay. 
“I know that they have the ability 
to lobby with the health care provid-er on our behalf to make that plan better,” the 20-year-old said. 
Ashley Grabowski, Inspire’s 
campaign manager, said they expect to release their ofﬁ  cial platform next week. She said they’ve seen about 300 students each day.
Grabowski said students have 
talked about online voting, Multicul-tural and Diversity Affairs and more dance space for UF dancers. 
“We deﬁ  nitely want to make sure 
we’re advocating for all students across campus,” Grabowski said. 
@Christina_M18
      cmorales@alligator.orgStudent Government parties prepare for Spring elections
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff 
William Hataway, a 19-year-old UF biochemistry freshman, shares 
how he wants to see greater speed in renovations to restaurants.
Two parties released platform points, one will release next week
Impact Party
Challenge Party• Introduce a textbook 
donation and rental program
• Promote the African American Studies Program 
to departmental status
• Implement virtual ofﬁ  ce 
hours with Student Body executives 
• Develop a scholarship for caps and gowns cost
• Launch a ﬁ  nancial literacy program with the Student Financial Affairs Ofﬁ  ce
• Offer student legal services for undocumented students
• Create a Living Learning Community for LGBTQ+ 
students
• Launch a minority 
recruitment program
• Increase accessible parking for the Disability Resource Center
• Subsidize off-campus tutoring services4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Contributing Writer
Erin Mistry’s back always aches 
after sitting in Norman Hall’s “an-
cient” plastic chairs for three-hour classes. 
In the dimly lit and musty class-
rooms, it’s hard to concentrate. 
“You want to be comfortable 
when learning,” she said. 
The 44-year-old UF education 
doctoral student said she appreci-ates the building’s nostalgia but is ready for its modern updates. The two-part $29 million renovation started with the Education Library 
in December, said Thomas Dana, 
the education associate dean of aca-demic affairs. The second phase, Norman Hall, will start in May when the first phase ends. It is expected to be completed in August 2019. 
The old Norman building will be 
gutted and rebuilt with modern of-fices, classrooms and research labs, 
said Dana, who helps oversee the 
renovations. It will include new win-dows, air conditioning, heating sys-tems and plumbing. On the ground level, a Starbucks will be added. 
“We have very useless class-
rooms,” Dana said. “Most of our building is just not suited for the kind of learning and teaching we do 
nowadays.”Norman Hall has had problems 
with mold, poor air conditioning 
and overflowing toilets, Dana said. 
The 1932 building is now out of 
date. 
The college has wanted to reno-
vate the building for about 20 years but had trouble finding funding, Dana said. In 2016, the Florida Leg-islature gave $14.1 million to start the project and appropriated the rest the following year. 
The building will be better adapt-
ed to the Americans with Disabili-ties Act, Dana said. This will include new restrooms, ramps and signage to make the building easier to navi-gate.
During the renovation of old 
Norman, several large rooms in new Norman will be converted into 
smaller offices, and staff will also 
share offices, Dana said. Classes will be held in other buildings on cam-pus. 
Rachael Elrod, head of the Edu-
cation Library, said the library has not been renovated extensively for 38 years other than adding four study rooms in the summer of 2016.
Some improvements to the li-
brary include better lightning, new furniture, a computer lab, more elec-trical outlets, new security gates and two additional study rooms, Elrod said. In addition, the Education Li-brary will also include two ADA-out-fitted restrooms as well as an ADA circulation desk.
Elrod said while the library is 
closed for construction, its course reserves and journals are available for checkout at Library West. All other Education Library materials 
are in an off-site storage facility and 
are unavailable to be checked out. “I’m really looking forward to 
opening the doors again to the li-brary and welcoming students into this beautiful new space,” Elrod 
said.Norman Hall renovations to add study rooms, outlets
By Stephanie Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
More vegan, gluten-free and lactose-free op-
tions are coming to campus in April.  
The Reitz Union’s Freshens, located in the 
POD Market, will undergo a nine-week renova-
tion into a Shake Smart, said UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando. The construction is projected to 
cost $327,801, which is funded by UF.
Shake Smart will offer acai bowls and sig-
nature shakes that can include more than 30 grams of protein, fruits and vegetables, Jill Ro-driguez, the marketing program manager for 
Gator Dining services, wrote in an email. Menu 
items cost $10 or less.
The UF location will be the first Shake 
Smart in Florida, Rodriguez said. 
Eddie Daniels, the assistant vice president 
of UF’s business services division, said UF Stu-dent Body President Smith Meyers approached them with the idea. 
Meyers could not be reached for comment. 
“In comparison to Freshens, Shake Smart is allegedly healthier, and that’s something that 
students expressed,” Daniels said. 
Jowie Papa, a 21-year-old UF biology se-
nior, said he didn’t go to Freshens often, and when he did, it was only for protein shakes.
“But if they’re people that do go there for 
the (frozen yogurt) and stuff,” Papa said, “I imagine they’d be pretty disappointed about that.”
Papa said the remodel won’t have an effect 
on him, but having more dietary options can 
be a good thing for students who need those food substitutes.
Roman Siddiqi, a 20-year-old UF philoso-
phy junior, said he went to Freshens about 
once every two months.
He said he wasn’t upset to find out Fresh-
ens was leaving because there are plenty of fro-zen yogurt places in Gainesville, but getting an acai bowl is less common. 
“This might be a good thing because there’s 
only one other place on campus that does this kind of thing, like Jamba Juice,” he said. Shake Smart to replace Freshens in the Reitz UnionCourtesy to the Alligator 
The Education Library has been undergoing renovations since December and will be finished in May. 
The library will have better lighting, more seating and more outlets. Above is a model of the library with renovations.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested for smok-
ing a bong behind Jennings Hall early 
Wednesday, University Police said.
Benjamin Alan Benson, 19, and 
three students were sitting at a park table in the woods behind Jennings Hall, which 
is near the Universi-
ty Police Department 
office, at about 1 a.m., according to an arrest report. A po-
lice officer noticed what looked like a flame from a lighter and smelled burnt marijuana. The officer walked to the table and saw a large bong, police said.
Police said they also found less than 
20 grams of marijuana and drug para-
phernalia in a backpack at the scene and on the ground. Officers didn’t ar-
rest the other students but charged 
Benson for possession of the marijua-
na and paraphernalia, which are mis-demeanors.
Benson was taken to the Alachua 
County Jail, where police found a fake 
driver’s licence in his wallet, accord-
ing to the report. He was also charged with fraud, which is a felony. This is Benson’s first felony charge.
Benson is a materials science and 
engineering freshman, UF spokesper-son John Hines wrote in an email.
He was released from jail on his 
own recognizance Wednesday after-
noon.
Benson could not be reached for 
comment.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
Benson
UF student arrested for 
smoking from bong
By Kaylee Weber
Alligator Contributing Writer
Carla Collins keeps her com-
posure.
She kept it when she found 
she had a heart condition that 
could kill her, and she kept it when she became the first to undergo a new medical proce-dure this year.
Dr. John N. Catanzaro, an 
assistant professor of medicine at the UF College of Medicine – Jacksonville, performed the world’s first regenerative bio envelope implant Jan. 8. The $1,200 implant is a pouch made out of pig intestine that goes around a defibrillator, or bat-tery-powered heart device, to help it heal more naturally and keep it in place. The pouch and surgery combined cost $24,000.
“I am driven by the opportu-
nity to bring cutting-edge tech-
nology to my patients,” Catan-
zaro said.
Collins, 39, of Jacksonville, 
said she needed the defibril-lator and pouch because she 
carries the gene for Long QT 
Syndrome, a life-threatening 
heart-rhythm condition, which 
causes fast heartbeats that can 
trigger seizures and sudden 
death. She was diagnosed two 
years ago, and both her mother 
and uncle suffer from the same 
syndrome.
The heart device, or cardiac 
defibrillator, that was placed in her has two parts: a generator and a coil that are placed on ei-ther side of the heart, Catanzaro 
said. When a patient goes into cardiac arrest, the device deliv-
ers a shock to the heart.
The bio envelope disguises 
the generator so the body ac-
cepts the device without inflam-
matory responses like scarring 
and calcium build-up that may 
get in the way of a shock to the 
heart, Catanzaro said.
“It’s like having a guardian 
angel with you all the time,” 
Collins said.
Since Collins’ procedure 
was successful, Catanzaro per-
formed the bio envelope and 
cardiac defibrillator procedure 
a second time on an 18-year-old 
patient Jan. 12.
Collins said she hopes re-
search will help the technology 
evolve further because her two sons, ages 18 and 8, will also 
need to be tested for the gene.UF Health physician performs 
new life-saving surgeryFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
City and county ofﬁ  cials will meet Mon-
day to decide the future of Gainesville’s re-
development agency.
The Community Redevelopment Agen-
cy provides the vision for modernizing Gainesville. In the past, it has helped create the DNA Bridge and Depot Park. Currently, 
the board overseeing the agency is made up 
of city ofﬁ  cials. But a proposed bill could 
add county ofﬁ  cials.
County commissioners have argued the 
representation on the board should reﬂ  ect the funding the agency gets from the coun-ty and city. The county commission funds two-thirds of the agency, and hopes the bill 
will allow them to sit on the board.
The county commission met Tuesday 
and the city commission met Thursday to 
prepare to negotiate their proposals.
In addition to negotiating board repre-
sentation, county ofﬁ  cials will ask the city to decrease the county’s tax increment ﬁ  -nancing, which is a public ﬁ  nancing meth-od to fund infrastructure projects, County Commissioner Ken Cornell said.
Gainesville city commissioners discussed 
the county commission’s requests and ap-proved their own proposal which was orga-
nized by City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos on Thursday.
The city is willing to reduce the coun-
ty’s millage rate for the CRA project behind Midtown and discuss the project’s deadline. 
The CRA also determines for how long the 
agency assists areas, and city commission-ers plan to offer the county part of the pow-er of those decisions.
The city commissioners voted 5 to 1 in 
favor of the motion. Commissioner Charles Goston was absent from the meeting.
City Commissioner David Arreola said 
he voted against the motion because he is 
opposed to negotiating CRA policy outside 
of the board.
“I want to see formal action on (the 
county’s) part before I make policy negotia-
tions,” Arreola said.
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Engineering Senate candidates an-
swered questions from students they 
hope to represent at Thursday’s debate.
About 70 engineering students asked 
about communication, funding and rep-resentation among other departments to better gauge who to vote for Feb. 20 and 
21. Benton Engineering Council, a stu-
dent organization in the Herbert Wert-heim College of Engineering, hosted the debate. This was the ﬁ  rst debate in ﬁ  ve years the council has hosted.
Representatives from each political 
party spoke to students about their poli-cies and values for three minutes, then two engineering candidates from each 
party had one minute to answer stu-
dents’ questions.
Impact Party engineering candi-
date Anthony Temeliescu said students voiced their concerns about their ability 
to talk with their senators. 
“It’s hard to get out to ofﬁ  ce hours 
with the burden of the schoolwork,” Temeliescu said. “I think oftentimes that 
ends up leading to engineering students 
not feeling engaged.”
Amy Emerson, a Challenge Party en-
gineering candidate, said students men-
tioned concerns about a lack of funding. 
Emerson said a lot of engineering 
teams, like Solar Gators, have to ask companies for parts because they can’t pay for them themselves.
“I wasn’t expecting those questions, 
but I know it’s important,” Emerson said. 
Inspire Party engineering candidate 
Gantt Meredith said the senators repre-senting the college could ﬁ  x communica-
tion problems with an electronic mailing 
list.
“It seems like the engineering com-
munication pipeline is very clogged right 
now,” Meredith said. “That Listserv will 
be a way for everyone to be as transpar-ent as possible.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgCounty and city to negotiate 
power over redevelopmentSG engineering candidates 
hold debate, talk funding
a social function at Boca Fiesta 
through his fraternity, police said.
In a group chat, the woman 
texted her friends and said, “I’m scared he’s going to assault me (to be honest),” according to the report.
At the event, the victim be-
came extremely intoxicated, ac-cording to the report.
Podlin brought her back to 
his fraternity’s house at about 11 p.m., police said. He offered her a T-shirt to change into from her dress.
While she changed, Podlin 
began aggressively kissing her and carried her to his bed, where he began to have sex with her against her will, according to the report.The woman repeatedly begged 
Podlin to use a condom and pre-tended to be unconscious in hopes that he would stop, she told po-lice, according to the report. 
When she seemed to be asleep, 
he removed the condom and be-gan having sex with her again, ac-cording to the report.
The victim then started 
screaming and left Podlin’s room, police said.“Listen I’m so sorry,” Podlin 
texted her. “I had no intentions of hooking up until you basically got fully naked.”
He is a UF biology senior, said 
UF spokesperson John Hines. Hines said he was not sure if Pod-lin is being investigated by the school to decide what his punish-ment would be.
Podlin, who was over 18 at the 
time of the incident, was charged with sexual battery of a 17-year-old. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail from where he was released Thursday on a $50,000 bond.
He could not be reached for 
comment.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
BATTERY,  from pg 1Police said it took place in the Kappa Sigma Fraternity houseThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.ColumnFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
It’s been four years since you took the time to sit in front of 
the television and excitedly watch ﬁ  gure skaters twirl and jump 
across smooth, glass-like ice rinks or ogled in amazement as pro-fessional skiers glide through pristine white snow and leap into the sky off of seemingly terrifying ramps. The time has ﬁ  nally 
come for you to do it again. That’s right: It’s time once again for 
the Winter Olympics.
For some reason, your friends don’t quite understand or relate 
to your excitement about the games. Nonetheless, you convince them to come to your apartment to watch the opening ceremony together. As expected, you go all out. You have snacks themed to each region competing and beers imported from every major country. Yeah, maybe it was a little over the top, but it only hap-pens once every four years.
As the Parade of Nations kicks off, your elation only intensi-
ﬁ  es — and so does the judgment you’re getting from your friends. The President of the Organizing Committee soon signiﬁ  es their traditional speech is about to begin. Much to your surprise, how-ever, the words out of their mouth take a different turn than they have in past years. Their speech begins with ...
The Alligator’s popularity recently blew up. Dear readers, we 
must inform you we were featured on “Jeopardy!” on Wednes-day night. When a contestant picked the Newspaper category and found the Daily Double, he was asked what city the Independent Florida Alligator covered. He correctly answered “Gainesville.” 
In the spirit of Alligator trivia, we give our ﬁ  rst laurel to “Jeop-
ardy!” and the contestant who answered correctly, John 
Giambrone. 
Now, we have a question for our female readers: When you 
tear open a bag of Doritos chips and get a whiff of the cheesy deli-
ciousness, are you concerned at all about the orange dust staining your ﬁ  ngertips or the crunching from biting into the chips being too loud? Indra Nooyi, chief executive of PepsiCo — which owns Frito-Lay, the manufacturer of Doritos — seems to think you are. 
On a Jan. 31 episode of the “Freakonomics Radio” podcast, she 
said women “don’t like to crunch too loudly in public. They don’t lick their ﬁ  ngers generously, and they don’t like to pour the little broken pieces and the ﬂ  avor into their mouth.” 
After laughing for a while, we realized the company was seri-
ous about manufacturing a snack geared toward women, and we were ﬂ  abbergasted. For this, we award a dart to PepsiCo. 
We’re embarrassed a woman is championing such an offensive initiative for her female peers. Each lady can decide for herself 
what it means to be one; they don’t need society’s discriminatory 
standards.
Representation in the media matters. Ensuring viewers and 
readers are being exposed to people from the LGBTQ+ com-munity, racial minorities and individuals with disabilities is im-portant. Gerber, the baby food corporation, reminded us of that this week. After 91 years, the company chose the ﬁ  rst baby with Down syndrome to represent its brand. One-year-old Lucas from Georgia and his contagious smile will appear in commercials and 
billboards beside the pureed bottles. We’re hoping this will show 
people babies with disabilities have just as much value as ba-bies without them. We’re giving a laurel to Gerber for recog-
nizing children with disabilities should be celebrated, not shunned. 
Earlier this week, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi staged 
an eight-hour speech Wednesday in an effort to pressure Repub-licans to allow a vote on protecting “Dreamer” immigrants. Ac-cording to the Associated Press, it was the longest continuous 
speech in the chamber on record. The California Democrat read 
personal letters from young immigrants and quotes from the Bi-ble and Pope Francis throughout her monumental speech. Mem-bers of her party also took turns sitting behind her in support. 
And guess what: She did it all while wearing four-inch heels. 
Talk about woman power. We’re feeling generous this week, so we’re going to award Pelosi with a laurel because of her efforts 
to help the Dreamers of America instead of handing out another dart.YouTube drama is a sign it’s time to change
In 2005, YouTube was born into existence and would forever change the digital world as we know it. Even though that was only 13 years ago, the internet was still in its infancy. As the ﬁ  rst of its kind, YouTube has transformed 
from a time-killing rabbit hole, ﬁ  lled with cat vid-eos and people “failing,” to a legitimate medium of creation and a source of entertainment poised to surpass traditional television.
The only website with more web trafﬁ  c than 
YouTube is its parent, Google, who bought the site in 2006 for a price that now seems like highway robbery: $1.65 billion. It seemed absurd at the time, but when you consider YouTube is now speculated to be worth up to $40 
billion, it could very possibly be considered one of the most 
brilliant and strategic business moves ever.
YouTube changed the internet forever, and I’d argue no 
website has grown in parallel with the internet so organical-ly. YouTube has maintained its core competency as a video sharing service but also slowly added pieces that have made it into the media behemoth it is today.
In the early years, YouTube’s community largely gov-
erned itself. Users reported bad/inappropriate content and 
promoted the good. Now YouTube has taken over the role 
as governing body in a move that has resulted in some se-rious turmoil on the site. When popular YouTubers aren’t calling each other out and having their fan bases clash, they are often complaining about something YouTube did to their accounts.
Be it unreasonable censorship or random demonetiza-
tion, YouTube has been wildly slipshod and inconsistent at monitoring content. The company has been accused of hav-
ing political motives behind its censorship power. Recently, 
popular talk show host Dave Rubin experimented with You-Tube’s monetization system. A video he posted titled “So-cialism Isn’t Cool” was quickly demonetized by YouTube, so to test the theory of YouTube being against conservatives, he posted a video titled “Capitalism Isn’t Cool” to illustrate the bias and inconsistency in treatment.
It’s not just politics. YouTube has been poor at censor-ship of inappropriate content. Just last month, massively popular creator Logan Paul got in hot water for posting a video that included the dead body of a suicide victim. YouTube was incredibly slow to remove the video, causing many to ques-
tion the motives of the site. Are the most popular 
users immune? Do they get special treatment?
Whenever conservatives are complaining 
about bias and censorship by YouTube, it is im-portant to remember YouTube is a business with its own terms and conditions all users must abide 
by. YouTube reserves the right to control what is and isn’t shown on its site, but a problem arises when you consider the site’s sheer size and inﬂ  uence.
YouTube is really the only one of its kind. People can 
threaten to start their own video site, but it will never catch on. YouTube has a ﬁ  rm grasp on the entire market. Nobody is going to dethrone them or even come close to competing.
But, does YouTube, due to its size and inﬂ  uence that lit-
erally impact billions, have a greater social responsibility? One that transcends the typical responsibilities they have to their stockholders? I would say yes. YouTube needs to take up some corporate social responsibility and try to act in the 
interests of all shareholders, particularly consumers/users, 
instead of just owners.
Though it is its own company, YouTube, through promot-
ing certain videos and channels and censoring or demon-etizing others, is enacting a tyrannical level of oversight and control, leaving users in a bind. Creators can’t leave the site due to its massive reach, core base of viewers and worldwide familiarity. But staying on the site is becoming more difﬁ  cult due to the heightened regulation and shoddy oversight.
Apart from being consistent in its use of powers, You-
Tube, due to its size and inﬂ  uence, needs to start considering the community at large if it wants to improve its deteriorating image.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. His column 
focuses on entertainment and music.
Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgDarts & LaurelsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
“CLASSIC DINING WITH A UNIQUE TWIST”
For reservation and discount information visit
www.warehousedining.com
502 S. Main St. • 352-240-6432BUY ONE, 
GET TWO FREE
• Bring student ID
• Purchase a dinner entree and 
get two of these FREE salad, dessert or wine
• offer valid February - March
In “The Wealth of Nations” 
from 1776, Adam Smith wrote, “Nothing is more useful than water.” As much as the father of modern economics believed 
in a free market, that invisible 
hand occasionally reached for a 
glass of water like any other.
Adam Smith wrote the line above 
to describe the diamond-water par-
adox, explaining the difference in 
price and value between products. More than 
225 years later, considering a monetary price for water does not justify the true value of water for each and every one of us. Like air, water is one of the few tangible things on Earth that are truly priceless, yet people do not treat it as such.
Water resources are an environmental is-
sue. As with all environmental issues, people will unfortunately continue to prioritize their 
everyday activities and ignore future problems. 
The thought of possibly apocalyptic changes from future environmental problems can put a damper on anybody’s day, so many choose to hope rather than plan. Nevertheless, water conservation is a manageable problem if simple concepts like taking ﬁ  ve-minute showers and decreasing recreational water use move beyond a catchy Earth Day campaign.
Water scarcity may have been viewed as a 
problem to address in the future, but it can’t be viewed as such anymore. According to re-searchers at MIT, more than half of the world population will live in water-stressed areas by 2050. 
South African ofﬁ  cials predict that Cape 
Town will become the ﬁ  rst major city to run out of water, turning off the valves for about a 
million homes in April of this year. City ofﬁ  cials 
are preparing for Day Zero, the day when the 
city’s six-dam reservoir system will reach below 
13.5 percent capacity. Some scientists point to 
climate change for the exacerbated water short-ages, but what matters now is what we can do today to directly improve water management.
Water is a ﬁ  nite resource, yet some believe 
humans can just increase the potable water supply through desalination plants. Desalina-tion, the process of removing salt from seawa-ter, seems like a grand idea to solve the world’s water crisis, and South Africa is scrambling to ﬁ  nish three plants before Day Zero comes. However, water desalination has some draw-backs. Water supply will diminish to 
the point where the costs and energy 
necessary for desalination become feasible, but water drinkers of the world must also think of the treat-ment of water itself.
As much credit as people may 
want to give engineers, they can’t feasibly treat everything under the sun. In South Africa, re-searchers warn about the level of contamination 
in seawater from treated wastewater dumped 
into the ocean. Unlike the Safe Water Drinking Standards of the United States, other countries like South Africa require minimal, if any, treat-ment to wastewater before it is discharged. South Africa’s national water standards don’t go much further than the removal of sizable ob-jects like diapers. Once South Africa turns on their desalination plants, city ofﬁ  cials may be 
doing nothing more than giving their citizens a 
choice of dehydration or E. coli.
In a time when the nightmare of running 
out of water might become reality, experts still think the best solution to preventing Cape Town’s Day Zero lies with what most of us learned in elementary school. Ian Neilson, civil engineer and deputy mayor of Cape Town, esti-mates that decreasing daily water consumption 
by 25 percent will keep the water supply at a 
functional level until the rainy season starts in May. No matter how far technology develops or how much money investors pour into new ideas, simply conserving water was, is and al-ways will be the most effective solution.
Some argue that humans insigniﬁ  cantly im-
pact their environment. Some may even argue that climate change is just a scientiﬁ  c hoax. But,no one can argue the importance of water to all life. Water needs to be accurately treated to its value. If not, we will have to start plan-
ning for the realistic scenario where we turn a 
faucet handle and nothing comes out. 
Joshua Udvary is a UF environmental 
engineering junior. His columns focus on 
science.In our current system, the 
rich who are arrested quickly post bail, but those who are 
poor can spend extended pe-
riods of time in jail without 
a conviction. Our justice system must understand that while the punishment should ﬁ  t the crime, cash bail disproportionately im-pacts poorer people, making it 
inherently unfair. In other words: 
It’s time for Florida to end cash bail.
Recently, Atlanta approved a change to 
the cash bail system which would elimi-
nate cash bail for low-level offenders. The 
Atlanta mayor justiﬁ  ed it by saying it made 
no sense to hold these low-level offenders 
when it may cost more to keep them in jail 
than the bail would have brought in. Wash-ington, D.C., has also taken on similar poli-
cies. 
Some charges, like disorderly conduct, 
may disproportionately affect those who have bigger problems such as the homeless 
or mentally ill. Bail is often assigned with-
out a thought about the person’s ability to 
pay. A $1,000 bail could be a drop in the 
bucket for some, and for others it can mean 
their family not being able to eat for the 
next couple of months. This is not equal-
ity. There’s little regulation of what judges 
can charge for bail, and some may have 
a standard bail they issue without really 
considering the facts of the case. In a coun-
try where few people could come up with 
$2,000 without borrowing, bail can greatly 
increase ﬁ  nancial stress on families. 
Being in jail for an extended period of 
time, even if just for a few months for a 
crime one did not commit, can ruin a per-son’s life. Considering this, here are other countries that have come up with more eq-
uitable systems of punishment. 
In Finland, trafﬁ  c ﬁ  nes are calculated 
based on a formula that takes into account 
the amount of spending money the person has for the day then divides it by two, ac-
cording to the Atlantic. This is considered a reasonable amount for a ﬁ  ne 
based on their income, and then the system governs how many 
days a person will be deprived 
of their spending money. For a speeding ticket, this would be based on how many miles over the speed limit the person was driving. Countries like Sweden, Denmark and Australia have 
similar systems.
Those who are rich end up getting out 
of jail quickly by paying bail. Anyone who 
does not have savings could be stuck sit-ting in jail, and those are often the people 
who cannot afford to lose their jobs. A more 
equitable system would release nonviolent 
offenders without bail, and remand the 
violent offenders to jail. According to The Nation, arrestees who have not yet been 
convicted of anything make up 79% of the 
jail population nationally and are one of the reasons the U.S. has such a high incarcera-
tion rate. If “innocent until proven guilty” is 
supposed to be the standard, spending an 
extended time in jail undoubtedly taints a 
person and can get them ﬁ  red from a job 
or mean they lose their living arrangements.
It’s unfair to ask those who are charged 
with nonviolent crimes — who should be presumed innocent — to put their life on 
hold. A system with cash bail puts too 
much power in the hands of judges, who 
often do not take into account the person’s 
ﬁ  nancial situation, and end up punishing 
the offender before they’ve been convicted 
of any crime, even if they may have no his-
tory of prior offenses.
Like many other issues, this dispropor-
tionately affects minorities. Florida should take initiative in making our justice system less about punishing people who have yet 
to be convicted and more about crime that 
has a negative impact on society. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her columns focus on 
race and culture.Water scarcity is an issue we face today It’s time for Florida to end cash bailColumn Column
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
Courtesy to the Alligator
Photo of a cat submitted by a reader.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Photo of a cat submitted by a reader.T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
A group of about eight to 10 cats regularly gather at a gate behind the University of Florida’s Counseling and Wellness Center.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Photo of a cat submitted by a reader. 
University policy prohibits staff, students from feeding stray cats
night in quiet area on campus, like Lakeside 
Residential Complex, Gerson Hall and the law school, according to readers who contacted the Alligator.
Sam Lack, a UF political science senior, has 
been trying unsuccessfully to befriend a tux-edo cat by Gerson Hall for two years. Lack, 21, likes seeing his “little buddy” after class, even though the skittish cat runs away before Lack can pet him.
“I know stray cats get a bad rep, and prob-
ably it’s a problem if they get into stuff,” he said. “But I don’t have a problem seeing a cat running around.” 
Along with Rowell feeding the cats in the 
morning, two other women take care of them on evenings and weekends, she said. The women have named the daily group.
Tiger runs the show. Speckle Beans gave 
birth to Little Specks, who once chased off a hawk attacking the colony. Callie is a Calico cat, and Chatty wouldn’t shut up as a kitten. Prancy prances. Bob, a fat tabby, has an atti-
tude, and he won’t leave Prancy alone. 
Clippy was named after his clipped ear, a 
sign he was neutered and vaccinated for rabies 
by Operation Catnip, a nonprofit. The organiza-tion has neutered 53,000 cats since 1998, said the executive director, Audrey Garrison.  
Garrison said cats on campus have lived in 
the same areas for years, long before caregivers began feeding them. 
“People think it’s some crazy cat guy or gal 
feeding the cats and that’s why the cat is there, but that’s not the case,” she said. “They didn’t put food out saying, ‘I wish a cat shows up.’ They started feeding the cats that live there.”
She said many community cats have feral 
personalities, meaning they rarely interact with humans and hide during the day.
About 40,000 feral cats live in Alachua 
County, Garrison said. Rather than relocate or shelter the cats, the group releases the cats back to the area in which they live, neutered and vaccinated.
Sterilization slowly decreases the cat popu-
lation as less females give birth, but Garrison said work still needs to be done before Alachua County’s cat population stabilizes. 
Mason Mellot, a UF mechanical engineering 
sophomore and self-proclaimed cat lover, said he doesn’t mind the cats living by his dorm at Lakeside Residential Complex.
The 20-year-old remembers seeing the Ra-
dio Road colony the day before Hurricane Irma on his way to buy milk. He only had 30 min-utes to get to Publix before it closed. As he fran-tically rode his bike up the hill, he noticed the colony standing next to the Counseling & Well-
ness Center in the drizzling rain. 
“At first I was like, I have to do something 
about these cats because they were about to ex-
perience a hurricane,” he said. “Then I realized that I’m only one person on one bicycle with one backpack. I cannot carry 15 cats.”
Mellot told himself he would call someone if 
he saw the cats on his way home, but when he passed later, they were gone. 
He was relieved to find out the colony, 
which Rowell still cares for, is okay.
Despite growing up on a farm, Rowell never 
grew attached to many animals until she met Mama Kitty.
When Mama got sick, Rowell took her to the 
vet and stayed with the cat as she was put to sleep. She laid the old, then-fat cat to rest in the backyard of her farm next to an infamous non-
neutered male, Big Daddy. The two strays are 
in the same yard as all of her childhood pets.
Rowell said she’ll keep caring for the cats as 
long as she’s around. 
“It just breaks my heart to see an animal 
running wild with no family and no food,” Rowell said. “It just breaks my heart.”
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Emma Green / Alligator
The host of Micro Championship Wrestling introduces Blixx, the “Tiny T error, ” 
weighing in at 75 pounds of “pure terror. ” The 38-inch wrestler hyped up the crowd before hoisting himself into the ring inside the High Dive in downtown Gainesville on Wednesday.
Emma Green / Alligator
A group of friends wearing wigs watches Micro Championship Wrestling inside the High Dive on Wednesday.
Emma Green / Alligator
Blixx uses Huggy Cub’s belt as a whip during the Micro Championship Wrestling inside the High Dive on Wednesday. A crowd of about 150 cheered on the face-painted “Tiny T error” after Huggy Cub dissed the food and women in Gainesville.
‘Midget wrestlers’ take to the ring at the High Dive
Emma Green
Alligator Contributor
“Midget wrestlers” made an 
appearance in Gainesville on Wednesday night. The High Dive in downtown Gainesville hosted the Micro Champion-ship Wrestling event, where about 150 people cheered on some of the smallest athletes with boisterous personalities. Cowboy Kidd Quick emerged as the micro champion, besting his fellow pint-sized perform-ers, like the “Tiny Terror” and Huggy Cub. The night culminated with a “six-midget royal rumble,” and the travel-ing show’s tagline, “half the size, twice the violence,” was apparent.
Referee Jimmy Mac counts while Cowboy Kidd Quick pins down Huggy Cub 
during a “midget wrestling” event on Wednesday. The High Dive hosted the Micro Championship Wrestling for about 150 screaming, inebriated onlookers.IT WILL COST BETWEEN $16 
MILLION AND $30 MILLION.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
To reach across cultural barriers in 
businesses, a proposed seven-floor in-
ternational center may be built across the street from UF.
The International Council of the 
Gainesville Area Chamber of Com-merce is considering building the cen-ter on the corner of Southwest 13th 
Street and West University Avenue, 
where Leonardo’s Pizza and the Circle K gas station are located, said Steve Ka-lishman with the Sister City Program of Gainesville Inc. The council will re-search the city’s needs for the center over the next eight months. 
No concrete plans have been de-
termined for that space yet, and it re-
mains unclear when they will decide 
what to do with it, said UF spokesper-son Margot Winick. 
Kalishman said the cost for the cen-
ter is expected to be between $16 mil-lion and $30 million, but it could bring billions of dollars in economic growth to Gainesville.
“I don’t know how you put a num-
ber on the potential,” he said. “It could change everything about the city of Gainesville in a few years.” 
It will offer executive training in 
cultures so businesses can work inter-nationally. The center’s plan includes a museum, international restaurant, ho-tel, event space, parking garage, office 
space for businesses and more. 
“We would have a place to show-
case all of Gainesville’s global connec-
tions,” Kalishman said. “We have to have a facility to show foreign visitors that Gainesville is serious about global connections.”
The thousands of international stu-
dents at UF and Santa Fe College pres-
ent an opportunity to connect the city 
to the rest of the world, said Susan Davenport, the president and CEO of the Gainesville Area Chamber of Com-merce. 
“The greater Gainesville region is 
a global hub of talent, innovation and opportunity,” Davenport said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
By Hannah Maggiore
Alligator Contributing Writer
The second-largest UF college has 
hired two department chairs after months of searching. 
The UF Herbert Wertheim Col-
lege of Engineering promoted Carlos 
Rinaldi to chairman of the chemical 
engineering department, said the col-lege’s dean, Cammy Abernathy. He started the position Jan. 1, after pre-viously serving as the interim chair of the department. 
David Kaber, a North Carolina 
State University engineering profes-sor, was also hired as chairman of 
UF’s industrial and systems engineer-
ing department, Abernathy said. He will begin July 1. 
Both chairs will receive annual 
salaries of $285,000, UF spokesper-son John Hines said. 
“They made great candidates be-
cause they are both good teachers, student mentors and scholars,” Aber-
nathy said.
Previous chemical engineering de-
partment chairman, Rich Dickinson, 
left in August to start a three-year research assignment for the National Science Foundation, Abernathy said. The previous industrial and systems engineering department chairman, 
Joseph Geunes, left in Fall 2016 to 
teach at the University of Arkansas.
Rinaldi said he plans to fill at least 
two positions at the assistant profes-sor level. 
He said he wants to decrease class 
sizes by offering all senior courses every semester and giving students who complete internships a chance 
to stay on track for graduation. He 
also wants to improve the depart-ment’s web and social media pres-ence, Rinaldi said. 
“I think we are already doing great 
research that contributes to society,” Rinaldi said, “but we could do a bet-ter job of publicizing it.”
Kaber wrote in an email he plans 
to have the industrial and systems engineering department work with others in the college and other uni-versity departments, including com-puter science and psychology.
“I think everyone is excited about 
the expansion of the department into new research areas with additional faculty and graduate students,” Ka-
ber said.College of Engineering 
hires two chairmenInternational Center being considered for development
POTENTIAL PLAN
FOR BUILDING
1.2.3.4.5.6.7.
Parking, lobby, 
retail, museum, hotelParking, officeParkingParkingMeeting, conference,
hotel roomsTraining, classrooms ,
hotel roomsRooftop terrace,
restaurant, kitchenBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, FEBRURARY 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
Marina Property- Priced to sell!!!Private waterfront community.With Concierge Boat Service & boathouse slipOnly $139,880Video: www.WaterfrontLifeFL.net877.628.3349 Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.    2-9-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Designated drivers are the greatest●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
Lucrative accounting practice just 50 miles from UF campus. Owner is looking for the right person or persons to take over practice. Area features opportunity to experience the benefits of an abundance of out door life with the benefits of nearby cultural activities in and around Gainsesville. Anne Hodges, CPA Cross City, Florida (352)-356-1632     2-21-18-15-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any Dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N    2-9-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com
Call or text 352-339-2342        1-24-18-14-2
FOR RENT NEAR SF
HOUSE 4BR/2BA . Very cool house - sum-mer doesn't need A/C. 352-328-1479    2-9-18-2-2
3 MONTHS FREE!!
MOBILE HOME LOTS FOR RENT. $350/mo. Located between Gainesville & Alachua (N-441) 50 years in business. Call 386-462-1660    3-14-18-12-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRURARY 9, 2018
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-2-18-11-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.NC Mountain Summer Camp seeks eques -
trian/riding/barn staffers with commitment to Christ. Mentor, help build confidence, teach riding. Meaningful fun, fellowship, adventure. Twofuncamps.com       2-21-18-8-14
ATT: COMPUTER GEEKSCRAIGSLIST AD PRO LISTER & SEO  NEEDED FOR BUSINESSKeep up mult ads w/o flaggingExper only-Graduates preferredtext 305 582 9800 or 941 807 0870      2-21-18-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-43-15Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     2-28-18-22-14
Zumba Instructors Needed!Classes held on UF campus and scheduled month-to-month. Contact:tiffany@lifestylewellnessstudios.com or call 352-507-5002 if interested.    1-24-18-5-14
COPYTALK: GET PAID TO TYPE!- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Productivity-based pay up to $13/hrMust be able to touch type 60wpmWWW.CTSCRIBES.COM     1-24-18-8-14
Personal Care Assistant, PT, Multiple Shifts, Mon-Sun.  Need mature, energetic, reliable person.  Direct experience with autism a plus as postion entails working with severly autistic young man in his home and community.  Great opportunity for Special Ed/Applied Behavior Majors.  Non-smokers with reliable transporta-tion and able to make a 1 year commitment.  Email resume to hilldds56@gmail.com    1-24-18-5-14
ATTENTION INDIVIDUALS WITH GRITResume building opportunity available at an ever-exciting Law Office. Knowledge-word,excel, PDF. Database experience. Can perform mental acrobatics also a plus. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsrothstein@yahoo.com    2-14-18-10-14
Learn to build a house ( hands on )
from layout, foundation, framing to
finishes. Architect/Builder building
his own house. Little or no experience
ok. Foremost requirement is desire to
learn. Full or part time.   786-210-6571
2-12-18-7-1413 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, FEBRURARY 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORING
PhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    2-19-15-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
AWESOME GIFTS for that special someone, perfect for Valentine's and special days. Visit our website at www.FantasiaGreetings.com    1-24-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
Progressive talk radio is on
WGOT 100.1 FM
along with indie rock, punk, jazz, electronica, 
folk and more. Visit wgot.org     2-9-18-4-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 #1
7 #2
14 Crone15 Sarajevo citizen16 Gets to17 Settled down18 Merry, in Metz
19 Prog. formally
reinstated at
Harvard in 2011
21 Hotel experience22 Sturdy trees
24 #3
26 #429 Future D.A.’s
hurdles
31 Future salmon
32 Troubles
33 Belg. locale35 Travel guide
listing
37 #538 It’s a bit more
than it sounds,
and hints at this
puzzle’s theme
41 #643 MS-__44 Party bowlful
45 Goddess usually
depicted holding
an ankh
46 “M*A*S*H” rank:
Abbr.
48 Some
archaeologicalsites
52 #753 #855 Pique-nique
setting
56 Karate training
site
59 Lose steam61 __ Speedwagon62 Becomes more
complex
65 High-tech med.
procedure
67 Police actions68 Speak well in
public
69 #9
70 #10
DOWN
1 Most of the
periodic table
2 __ Thule: distant
place in
medievalgeography
3 HHS agency4 Sunny5 “You are!” retort
6 Argonaut known
for wise counsel
7 Cookout fare,
briefly
8 Awaken9 “Ya think?”
10 Fit-for-service
designation
11 Urban design12 “Some __ meat
and canna eat”:start of theSelkirk Grace
13 Conclusion14 #1120 #12
23 Lifts
25 Have an
inclination
27 Variety28 Language suffix30 Czech composer
Josef, son-in-lawof Dvorák
32 Frozen treat34 Like half of
Poland’s flag
36 Silent assent38 Horse racing
accessories
39 Ex-quarterback
Tony
40 Clearasil target41 Cookout morsel42 Brutus Buckeye
is its mascot:Abbr.
47 Really pumped49 __ Aurelius,
second-century
Roman emperor
50 What a sprinter
might run out of
51 #13
53 “__ know you?”54 Musical nonsense
syllables57 Intl. energy group
58 Bach’s “__, Joy
of Man’s
Desiring”
60 Hugh Laurie’s
alma mater
62 Unit of hot
mustard, for most
63 NW Penn. airport
64 Aircraft in the
Smithsonian Inst.
collection
66 Chem., for one
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/09/1802/09/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, February 9, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Chicken liver, e.g.
1.  Elbow ____5.  Golden ____
2.  Traveler’s burden6.  Dissolve, cancel
3.  Never-ending7.  Roar
4.  Trail, pursue BTEGLI
ESAGREAEELG
UNANL
GABGAEG
NETRLAEEBOLWL
OLFWLOANSWERS: 1A-Giblet  5A-Eagle  6A-Annul  7A-Bellow
1D-Grease  2D-Baggage  3D-Eternal  4D-Follow  B-Boeing2-9-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This company was incorporated on July 15, 
1916, as “Pacific Aero Products Co.”
BONUS
15 Services 18 Personals 21 EntertainmentAlfredo Perez and the Gators 
men's tennis team begins a two-game road stretch tonight when it faces No. 13 Michigan in Ann Arbor.Pro Sports Roundup: Wade back in Miami, Thomas traded
Cavaliers shooting guard Dwyane Wade was traded to the Miami Heat 
on Thursday. Cleveland received a 2024 second-round pick for Wade. The Cavs also traded Isaiah Thomas, Channing Frye and a 2018 ﬁ  rst-round pick to the Los Angeles Lakers for Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida’s football team returns 10 starters on of-
fense and nine on defense in 2018. That doesn’t leave much room for freshmen to see valuable 
playing time, but with a new coaching staff, new 
evaluations and new goals, those starters are vul-
nerable to replacement. 
And even if not, some members of Florida’s 2018 
class are sure to see the ﬁ  eld this season. After the class 
was largely assembled on National Signing Day, here 
are four of the most likely standout candidates. 
4. Evan McPherson, Kicker
McPherson, as the saying goes, has big shoes to ﬁ  ll 
at Florida. Big, powerful, popular shoes. 
With fan favorite Eddy Pineiro’s departure for the 
NFL Draft, it’s unclear if McPherson will face competi-
tion for the starting job. 
Jorge Powell, a rising redshirt senior, is still listed 
on the roster, but so is Pineiro, and it's unclear if Pow-ell will return to the team for his ﬁ  fth season.
If he doesn’t, McPherson should claim the starting 
spot easily and make an immediate impact. And if he does, McPherson, the nation’s top-ranked kicker re-cruit, should be able to challenge. 
Florida’s last high school kicking prodigy, class 
of 2012’s Austin Hardin, didn’t pan out well for the 
Gators and led to widespread fan frustration. McPher-
son will look to reverse that trend and keep fans chant-ing, this time for Evan instead of Eddy. 
3. Justin Watkins, Wide receiver
Dan Mullen called Watkins electric and said he’s 
capable of not only playing wideout and slot receiver, 
but also running back and even corner.
That’s the kind of athlete Mullen wants. Some-
one who can step in and make plays in the mold of 
Kadarius Toney a season ago. Watkins, rated the na-
tion’s 16th-best receiver and 89th overall, according to 247Sports, should at least get a chance to show his athleticism early. 
Florida’s receiving corps was largely a disappoint-
ment last year. The team’s best wideout — rising ju-nior Tyrie Cleveland — managed a team-best 410 re-ceiving yards, while then-senior Brandon Powell led 
the group in touchdown grabs with three.
Cleveland should have a lock on his starting spot, 
but with Powell and former leading receiver Antonio 
Callaway gone, there’s room for new faces to make an impact when returning faces have rarely been able 
to do so. Four Florida football 
signees likely to make 
an impact in 2018Sweet and Bauer / Opinion
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
Florida point guard Chris Chiozza 
has been posting career numbers all 
season. He’s scoring, rebounding and 
assisting at his highest rate since he 
stepped foot in Gainesville four years 
ago. The Gators men's basketball team 
has needed all of it in a topsy-turvy 
2018 campaign.
Chiozza struggled as of late though, 
managing four points in an 18-point loss to Alabama on Saturday and three 
in Wednesday’s 73-64 win over LSU.UF coach Mike White has faith in 
Chiozza, saying he thinks the senior is 
due for a breakout, hopefully in Satur-
day’s noon game at South Carolina (13-
11, 4-7 SEC).
“(Chiozza has) been so good all year 
and law of averages kicks in,” White 
said. “Surely, he’ll be good in Columbia 
and we’ll be OK.”
After handing Florida a 77-72 loss 
when the teams ﬁ  rst met on Jan. 24 in Gainesville, the Gamecocks have 
dropped games against then-No. 14 
Texas Tech, Mississippi State, Texas 
A&M and Arkansas.One thing all four of South Caroli-
na’s recent defeats have in common is 
strong guard play from its opponents, 
something White may ﬁ  nd encouraging 
in light of Chiozza’s recent struggles.
Texas Tech’s Keenan Evans account-
ed for roughly half of the Red Raiders' 
total offensive output, ﬁ  nishing with 31 
points and three assists as the Game-
cocks fell 70-63.
Mississippi State guards Quinndary 
and Nick Weatherspoon combined for 35 points and six assists in an 81-76 win  
over South Carolina.UF  hits road for rematch with South Carolina
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN PAGE 16Alligator File Photo
While the Gators have ﬁ  ve upperclassmen on the Preseason All-SEC T eam, a 
slew of freshmen are set to make immediate contributions. "I'm really excited to see how it's going to piece together, " senior Aleshia Ocasio said. 
SOFTBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLBy Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Last year, the Gators turned to their under-
classmen to ﬁ  ll pivotal roles. This year could prove to be similar. 
Florida’s softball team is opening its sea-
son today at 4:45 p.m. against Illinois State, the ﬁ  rst matchup of a ﬁ  ve-game weekend at the University of South Florida in Tampa. 
While UF has ﬁ  ve upperclassmen on the 
preseason All-SEC Team, it is also eager to 
showcase its depth and younger players in 
these opening matchups. 
“We have different players who can do a 
lot of different things,” senior Aleshia Ocasio 
said. “I’m really excited to see how it’s going 
to piece together."
The Gators are expected to be strong de-
fensively this spring, despite starting a red-
shirt sophomore at shortstop and a freshman at second base. 
In her debut season, Sophia Reynoso 
brought desperately needed stability at short-stop. Reynoso started all 68 games for Florida and recorded a .957 ﬁ  elding percentage.
Hannah Adams will attempt to bring a 
similar impact this season. The freshman’s 
defensive prowess has been good enough so 
far to get the nod from coach Tim Walton at second, bumping senior Nicole DeWitt over to third base.
Junior Kelly Barnhill will see a bulk of the 
playing time on the mound this season along with Ocasio. Behind the pair of upperclass-men are two promising young pitchers in sophomore Katie Chronister and freshman Natalie Lugo.
Chronister made the decision this offsea-
son to focus exclusively on pitching and pinch running instead of playing ﬁ  rst base. Gators open season against Illinois StateFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
Jenny Rowland was all smiles in the 
Florida gymnastics team’s practice facility 
Tuesday morning. Her excitement about returning home for the Gators’ sixth match of the season was evident as she laughed 
and joked with reporters. Her demeanor, 
however, took on a more serious tone when she talked about the chemistry and dedication of her team. 
“Everybody’s ready,” Rowland said. 
“Everybody’s willing to do whatever it takes for the team.”
No. 5 Florida will take on No. 9 Ala-
bama tonight at home with the Gators 
competing in the nation’s top gymnastics 
dual meet of the weekend.  
UF is on a three-match win streak and 
its second SEC victory of the season. In the Gators’ last meet on Feb. 2, they defeated then-No. 17 Auburn 197.400-197.000 at  Auburn Arena. 
“There’s just one thing that we need 
to improve on that I saw last competition 
and it’s our stuck landings,” Rowland said. 
“We gave away over a point in stuck land-ings. That’s something I feel can easily be fixed.” 
Alabama and Florida will compete in a 
top-10 matchup for the 55th consecutive time. When the teams met in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, last year, the Gators returned home with a 197.825-197.425 loss to the 
Crimson Tide. A month later on March 
18 at the SEC Championships, the Gators traveled to neutral ground with a renewed passion and took Alabama down by a .425 margin. 
“‘Bama’s always been a great team, 
so we know it’s hard to go to ‘Bama with thousands of their fans,” senior Alex Mc-Murtry said. “I think it’s just easier on home turf and we have that momentum.”
Alabama returns to action off a home 
win over then-No. 8 Arkansas 197.000–196.35. 
Both the Gators and the Crimson Tide 
bring a combined total of three gymnasts 
who posted a 10.0 in the 2017 season. 
This includes senior Kiana Winston for Alabama, and seniors Kennedy Baker and McMurtry for Florida. McMurtry recorded a 10.0 on beam against No. 1 Oklahoma on Jan. 26 to become the second Gator to post perfect scores in each event. She isn’t letting her own achievements or the team’s top-5 national ranking get to her head. 
“We try not to pay attention too much 
to rankings,” McMurtry said. “We know we’re one of the top teams in the country, and that’s just reinforcing it.”
Her fellow senior Rachel Slocum has 
her mind set on less concrete matters and looks forward to competing in front of what could potentially be the Gators’ third O’Connell Center sellout in program his-
tory. 
“Can’t wait to have a hopefully, crossed 
fingers, another sellout crowd,” Slocum 
said. “(We) definitely feed off that energy.” 
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgUF, ‘Bama square off 
tonight at O’Connell CenterLACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
The Florida lacrosse team has not reached the 
second round of the NCAA Tournament since 
2015. 
Despite heartbreaking losses in the first round 
of the tournament the past two years, the Gators 
aren’t worried about suffering the same fate in 
2018.
The defending Big East champions are the 
unanimous pick to win the conference title once again and are the preseason No. 5 team in the country.
And for good reason.Ninth-year coach Amanda O’Leary’s squad re-
turns three of its five leading scorers from a year 
ago, the 2017 Big East Goalkeeper of the Year 
in Haley Hicklen and six preseason All-Big East team members.
Coming off a season in which Florida finished 
17-3, including a 9-0 mark in conference play, it’s easy to see why the team is confident.
While the Gators return bona fide offensive 
stars in attackers Lindsey Ronbeck and Shayna Pirreca, as well as Shayna’s sister, midfielder Syd-
ney Pirreca, they still have a lot of production to 
replace.
Florida’s points leaders, Sammi Burgess and 
Mollie Stevens, have graduated. Due to this, sev-eral newcomers will need to step up quickly.
O’Leary said she expects to play six freshmen 
in Florida’s season-opening game against No. 16 Colorado on Sunday at Donald R. Dizney Stadi-um. Senior defender Aniya Flanagan believes the 
young players are ready for the challenge.
“At practice, we always go 100 percent,” Fla-nagan said. “We don’t go light on them because 
they’re freshmen.”
Two of those freshmen, attackers Kassidy 
Bresnahan and Grace Haus, could start on the 
offensive end. Freshman midfielder Shannon Ka-
vanagh is expected to take the first draw of the game and see extensive playing time Sunday.
The Gators know Colorado won’t be an easy 
game. O’Leary summed up Florida’s opponent in one word: explosive.
Explosive might be an understatement.The Buffaloes, tabbed to finish second in the 
Pac-12, return their leading scorer from last year 
in Darby Kiernan. In 2017, Colorado had the 
17th-best scoring offense in the country, as well as the third-best scoring defense. Despite having only four seasons under its belt as a Division I program, CU has quickly established itself as one of the best teams in the country.
The Buffaloes’ season begins tonight, as they 
take on Michigan in Jacksonville.
Considering the fact that the Gators’ schedule 
includes six games against teams ranked in the preseason top-25 — highlighted by a bout with No. 1 Maryland on Feb. 17 — Florida could easily look ahead to tougher opponents and the post-season. But Shayna Pirreca does not think that will happen.
She said in the past, the team’s goal has been 
to win a national title. While this ambition re-mains, after two consecutive disappointing fin-
ishes in the NCAA Tournament, she said the 
team has simplified its approach.
“We have to go 1-0, 17 times,” she said. 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBig East-favorite Florida opens 
season at home vs. ColoradoMISSISSIPPI STATE 98, FLORIDA 50
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
With under a minute to go in the third quar-
ter and the game well out of reach, Mississippi 
State’s Zion Campbell drove through the lane. Her layup went off the glass and through the bottom of the net, giving the Bulldogs a 36-point 
lead to double up Florida’s point total. 
Campbell’s bucket was the last field goal 
of the third quarter and ended a frame that 
saw Mississippi State outscore UF 30-7, as the No. 2 Bulldogs defeated the Gators women’s basketball team (10-14, 2-9 SEC) 98-50 at the O’Connell Center on Thursday night.
“They’re phenomenal defensively,” coach 
Cameron Newbauer. “Their pressure just got to 
us. What it does is it speeds you up mentally, 
physically.”
Florida struggled with anything and every-
thing that came its way throughout most of the game. The suffocating press defense from the Bulldogs (25-0, 11-0 SEC) forced the Gators to commit 23 turnovers during the game. MSU scored 37 points off Florida’s mistakes.
Despite a strong second quarter from the 
Gators in which they scored 16 points, Mis-sissippi State found a way to bully UF on both ends of the floor.
“We need to be aggressive,” guard Funda 
Nakkasoglu said. “If our turnovers come off ag-gressive play, we can kind of live with that. But they were just all up in us tonight.”
After going into halftime with a 13-point 
advantage, the Bulldogs used a 30-point third 
quarter to pull away from the Gators. Only one 
player, freshman Chloe Bibby, was held score-less for the No. 2 team in the nation. 
“I think we still had a lot of defensive mis-
cues,” forward Haley Lorenzen said. “When we started deviating from (our game plan), that’s when they started getting their open shots. They had their drives and different things like that from the beginning.”
Leading the way for Mississippi State was 
redshirt senior Roshunda Johnson. She led all scorers with 22 points on 9-of-13 shoot-
ing. Johnson shot 4-of-7 from downtown and 
grabbed six rebounds during the contest.
The Bulldogs’ inside game was led by junior 
Teaira McCowan. The 6-foot-7 forward had 10 points on 4-of-7 shooting, though her presence was felt more on the glass during Thursday’s contest. McCowan had 11 rebounds, including five offensive boards in the first half.
Guard Victoria Vivians had 17 points and 
shot 6 of 12 from the field. She was also among the five players that scored in double figures for Mississippi State.
Not much went Florida’s way Thursday 
night. Despite a solid 17 points from Nakkaso-glu, the Gators were stuck trying to avoid Mis-sissippi State’s press defense.
Lorenzen and sophomore Delicia Washing-
ton were the only other Gators to score in dou-
ble figures. The pair put up 12 apiece and added 
a combined 12 rebounds.
With the loss, Florida falls to 1-43 all-time 
against top-three opponents. It is also the Gators’ sixth loss this year to a top-25 team. 
They’ll attempt to defeat their first ranked 
opponent this season on Sunday when they travel to Columbia, South Carolina, to take on the No. 7 Gamecocks. 
For Newbauer, he’s already looking forward 
to it.
“We’re gonna turn the page and move on,” 
he said. “On to the next.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgGators crumble in turnover-ridden loss to Mississippi State
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Funda Nakkasoglu turned the ball over six times in Thursday night’s loss. “If our 
turnovers come off aggressive play, we can kind of live with that, ” she said. “But they were just all up in us tonight. ”
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2018
2. Jacob Copeland, Wide receiver
The same ideas that apply to Watkins apply 
to Copeland, only Copeland has more of an SEC-ready body. 
At 6 feet, 192-pounds, his frame is larger than 
the 5-foot-11, 172-pound Watkins. Copeland also holds the higher rating of the duo at 69th 
overall, although when ratings are that close, it’s hard to tell if one is much better than the other. 
Nevertheless Copeland, like Watkins, should 
be offered the opportunity to contribute early. 
Especially if Ole Miss transfer Van Jefferson and 
Ohio State transfer Trevon Grimes aren’t grant-ed immediate eligibility. 
1. Emory Jones, Quarterback
Could Emory Jones be the best quarterback 
to play at Florida since Tim Tebow?
It shouldn’t be too hard considering the me-
diocrity that has accumulated at the position for the Gators in recent years. However, that hasn’t stopped other top quarterback prospects like Jeff 
Driskel, John Brantley and Feleipe Franks from tanking in Gainesville. 
Maybe Jones will buck that trend, maybe he 
won’t, but he’ll certainly get the opportunity to 
do so early. Facing competition from Jake Allen, 
Kyle Trask and incumbent starter Franks, Jones should be near or at the top of the depth chart from day one. 
It’s hard to predict whether he’ll win out. 
Who knows? Quarterback guru Dan Mullen could resurrect Franks and turn him into a re-spectable starter. 
But after what Franks put on ﬁ  lm last sea-
son, it wouldn’t be surprising to see Jones get the nod as a true freshman. Especially with the recent success of true-freshman quarterbacks 
in the SEC, like Georgia’s Jake Fromm and Ala-
bama’s Tua Tagovailoa.
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer. Follow him on 
Twitter@ebaueri and contact him at ebauer@
alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14The Aggies took down the Gamecocks 
83-60 with a more balanced approach, 
led by junior guard Admon Gilder's 15 
points and three steals.
Then on Tuesday, Razorbacks guards 
Daryl Macon (25 points) and Jaylen Bar-ford (24 points) helped pace Arkansas to an 81-65 victory.
This could also bode well for Florida 
guards Jalen Hudson, Egor Koulechov and KeVaughn Allen.
Hudson and Koulechov are ﬁ  rst and 
second on the team in scoring, respec-
tively, while Koulechov’s 6.9 rebounds per game leads the Gators and is tied for 
ninth in the SEC.
Allen’s play has been up-and-down 
during his junior season, but he remains 
a threat to lead all players in scoring on any given night. Against a Gamecocks 
defense that gives up just 68 points per game, a big performance from Allen 
could be a key to success.
Another area of focus for Florida will 
be South Carolina forward Chris Silva, 
who had a double-double in the ﬁ  rst 
meeting with 18 points and 12 rebounds.
Koulechov, who spends large portions 
of games at the power forward spot due to frontcourt injuries, said he looks for-
ward to matching up with Silva.
“It’s always fun,” Koulechov said. 
“We’ll have a good game plan. I’ll do whatever I gotta do. Coaches are always 
gonna put us in great positions and it’s 
up to us to execute.”
 @AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org  BASKETBALL,  from pg. 14Koulechov leads UF in rebounds
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Egor Koulechov looks forward to matching up against South Carolina 
forward Chris Silva, who recorded a double-double against UF on Jan. 24. "We'll have a good game plan, " Koulechov said. "I'll do whatever I gotta do. "
“She has the ability to get a lot of ground 
balls,” Walton said. “She changes speeds. She throws down. She’s left-handed. I think last year was not an indication of where she could be.”
Lugo joins Chronister in the bullpen. The 
summer before coming to UF, Lugo dominat-ed at the World Baseball Softball Confedera-tion Junior Women’s World Championship. She registered a 0.42 ERA with three wins, beating Japan in the championship game. 
With plenty of depth at the plate, Florida 
will retain its status from last season as one of the better offenses in the SEC. 
Behind players like junior Amanda Lo-renz, who ranks ﬁ  rst in school history in ca-reer batting average (.395), Florida has added freshman sluggers Haven Sampson and Josie 
Page.  
Sampson hit .371 for her high school ca-
reer with a .436 on-base percentage, while 
Page broke school records in career home runs and single-season home runs at Wash-
ington County High School in Chatom, Ala-
bama. She also led Washington County to the 
program’s ﬁ  rst two regional playoff berths.
“We’re just excited to get the new people 
out there in the Orange and Blue,” Walton 
said. “(They) get to share in the passion with 
all of the returning players we have.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg 14Amanda Lorenz has a .395 
career batting average