We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Why did the Chick-ﬁ  l-A cross the road?
Butler Plaza Chick-ﬁ  l-A location to move to accomidate drive 
thru space, pg. 5
The Greens’ donate some green to UF
Student Body President Ian Green’s parents give $100K  pg. 4Opportunities imminent for younger Gators
After Florida’s seniors are honored Saturday ahead of their 
matchup against Idaho, there should be plenty of chances for 
freshmen and younger players to get some experience. Who has 
the best shot of seeing the ﬁ  eld?, pg. 14FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 36Studen/t.end
Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
FALL 2018
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Boot the braids
Nico Page, a 21-year-old Brown University poetry major and intern at the Alliance for 
Fair Food, chants “UF, shame on you, farmworkers are people too. ” UF students and 
the Alliance for Fair Food protested Wendy’s and their treatment of farmworkers 
Thursday afternoon outside Turlington Hall. About 30 protesters attended.
FEATURE FRIDAY
THE GROUP WAS STARTED 
BY A LOCAL 20-YEAR-OLD.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Malik Bakr peered out from his 
tent and looked into the Hawaiian 
jungle as it steadily rained. The light from his phone was the only 
beacon in the darkness. 
Only days before in November 
2017, the then 19-year-old’s uncle 
died in a hit-and-run motorcycle 
crash. Bakr said he drove by the 
wreck earlier that day without 
knowing it was his uncle.
Bakr, a black Muslim man, 
went to Hawaii at his uncle’s invi-tation to heal after he was racially 
proﬁ  led at Gainesville’s Bass Pro 
Shops a year prior. He tried to buy 
a hunting gun with his friend, but 
the employee refused. 
In the days following his un-
cle’s death, with only his blue-
nose pit-mix puppy, Liko, for com-
pany, Bakr realized that life was 
too short to be bitter. “You’re here for a limited time,” 
he thought to himself. “What are 
you doing while you’re here?”
He moved back to his home-
town of Gainesville and started For 
Earth By Earth, a nonproﬁ  t orga-
nization seeking to serve the same 
underserved east-side community 
he grew up in. 
Bakr, now 20, recruited his former classmates from PK Yonge 
Developmental Research School to 
build his dream into a reality, he 
said. 
No one on the all-volunteer 
staff has more than a few years of 
college education. Bakr only holds 
a high school diploma.First Gainesville, next the world: Local nonproﬁ  t brings basketball andBy Angie DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer
The name Alyssa Baumann will 
soon replace “Jane Doe” in a law-
suit against Larry Nassar. 
Baumann, a 20-year-old UF so-
cial and behavioral sciences sopho-
more, UF gymnast and a former USA Gymnastics national team 
member, is one of nearly 500 wom-
en who accused Nassar, a former 
USA Gymnastics team doctor, of 
sexual abuse. 
“I, too, was sexually abused by 
Larry Nassar,” Baumann said in a 
tweet Thursday night. “He betrayed 
my trust and took advantage of me 
for years.” Baumann and former UF team-
mate Kennedy Baker both tweeted 
their stories about sexual abuse 
within a day of each other. Baker, 
also a former USA Gymnastics na-
tional team member, said in a tweet 
she came forward because other 
gymnasts inspired her. 
More than 150 victims testiﬁ  ed 
during Nassar’s sentencing in Janu-ary, according to The Indianapolis 
Star. Nassar was sentenced to 40 to 
175 years for his sexual abuse after 
a weeklong hearing. 
Aly Raisman, who spoke at UF 
Nov. 6, also came forward about 
abuse from Nassar. 
It takes one woman to speak out 
for other stories to be ampliﬁ  ed, 
said Bridget Sloan, a 26-year-old 
former UF and USA national team 
gymnast. 
Sloan said she was never abused by Nassar and didn’t have conver-
sations with Baker or Baumann 
about him. Baker and Baumann 
could not be immediately reached 
for comment.
“I remember when it ﬁ  rst all 
came to light. It really kind of mess-
es with your head, even if you were 
never affected by it,” Sloan said. “It 
makes you question yourself.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org UF gymnast alleges sexual abuse against Larry Nassar
A former UF gymnast also accused him.
IN ALACHUA COUNTY, 40 
VOLUNTEERS WILL REVIEW 
BALLOTS MANUALL Y.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County elections ofﬁ  cials 
are gearing up for another recount, this 
time by hand.
Florida Secretary of State Ken 
Detzner ordered manual recounts on 
Thursday afternoon after  8.3 million 
votes were recounted by machine, ac-
cording to the Tampa Bay Times. The 
recounts were ordered for both the Sen-
ate race between U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson 
and Florida Gov. Rick Scott, and the 
race for agriculture commissioner be-
tween Nicole “Nikki” Fried and Matt 
Caldwell.
The manual recount requires can-
vassing boards in each of the state’s 67 
counties to individually review ballots that have overvotes or undervotes, ac-
cording to the Times. Undervotes are 
ballots in which a voter appears to 
have not voted, and overvotes are bal-
lots where a voter appears to have cho-
sen more than one candidate in a race.
In the case of a manual recount, 40 
volunteers would review the ballots by 
hand, TJ Pyche, the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections spokesperson, 
said. If a ballot is unclear, it will be re-
viewed by the county canvassing board 
to judge the voter’s intent.
Ron DeSantis declared a Republican 
victory following the results of the ma-
chine recount, according to the Miami 
Herald. DeSantis leads his Democratic 
opponent Andrew Gillum by about .41 
percent of the vote.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgFor the first time in Florida 
history, a statewide manual 
recount will soon take place
SEE FEATURE,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Ribbon-cutting at Palmetto 
Moon store
Palmetto Moon, a leading 
Southern lifestyle retail store, 
will open its newest store loca-
tion at Celebration Pointe, 3528 
SW 45th St., Suite T600, with a 
ribbon-cutting ceremony. The 
6,500 square-foot store will carry 
on-trend and affordable cloth-
ing, footwear, accessories, décor 
and gifts from a wide selection of 
Southern-inspired outdoor life-
style brands. Palmetto Moon of-
ficially opens its doors at 10 a.m., 
followed by a ribbon-cutting cer-
emony at 11:30 a.m. The first 250 
customers who make a purchase 
of $25 or more will receive a free 
custom 20-ounce YETI Rambler. 
The celebration will feature food, 
music, games and “spin to win” 
giveaways every 15 minutes from 
10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 6-10 p.m.
Explore the cosmos at ‘Starry Night’
Visitors may observe the night 
sky and explore the world beyond 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History’s free “Starry Night” 
program at 6-10 p.m. Activities 
include the opportunity to use 
high-performance telescopes and 
see a portable planetarium show. 
For more information, visit flori-
damuseum.ufl.edu/event/starry-
night or call 352-273-2062.
UF Opera Theatre & Symphony 
Orchestra present ‘Hansel 
and Gretel’
The holiday tradition of Hansel 
and Gretel will come to the stage 
at 7:30-9:30 p.m. at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts, 
at 3201 Hull Road. Under the ba-
ton of Ocala Symphony Orchestra 
conductor Matthew Wardell, vo-
cal performers from the gradu-
ate and undergraduate programs 
of the UF School of Music make 
up the cast and orchestra for 
this gala production. UF Opera 
Theatre, under the direction of 
Anthony Offerle, has a long his-
tory of bringing musical dramas 
to the stage in North Florida. 
Tickets can be purchased at tick-
ets.performingarts.ufl.edu. A sec-
ond showing will be held at the 
same time and location Saturday. 
GatorNights - A Magical Night 
in the Swamp
Appear at GatorNights this Friday 
for an enchanting night!  Students 
can put their skills to the test in 
GatorNights’ Forbidden Forest 
Escape Room. They can also at-
tend performances by Unión 
de Estudiantes Puertorriqueños 
Activos at “Salsa Concert: A Night in San Juan” in the Rion 
Ballroom, as well as University 
Gospel Choir’s “Resound: The 
Sound of Victory” and Theatre 
Strike Force’s Improv Comedy 
Show.  There will also be deck-
of-cards crafts, wire writing and 
painted glass jar stations. Guests 
can also drink Butterbeer and 
receive a tarot card reading. As 
always, there will be free bowl-
ing and billiards in the Game 
Room, coffee at Global Coffee 
House and breakfast at Midnight 
Munchies. GatorNights is always 
Friday and always free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card at 
the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 
a.m. Attendees must be students 
to participate and are allowed to 
bring a guest. 
SATURDAY
Sunrise Walk
Guests can join a ranger to expe-
rience the early morning wildlife 
at 7:15-8:30 a.m. at Sweetwater 
Wetlands Park, at 325 SW 
Williston Road. Sightings may in-
clude horses, deer, alligators and 
birds. Binoculars and cameras are 
encouraged. The tour is free with 
regular park admission, which is 
$5 per vehicle or $2 per bike or 
pedestrian. The hike will start at 
the park restrooms. For questions 
or further information, contact ro-
handk@cityofgainesville.org
Florida Gators Football vs. Idaho 
Vandals
The Florida Gators football team 
is playing the Idaho Vandals at 
noon at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, 
at 157 Gale Lemerand Drive. 
Gates open an hour and a half 
before kickoff. Tickets range from 
$35 to $325 and can be purchased 
on Ticketmaster.
 
Movies at Depot Park
Depot Park, at 874 SE Fourth 
St., will be showing “Fantastic 
Mr. Fox” at sunset at 5:30 p.m. 
Guests can bring low-back chairs, 
blankets and picnic baskets. 
Minors must be accompanied by 
a guardian. 
Punk Rock Karaoke
For National Hunger and 
Homelessness Awareness Week, 
The Backyard at Boca Fiesta & 
Palomino, at 232 1/2 SE First 
St., is throwing a night of punk 
rock karaoke to benefit Grace  
Marketplace. It will take place 
from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Cost is $5 to 
$10 on a sliding scale. For more 
information, visit hhweek.org 
and gracemarketplace.org. 
SUNDAY
November Food Festival and 
Carnival
UF Diabetes Institute, One Love Cafe and Taste Pho & Noodle 
House are hosting a night of food, 
rides and games while spreading 
awareness of diabetes. This food 
festival will help expand knowl-
edge for November’s Diabetes 
Awareness Month. There will be 
food trucks, food vendors, craft 
beers and wines. It will be held 
at 3-8 p.m. in Magnolia Parke, at 
4989 NW 40th Place.
‘J’accuse’ (1919) silent film 
screening
The Harn Museum of Art will be 
showing “J’accuse,” from noon 
to 3 p.m. It is the story of two 
men who meet in the trenches 
of the First World War and how 
their tale becomes a microcosm 
for the horrors of war. It will be 
shown at the museum, at 3259 
Hull Road. 
MORE
Looking for artists and performers
Local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting art-
ists, artisans and performers for 
SoulMakes, an immersive art 
show and holiday market, at 
1-6 p.m. Dec. 9 at Cypress and 
Grove. DreamQuilt will be ac-
cepting performers for the show 
up to Nov. 30. All types of artists 
are welcome, and presenting art-
ists are encouraged to do dem-
onstrations, talk with guests and 
work on projects in the space. 
Participants and guests interact 
in an open, creative environment 
blending different forms of art, 
including a collaborative canvas 
and collage workshops. Current 
students may apply to show their 
work for free. To sell art or craft 
items, a booth fee of $15 (stu-
dent rate) applies. Learn more by 
emailing booking@dreamquilt.
org or texting 352-872-2620.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
pfry@alligator.org. To request 
publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit en-
tries before 5 p.m. Please mod-
el your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.HIGH  64° LOW  39°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 36
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan Salguero, Annika SefferLokela Blanc,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Start your own Wake Forest success  
story at go.wfu.edu/FLGatorEarn a Masters with real-world experience
“I chose Wake Forest because it is a personalized 
program with a great reputation.”
 — Sydney Goldstein, Assurance Staff, EY
University of Florida, Bachelor of Science ‘16  |  Wake Forest University, Master of Science in Accountancy ‘17
Launch your career from one of three market-connected masters programs at the Wake 
Forest School of Business. You’ll develop the business knowledge, technical skills, and 
professional confidence to land the job you love and make a difference from day one.
MASTER OF SCIENCE IN MANAGEMENT
• 10-month accelerated program
• Designed exclusively for non-business majors
•  Includes Action Learning Projects with business sponsors
MASTER OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS ANALYTICS
• 10-month accelerated program
•  Technical analytics skills combined with core  
business knowledge
• Experiential learning through corporate partnershipsMASTER OF SCIENCE IN ACCOUNTANCY
• Curriculum includes cutting-edge analytics
• Three distinct accounting career tracks
• Paid internship option during spring semester
FLGator-10.25x6.5.indd   1 11/13/18   2:13 PMHair cuts and cream pies: UF Shoes 4 Smiles hosts Dare Night
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Artem Dadamyan, a 21-year-old UF biology junior, shaves the head 
of Felipe during Dare Night on Thursday night at Depot Park. Felipe 
had his head shaved ﬁ  rst. Dadamyan, the organization president, then 
followed. “Hey! I’m kinda cute!” Felipe yelled when Dadamyan ﬁ  nished 
shaving. When more than their goal of $1,000 was raised, the two kept 
their promise to shave their heads.
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Alfeil Felipe, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, takes the ﬁ  rst of many pies 
to the face during Dare Night at Depot Park Thursday. About 20 people attended the fundraiser for 
UF Shoes 4 Smiles, a student organization that provides shoes to disadvantaged children. Felipe, 
the organization’s vice president, participated in nearly all of the evening’s dares, including being 
egged, shaving his head, getting pied in the face and eating spicy noodles. Proceeds raised by the 
event went to providing shoes to underprivileged communities in Gainesville.
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018
THE SHELTER WILL BE OPEN TO 
ANYONE IN NEED TONIGHT.
By Fotini Sisois
Alligator Contributing Writer
Michele Gutierrez rode her bike through 
downtown Gainesville to take it all in Mon-
day.
Gutierrez, the Grace Marketplace admin-
istrative coordinator, said she wanted to take 
her time to see the 600 green placards plant-
ed in the grass outside the Alachua County 
Administration Building. Each placard repre-
sents a person who has taken shelter at the 
homeless shelter.
“Six hundred people is fantastic right 
now, but that number really needs to triple and quadruple,” she said.
Volunteers at Grace posted the placards to 
recognize Hunger and Homelessness Aware-
ness Week, which ends Sunday, said Jon 
DeCarmine, the Grace Marketplace director. 
As the week comes to a close, here 
are three ways Grace Marketplace said 
Gainesville residents can help the homeless 
community:
Blanket and coat drive
Grace Marketplace’s fourth annual blan-
ket and coat drive began Monday and will 
end Dec. 12, said Travis Middleton, the di-
rector of community engagement.
The donations will be given to Grace resi-
dents to keep warm, Middleton said.  
New or gently used coats and blankets can be dropped off at the shelter, at 3055 NE 
28th Drive, between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., De-
Carmine said. Places of worship and ofﬁ  ces 
are encouraged to organize their own drives 
by emailing volunteer@gracemarketplace.
org. 
Hunger and Homelessness Awareness 
Week fundraiser
Grace Marketplace will host a punk rock 
karaoke fundraiser at The Backyard at Boca 
Fiesta & Palomino, at 232 SE First St., at 9 
p.m. Saturday, DeCarmine said.
A donation between $5 and $10 will be 
accepted as admission. 
Cold Night Shelter Program
Grace Marketplace is open to anyone in need of shelter from cold temperatures to-
night, Middleton said. The organization is 
expecting to provide more than 100 people 
with warm meals, blankets and a place to 
sleep during the program Thursday night 
and tonight.  
The Cold Night Shelter Program kicks in 
when the temperature drops below 45 de-
grees, Middleton said. The temperature is 
expected to reach a low of 38 degrees.
Flyers about the program have been post-
ed around Grace Marketplace’s campus, De-
Carmine said. 
“Our mission is to provide shelter to peo-
ple in crisis and that is a 24/7, 365 day-a-
year job,” he said.Jackets, punk rock and shelter: 3 ways to help Grace Marketplace
The young team has already 
created a ﬁ  ve-year plan to address 
the problems the eastside faces in-
cluding food deserts, poverty and 
crime, Bakr said. 
Part of the plan is to install 
community gardens to empower 
the families to grow their own 
healthy food, he said. In January, 
the group and Grow Hub, a non-
proﬁ  t plant nursery, built a gar-
den at 2900 NE Eighth Ave.
For Earth By Earth serves 
meals at Grace Marketplace dur-
ing the day. After school, middle 
and high school students can par-
ticipate in the group’s community 
basketball team and mentoring 
program.
“I have so many ambitious 
ventures, but I start with what 
matters most,” Bakr said. “Start 
close to home.”
Bakr saw how his appearance 
spurred hate two years ago when 
he was denied a gun at Bass Pro 
Shops. Now, he said his identity 
is a point of pride and celebration. 
“Building the black commu-
nity up starts with putting the 
black community on a pedestal,” 
he said. 
Alexis Akridge was once Bakr’s 
classmate but now serves as the 
chief administrative ofﬁ  cer of For 
Earth By Earth. The 21-year-old 
UF health education and behavior 
senior is responsible for ﬁ  nding 
volunteers and ﬁ  lling out paper-
work. 
Lots and lots of paperwork.
Before Akridge was on board, 
Bakr was funding For Earth By 
Earth with his paycheck as a con-
struction worker. Now, the orga-
nization is a registered nonproﬁ  t.
Akridge said her favorite part 
of the organization is mentoring 
the students at an after school 
program.
The program gives the east-
side middle and high school stu-
dents a safe, empowering place to 
go after school, she said. 
“I know how that side of the 
city is and how the lack of re-sources shows,” Akridge said. 
“It’s just rewarding.”
The kids in the after-school 
program jump on the staff mem-
bers’ cars to keep them from leav-
ing, Bakr said. 
After Akridge got involved in 
August, she recruited her boy-
friend, Stephen Fox, who now 
serves as the organization’s chief 
of agricultural services. 
Before joining the organiza-
tion, the 21-year-old UF anthro-
pology senior planned to be an ar-
chaeologist. He plans on going to 
graduate school to study sustain-
able economics and food sources 
instead of artifacts.
“Nothing that I’ve ever learned 
in any university setting could 
prepare me to deal with these 
deep systemic issues,” Fox said. 
Fox said many community em-
powerment programs fail because 
the people at the top don’t under-
stand the issues on the ground. 
Fox said the group’s success 
comes from the volunteers’ expe-
riences with the community’s kids 
and leaders. “All you have to show them is 
that a few people care,” he said. 
Bakr has it all planned out. 
He’ll start in Gainesville and then 
move For Earth By Earth into 
more cities, he said.
In Tupelo, Mississippi, Bakr 
has 120 acres of family-owned 
land ready to grow crops for the 
community. His father in Tampa 
wants to expand the organization 
into central Florida. 
On Monday, he’s ﬂ  ying to 
Cleveland to meet with extended 
family and begin paperwork to 
bring the organization to Ohio. 
From there, he’ll take it in-
ternational. The rest of the team 
looks forward to it, Akridge said.
“You take For Earth By Earth 
wherever you go,” she said. 
“Once you leave, you start your 
own sprout.”
For now, the team meets in an 
event space in Grace Marketplace.
Bakr talks of food trucks, eco-
homes and even an aquaponics 
farm. His brain is a Willy Wonka 
factory for change. 
While For Earth By Earth offers many services, Bakr said it is ul-
timately up to the community to 
take advantage of them. 
“You can lead someone to suc-
cess, but whether they take it,” he 
paused, “that’s on them.”
When Bakr looks at the kids 
he mentors, he said he sees him-
self. And that is the answer to the 
question he asked in the tent. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgFEATURE,  from pg. 1To combat the food desert, the nonproit built a garden.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
The parents of UF’s Student 
Body President Ian Green will give 
$100,000 for scholarships. 
Val and Vince Green will donate 
the money to the UF Foundation, 
Val Green, 55, said. The money 
will be donated on behalf of and 
for the beneﬁ  t of the UF Associa-
tion of Black Alumni, she said.
An initial donation of $75,000 
was made Nov. 1, she said. The 
family will donate $25,000 in the 
next three years.
“The University of Florida con-
tributed greatly to our success in 
life,” Val Green said. “So we want-
ed to contribute to future Gators’ 
success in a meaningful way.” 
The money will fund scholar-
ships for UF sophomores, juniors 
and seniors who excel in academ-
ics and leadership, she said. This 
will aid students who may be run-
ning low on scholarship funds. 
Ian Green’s parents taught him 
to be a Gator and the importance of 
giving back, he wrote in an email.
Green said there is a need to 
support black students right now at 
UF. The number of black students 
enrolled at UF has dropped since 
his parents were students. 
“I believe that giving back is al-
ways a positive,” Ian Green said. 
“Donations like this support exist-
ing students at a time when some 
of their initial scholarship funds 
may have ended and again rein-
forces the need for all Gators to pay 
it forward so we can all go greater.”
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgIan Green’s 
family to 
donate 
$100K
THE STUDENT BODY 
PRESIDENT’S PARENTS 
ARE TRYING TO SUPPORT 
BLACK STUDENTS. 
Courtesy to The Alligator
Malik Bakr sits in the driver’s seat of a car with his family friend at his Uncle Ernest’s Celebration of 
Life ceremony in Hawaii. Ernest was killed in a motorcycle accident, which spurred Bakr’s decision 
to move back to Gainsville. 
SERVICES OFFERED BY 
FOR EARTH BY EARTH:
After-school mentoring
Community gardens
Meals at Grace Marketplace
Community basketball team FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
IT WILL BE ABOUT A 
HALF-MILE FROM ITS OLD 
LOCATION.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s hard to ﬁ  nd Nate Miller with-
out a large Chick-ﬁ  l-A sweet tea in his 
hand. 
The self-proclaimed Chick-ﬁ  l-A fa-
natic visited the chicken joint about 
three times a week, every week, over 
summer. 
“The employees know me by face 
and name at this point,” the 20-year-
old said.
Now, Miller is ready to pick up 
his standard chicken biscuit and hash 
browns at the new Gainesville loca-
tion, at 3938 SW Archer Road in But-
ler Plaza. 
On Nov. 29, Chick-ﬁ  l-A will open the 5,000-square-foot location, about 
half a mile away from its current 
store, said Mary Reichardt, corporate 
director of marketing for Butler Plaza. 
The prior location will close Nov. 24.
“I’ve always really liked the food,” 
Miller, a UF economics junior, said. 
“I’m from West Virginia, and there 
were rarely any Chick-ﬁ  l-As there, 
so I started going there a lot when I 
moved.”
The new location will have more 
space for cars so lines of drive-thru 
trafﬁ  c won’t back up onto Archer 
Road, Reichardt said. She said the 
restaurant is excited to include a dou-
ble drive-thru in order to prevent this 
problem.
There is no estimate on how much 
construction of the building will cost, 
Reichardt said. 
The staff who works at the current 
location will most likely transfer to 
the new one once it opens, Reichardt said. Breakfast will still be served at 
this location and the restaurant will 
operate at the same hours as its other 
branches.
Other amenities of the building 
include an outdoor patio area, play-
ground area, wood paneling, recycled 
coke bottle chandeliers, open tables 
and booths, Reichardt said. 
“It’s just thoughtfully designed 
with families in mind,” Reichardt 
said.
The opening day of the new loca-
tion will feature a ribbon-cutting cer-
emony where local city ofﬁ  cials may 
speak, Reichardt said.
“We’re just really excited to have 
such a high-level tenant that sets an 
example of how to do business from 
a customer service perspective,” 
Reichardt said. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgButler Plaza Chick-ﬁ  l-A to open across the street from current locationBy Jeana Fraser
Alligator Contributing Writer
Smathers Libraries will use a survey to 
ﬁ  ll the Field and Fork Pantry shelves as 
they empty out for Thanksgiving.
The libraries will donate up to $3,000 to 
the pantry based on how many UF faculty 
members respond to a survey sent out Oct. 
22, said assessment librarian Laura Spears. 
The library will donate $2 for every faculty 
member who completes the survey. The 
project runs until Nov. 30.  
“We’re all very much aware of the food 
pantry and our No. 1 goal is to serve the 
students,” Spears said.
About 700 faculty members have com-
pleted the survey, she said. The goal is to 
get 1,500 responses.
Instead of rafﬂ  ing off a Starbucks gift 
card to incentivize faculty to ﬁ  ll out the survey, the libraries wanted to promote 
supporting both the faculty and students, 
Spears said.
The survey is done every four to ﬁ  ve 
years to evaluate the libraries’ resources.
The pantry, which is free to anyone 
with a Gator 1 Card, helps feed hungry stu-
dents and staff members and relies solely 
on monetary and food donations, said Am-
bre Hobson, a Care Area assistant director. 
The pantry can feed up to 20 people 
with $2, Hobson said.
Anyone can donate to the pantry 
throughout the year, but the holiday sea-
son is an especially busy time for dona-
tions, Hobson said. More students use the 
pantry as ﬁ  nancial aid runs out toward the 
end of the semester.
“One faculty member who ﬁ  lls out one 
survey can end up helping a lot of people,” 
Hobson said.Smathers Libraries trades 
survey responses for canned 
food donations
Jordan Bourne / Alligator Staff
A Chick-ﬁ  l-A Archer Road location is opening across the street 
from its former spot. The new fast food restaurant will have more 
space for drive-thru.
THE ORGANIZATION HAS TWO 
LOCATIONS IN GAINESVILLE. 
By Kelly Hayes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cats and dogs in rural North Central Florida 
have a new organization looking out for them. 
Gainesville Pet Rescue, Helping Hands Pet Res-
cue and Alachua County Humane Society have 
merged into the Humane Society of North Cen-
tral Florida, said Danielle Cummings, the Alachua 
County Humane Society development coordinator.  
“It’s something that we just naturally started 
doing,” Cummings said. “We all learned how to 
leverage each other’s strengths.” 
The individual shelters, which have worked to-
gether for the past two decades, saw a need for no-
kill shelters in rural counties after Alachua County 
became a no-kill county in 2017, Cummings said.
Pet owners in neighboring counties would 
bring their animals to Alachua to surrender them 
because they knew the animals would not be 
killed, Cummings said. The merge would help ﬁ  ll the need. 
“Animals don’t understand county borders,” 
she said.
The Humane Society of North Central Florida 
serves Alachua, Levy, Bradford, Union, Marion, 
Putnam, Columbia and Clay counties, Cummings 
said. 
The organization operates out of two locations: 
a north campus at 4205 NW Sixth St. and a south 
campus at 5403 SW Archer Road, Cummings said. 
The decision to merge came after a board meet-
ing in January and was announced Nov. 8 at Woof-
stock, the groups’ annual fundraising festival, said 
Margot DeConna, the director of development for 
the Humane Society of North Central Florida.
Although the change will incorporate a larger 
area, all of the current services will continue, in-
cluding adoptions, fostering, clinics and the Hu-
mane Society thrift store, DeConna said.
“We needed to expand our focus, our services 
and our resources to the counties all around us,” 
DeConna said. “It just made sense to impact as 
many animals as possible.”Local animal shelters merge to 
form regional Humane Society 
The libraries plan to donate up to $3,000.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORYou’re debating whether or not you need this coffee. You’re 
running on about three hours of sleep, and your eyelids are 
starting to give out on you. The gas warning light in your head 
has come on as you drowsily take notes in lecture. Your pro-
fessor is throwing jokes out at the audience like life preservers 
as you struggle to stay aﬂ  oat in the sea of the lucid and awake. 
His comedy is the only thing keeping you going. You scramble 
from one pun to the next and pray you’ll make it through the 
double block.
But pretty soon you realize your notes are full of mistakes 
and repetitions. You can even see when you dozed off and the 
writing lazily slipped out below the line, spiraling off the page 
and descending rapidly toward oblivion like a fatally wounded 
ﬁ  ghter jet. You probably do need that coffee. With eyes half-
closed, you stop at the Au Bon Pain and ﬁ  ll yourself a cup from 
a bank of dispensers. You walk like a mummy-zombie hybrid 
to the cash register, buy your beverage and walk out. But as 
you take a sip, you only taste warm water. You open the lid to 
realize you’ve just poured yourself a jumbo mug of…
Darts & Laurels
The world is out one more bright shining light with the pass-
ing of Stan Lee, who cracked the perfect veneer that comic book 
superheroes had been known for. He gave them ﬂ  aws. He made 
their stories more relatable, compelling, emotional and human. 
He will be sorely missed, and not just for his cameos in ma-
jor blockbusters but for his optimism and cheer. Lee knew that 
nothing lasts forever, but his motto was always about moving 
“upward and onward to greater glory.” Excelsior, Mr. Lee.
A laurel to Lee’s long and accomplished life and body of 
work. A dart to those who plan to grow dull and bored in their 
retirement. Take a page from his playbook and keep creating — 
it’ll keep you young.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is cracking down 
on e-cigarette marketing, citing a danger to children and young 
people who are purchasing and using the ﬂ  avored pods. Vap-
ing from nicotine-ﬁ  lled pods tasting like mango, fruit, crème or 
cucumber might make minors more inclined to try menthol or 
regular cigarettes and become addicted. Juul Labs, Inc., a well-
known maker of e-cigarettes, will stop selling these ﬂ  avors in 
stores and take extra steps to make sure minors can’t get their 
hands on pods containing nicotine.
A dart to the FDA for taking proactive steps to make us 
healthier. What we really need is for Juul pods to be made in 
even more ﬂ  avors, not fewer. Instead of sitting around the table 
and eating Thanksgiving dinner, we should be passing around 
the mashed potato and turkey ﬂ  avored Juul pods. This may be 
the one way we can get kids to enjoy the ﬂ  avor of asparagus or 
green beans. A laurel to Juul for being classy enough to make a 
creme brulee ﬂ  avor. We’ll have that one for dessert.
Speaking of dessert, the Florida man at the center of the 
politically motivated pipe bomb threat is now scheduled for a 
heaping helping of sweet, sweet justice. Cesar Sayoc will go 
to trial before a jury in New York on July 15 of next year. U.S. 
District Judge Jed Rakoff also heard Sayoc’s plea of not guilty. 
We wish him a fair and speedy trial, but in the absence of any 
evidence of his guilt, we award him a preemptive dart on the 
basis of his hairstyle alone. 
But if a jury ﬁ  nds that Sayoc really did send those pipe 
bombs through the mail, we pray the prosecution works dili-
gently so that he receives the maximum sentence. The United 
States cannot settle for anything less when weapons of mass 
destruction are involved. Most importantly, we hope the jurors 
are amply supplied with the coffee and Juul pods they need to 
render a fair verdict.
SG falsely claims credit for early voting. Again.
One of the hardest things about writing 
these columns is keeping things under 725 
words. As you might have guessed, our 
Student Government committed so many 
sins when it came to promoting elections, 
it’s worth a second column, so here we go.
I must say that many of these columns are 
very vain on my part: ‘Ha, ha, SG screwed up, 
here’s how they messed up,’ ‘I’m so great and 
smart.’ But that being said, you really were able 
to take a look at the pompous way Chomp the 
Vote and External Affairs went about trying to 
promote civic engagement in a now-deleted video.
The video they put out was very holier-than-thou, starting 
off with “being civically engaged isn’t hard at all. In fact, it’s 
easier than a lot of things here at the University of Florida.” 
They then talk about how registering to vote is easier than 
waiting in line at Starbucks, among other things. But at one 
point, they mention the dates for early voting (Oct. 27 - Nov. 
3) which were noticeably different from the ones posted on 
the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections’ website (Oct. 
22 - Nov. 3). Uh oh.
As it turned out, Chomp the Vote took the “minimum 
mandatory [early voting] period” of eight days from the Flor-
ida Division of Elections website, which means it omitted 
the fact that Alachua County had ﬁ  ve additional early voting 
days. Weird ﬂ  ex, but ok.
I can understand if one might want the general statewide 
minimum dates since that would at least apply to every 
county, but even the state website says to check with the 
county for dates, so I feel like the video really skipped over 
important nuances.
So I pointed out the “error” and Chomp the Vote took the 
video down, an admission of wrongdoing in my eyes. Yikes.
In the video, SG also mentioned a competition with other 
universities to register voters, which we really haven’t heard 
about since, so my guess is that we didn’t do so well?
Two weeks ago, I wrote about the other video Chomp 
the Vote put out that didn’t have the required captions or a transcript (until I pointed it out).
Last week, I wrote about how SG mostly 
bumbled around in terms of trying to get an early 
voting site on campus. One part I didn’t get to 
write about due to my word limit was another 
date screwup on SG’s part.
So there I was, working my job on the Friday 
of Homecoming Weekend. Fear of missing out 
got the best of me, and I tuned in to the WUFT 
livestream of the parade. At one point, a reporter 
was interviewing the Student Body president and 
she asked him a question about early voting.
Time slowed, my pupils dilated; had it been raining and 
had my life been an anime, the scene would have cut to an 
outside shot with the raindrops slowing to a standstill. I still 
can’t say what compelled me to take out my phone and start 
audio recording, but perhaps I just have that little faith in SG 
ofﬁ  cials.
“We have the early voting location at the Reitz Union, 
which actually ends this Monday at 6 p.m.,” said the Student 
Body president while hundreds of people watched online. 
Early voting ended that Saturday.
I screamed. My hair turned white. I sold my stocks. I 
ripped off my socks.
How can someone bold enough to try claiming credit for 
an early voting site not even know what day early voting 
ended? People get in serious trouble for these date screwups 
in the “real” world. There’s been no shortage of news articles 
about such situations in recent days.
Oh, and let’s not forget that Chomp the Vote’s social me-
dia went limp like a disappointing lover directly after the 
election, you know, during the chaos of trying to make sure 
all the absentee and provisional ballots were counted. Lazy? 
I dunno.
Why are the people telling us “being civically engaged 
isn’t hard at all” the same people who aren’t doing a good 
job? Boo.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column appears on Fridays. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Music is a powerful thing, more pow-
erful than many of us realize. Think 
back to a difﬁ  cult time in your life, 
a crisis or funk that resulted from 
difﬁ  culties at work or the dete-
rioration of a relationship with a friend or a 
lover. Now, think of the music that you fed 
your sad soul in the midst of your depres-
sion. Were you doing yourself any favors by 
ﬁ  lling your ears with uplifting melodies and 
inspiring lyrics, or were you assisting your 
nose-diving emotions with music even more 
depressed than you? Odds are, the latter will 
strike a chord with more of you than the for-
mer, and that is because it is a human need 
to seek community, which is reﬂ  ected by the 
artists and genres of music we enjoy. Songs 
become the soundtracks to our lives, provid-
ing an emotional ally in the form of a vague 
image of an artist or a melody. The issue is 
that this relationship is inherently one-sided 
and has devastating potential.
Writing songs for depressed people is not 
a bad thing. Artists use their art as an out-
let for their emotions, so a despairing singer 
may use their sickeningly sad lyricism and 
chord progressions as a coping mechanism to 
great effect. This also has a tendency to pro-
duce some of the most objectively beautiful 
music, with the raw emotions translated into wonderfully impactful pieces of 
art. And listening to melancholy 
music, at least on its own, is not 
a bad thing by any stretch. It can 
be enjoyed for the sole purpose 
of admiring the musical structure 
of the song, it can provide a fasci-
nating picture of emotional trau-
ma, and it can even transport the 
listener, for a short while, into 
the depths of personal despair. 
Music can be a lot like movies in 
that way, and there is value in using songs in 
small doses as an aid to experiencing the full 
range of human emotions, which is key to a 
healthy lifestyle.
Like movies and drugs, music is an addic-
tive substance. It enhances the depth of the 
negative emotions that lead you to the sor-
rowful music in the ﬁ  rst place, which hands 
you over to the clutches of a horribly depress-
ing cycle. Most streaming platforms use this 
idea as part of their business model, offering 
up a playlist of depressing songs based on the 
scores of sad ones in your listening history. 
While this shows the ease with which a mild 
case of “sad boi hours” turns into a weeklong 
wave of gloom, the principle also works in re-
verse. Happy, uplifting tunes, usually sought 
out by those in a happy, uplifting mood, feed positive emotions. Streaming 
platforms are just as quick to rec-
ommend cheery tunes to cheer-
ful people as they are miserable 
tunes to miserable ones. Happy 
people, though, seldom seek sad 
songs, and melancholy people 
ﬁ  nd uplifting melodies difﬁ  cult 
to embrace from the  dark dun-
geons of depression.
The reason this topic mani-
fested itself lies in the resolution 
of this almost paradoxical dilemma: If sad 
people only listen to sad music, which makes 
them more sad, and vice versa, how can the 
mold be broken? It seems simple, but all that 
is required is to “fake it until you make it.” 
There is something in the melodies and lyr-
ics themselves that bolsters the emotions that 
they contain within the listener. While it can’t 
be a good idea to play emo music to force 
yourself into a depression from the peaks of 
exuberant happiness, using upbeat jazz as a 
method to pull yourself from the caverns of 
despondency is a good ﬁ  rst step, to say the 
least. Personally, I recently experienced an 
episode of debilitating sadness, the kind that 
makes you want to stay in bed all day because 
sleeping has more to offer than waking up. 
Then, the clock struck midnight on Halloween and November began — it was ofﬁ  cially the 
holiday season. I am not a super festive guy, 
but nobody can deny the infectious joy of the 
musical selections of December (and Novem-
ber). The Golden Age songs reek of joy and 
the newer releases are no less heartwarming. 
The holiday season is a celebration of all the 
positive human values, sharing, giving, car-
ing and loving, and these are all reﬂ  ected in 
the music of the season. Within a week, on 
Nov. 5, I was dancing like a moron walking 
to my 9:30 a.m. French class, mouthing the 
words to “Feliz Navidad.” Sure, I looked like 
an idiot, but I would prefer to be happy and 
foolish than sad and secluded any day.
Music is dangerous, especially because of 
the beauty that depressing songs hold. A song 
has more power over a person than they usu-
ally think, and it is vital to our well-being that 
we don’t indulge too strongly in the cycle of 
sadness that music can perpetuate. Rising out 
of a stint of misery is no small feat. Some-
times, even professional help is required. 
Positive music is certainly not an antidote. 
However, if music is the soundtrack for our 
existence, we each have the power to create a 
life that at least sounds like a good one.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF history freshman. 
His column appears on Fridays.Careful with the aux — sad music can be beautiful, powerful and lastingI discovered my adviser in 
graduate school when he ran 
past me, late for the ﬁ  rst class 
of the Fall semester, clutching 
colored markers and a draft 
pre-print textbook with a teach-
ing assistant galloping behind 
him carrying a large whiteboard.
It was 1979 at the University 
of Illinois. I was hoping to work 
with another professor for my 
doctorate in electrical engineering. But I 
was so intrigued by this enthusiastic profes-
sor running down the hallway that I signed 
up for his class.
It was different from my other classes 
because of professor Jacob Abraham’s per-
sistent enthusiasm for his research and his 
students. That enthusiasm helped me get 
past the inevitable setbacks of my graduate 
studies. 
The U.S. Department of State and U.S. 
Department of Education have declared 
this week as International Education Week. 
The intention is to “promote programs that 
prepare Americans for a global environ-
ment and attract future leaders from abroad 
to study, learn and exchange experiences.”
Abraham is a ﬁ  rst-generation immigrant 
who came to the U.S. from the southern 
tip of India to study at Stanford University. 
Without our nation’s practice of welcoming 
students from around the world to study 
and encouraging them to stay in the U.S., 
Abraham would not have been a mentor 
to more than 100 doctoral students and 
thousands of undergraduates and, likely, I 
would not be UF’s president today.  
Here at UF, internationalization is an 
explicit part of our plan to continuously en-
hance the undergraduate experience, and 
we have been recognized for those efforts.  
UF is one of only ﬁ  ve universities to receive 
a prestigious 2018 Senator Paul Simon 
Award for Campus Internationalization. 
Yet now is a difﬁ  cult time for interna-
tional educators — and for everyone who 
prizes international cooperation and col-
laboration.
The number of visas issued by the U.S. to international students nation-
wide has fallen by 40 percent 
since 2015. At UF, where our in-
ternational students and scholars 
today represent 140 countries, 
new international students have 
declined 28 percent.
In the past, the U.S. has had 
great leaders who have cham-
pioned and enabled internation-
alization — leaders such as J. 
William Fulbright, the U.S. senator from 
Arkansas and namesake for the Fulbright 
Program that helps so many students and 
scholars study in other countries and the 
U.S.
I believe universities today must be 
champions of internationalization as essen-
tial to our nation’s prosperity and security.
How can we do this?
Education and scholarship are our 
strengths, and so they must also be our so-
lutions. This includes doing more to pro-
mote international education for all U.S. 
students and to promote universities as oa-
ses for students from abroad. 
At UF, we must infuse an even greater 
global perspective into our curriculum and 
college experience. We also must welcome 
more international students and faculty to 
our campus.  Currently, only 2.5 percent of 
our undergraduates are international stu-
dents, compared with 8.5 percent for our 
aspirational top-ﬁ  ve ranked public research 
universities.
On the occasion of International Educa-
tion Week, I thank UF educators for all the 
ways in which they bring the world into 
their teaching and scholarship, and I am 
particularly grateful for all the international 
students, staff and faculty studying and 
working on our campus.
With the holidays and ﬁ  nal exams rap-
idly approaching, very best wishes to all 
members of the university community for a 
productive, successful and safe completion 
of the Fall semester.
Kent Fuchs is UF's president. His column 
appears monthly.As a young feminist, I have 
often touted my indepen-
dence. I mean, that’s what 
I should be, right? Inde-
pendent? A woman on my 
own with nothing and no one to 
hold me back from my goals? For a 
while, I considered independence 
as the key to my success. And, to 
be honest, I didn’t mind that. That 
is, however, until I noticed an 
unsettling link between independence and 
loneliness.
Although they are not synonymous, the 
difference between independence and loneli-
ness is near microscopic.
Independence, as it is used in this sense, 
can usually be deﬁ  ned as being free from the 
control of others or a detachment from any 
larger controlling entity. Being alone simply 
means a person is separated from others 
or is considered without reference to other 
people. When considering the terms by their 
deﬁ  nitions, it is easy to see why people con-
sider them to be fundamentally connected. 
However, this is a rash misinterpretation that 
commonly plagues the outlooks of indepen-
dent women.
Many young women, including myself, 
have been told time and time again, “it’s 
lonely at the top.” It’s a supposedly reassur-
ing trope we replay over and over again to 
justify our lack of meaningful relationships. 
It has become an excuse we use to make us 
feel better about the fact that we’ve regu-
larly rejected date proposals and stopped 
ourselves before getting too emotionally in-
vested in a romantic relationship. It’s what 
we say when we end another close friend-
ship, and it’s our mantra to repeat when we 
rationalize missing another family gathering. 
It’s worth it as long as we ﬁ  nd success, right?
This motto, despite its ultimate goal of 
comfort, has served as one of the main rea-
sons that I, as well as many other young 
feminists, have grown up believing inde-
pendence and success cannot be achieved 
without also feeling lonely. This assumption 
has tormented my happiness for many years. 
That is, until I realized the need for a new 
understanding of independence.Being independent doesn’t 
mean you can’t have best friends 
to go to when you’re struggling. 
It doesn’t mean you can’t enter 
romantic relationships and relish 
the idea of a date night with your 
signiﬁ  cant other. It doesn’t mean 
you should feel guilty calling your 
mom to complain about school or 
avoid asking your dad for some 
extra money for groceries because 
you’re running low on cash. Independence 
doesn’t mean you have to face life alone, 
it just means you are conﬁ  dent enough to 
know if you had to, you would be just ﬁ  ne 
doing it by yourself.
The notion that strong women have to go 
through life and all of its challenges alone is 
not only wrong but can be toxic to their men-
tal health and well-being. When you break 
down the term, independence literally means 
a lack of dependence — it means you’re not 
dependent on anyone, not that you can’t ac-
cept emotional support or maintain healthy 
relationships when they are available. 
To me, being independent means that 
while I value my relationships with oth-
ers and often rely on my friends and family 
when times get hard, I know if I had to do 
things on my own, I could. I’m not relying 
on them for my happiness, my livelihood or 
my success. As important as it is to create 
your own happiness, it’s even more impor-
tant to let people in and allow them to help 
you grow and succeed. 
I argue it is time we stop feeding young 
women the lie that independence, as it is typ-
ically understood, is the key to success. In-
stead, we need to start teaching them not to 
rely on others and to understand the impor-
tance of internal security. Further, we need 
to stop linking the concepts of loneliness and 
independence and start allowing people to 
live their life to the fullest and to ﬁ  nd success 
in all aspects of it, rather than making them 
chose between professional domination and 
emotional bliss.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism and 
political science senior. Her column appears 
on Fridays.Our nation, world and university 
depend on international educationIndependence does not mean loneliness
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
Abigail Miller
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
Gainesville 
Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for a  
Spiritual Community?
We are a community dedicated to 
peace, integrity, equality, social 
justice, and care of the earth.
Join with friends in the mystic 
tradition of waiting upon the 
Divine.
11 a.m. Sundays
Followed by food and fellowship
702 NW 38th St. Gainesville, FL
www.gainesvillequakers.orgQuaker
St. Augustine Church 
& Catholic  
Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30 p.m., 
Sun. 9 a.m., 11:30, 
1:30 (español), 5:30, 7:30
M-F 12 & 5:30 p.m.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.orgCatholic
First Lutheran Church
1801NW 5th Ave
Bible study at 8:45am with 
coffee and donuts
Service with communion at 
10am
Lunch for students and young 
families at 11:30amLutheran
Trinity United 
Methodist Church
Wed: Contemporary service 
@6:35p
in Trinity Chapel, followed 
by
Coffee Talk for young adults  
@ Hunters Crossing  
Starbucks 8-9p
Sunday services: 8:15,  
9:40, 11a
352-376-6615
TrinityGNV .orgMethodist
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner.
7:30 p.m. Spring/Fall,
8:30 p.m. Summer
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the 
stadium)
www.JewishGator.comJewish
Chapel of the 
Incarnation
The EpiscoGators  
Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30 p.m.
followed by a free home 
cooked meal for students.
1522 W. University Ave.
Across from Library WestEpiscopal
Worship Services,
The PRAIZE Center
Home of PRAIZE 107.5 FM
309 NE 39th Avenue
Sun 11am, Wed 6:30PM; 
Online or APP at 12 noon 
Mon -Fri; Fri 6pm Pop ‘N 
Praize
www.praize1075.com
Dr. Shirley Watts,  
Founder & Pastor
352-372-8200Non-Denominational
Contact Alligator Advertising    352.376.4482
University City  
Church of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9 a.m. and 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m.
Practical application from 
God’s word, plus service 
projects, large group events, 
free meals and much more...
(directions and events 
calendar at www.
gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Non-DenominationalHE COULD WIN UP TO 
$100,000 FOR SHANDS.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Cliff Preston wasn’t always a 
baby person. Being the youngest 
of seven, he didn’t have to cuddle 
any baby brothers growing up.
When he volunteered at UF 
Health Shands Hospital for the 
ﬁ  rst time, he struggled to calm 
down the fussing baby in his 
arms, he said. Twenty-ﬁ  ve years 
later, he was nominated for his 
cuddling. 
“I can’t say I jumped in there 
the ﬁ  rst day and it was a great 
success,” he said.
Preston, 63, was nominated 
for the NASCAR Foundation Betty 
Jane France Humanitarian Award 
for his volunteer work as a baby 
cuddler at Shands in the neonatal 
intensive care unit.
He is one of four ﬁ  nalists who 
will be attending the winning cer-
emony Nov. 29 during the Mon-
ster Energy NASCAR Cup Series 
Awards in Las Vegas, according 
to the foundation website. Online 
voting ends Monday. 
Each contestant must have made a signiﬁ  cant contribution 
to helping children and must be 
a NASCAR fan. Preston and his 
brothers grew up loving cars in 
the ‘50s, he said. 
Each ﬁ  nalist will earn $25,000 
for their charities, and the winner 
will receive an additional $75,000 
for their charity, Preston said. 
None of the money goes to the 
contestants personally. 
Preston started volunteering 
in the fall of 1992 and plans to 
continue for another 15 to 20 
years, he said. He volunteers ev-
ery Thursday for three hours cud-
dling babies in need of comfort. 
“I am honored to be able to 
represent the hospital,” he said. 
“It gives me a platform to get the 
word out about our great hospital 
here and the lives it impacts.”
Preston never realized babies 
could be admitted into an inten-
sive care unit until a nurse at 
Arnold Palmer Hospital for Chil-
dren told him about the program, 
he said. The need for volunteers 
to cuddle babies in Gainesville 
struck him.
The hospital staff wants to pro-
vide babies with comfort when 
their parents are not at the hos-
pital, he said. So baby cuddlers come in and try to ease their pain.
“It spoke to my heart,” he 
said. “I just want to give the baby 
some comfort and peace for when 
I have them.”
Preston thought he would only 
do it for a year or two but felt too 
fulﬁ  lled to quit. 
 “It will be very hard when the 
time comes for me to let go,” he 
said.
Lindsay Krieg, the former di-
rector of volunteer services at 
Shands, nominated Preston in 
March, Preston said.
Krieg worked with Preston for 
ﬁ  ve years. She chose to nominate 
him out of the about 4,000 Shands 
volunteers for the award. Preston 
has devoted endless amounts of 
time and energy to the NICU and 
has always been there for the hos-
pital, she said.
Preston was always a pleasant 
volunteer to work with because of 
his positivity and care for others, 
Krieg said. 
“When the award came up, 
Cliff was the perfect person for 
that role,” she said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgShands volunteer baby-cuddler nominated for humanitarian award
Courtesy to The Alligator
Cliff Preston, 63, was nominated for the NASCAR Foundation 
Betty Jane France Humanitarian Award for his volunteer work 
as a baby cuddler at UF Health Shands Hospital in the neonatal 
intensive care unit.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
 
Living GuideStudent
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeWhat is Off Campus Life?
HOUSING LOCATOR SERVICE:  This 
online resource allows students search for 
off-campus housing, find subleases, post 
subleases, and find roommates too. Visit 
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu to utilize this 
service.
GATOR GUIDE TO OFF CAMPUS LIFE:   This 
annual publication provides tips and resources 
for finding the right apartment, questions to 
ask when touring apartments, safety tips, a 
map of the city and much more.  T o get a copy 
of the Gator Guide, visit OCL ’s office inside the 
Housing Office at 1304 Diamond Road or click 
on the PDF version www.ufsa.ufl.edu/uploads/
ocl/2017-2018_Gator_Guide_to_Off_Campus_
Life.pdf found through the OCL website. MONTHL Y NEWSLETTER:  OCL sends a 
monthly electronic newsletter to all off 
campus students.  T opics include safety 
information, monthly specific resources and 
opportunities, fun stuff and much more.  If you 
would like to receive the OCL newsletter, visit 
the OCL website www.offcampus.ufl.edu and 
click on the newsletter link.
OFF CAMPUS AMBASSADORS: The 
Off Campus Ambassadors are a student 
organization sponsored by off Campus Life 
and their mission is to connect students to the 
on and off campus community by educating 
students and helping them to connect to 
both the UF and Gainesville communities. T o 
learn more and to apply to be an OCA, visit 
the OCA webpage.  www.offcampus.ufl.edu/
off_campus_ambassadors/. DISCOVER GAINESVILLE:  Off Campus Life’s 
newest event series, Discover Gainesville, 
allows you to visit local hotspots.  Spring 
events include a hiking at Paynes Prairie 
and a Florida baseball game.  T o learn more 
about Discover Gainesville, follow our 
event on Facebook www.facebook.com/
UFOffCampusLife or visit the OCL website 
www.offcampus.ufl.edu/events. 
LEARN MORE:   Visit our website www.
offcampus.ufl.edu for information about 
Off Campus Life’s resources and services.  
Also, follow and like UF Off Campus Life  
on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, 
YouTube and Pinterest for daily updates and 
reminders of OCL events, tips and fun things 
going on in the community.UF’s, Off Campus Life office provides resources, services, 
education and support for the 40,000 UF students living off 
campus.  OCL aims to provide programs and services that 
will help prepare you to be a great Gator neighbor, here in 
Gainesville or wherever the road may take you.
Off Campus Life, which is part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services and 
resources to UF students living off campus since 2004.  OCL ’s support services and resources include:FALL 201810   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
ATTEND TO WIN 
Our TOTAL TECH GIVEAWAY  valued at over $500  dollars 
+ lock in exclusive housing specials! 
4:00 - 8 :00 PM  |  3718 SW 24TH AVE, GAINESVILLE FL.
(352) 792-0102  |  WWW.THERIDGEFL.COMOPEN HOUSEADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Getting Started
Gainesville has an abundance of off-campus housing options including apartments, 
condos, houses and rooms for rent, so take your time and be sure to visit 5-6 
properties in person before signing a lease.  Follow the steps and tips below for 
finding the right place for you:
• Use UF’s Off Campus Housing Locator 
Service at http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a property 
that allows you to live within your means.
• Create a priority list.  What do you care 
about most in a living space?  Room size, 
rent, type of lease, type of community 
(large undergraduate population, graduate 
students, local residents, etc.), location, 
proximity to campus or bus route…all 
these things are factors to consider when 
choosing a place to live.  Devise a list of ideal 
characteristics you want in your future living 
space and keep these criteria in mind when 
selecting a location.
• Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to 
live alone.  Know what kind of person would 
best complement your personality and 
choose accordingly.
• Drive around and visit the property and 
neighborhood you are looking to live in.  
• T ake a tour of the complexes or houses that 
interest you, ask questions, and get to know the complex management or rental house 
landlord.
• Ask your friends for advice on where to live.  
Which properties worked well for them?  
Which didn’t?
• Visit the Crime Reports website www.
crimereports.com to view crime statistics 
before signing a lease.  
• Go back to the property at night and make 
some observations.  Is it well lit, is the 
property well maintained, do you see the 
security guard that management promised, 
is the security gate working, is it quiet 
enough to sleep or study, how close is the 
bus stop or parking to the complex or house?
• Once you’ve narrowed down your search, 
make an appointment with UF’s Student 
Legal Services by going to their website 
www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu and click 
on the Apply for Services link to set up an 
appointment. 
• Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent and live 
so have fun with your search.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus Life
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
Large Sparking Pool
Great Fitness Center
4 Bus Routes to UF
Clubhouse with billiards, large 
screen TV and gaming console
Lighted basketball, racquetball, 
and tennis courts• Only $250 pet fee. No monthly pet rent!
• Sign within 48 hours to get $99 off!
• Application Fee $40/person
• Decoration Fee $300 WAIVED!
• High speed internet for only $16.25!$645 $625*
$660 $645*
$850 $800*
$900 $865*
$1150 $965*$725
$940*
$995*
$1095*1/1 Flat
2/2 Townhouse
3/2 Townhouse
4/2 Townhouse
*high-speed internet included in monthly rent for these floorplans 
washers & dryers available in select units for additional monthly fee• Only $250 pet fee.  
    No monthly pet rent!
• Application Fee $40/person
• Decoration Fee $300 WAIVED!
• 100 mpbs internet only $40 month!ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
T ypes of Leases
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease before signing.  A lease is a 
contract between you and your landlord that spells out specific details of your living arrangement.  
Leases often involve policies about pets, security and pet deposits, legal entry and other important 
information.  Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 months. If you will need your place for 10 
months or less, talk with the management about whether they can provide you a short-term lease.  
There are two types of leases that are usually available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.
JOINT LEASE:  All roommates are held responsible for the lease.  If one person breaks the lease, 
the other roommates are held responsible for paying the total rent.  This tends to be the lease 
more prominent when renting a house or single family dwelling.
 
INDIVIDUAL LEASE:  Each person is held responsible for his or her own actions.  For instance, if 
one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still responsible for pa ying their own rent.  For most 
college students, individual leases are the best choice.  Each person in the lease is responsible for 
his or her own actions and not the actions of a roommate.  Roommates
Having a roommate is a great way to divide the cost of 
living off campus, but if you don’t find the right person to live 
with, living off campus could be challenging.  Below are some 
tips that will help you if you are thinking about living with a 
roommate.
• Communication is key.  T alk about your budget for 
housing, expectations for safety, expectations for guests, 
and what your housing needs are before you even begin 
your search.  Being on the same page will help reduce the 
possibility for furture conflict. 
• Start with a friend or sibling.  These are often good 
options for roommates since you already know them.
• Before moving in, establish an agreement about who 
will get which bedroom and bathroom along with which 
cabinets/storage space each person can use.
• Discuss how payment of rent and bills will take place.  
Is each person responsible for their own bills or will 
someone be in charge of collecting payment from each 
roommate?
• Don’t have someone you want to live with?  Some 
apartment complexes offer “Roommate Matching” or 
“Roommate Placement. ”
o Roommate Matching: You fill out a survey and 
management attempts to match you with like 
roommates based on the information you provide 
them
o Roommate Placement: Apartment management 
places you in any open space they have available
• Make sure you can change apartments if management 
places you with roommates you are not compatible with.
• Off Campus Life’s Housing Locator http://housing.
offcampus.ufl.edu has a FREE roommate finder feature 
where you can search for roommates.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeCLAUSES TO LOOK FOR IN A LEASE: 
• Dates of occupancy
• Amount of monthly rent and the date it is 
due each month
• Amount of Application Fees, Security 
Deposit, Redecoration Fees and any other 
fees charged
• Responsibility for payment of utilities
• Responsibility for general maintenance and 
repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 month lease, 
but think you may need the dwelling for a 
shorter period of time, make sure the lease 
allows you to sublease (rent your dwelling 
to another person who will assume the 
remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of lease: Joint vs. IndividualCLAUSES TO A VOID IN A LEASE: 
• At management’s discretion, the tenant 
may be asked to leave within three days
• T enant waives all defects in the building
• Landlord shall not be responsible for injury 
to person, including tenant and guests, as a 
result of any cause
• T enant is responsible for all repairs to 
premises 
• Landlord may enter dwelling without notice
• Landlord has a lien (a legal claim on the 
property of another as security for the 
payment of a debt) on all personal property 
of tenant
A great University of Florida resource available to 
full-time students is Student Legal Services.  For 
any questions on your lease, visit the Student Legal 
Services website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.
edu and set up an appointment with a lawyer to 
help review it BEFORE you sign it. 
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00047/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00045/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00045/gid00040/gid00042/gid00046/gid00047/gid00028/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00138/gid00139/gid00001/gid00031/gid00032/gid00034/gid00045/gid00032/gid00032/gid00046/gid00001/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00035/gid00036/gid00034/gid00035/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00050/gid00036/gid00047/gid00035/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00033/gid00028/gid00041/gid00001/gid00046/gid00032/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00028/gid00048/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00046/gid00048/gid00040/gid00040/gid00032/gid00045/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00004/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00045/gid00001/gid00033/gid00036/gid00039/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00040/gid00042/gid00041/gid00047/gid00035/gid00039/gid00052/gid00163/gid00001/gid00004/gid00035/gid00028/gid00041/gid00034/gid00032/gid00001/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00030/gid00039/gid00032/gid00028/gid00041/gid00001/gid00028/gid00046/gid00001/gid00041/gid00032/gid00032/gid00031/gid00032/gid00031/gid00163
/gid00020/gid00048/gid00041/gid00041/gid00052/gid00001/gid00050/gid00036/gid00041/gid00031/gid00042/gid00050/gid00046/gid00001/gid00030/gid00028/gid00041/gid00001/gid00028/gid00030/gid00030/gid00042/gid00048/gid00041/gid00047/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00132/gid00131/gid00183/gid00133/gid00136/gid00001/gid00043/gid00032/gid00045/gid00030/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047 /gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00045
/gid00030/gid00042/gid00042/gid00039/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00029/gid00036/gid00039/gid00039/gid00164/gid00001/gid00046/gid00042/gid00001/gid00030/gid00039/gid00042/gid00046/gid00032/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00030/gid00048/gid00045/gid00047/gid00028/gid00036/gid00041/gid00046/gid00001/gid00050/gid00035/gid00032/gid00041/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00001/gid00031/gid00042/gid00041/gid00174/gid00047/gid00001/gid00041/gid00032/gid00032/gid00031
/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00049/gid00036/gid00032/gid00050/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00020/gid00032/gid00047/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00045/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00045/gid00040/gid00042/gid00046/gid00047/gid00028/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00137/gid00139/gid00001/gid00031/gid00032/gid00034/gid00045/gid00032/gid00032/gid00046/gid00001/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00039/gid00042/gid00050/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00050/gid00036/gid00047/gid00035/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00033/gid00028/gid00041
/gid00046/gid00032/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00028/gid00048/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00050/gid00036/gid00041/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00004/gid00039/gid00032/gid00028/gid00041/gid00001/gid00042/gid00126/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00045/gid00001/gid00031/gid00045/gid00052/gid00032/gid00045/gid00174/gid00046/gid00001/gid00039/gid00036/gid00041/gid00047/gid00001/gid00033/gid00036/gid00039/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00028/gid00033/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00032/gid00028/gid00030/gid00035/gid00001/gid00048/gid00046/gid00032/gid00164/gid00001/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00030/gid00039/gid00032/gid00028/gid00041/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00045/gid00048/gid00041
/gid00033/gid00045/gid00042/gid00040/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00029/gid00028/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00031/gid00045/gid00052/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00042/gid00048/gid00047/gid00046/gid00036/gid00031/gid00032/gid00001/gid00028/gid00047/gid00001/gid00039/gid00032/gid00028/gid00046/gid00047/gid00001/gid00042/gid00041/gid00030/gid00032/gid00001/gid00043/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00052/gid00032/gid00028/gid00045/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00017/gid00048/gid00047/gid00001/gid00028/gid00001/gid00033/gid00032/gid00050/gid00001/gid00031/gid00045/gid00042/gid00043/gid00046/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00042/gid00031/gid00001/gid00030/gid00042/gid00039/gid00042/gid00045/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00001/gid00052/gid00042/gid00048/gid00045/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00036/gid00039/gid00032/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00028/gid00041/gid00038/gid00164/gid00001/gid00050/gid00028/gid00036/gid00047/gid00001/gid00132/gid00131/gid00001/gid00040/gid00036/gid00041/gid00048/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046/gid00164/gid00001/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00041/gid00001/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001
/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00029/gid00042/gid00050/gid00039/gid00163/gid00001/gid00010/gid00033/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00045/gid00032/gid00001/gid00036/gid00046/gid00001/gid00030/gid00042/gid00039/gid00042/gid00045/gid00164/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00045/gid00032/gid00001/gid00036/gid00046/gid00001/gid00028/gid00001/gid00039/gid00032/gid00028/gid00038/gid00163/gid00001/gid00013/gid00032/gid00047/gid00001/gid00040/gid00028/gid00036/gid00041/gid00047/gid00028/gid00036/gid00041/gid00032/gid00041/gid00030/gid00032/gid00001/gid00038/gid00041/gid00042/gid00050/gid00164/gid00001/gid00036/gid00033/gid00001/gid00045/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00021/gid00028/gid00038/gid00032/gid00001/gid00033/gid00036/gid00049/gid00032/gid00183/gid00040/gid00036/gid00041/gid00048/gid00047/gid00032/gid00001/gid00046/gid00035/gid00042/gid00050/gid00032/gid00045/gid00046/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00017/gid00039/gid00048/gid00034/gid00001/gid00032/gid00039/gid00032/gid00030/gid00047/gid00045/gid00042/gid00041/gid00036/gid00030/gid00046/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00028/gid00001/gid00043/gid00042/gid00050/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00046/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00043/gid00001/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00047/gid00048/gid00045/gid00041/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00046/gid00047/gid00045/gid00036/gid00043/gid00001/gid00042/gid00126/gid00001/gid00050/gid00035/gid00032/gid00041/gid00001/gid00041/gid00042/gid00047/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00001/gid00048/gid00046/gid00032/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00021/gid00045/gid00052/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00039/gid00036/gid00040/gid00036/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00048/gid00046/gid00032/gid00001/gid00042/gid00033/gid00001/gid00046/gid00043/gid00028/gid00030/gid00032/gid00001/gid00035/gid00032/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045/gid00046/gid00001/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00041/gid00032/gid00049/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00042/gid00043/gid00032/gid00045/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00001/gid00042/gid00041/gid00032/gid00001/gid00041/gid00032/gid00028/gid00045/gid00001/gid00033/gid00039/gid00028/gid00040/gid00040/gid00028/gid00029/gid00039/gid00032/gid00001/gid00040/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00045/gid00036/gid00028/gid00039/gid00046/gid00163/gid00001
/gid00005/gid00045/gid00032/gid00046/gid00046/gid00001/gid00028/gid00043/gid00043/gid00045/gid00042/gid00043/gid00045/gid00036/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00039/gid00052/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00047/gid00035/gid00032/gid00001/gid00047/gid00032/gid00040/gid00043/gid00032/gid00045/gid00028/gid00047/gid00048/gid00045/gid00032/gid00001/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00030/gid00042/gid00040/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00047/gid00163/gid00001
welcome
/gid00007/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00040/gid00028/gid00047/gid00036/gid00042/gid00041/gid00001/gid00042/gid00041/gid00001/gid00032/gid00041/gid00032/gid00045/gid00034/gid00052/gid00001/gid00030/gid00042/gid00041/gid00046/gid00048/gid00040/gid00043/gid00047/gid00036/gid00042/gid00041/gid00001/gid00046/gid00047/gid00028/gid00047/gid00036/gid00046/gid00047/gid00036/gid00030/gid00046/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00001/gid00045/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047/gid00028/gid00039/gid00001/gid00035/gid00042/gid00040/gid00032/gid00046/gid00001/gid00036/gid00041/gid00001/gid00008/gid00028/gid00036/gid00041/gid00032/gid00046/gid00049/gid00036/gid00039/gid00039/gid00032/gid00164/gid00001/gid00049/gid00036/gid00046/gid00048/gid00028/gid00039/gid00036/gid00053/gid00028/gid00047/gid00036/gid00042/gid00041/gid00046/gid00001/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00030/gid00042/gid00040/gid00043/gid00028/gid00045/gid00036/gid00046/gid00042/gid00041/gid00046/gid00164/gid00001
/gid00049/gid00036/gid00046/gid00036/gid00047/gid00001/gid00034/gid00028/gid00036/gid00041/gid00032/gid00046/gid00049/gid00036/gid00039/gid00039/gid00032/gid00183/gid00034/gid00045/gid00032/gid00032/gid00041/gid00163/gid00030/gid00042/gid00040. /gid00021/gid00042/gid00001/gid00033/gid00036/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00032/gid00041/gid00032/gid00045/gid00034/gid00052/gid00001/gid00032/gid00126/gid00036/gid00030/gid00036/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047/gid00001/gid00028/gid00043/gid00028/gid00045/gid00047/gid00040/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047/gid00046/gid00164/gid00001/gid00049/gid00036/gid00046/gid00036/gid00047/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00042/gid00039/gid00046/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045/gid00047/gid00032/gid00041/gid00028/gid00041/gid00047/gid00046/gid00163/gid00030/gid00042/gid00040/gid00163/gid00001/gid00034/gid00045/gid00048/gid00163/gid00030/gid00042/gid00040//gid00046/gid00028/gid00049/gid00032/gid00032/gid00041/gid00032/gid00045/gid00034/gid00052HOW TO BE AN ENERGY SMART STUDENTA guide to saving energy at home
PROVIDED BY
/gid00023/gid00036/gid00046/gid00036/gid00047/gid00001
/gid00034/gid00045/gid00048/gid00163/gid00030/gid00042/gid00040/gid00193/gid00046/gid00047/gid00048/gid00031/gid00032/gid00041/gid00047
/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001/gid00050/gid00036/gid00041/gid00001/gid00028/gid00001/gid00035/gid00042/gid00040/gid00032/gid00001
/gid00032/gid00041/gid00032/gid00045/gid00034/gid00052/gid00001/gid00046/gid00028/gid00049/gid00036/gid00041/gid00034/gid00001/gid00038/gid00036/gid00047/gid00001
/gid00028/gid00041/gid00031/gid00001/gid00028/gid00001/gid00034/gid00036/gid00033/gid00047/gid00001/gid00030/gid00028/gid00045/gid00031/gid00001/gid00047/gid00042/gid00001
/gid00021/gid00045/gid00028/gid00031/gid00032/gid00045/gid00001/gid00011/gid00042/gid00032/gid00174/gid00046/gid00167Safety Tips
Both personal and property safety is important as you search 
for off-campus housing.  Before signing a lease, Off Campus Life 
recommends you check the crime stats of an area before moving 
there.  A great resource is the Crime Report website www.
crimreports.com which allows you to see all reported crime in a 
certain area.
Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your 
apartment search:
1. Go back to the complex at night.  How do you feel?  Is the 
place well-lit and populated or dark and isolated?
2. Does the property have working security gates and/or 
guards?
3. Check for dead bolts on the outside door, locks for individual 
doors, alarm systems, etc. and ask lots of questions about the 
security.  Is there an extra charge for a security system?
4. Has there been crime in the area recently?  What actions 
have been done to prevent crime from happening?
5. Don’t forget about purchasing Renters Insurance to protect 
you and your stuff from the unexpected.
If you are thinking about renting a house 
or apartment, renters Insurance provides 
important coverage for both you and your 
possessions. A standard renters policy 
protects your personal property in case of 
theft or damage and may pay for temporary 
living expenses if your rental is damaged 
(including loss of use). It can also shield you 
from personal liability. Anyone who leases a 
house or apartment should consider this type of 
coverage. 
T alk with your parents before getting your 
own renters policy.  If you are still financially 
dependent on your parents or a family member 
and they own a home, they might be able to 
cover you under their homeowners insurance 
policy.  Some homeowner policies will cover a 
dependents rental property while in college.  There are several types of residential insurance 
policies.  Read your policy information carefully 
and ensure you have full coverage.  Policies 
should include the following items: 
• Fire or lightning 
• Windstorm or hail 
• Explosion 
• Aircraft 
• Vehicles 
• Smoke 
• Vandalism or malicious mischief 
• Theft 
• Damage by glass or safety-glazing  
 material that is part of a building 
• Falling objects 
• Water-related damage from home  
 utilities 
• Electrical surge damage
Floods, earthquakes, and hurricanes aren't on 
the list. If you live in an area prone to one or more 
of the three, you'll need to buy a separate policy 
or a rider. In areas where hurricanes can pose 
a threat, you might also need to buy a separate 
rider to cover wind damage.  Ask your insurance 
agent about this extra coverage.  Gainesville is 
prone to hurricanes and some areas flood.Renters Insurance
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
1
1312111098765432
      NW 39th Ave.
NW 16th Ave.  NW 23rd Ave. 
NW 8th Ave.  
SW 2nd Ave.SW 75th St. 
NW 43rd St.  
Main St. 
SE  Williston Rd. Depot Ave.
SW 35th Pl.
SW 27th St.SW 23rd 
NE Waldo Rd. Archer Rd.UF
Windmeadows Blvd.
             S W 62nd Blvd.                                  W. Newberry Rd. W University Ave.  SW 34th St. 
       SW 20 
 th A ve.Hull Rd.
SW 13th St. SE 16th Ave.
75INTERSTATENW 83rd St. SFC
11
22
3718 SW 24th Ave 2930 SW 23rd TerraceFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators impress in Day 1 of swim meet
Both the men's and women's swimming and diving teams sit atop the stand-
ings at the Georgia T ech Invitional. Who set records on the ﬁ  rst day of the 
meet? Read pg. 20 to ﬁ  nd out.Florida punter T ommy T ownsend  
was named as a semifinalist for 
the 2018 Ray Guy Award, an 
honor presented to the nation's 
top punter.FOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
Senior Day is for celebrating 
the careers of the many players 
who dedicated four years — ﬁ  ve 
in the case of six Gators — to-
ward working hard and keep-
ing strong the tradition of suit-
ing up in the Orange and Blue. 
But the celebration also comes 
as a passing of the torch to the 
younger players. 
The 2018 season’s ﬁ  nal home 
game against Idaho will be a big 
opportunity for young talents, 
especially freshmen, to get on 
their home ﬁ  eld. 
Quarterback Emory Jones is 
an obvious candidate for signiﬁ  -
cant playing time. But he’s not 
the only freshman riding a red-
shirt and hoping to play on the 
green grass of the Swamp. There 
are plenty of others with bright 
futures looking to make an im-
pact against the Vandals and 
foreshadow what is to come. 
Here are a few to keep your 
eyes on. 
Iverson Clement, Running 
Back
Dameon Pierce is the fresh-
man running back who has re-
ceived a lot of attention, and rightfully so. He has ﬁ  lled in 
nicely for the injured Malik Da-
vis as the Gators’ third running 
back option. 
But Iverson Clement, a four-
star recruit from Mount Holly, New Jersey, is full of promise. 
The 5-foot-11 freshman will 
potentially make his second ap-
pearance of the season against 
the Vandals, meaning he could 
play in all of Florida’s remaining games and still preserve his red-
shirt. He played against Charles-
ton Southern in the ﬁ  rst game of 
the season and had one carry for 
ﬁ  ve yards. Freshmen Focus: Who to watch for against Idaho
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
UF quarterback Emory Jones has appeared in two games this season, picking up eight rushing 
yards on seven carries. He has two more games before he loses redshirt eligibility.
Kyle’s Files / Column
Every failed experiment 
needs a fall guy.
The Houston Rockets 
have decided to part ways 
with Carmelo Anthony af-
ter just 10 games with the team. 
Anthony, a 10-time All-Star, 
former Scoring Title champ with 
six All-NBA team selections, is 
the fall guy in Houston.
Just a few months ago, Hous-
ton was on the verge of unseating 
the Golden State Warriors. If not 
for an injury to Chris Paul and a 
historically horrendous outside 
shooting performance in Game 
7, the Rockets would likely be 
reigning NBA Champions. How-
ever, a series of unfortunate cir-
cumstances saw the Warriors 
raise the Larry O’Brien Trophy. 
Again.Houston, which 
won a league-high 
65 games last sea-
son, currently has 
a 7-7 record and is 
the 10th best team in 
the Western Confer-
ence behind the likes 
of the Sacramento 
Kings.
The Rockets won 
65 games behind the second-best 
offense in the NBA (112.4 points 
per game) and the sixth best de-
fense (103.9 ppg). Coach Mike 
D’Antoni’s offense has collapsed 
in 2018, as Houston regressed 
to the 28th best team in scoring 
(103.2 ppg), not exactly what you 
want out of a team with two all-
stars. However, the defense has 
stayed steady at sixth best (106.7 ppg).
Daryl Morey, the 
team’s general man-
ager, won Executive 
of the Year last sea-
son, an award that 
recognized him as 
the premier front of-
ﬁ  ce man in the As-
sociation. Morey fol-
lowed up a banner 
season with a pedestrian offsea-
son that saw defensive anchors 
Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a 
Moute walk. Granted, Houston 
hung on to Clint Capela, but 
Ariza and Mbah a Moute were 
replaced with three players who 
came with more questions than 
hype: Michael Carter-Williams, 
James Ennis and Anthony.
Carter-Williams is a former Rookie of the Year winner who 
has regressed in each season 
since winning the award. Ennis 
has bounced around the league 
for ﬁ  ve seasons. Anthony, well… 
He was largely blamed for the 
Oklahoma City Thunder’s prob-
lems a season ago, and those 
claims were certainly not un-
founded. Anthony averaged ca-
reer lows in points and ﬁ  eld goal 
percentage -- and he’s not exactly 
a stopper on defense.
Morey thought he could patch 
a gaping hole with a few players 
solely off name recognition, and 
it didn’t work. The West got even 
better. Paul is now a year older. 
And Eric Gordon isn’t playing 
like the Sixth Man of the Year.
The Rockets’ window is clos-Daryl Morey and the Rockets are wrong about Carmelo
 Kyle Wood
twitter: @KkylewoodPicks Column: 
Week 12
Staff Report
Fans of that Florida school down 
south ﬁ  nally got their wish. College 
Gameday will be live from Orlando to 
give Knights fans their moment in the 
spotlight. UCF folks will still cry foul 
about unfair collusion between ESPN 
and the rest of the nation against 
their meteoric rise to 11th in the Col-
lege Football Playoff poll. Yes, ESPN, 
a company owned by Disney, really 
hates Orlando. It all makes sense…
Speaking of absurd conspiracy 
theories, your professors do in fact 
hate you. Your grades suffer for it. 
You know whose grades don’t 
suffer? Those damn Ivy Leaguers. 
The schools up north are wrapping 
up their conference schedules, and 
there’s plenty of action to keep up 
with Saturday. Chief among those is 
“The Game,” the annual rivalry be-
tween Harvard and Yale. The Game 
has been missed only eight times 
since 1875, and this one should be 
a doozy. 
Before we meet our competitors, 
our online editor Mark Stine and 
football writer Alanis Thames debate 
this smarty bowl. 
Harvard (-4.5) will win be-
cause…
Nothing more than the Crimson D.
Harvard’s defense has surren-
dered more than 30 points in just one 
game this season.
Yale averages 29.8 points per 
game.
It should matchup made in Heaven 
for safety Zach Miller and linebacker 
Jordan Hill, who have 102 total tack-
les between them. 
Yale won’t get much going on of-
fense, but the Crimson sure will. PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPNU / 850 AM
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 19
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE  19FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Coach Mary Wise said she wished that 
the volleyball program had the same lux-
uries as the football team does when it 
comes to scheduling matches earlier this 
season.  
Only having to worry about weekly 
contests certainly has its advantages. And 
it’s one that the Gators squad enjoyed this 
week as they came back from Auburn, 
Alabama, late Sunday night and recouped 
from the weekend matchup with a day 
off.
The last few days were spent preparing 
for rematches against the LSU Tigers and 
Georgia Bulldogs, two teams that Florida 
has seen earlier in conference play but will compete again this weekend.
“When you’re home and you’re prac-
ticing, you just get more work done,” 
Wise said. “There’s more time to do 
work.”
Finishing up what Wise calls the “third 
part of the season,” which will conclude 
with a matchup against the South Caro-
lina Gamecocks Nov. 23, the Gators (21-
5, 12-2 SEC) are taking more time to work 
on “live plays.”
The team has spent some of its prac-
tices working through various six-on-six 
scrimmage drills instead of taking tradi-
tional reps.
Junior middle blocker Rachael Kram-
er’s eyes lit up at the thought of scrim-UF prepares for final SEC 
matches at end of seasonMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators have been worse at three-point 
shooting than GPD has been at trying to catch criminals 
listed in UF Alerts.
It has already caught up to them. FSU exposed that 
flaw to the utmost degree in the first game of the season.
For a team predicated on three-point shooting, 26.2 
percent isn’t going to cut it. In fact, UF (2-1) has yet 
to shoot better than 30 percent from deep in any of its 
three games this season.
The Gators have ridden to easy wins against mid-
major opponents La Salle and Charleston Southern, but 
without a consistent outside presence, they’ll have a 
much more difficult time against top-tier teams.
Coach Mike White isn’t too stressed out about it, 
though.
“I’m really not concerned, call me crazy,” White 
said. “I think we shoot the ball pretty well...I believe in 
these guys and that (the shots) will go down.”
Florida takes on Oklahoma next Wednesday in the 
Battle 4 Atlantis tournament in the Bahamas and can’t 
afford to miss threes at such a clip.
With that being said, the team has reason for hope.
In last night’s win over La Salle, the team went 3-of-
13 from three. At least six of those 10 misses were wide 
open and just clanked out. Eventually, Florida will hit 
those shots, and when it does, it will be a serious con-
tender in the SEC.
UF needs guard KeVaughn Allen to be more consis-
tent in the meantime. Allen followed up his efficient 
14-point game against Charleston Southern (6-for-11 
from the field) by going 0-for-3 against La Salle. He did Florida still looking for its touch despite significant depth
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen went 0-for-3 from the field in the Gators’ 82-69 win against La Salle on Saturday in the 
O’Connell Center. He shot 6-for-11 in his previous game against Charleston Southern.
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
Mercer preceded Thursday’s game in Ma-
con, Georgia, by unveiling a banner in the 
rafters of Hawkins Arena for its 2017 South-
ern Conference championship appearance. 
The banner reigned over a 92-82 Gators loss 
in which they never held the lead.
Here’s what went wrong in UF’s loss to 
the Bears:
 
Defensive struggles
Whenever Florida (0-3) seemed to gain a 
little momentum, Mercer (2-1) took it away 
with a big run.
Florida surged to an 8-0 run in the first 
quarter to trim the deficit to two, but that 
was answered with a 7-0 run by Mercer to shift the momentum back and deflate Flor-
ida’s energy.
The Gators again stormed back late in 
the fourth quarter with a 14-1 run led by 
junior guard Delicia Washington, but it was 
again met with an 8-0 run by Mercer to put 
the game out of reach.
“They hit big threes off offensive re-
bounds, and we gave them clean looks at 
the rim,” coach Cam Newbauer said after 
the game. “Really good team. They took it 
to us, and we didn’t respond.”
The Gators’ inability to get key defensive 
stops late in the game was a big reason for 
the loss. 
 
Stopping KeKe Calloway
The 5-foot-9 senior wearing double zero Gators fall to Mercer despite 
strong play from veterans
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE 20SEE MEN’S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 20
SEE WOMEN’S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 20BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $804/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Better Grades in Half the Time!
www.makethegrade.xyz
11-19-18-4-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N      11-16-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
NOW HIRING!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
Apply Within
11-16-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
*INSTANT CA$H sent to your PayPal.
FREE to join with best companies. 
Guaranteed income online. 
Register at: www.paidmarketsurveys.com    
11-19-18-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-1514 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
18   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
Get your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.      11-
16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FINANCIALLY SET FOR LIFE!
Never Be Broke Again.  Discover Why it 
Works.  So shocking I had to look 
www.followthetrendworld.com    11-26-18-
4-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
1.  Rider
1.  Linked5.  Encounter
2.  Destructive storm6.  Nebraska city
3.  Reserve7.  Topped out
4.  Proclaim, usher inKEJYOC
NIJDOECRINU
MOAAH
YCLNOEC
RARKMEAKAPDEE
REHDLAANSWERS: 1A-Jockey  5A-Incur  6A-Omaha  7A-Peaked
1D-Joined  2D-Cyclone  3D-Earmark  4D-Herald  B-John Hancock11-16-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
CLUE: This person served as the first and 
third governor of Massachusetts. BONUS1
62
53
74
By James Sajdak
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 16, 2018
ACROSS
1 “__ simple, duh!”
6 Gobi container
10 Pollutants 
targeted in Great 
Lakes cleanups
14 “Sorry, bro”
15 Brits’ foul-weather 
gear
16 Devastated sea
17 Novice hiker’s 
predicament?
19 Taboo
20 DUI-fighting org.
21 Card game shout
22 Dairy prefix
23 Relief pitcher?
27 Spot for a 
springbok
29 Allay
30 “Cats” source
31 Stopped working
33 Snarky retort
37 Cheshire can
38 Flipped ... and 
what four puzzle 
answers are?
41 Where 
Charlemagne 
reigned: Abbr.
42 Extended 
account
44 Sources of some 
barrels
45 Salty expanse
47 Boone, to his 
buds
49 Put oil and 
vinegar on, say
50 Showoff with 
gags?
56 Swashbuckling 
Flynn
57 Employ
58 “¿Cómo __?”
61 Digitize, in a way
62 Tenement for one 
on the lam?
65 Director Gus 
Van __
66 Barb
67 “A Fish Called 
Wanda” Oscar 
winner
68 Petro-Canada 
competitor
69 Erelong
70 Worked with osier
DOWN
1 Cornerback’s 
coups, briefly
2 One-third of a 
WWII film3 Wrapping tightly
4 Got married
5 Olive __
6 Acid type
7 Ivanhoe, e.g.
8 Post-OR stop
9 Nile biter
10 Cure-all
11 Bunch of 
baloney
12 Linguistic group 
that includes Zulu
13 Single-master
18 Silent
22 __ Palmas: 
Canary Islands 
city
24 Western tip of 
Alaska
25 Closing 
documents
26 Expressed, as 
farewell
27 Checks out
28 Oscar-winning 
director Kazan
31 Gives a hand
32 Press
34 Grad’s award
35 Nest egg 
choices
36 Bogs
39 Early Atari 
offering40 __-Frank: 2010 
financial reform 
bill
43 Enlarge, as a 
house
46 First name in 
Disney villains
48 Verizon 
subsidiary
50 “Siddhartha” 
author
51 Black-and-white 
cetaceans52 Mission opening?
53 Supercharger
54 Steamboat 
Springs 
alternative
55 Fresh
59 Piece of music
60 Impersonated
62 Woods gp.
63 Strauss’ “__ 
Heldenleben”
64 Pedigree-tracking 
org.
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/15/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/15/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Thursday, November 15, 2018
ACROSS
1 Passé saver of 
fave programs
4 Energized
11 Sales add-on
14 Parseghian of 
Notre Dame
15 “Alas, it’s true”
16 Juan Perón’s 
wife
17 Level the playing 
field?
18 Was felt very 
strongly
19 Say no to
20 Medicare section
22 Big name in shoe 
stores
23 “Same here”
25 Camper’s heater
27 Links targets
28 *Fresh face in a 
newsroom
32 ORD airport 
postings
34 Get hitched on 
the run
35 Giant in nonstick 
sauté pans
38 Big oafs
40 Saw
41 Galaxy, e.g.
42 Practice frugality
43 Tense NFL 
periods
44 “Bleeding Love” 
singer Lewis
45 Beat in a pie 
contest, say
47 Booted out
48 Turncoat
50 Cable network 
since 1972
51 Error the 
answers to 
starred clues 
might make
58 *Fresh face at 
online gaming
59 *With 60-Across, 
fresh face at a 
dojo
60 *See 59-Across
62 “Try again”
63 Zeus’ shield
64 Bike signal
65 Website for 
handmade 
jewelry
66 Egg holders
67 “Match Game” 
host BaldwinDOWN
1 Improvises, in 
jazz
2 Dubrovnik 
resident
3 *Fresh face at 
boot camp
4 Site with many 
home pages?
5 CalArts degree
6 Await a decision
7 George of 
“MacGyver”
8 Picked from the 
deck
9 Find a place for
10 Keith Haring 
genre
11 *Fresh face in the 
Boy Scouts
12 French postcard 
word
13 Graph line
21 “I wouldn’t lie”
24 Is really boiling
26 Mining find
27 Hurdle for a 
future Ph.D.
29 Red Muppet
30 Frost, e.g.
31 Goes (for)
32 Too
33 Amazon Fire TV 
Stick alternative36 Hathaway of 
“Ocean’s 8”
37 Take charge of
39 __ plug
41 Plum-apricot 
hybrid
46 Where bubble 
tea originated
47 Persistently 
haunt
49 Little laugh
50 “Start the 
music!”51 Carrot or turnip
52 “My bad”
53 Follow orders
54 “Top Gun” enemy 
planes
55 “Mamma Mia! 
Here We Go 
Again” group
56 Ship’s backbone
57 Glamour rival
58 Mobile-to-
Knoxville dir.
61 Dr. Mom’s skill16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
DON’T TEXT 
& DRIVE.Eyes Up. 
Phone Off.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19  
The Bulldogs couldn’t contain 
Brown’s passing game two weeks 
ago, allowing 358 yards. And they 
struggled to defend the run last 
week against Princeton, giving 
up 489 yards on the ground. That 
should bode well for Harvard’s 
rushing attack, which averages 
nearly 200 yards per game thanks 
in large part to Aaron Shampklin.
The freshman tailback is al-
ready at 1,000 yards rushing and 
has nine touchdowns on the sea-
son. 
He’ll take some of the pres-
sure off quarterback Tom Stew-
art, who’s completing just 50% 
of his passes. But Harvard need 
not worry, he won’t have to do 
much against an inconsistent Yale 
defense.
Even though Harvard has lost 
the previous two meetings, Sat-
urday will be a success for the 
Crimson in their season finale.
-Alanis
Yale (+4.5) will win be-
cause…
Who knows what sort of blood 
ritual the Skull and Bones Society 
is drumming up for a Yale win 
this game?
However, the Skull and Bones 
is probably planning something 
with a little extra strength since 
star quarterback Kurt Rawlings was knocked out for the season 
with a leg injury against Penn. 
So, in Griffin O’Connor we 
trust. 
The freshman quarterback is a 
baller. He only started two games 
-- two weeks ago against Brown 
and last week versus Princeton -- 
but he’s thrown for 901 yards and 
seven touchdowns.
Of course, having the best re-
ceiver in the Ivy League helps. 
Klubnik Reed is the only Ivy 
receiver who’s eclipsed 1,000 
yards (1,052), and he has hauled 
in nine touchdowns in the pro-
cess. Reed is complimented by 
the Ivy’s third-leading receiver, 
JP Shohfi (709 yards, five touch-
downs), and second-leading rush-
er in yards-per-game, Lamar Alan 
(97.70).
O’Connor, a gunslinger with 
a full arsenal of weapons, now 
leads Yale into Harvard’s home 
for the Bulldogs’ biggest game of 
the season. Yale’s got a two-game 
win streak going over the Crim-
son, and the freshman will find a 
way to keep it alive. 
-Mark
Now, onto the picks...
In first place with a 49-39 
record is Alanis “McMurphy 
truther” Thames, who really, 
reeeally didn’t like the latest Brett 
McMurphy article on Trevon 
Grimes. “There’s too many holes 
in the story!” she complains. She’s not wrong, but it’s fun to 
listen to her go on about scan-
dals. Again, this isn’t a roast. Ala-
nis is unroastable, if you haven’t 
noticed. 
Coming in second with a 46-
42 mark is Gator Country’s Nick 
“Twitter beef-starter” de la 
Torre, who wants desperately 
to ignite a powder keg of contro-
versy between fans. He encour-
aged media members to go after 
different accounts in an act of 
retribution, even though nobody 
was slandering his boy Tommy 
Townsend. Put the Twitter ma-
chine down for a few seconds and 
just relax, man. Go outside. Punt 
the football around a little bit. 
In third place at 45-43 is Mor-
gan “Late picks email” McMul-
len, who always sends out the 
games we are picking this week 
on Thursday. Morgan, didn’t you 
know we need more than just a 
few hours to get these picks in? 
It’s clear you just want a leg up 
on the competition by forcing us 
into rushed picks. Shame on you, 
man. Shame. On. You.
Alone in fourth at 44-44 is the 
Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Bub-
ble boy” Hall, who was/is appar-
ently allergic to everything fun in 
his youth. Dogs, cats, grass, you 
name it, Graham has an allergic 
reaction to it. It’s a shame you 
didn’t have a fun childhood, but 
don’t drag the rest of us down 
with you. In a three-way tie for fifth 
at 43-45 is the Orlando Senti-
nel’s Edgar “Workout master” 
Thompson, who has an interest-
ing take on the traditional dead-
lift. Well, he calls them “deadlift 
thingies.” Apparently they’re Ro-
manian or Hungarian or some-
thing. He tried to explain it, and 
he’s very serious about it, but 
you’re burying the lede here, bud. 
“Deadlift thingies” should be the 
Merriam-Webster Word of the 
Year in 2019. 
Also in fifth is Jake “Swim-
ming in garlic butter” Dreil-
inger, who got a delicious mix 
of the sauce from Leonardo’s. 
Oh, and he threw in a few garlic 
rolls as well. Jake, enjoying but-
tery foods is great and all, but the 
“food” part is an essential compo-
nent to that. Rounding out fifth is the Asso-
ciated Press’ Mark “Blind pick-
er” Long, who made his picks 
for Week 12 about three minutes 
after Morgan sent them out. Did 
you even look at the teams play-
ing this week? Do you ever? Are 
these the reasons you’re mired in 
the bottom of the standings? All 
good questions. 
Bringing up the rear at 42-46 
is Mark “Frito connoisseur ” 
Stine, who is not only a culinary 
master when it comes to smoked 
meats, but also in processed corn 
chips. He threatened to write an 
angry letter to Frito-Lay to com-
plain about the lack of flavor 
twists aside from the bar-b-que. 
Mark, you have stories and as-
signments due. No time for pon-
tifications on snacks, good sir.PICKS,  from pg. 14
 Alanis (49-39)     Nick (46-42)      Morgan (45-43)       Graham (44-44)
ID vs. UF (-39.5) UF       UF           UF        ID
MISS @ VANDY (-3) MISS       VANDY          MISS        VANDY
MIA @ VT (+5.5) VT       VT           VT        VT
AZ @ WAZZU (-9.5) WAZZU       WAZZU          WAZZU        WAZZU
CIN @ UCF (-7.5) UCF       UCF           CIN        CIN
BC @ FSU (+1) FSU       BC           BC        BC
STAN @ CAL (+2) STAN       STAN          STAN        STAN
YALE @ HAR (-4.5) HAR       HAR          HAR        HAR
 Edgar (43-45)      Jake (43-45)      Mark L (43-45)       Mark S (42-46)
ID vs. UF (-39.5) UF       ID           UF        UF
MISS @ VANDY (-3) MISS       VANDY          MISS        MISS
MIA @ VT (+5.5) VT       VT           VT        VT
AZ @ WAZZU (-9.5) WAZZU       WAZZU          WAZZU        WAZZU
CIN @ UCF (-7.5) UCF       CIN           CIN        UCF
BC @ FSU (+1) FSU       BC           BC        BC
STAN @ CAL (+2) CAL       STAN          STAN        STAN
YALE @ HAR (-4.5) HAR       YALE          HAR        YALEClement’s electrifying speed 
makes him a game breaker, but 
what’s exciting about him is his well-roundedness. He fits a mold 
similar to Lamical Perine. Clem-
ent is big enough to run over 
defensive backs and has plenty 
of skill in the receiving game to punish defenses on both short and 
long passes. 
Assuming Jordan Scarlett 
makes the shift to the professional 
ranks, Clement could round out 
a four-headed monster in UF’s 
backfield next season. 
Jacob Copeland, Wide Re-
ceiver
Florida fans have been begging 
all season to see what Jacob Co-
peland can do, and Saturday will 
likely be the chance. 
The 6-foot freshman from Pen-
sacola, Florida, lit up high school 
football fields in the panhandle 
with his torching speed. He’s a 
deep threat who can showcase the 
arm talent of whoever is throw-
ing to him, whether it be Feleipe 
Franks or Emory Jones. Copeland 
also impresses with his ability to 
make quick, decisive cuts after he 
receives the ball, helping him turn 
short slants or curls into chunks 
of yardage. 
Copeland struggled with in-
jury this season, but he’s finally 
healthy. Florida’s got a lot of 
depth at receiver, causing the 
freshman to be sidelined in SEC 
games, which hold restrictions on 
how many players can dress. Ex-
pect him to get a chance now that 
there’s no player limit. 
Richard Gouraige and Chris 
Bleich, Offensive Linemen
Three seniors on the starting offensive line will celebrate Senior 
Day, meaning there will be a lot 
of new faces on UF’s O-Line next 
season. 
Senior guard Fred Johnson said 
on Tuesday he’s most excited to 
see freshmen Richard Gouraige 
and Chris Bleich. 
Gouraige, a 6-foot-4 tackle 
from Tampa, and Bleich, a 6-foot-
6 guard from Hanover Township, 
Pennsylvania, are at different 
stages in their Florida careers de-
spite both being first-year players. 
Gouraige has a lot of depth in 
front of him at tackle with Stone 
Forsythe or Noah Banks looking 
to fill in for the departing Martez 
Ivey. However, the four-star re-
cruit will at least be able to com-
pete for a starting spot following 
his redshirt season. 
Bleich will likely step into a 
starting role in 2019 with Johnson 
and guard Tyler Jordan both leav-
ing at the season’s end. 
The three-star recruit earned 
a backup role this year behind 
Johnson, who noted the fresh-
man’s work ethic. 
“It bothers him when he 
doesn’t do something right,” 
Johnson said, “and I can see he’s 
putting in extra work after prac-
tices and stuff, and it doesn’t go 
unnoticed.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Injury kept Copeland out of action since preseason
Chris O'Brien / Alligator Staff
Gators running back Iverson Clement played against Charleston 
Southern in the season opener. He had one carry for five yards.
ing.
Anthony was on pace to set a 
new career-low in scoring aver-
age this season (13.4 ppg down 
from 16.2 last season). Before 
going to OKC he had never av-
eraged fewer than 20 points.
The general consensus in the 
media and among fans is that 
Anthony is washed, and he may 
very well be. But he’s the scape-
goat here. Morey caved to the 
Twitter talk.
Anthony has played in 10 of 
13 games and has started in just 
two. He averages the sixth-most 
minutes on the team. He may be 
a problem in Houston, but he’s 
not the problem.
So now the Rockets are out 
a veteran sharp-shooter and are 
still on the outside looking in 
when it comes to the crowded 
playoff picture in the West.
Maybe Morey should’ve 
upped the team’s offer for All-
Star forward Jimmy Butler. 
Maybe he should have waited 
more than 10 games to make a 
decision on Anthony’s future in 
the Lone Star State.
But one thing is for sure 
-- the Rockets are not a better 
team for having parted ways 
with Anthony.
Kyle Wood is a staff writer for 
The Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @Kkylewood and contact 
him at kwood@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 1420   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
on her back imposed her will from the first shot of 
the game. Florida had no answers for the guard who 
came into the matchup averaging 26 points per game.
Keke Calloway created runs for her team with im-
pressive shooting from all over the court, including 
one in the third quarter that she started with a three 
and capped off with a deep, buzzer-beating shot from 
the logo at center court.
“We gave her way too many open shots,” New-
bauer said after the game. “We defended her well at 
the end, but it was too much too late.”
Calloway’s speed with the ball and sharpshooter 
accuracy was too much for the Gators to handle, and 
her 30 points, 18 of them coming from beyond the 
arc, were a big difference maker in the loss on Thurs-
day.
 
New players underperforming 
Against Florida State on Sunday, Washington and 
fellow veteran guard Funda Nakkasoglu combined 
for 34 points and hounded 14 rebounds, but Florida 
lost as the rest of the team added just 22 more points.
On Thursday, Washington and Nakkasoglu were 
again hung out to dry when their combined 56-point 
performance went in vain as the rest of the team ac-
counted for just 26 points on 26 percent shooting.
Only two other Gators -- forward Kristina Moore 
and guard Ariel Johnson -- made more than one shot 
in the game. They combined for 16 of the 26 points 
not scored by Washington or Nakkasoglu. 
“Too much one-on-one ball, and it wasn’t enough 
tonight,” Newbauer said. “We just have to stick with 
the plan, stick with the process.”
 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgWOMEN’S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 15Washington scored a career-high 33 points
Alligator File Photo
Florida guards Funda Nakkasoglu and Delicia Washington 
combined for 56 points in UF’s 92-82 loss against Mercer.
go 8-of-8 from the free-throw line but had a quiet 
game otherwise.
One aspect of their game that’s really showed for 
the Gators thus far is depth. There are 11-to-12 play-
ers who have the ability to reach double-digit scoring 
on any given night.
Even forward Chase Johnson, who played sparing-
ly prior to last night, got going with six points in six 
minutes on an efficient 3-for-4 from the field against 
La Salle. Against Charleston Southern, Allen led the 
charge. The same goes for guard Deaundrae Ballard 
in the loss to FSU.
The deep bench allows for White to get creative 
with his lineups. There was a point against La Salle 
in which he had four guards on the floor with 10:16 
remaining in the contest - Andrew Nembhard, Noah 
Locke, Jalen Hudson and Ballard.
Notes
White said both Nembhard (hip) and forward Keith 
Stone (ankle) are dealing with minor injuries. Both 
played through them last night.
Forward Isaiah Stokes looked much-improved de-
fensively against La Salle. He fouled out when Florida 
hosted Charleston Southern but keyed in on position-
ing last night.
“I just needed to move my feet better, get in posi-
tion earlier rather than try to be athletic and block 
shots,” Stokes said. “Just do everything Spidey 
(Hayes) would do.”
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgMEN’S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 15Andrew Nembhard 
and Keith Stone are 
dealing with injuries
maging drills during media Tues-
day afternoon, chuckling as she 
admitted some personal strategies 
of her own when it comes to beat-
ing her opposing six teammates.
“This is my favorite part of the 
season,” Kramer said with excite-
ment. “It’s so competitive and 
there’s a little bit of trash talk be-
cause we know everyone’s favor-
ite shots and we take those away, 
which ends up making everyone 
better.”
Kramer’s favorite scrimmage-
like drill is when it’s played out 
in end of game scenarios with a 
traditional six-on-six format but 
the score is tied at 20-all or 21-21.
“You have to get this point or 
you’re going to lose,” she said. 
“The game is on the line and you 
have to win it now.”
But Kramer isn’t the only one 
enjoying the end of the season 
as the team prepares for what it 
hopes will be another extended 
NCAA tournament run this De-
cember.
The Gators made it all the way 
to the championship match be-
fore taking a 3-1 defeat against 
the Nebraska Cornhuskers, the 
same program that Florida beat 
during their first matchup of the 2018 season.
Getting through the next four 
matches, however, will be a top 
priority before the Gators start to 
even think about what could hap-
pen next month.
“We’re taking a little bit from each match and each team that 
we play brings something differ-
ent to the table…” defensive spe-
cialist Chanelle Hargreaves said. 
“That’s how it is, and you don’t 
have that much time to prepare. 
It’s down to the wire.”The No. 13 Gators will take on 
the LSU Tigers (11-14, 6-8 SEC) 
at home for their second to last 
match at the O’Connell Center 
during the regular season Friday 
night at 7.
Freshman outside hitter Thay-er Hall will not be in this week-
end’s lineup. Hall is out with an 
undisclosed injury and hasn’t 
played in a match since Oct. 28 
when the team traveled to Missis-
sippi State.
The impact of Hall’s absence is 
definitely noticeable, but Kramer 
said everyone has been stepping 
up to compensate for the loss. 
Kramer recalled Wise talking to 
them after practice about it as 
well.
“We’re not asking it all on 
Paige (Hammons), we’re not 
asking everything on one per-
son, but if everyone takes a few 
more attempts per set, a few more 
kills per set, then it would even 
out what Thayer’s going to do,” 
Kramer said. “And we’ve seen 
that in the last two weeks.”
Since the second Mississippi 
State matchup, Florida is 3-1 
without Hall on the court. The 
team’s only loss was a sweep at 
Kentucky.
“I think that everyone has no-
ticed that because Thayer is out, 
we all have to step up,” Kramer 
said. “It doesn’t have to be one 
single person.”
 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 15UF will play LSU at the O’Connell Center Friday night at 7
Alligator File Photo
Florida middle blocker Rachael Kramer leads the team this season in blocks (135).
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018   ALLIGATOR
ESPN cameras caught Farr in 
the middle of his routine during 
the South Carolina game. When 
the station went back on air, fans 
at home were greeted with a vid-
eo of Farr singing along with fel-
low long snapper Jacob Tilghman 
before jumping in the air with as 
much enthusiasm as Freddie Mer-
cury performing on stage.
He started strumming that imag-
inary guitar to the likeness of Slash 
or Angus Young.
“I was always a big Slash fan,” 
Farr said. “But I don’t have the hair 
for that.”
He doesn’t practice his moves, 
contrary to popular belief. When 
he’s on the sideline and hears 
the music at the end of the third 
quarter, he does the ﬁ  rst thing that 
comes to mind.
No set pattern and no moves are 
exactly the same.
“That’s not choreographed, 
that’s off the top of my head,” Farr 
said. “Maybe, I will have to, maybe 
I should practice in front of the mir-
ror.”
Farr said he didn’t even notice 
the camera at ﬁ  rst on Saturday.
“I was just shredding and all of 
a sudden, like, I look up and some-
body was pointing at it,” he said. “I 
was like, ‘Oh, it’s game time now, I 
better start really performing.’”
His antics caught the attention 
of the fans sitting in front of him, 
as the loud uproar of cheers could 
be heard in the video.
While the fans may have liked 
it, Mullen had some criticisms of 
the performance.
“I don’t know what behind the 
back... I wasn’t impressed,” he 
said. “The leg part was good, but 
the behind the back, I think he lost 
it there.”
Farr responded that he would 
have to take that one out of his routine.
So what does a long snapper do 
when he isn’t snapping the ball?
Receiver Josh Hammond has an 
idea.
“Those guys are – they get a 
lot of free time I would say,” he 
said. “And during their free time 
they deﬁ  nitely take advantage of 
that, and they always doing a lot 
of different, fun, cool things that 
we don’t really notice until they hit 
social media.”
When Farr takes the ﬁ  eld at 
home for the ﬁ  nal time on Satur-
day, fans will have the opportunity 
to see his crazy sideline perfor-
mance one last time.
And maybe, just maybe, he will 
give an encore performance.
“I actually used to play the gui-
tar, yeah, but not air guitar,” Farr 
said. “I kind of picked up the air 
guitar when I came out here and 
just started shredding it, a little 
Tom Petty - never hurt anybody, 
right?”
Thrown into the ﬁ  re: Ivey, 
Johnson and Jordan embrace 
last home game
Martez Ivey and Fred Johnson 
had no idea who the other was 
when they ﬁ  rst stepped foot on 
campus four years ago.
At least not until they met in the 
dorms.
Both were freshman with differ-
ent backgrounds. 
Ivey was from Apopka, Florida. 
He was a high school All-American 
athlete featured in the U.S. Army 
All-American Bowl game and 
Nike’s The Opening event. 
Johnson was from West Palm 
Beach, Florida. He didn’t have the 
same accolades as Ivey, nor did he 
lead his school to a state title like 
Ivey did, but he was named to the 
All-State Second Team.Their pasts didn’t matter.
“I got to know him, became 
chill, became friends,” Johnson 
said. “It’s just a fun experi-
ence.”
Both became leaders on 
the offensive line and start-
ed as true freshmen. Grant-
ed, at different times in the 
season, but they still made 
an impact.
Then came McElwain’s 
ﬁ  ring last season. They were 
both eligible for the draft or 
they could have transferred, 
and at one point, it became 
a legitimate question.
“We was like, like we 
talked last year about 
whether we were coming 
back and all this other stuff,” 
Johnson said. “And he was like, 
‘Yeah, we’re going to do it. We’re 
gonna come back.’”
They aren’t the only seniors on 
the line, however. 
When Ivey and Johnson’s 
names are called on Saturday, they 
will be joined by another player 
who played as a true freshman and 
has been with them since the start: 
Tyler Jordan.
Jordan was similar to Ivey in 
that they were both high school 
All-Americans. Jordan played in 
the Under Armour All-America 
Game. All of those prior accom-
plishments didn’t matter once they 
reached the college level.
“I think it’s special, you know? 
Us three got thrown into the ﬁ  re 
our freshman year,” Jordan said. “I 
think we have been able to bond 
together and just kind of build a 
brotherhood.”
Jordan, Ivey and Johnson were 
mainstays in the offensive line ro-
tation. They eventually became 
starters as the season went on. 
Jordan was the only one who played in all 14 games as a fresh-
man. Ivey missed the ﬁ  rst two 
games of his freshman year due to 
a torn meniscus but played in 12 
contests that season. Johnson ap-
peared in eight.
“I think for the most part, our 
bond strengthens when we’re play-
ing together, but (also) hanging 
around the locker room, gooﬁ  ng 
off,” Jordan said. “We’ll hang off 
the ﬁ  eld and spend time together.”
But those moments of gooﬁ  ng 
off in the locker room will come 
to an end after four years. They’ll 
take the ﬁ  eld one last time at home 
as three of the ﬁ  ve pocket protec-
tors of quarterback Feleipe Franks. 
They played a combined 109 games 
over their careers at Florida. “It’s been a ride. It’s been 
bumpy, it’s been good, it’s been up-
and-down, left-and-right,” Johnson 
said. “But overall, it’s been a great 
ride. I’m glad I’ve got to experience 
it with them boys.”
When their names are called 
on Saturday, they will have no re-
grets. They are excited for the day 
to come but are a little sad because 
they know what it all means.
“I grew up wanting to go to 
Florida always. I dreamed about 
playing in the Swamp,” Ivey said. 
“I don’t know how I’ll feel when 
it’s all said and done and it’s my 
last game here. But I wouldn’t 
trade it for nothing in the world.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
“I got to know him, became 
chill, became friends,” Johnson 
said. “It’s just a fun experi-
whether we were coming 
back and all this other stuff,” 
Johnson said. “And he was like, 
‘Yeah, we’re going to do it. We’re 
They aren’t the only seniors on 
When Ivey and Johnson’s 
names are called on Saturday, they 
will be joined by another player 
who played as a true freshman and 
has been with them since the start: 
played in all 14 games as a fresh-
FLORIDA defense vs. IDAHO offense
Sean TuletteCMason PetrinoQBIsaiah SaundersRB
Jeff CottonWR
Kyree 
CampbellNT
Trey
DeanCB
C.J.
HendersonCB
Jabari
ZunigaDE
Adam 
ShulerDT
Chauncey 
Gardner-JohnsonSTAR
David
ReeseMLB
Vosean
JosephMLB
Jachai
PoliteBUCK
Donovan 
StinerS
Brad StewartSNoah
JohnsonRG Logan 
FloydRTCutrell
HaywoodWR
Connor
VrbaLGIrving
SchusterLTTyler 
AllenTE David
UngererWRFLORIDA offense vs. IDAHO defense
Nick BuchananC
Feleipe FranksQB
Jordan ScarlettRBMartez
IveyLT
Tyler
JordanLG
Van
JeffersonWRFred
JohnsonRG
Jawaan 
T aylorRT
C’yontai
LewisTE
Josh
HammondWRTyrie
ClevelandWRChristian 
EllissMIKE
Rahsaan
CrawfordNT
Cameron
T ownsendDTJeremiah
HarrisDEDorian
ClarkCB
Kaden
EllissBUCK
Lloyd
HightowerCBTy
GrahamOLB
Ed
HallOLBDenzal
BrantleyS
Jalen
HooverSALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
Happy Hour 4pm-7am
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
 
FUN DAY ALL DAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Lemon Drops
$4 Torts & Salsa
$4 Double Wells
$4 1st Mag DraftsSUNDAY SATURDAY
GO  
GATORS
LIVE DJ 
10 pm - Close
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
SWIMMING
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Day 1 of the Georgia Tech Invi-
tational saw the Gators send mul-
tiple swimmers to the ﬁ  nals after 
Thursday’s preliminary rounds.
Both UF squads, which com-
peted against 10 other teams 
including host Georgia Tech, 
ﬁ  nished in ﬁ  rst after Thursday’s 
events at the McAuley Aquatic Center. The Gators had a few pro-
gram-record and personal-best 
swims on the day.
The 10th-ranked Florida wom-
en started right where they left off 
from earlier in the month, riding 
the momentum of a three-meet 
winning streak into Atlanta on 
Thursday.
Freshman Vanessa Pearl won 
the 200-yard individual medley 
ﬁ  nal with a 1:55.25 swim, a per-sonal best in the event for the 
McKinney, Texas, native. It’s also 
the program’s third-fastest time 
ever in the 200 IM. Pearl’s team-
mate, junior Kelly Fertel picked 
up bronze in the same event after 
a 1:56.05 ﬁ  nish.
Freshman Leah Braswell 
dazzled with a ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish 
in the 500-yard freestyle behind 
a 4:37.83 time, fourth-fastest in 
program history. Taylor Ault, the sophomore from La Habra, Cali-
fornia, ﬁ  nished in third (4:42.08)
In the women’s relay, juniors 
Emma Ball, Kelsey Dambacher, 
Bella Garofalo and Sherridon 
Dressel placed fourth in the 200-
yard freestyle relay with a com-
bined time of 1:30.35. That time 
is the fastest by a UF women’s 
relay team so far this season.
Similar to the women, the 
fourth-ranked men’s team comes 
into this weekend’s meet having 
won its last three contests.
Junior Khader Baqlah record-
ed his best swim of the season in 
the 500-yard free due to a 4:14.58 
time in the ﬁ  nal. Freshman Trey 
Freeman picked up silver, touch-
ing the wall with 4:16.34 on the 
clock.
In the 200-yard IM ﬁ  nal, junior 
Grant Sanders took second place 
after swimming a season-best 
1:44.54.
The men’s relay team of fresh-
man Will Davis, junior Maxime 
Rooney, redshirt senior Bayley 
Main and freshman Kieran Smith 
brought home bronze in the 200-
yard free relay ﬁ  nal after a time 
of 1:18.06.
 Both teams will be back in the 
pool today in Day 2 of the invi-
tational. The meet will begin at 
10 a.m with the ﬁ  nals happening 
later in the day.
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org
  Florida leads Georgia Tech Invitational after Day 1
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore T aylor Ault ﬁ  nished third in the 500-yard freestyle during Day 1 of the Georgia T ech 
Invitational. She posted a time of 4:42.08.
SPORTS MEME OF THE WEEK
By River WellsINSIDE
Each senior has a unique story to tell, all of which will end when they 
take the field one last time at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium for Senior Day.
ONLINE
Follow along with our weekly picks column and find out who our Gators 
“experts” selected this week.
THEIR FINAL BOW
Every senior has a story to tell before their curtain callKICK OFF
Editor Morgan McMullen   Cover Illustration Jordan Bourne
Alligator, Friday, November 16, 2018
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
End of an Era: Muschamp’s last play-
ers graduating
South Carolina head coach Will Mus-
champ stood on the SEC logo at the 25-yard 
line of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
His team had just blown a 31-14 lead to 
the Gators, his former team. But you couldn’t 
tell from looking at him.
A camera focused on Muschamp hug-
ging CeCe Jefferson, a player the Gamecocks 
coach recruited but never had the oppor-
tunity to coach. Muschamp turned around 
and was immediately swamped by tight end 
Moral Stephens.
With a smile on their faces, they em-
braced. A few moments later, Khairi Clark 
did the same.
“Oh man,” Clark said. “I just told him I 
appreciate the opportunity for letting me get 
a chance to come play here at the University 
of Florida and that it was a blessing all these 
years for me.”
If you are a senior on the team and didn’t 
transfer in, you are a part of former UF coach 
Jim McElwain’s ﬁ  rst recruiting class. If you 
are a redshirt senior and had the same deal, 
you are in Muschamp’s last recruiting class.
That’s the case for six current players on 
the roster.
Offensive line-
man Kavaris 
Harkless,  
kicker Jorge 
Powell, tight 
ends C’yontai 
Lewis and RJ 
Raymond,  
Clark and 
Stephens. The Muschamp Six.
“Coach Muschamp’s a great guy,” Ray-
mond said. “He’s always showed us love 
and waited for us after the games we have 
played him at South Carolina and mentioned 
to tell us how much he, you know, loves us 
and stuff like that.”
This Saturday may be the ofﬁ  cial Se-
nior Day for the Gators, but Florida’s game 
against South Carolina brought the story full 
circle for those six players.
It was almost like a second Senior Day, 
one they could celebrate with the coach that 
brought them in.
“It’s actually really crazy, because I feel 
like the guys in my class coming in,” Ste-
phens said, “I feel like that class, almost all 
of us could’ve (done) a lot of things for this 
team.”
The Muschamp Six have seen a lot 
throughout their ﬁ  ve years, more than most 
players will go through in their college ca-
reers.
They came to play football under Mus-
champ and didn’t see the ﬁ  eld their ﬁ  rst 
year. Then, he stepped down as head coach 
before the season ended. They were recruit-
ed by Muschamp and played under McEl-
wain. 
All was well until McElwain got ﬁ  red 
right after Florida-Georgia in 2017.
History has a funny way of repeating it-
self, and the six entered their ﬁ  nal sea-
son of eligibility with yet another head 
coach.
“I’ve taken a lot from every coach 
that I’ve had,” Clark said. “Since 
I’ve been here, I’ve had three head 
coaches, so I’ve been through a lot 
since I’ve been here and I’ve learned 
a lot from all of them.”
Raymond highlighted just 
how important this season’s 
South Carolina game was 
for the players that still re-
member him. They got to see 
Muschamp one last time be-
fore their college careers are 
done.
“It means that much more 
to us, the six guys that are 
still left to go out there and get 
a win but it’s gonna be fun see-
ing him,” Raymond said before 
the South Carolina game. “He’s 
a great guy; I’m very excited to 
go back and see him one last 
time.”
Uncle Carl: CeCe Jef-
ferson matures for ﬁ  nal 
ride
Jefferson had just ﬁ  n-
ished answering ques-
tions from a large group 
of media members when 
he turned and saw offen-
sive lineman Fred John-
son. 
Johnson had his own 
little crowd around him. 
Not as large as Jeffer-
son’s, but enough to 
constitute one.
The right guard was 
answering a question 
about his parents when all of a sudden…
“Oh my god,” Jefferson yelled. “My name 
is Fred Johnson, and I’m like 7-foot tall.”
“Hi my name’s CeCe,” Johnson respond-
ed, “and I look like a billy goat.”
That kind of joking around was com-
monplace for Jefferson when he was with 
his teammates or the media, especially this 
season. But when he’s on the ﬁ  eld, he’s all 
business.
That’s because he wants to set an ex-
ample for his 3-year-old son, Luke, who has 
only ever known his dad as a Gators football 
player.
“He’s just an everyday reminder that I 
have to keep my nose clean,” Jefferson said. 
“That I have to do everything right even if 
I don’t want to cause he’s always watching 
every move that I make and everything I do 
can affect him and will effect him.”
That attitude has also changed what he 
does off the ﬁ  eld. He has matured. During 
his freshman, sophomore and junior year, 
Jefferson went out around Gainesville. Now, 
he opts to chill at his apartment 
playing video games or watching 
a little TV.
He said going into his se-
nior year, he came to the 
realization that he can’t 
do the same activities he 
used to. He has to be a 
role model for his son, 
even if that means sac-
riﬁ  cing what he likes to 
do.
“I’m kind of like 
the uncle on the team 
now,” he said. “The 
old uncle. That’s my 
role but I embrace my 
role. Uncle Carl.”
Being Uncle Carl 
doesn’t mean Jefferson 
has changed too much. 
He’s still the same person 
on the ﬁ  eld and is still the same 
hard worker at practice.
He hasn’t lost his determination, a huge 
reason for why he decided to come back af-
ter Florida went 4-7 last season instead of 
trying his luck in the NFL Draft.
“I talked to Martez (Ivey) and C’yontai 
(Lewis) and a couple more seniors and we 
all wanted to go out as winners,” Jefferson 
said. “We knew we could with that staff that 
was coming in.”
So far, they have. The Gators are 7-3 on 
the year with wins against ranked oppo-
nents in Mississippi State and LSU. They 
could even be on the verge of a New 
Year’s Six Bowl game if they win out. 
Jefferson has been a part of that 
success, even if he isn’t having the 
best year. He missed the ﬁ  rst two 
games due to poor academic per-
formance. He has 14 tackles on 
the year, signiﬁ  cantly less than 
his yearly average of 35.3.
Jefferson does, though, 
bring some leadership as 
one of two defensive se-
niors on the team. The 
hard work he presents 
at practice is something 
he wants his teammates 
to remember after he is gone. After he walks through the tunnel on 
Saturday.
“That’s it, that’s (Uncle Carl),” Jefferson 
said. “Dropping knowledge on these kids.”
Ryan Farr: Air Guitar Hero
Music blasts through Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium accompanied by the echoes of tens of 
thousands of Gators fans. 
“HEY BABY, THERE AIN’T NO EASY 
WAY OUT!”
It doesn’t matter if the game is during the 
day or night, the bright iPhone ﬂ  ashlights il-
luminate the stadium like stars in the night 
sky.
Lost in that array of lights is a player 
channeling his inner star power.
What do long snappers do when they are 
not snapping?
If you’re senior Ryan Farr, you’re a bona 
ﬁ  de air guitarist.
“We just go out there and try to have 
fun,” he said. “Just like, messing around, 
man, just trying to have fun out there, cause 
it’s real serious, when I’m on the 
ﬁ  eld I’m real serious. But I 
really just like to have 
fun with football.”Muschamp Six, Uncle Carl, O-Linemen thrown into ﬁ  re 
That’s the case for six current players on 
Harkless,  
self, and the six entered their ﬁ  nal sea-
son of eligibility with yet another head 
coach.
that I’ve had,” Clark said. “Since 
I’ve been here, I’ve had three head 
coaches, so I’ve been through a lot 
since I’ve been here and I’ve learned 
how important this season’s 
South Carolina game was 
member him. They got to see 
Muschamp one last time be-
done.
the South Carolina game. “He’s 
a great guy; I’m very excited to 
go back and see him one last 
ferson matures for ﬁ  nal 
ished answering ques-
tions from a large group 
of media members when 
sive lineman Fred John-
son. 
little crowd around him. 
Not as large as Jeffer-
son’s, but enough to 
constitute one.
answering a question 
about his parents when 
