We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
A group is trying to extort money from UF
More than a dozen other universities have been targeted by the 
scam, pg. 4
Paynes Prairie remains ﬂ  ooded
Minor ﬂ  ooding continues to plague hiking trails, pg. 9Gators fall to Rebels in double OT
The UF women's basketball team dropped to 0-3 in the SEC on Sunday in a three-point loss to Ole Miss, pg. 16VOLUME 112 ISSUE 43
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE NEW LOT CAN FIT ABOUT 
45 TO 55 SCOOTERS.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Finding scooter parking on UF’s campus 
proved to be a challenge for Daniel Chalco. 
Scooters bumped together, parked over the 
lines and in the middle of the road were a common sight every morning before class.
“You basically had to shove your scoot-
er around,” the 20-year-old UF computer 
engineering sophomore said. “It was just awful. We deﬁ  nitely needed more parking for scooters.”
Student Body President Smith Meyers 
said problems Chalco faced were a com-mon complaint students told him when he ran for president last Spring. To solve this, a new scooter lot across from Library West and the Plaza of the Americas on Newell 
Drive will debut today. The space for the 
lot came from moving the bike racks previ-ously located on the lot.
“Being that it was one of the most heav-
ily concentrated spots on campus, it was a 
good place for expansion,” Meyers said. “I 
think the University of Florida does its best to answer student needs, and we were able to advocate that this was a real need.”
Depending on how students park their 
scooters, the new lot can hold about 45 to 55 scooters, Meyers said.
The cost for the new lot was paid by 
Transportation and Parking Services and cost about $350, said Ron Fuller, the assis-
tant director of Transportation and Parking 
Services.On-campus scooter parking being expanded today  
SEE SCOOTER,  PAGE 4
SHE SAID SHE PAID $1,300 
TO THREE COMPANIES.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Jessica Socorro didn’t expect to 
lose $1,610 when she answered an email from a uﬂ  .edu address offer-
ing a job.
The 24-year-old UF digital arts 
and sciences graduate student got 
the email Nov. 21 advertising a part-time personal assistant posi-tion for “Dr. Floyd Andrews.” The email didn’t list his position or 
college and included a misspelled 
word.
Paying for her own education, 
rent and car insurance as a ﬁ  rst-
generation college student, So-
corro knew landing this job would provide ﬁ  nancial relief.
“$300 per week was gold in my 
eyes,” Socorro said.
She applied and heard she got the position four days later. She was then instructed to buy iTunes gift cards that the incoming pro-
fessor said he would use to buy 
required ofﬁ  ce supplies, and she was told she would be reimbursed the following day. By this time, 
the two  were communicating over 
text.
“Scratch (the gift cards)... and 
send the pictures via email and get back to me,” Floyd said in a text. 
Socorro said she assumed the gift cards would be used to buy various Apple products, or “im-portant gadgets,” as Floyd called 
them.
“I thought he had his own 
methodologies of doing things,” 
she said. “So I didn’t want to mess 
with that.”
Socorro purchased the iTunes 
gift cards at both Best Buy and 
Walmart in Gainesville for $1,610 total. By the time Socorro realized 
Dr. Floyd’s reimbursement pay-ments were not coming, the major-
ity of the iTunes credit was spent and Floyd was unreachable. She 
never heard from him again.
“It was very traumatic,” she 
said.
Socorro said she ﬁ  led police re-
ports with Gainesville Police and 
University Police and alerted UF Information Technology about the email scam.UF student loses money after scam from uﬂ  .edu email
SEE EMAIL,  PAGE 4Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Welcome home, students 
Nicolas Cassera, an 18-year-old UF biochemistry freshman, and his friends Brian Nunez, an 18-year-old UF biology freshman and Lexi Wilson, a 19-year-old UF dance sophomore, work together to move into their new home in Beaty T owers. 
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Lisa Ly's passion for dancing 
started when she was 5.
She and her sister Anna Ly, 23, 
learned tap dancing and then bal-
let. 
Anna said her sister was a 
unique and graceful dancer who 
invited the audience with her when 
she performed. 
“We always nicknamed her 
‘dancing for the king’ because her 
chin was always up,” Anna said. 
“She just always had this bright-
ness and immediate presence on 
stage that was very inviting.”
The 21-year-old UF applied 
physiology and kinesiology senior died in Gainesville, Georgia, on 
Dec. 16 from a pulmonary embo-
lism a semester before she would 
graduate, said her godmother Karla 
Wilson, who Lisa grew up with. Li-
sa’s friends and family gathered for 
her visitation Dec. 22 at the Hiers-Baxley Funeral Services in Ocala 
and her funeral services Dec. 23 at Grace Episcopal Church, Anna 
said. 
UF Dean of Students Heather 
White is in touch with Lisa’s family 
about arranging a memorial service 
on campus, UF spokesperson Mar-got Winick said. She said details 
should be ﬁ  nalized soon.
After a neck injury at 16, Lisa 
dreamed of working in sports 
medicine to help dancers and ath-
letes, Wilson said. Lisa was sup-
posed to graduate in May with her bachelor's degree. The 21-year-old 
was waiting on acceptance letters 
from graduate schools, where she 
planned to pursue a doctorate in physical therapy. 
“That made her very conscious 
of the body and motion, and so when she realized that she was 
probably not going to be able to 
push through a professional career 
of dance, she realized what she re-ally loved was understanding and 
connecting with the human body,” 
the 50-year-old said.‘Dancing for the King’: 
A UF student honored
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 3
She applied and heard she got 
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
HIGH  67° LOW  57°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters
If you want to get more com-
fortable speaking in front of a group, attend the Talking Gators Toastmasters meetings. The club gathers every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. at the Steinmetz Hall, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open 
to all. For more information, 
visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org.
Student Government elections
The UF Student Government elections this Spring will be held Feb. 20 and Feb. 21. To learn more about qualifying or running for office, attend the informational meeting at 6:30 p.m. Jan. 23 in the Reitz Union Chamber. Qualifying and slat-ing for candidates will be in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, Suites A and E, on the follow-ing: from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. Jan. 28, from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Jan. 29 and from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Jan. 30.
News Around the World
Bannon tries to make amends as aides defend Trump’s fitness
(THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) —Steve Bannon is trying to make amends.Faced with a growing backlash, President Donald Trump’s for-mer chief strategist released a statement Sunday reaffirming his support for the commander in chief and praising Trump’s eldest son as “both a patriot and a good man.”Bannon infuriated Trump with 
comments to author Michael 
Wolff describing a June 2016 
meeting at Trump Tower in 
New York between Donald 
Trump Jr., Trump campaign 
aides and a Russian lawyer as 
“treasonous” and “unpatriotic.”
But Bannon said Sunday his 
description was aimed at for-
mer Trump campaign chair-
man Paul Manafort, who also 
attended the meeting, and not 
Trump’s son.
Thirty-two missing, oil tanker 
on fire after collision off  the 
coast of China
(THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) — 
An Iranian oil tanker collided with a bulk freighter and caught fire off China’s east coast, leav-
ing the tanker’s entire crew of 
32 missing and causing it to spill oil into the sea, authorities 
said Sunday.Chinese authorities dispatched police vessels and three clean-ing ships to the scene after the collision, which happened late Saturday. The South Korean coast guard also sent a ship and a plane to help search for the missing crew members — 30 Iranians and two Bangladeshis.
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 43
FREE PARKING BY 
SWAMP 4 CLASS!
Go to Parkonthefly.com or
Facebook pg. for FREE codes!Free parking for anybody  
who wants it this SPRING!
Rocks, 
Crystals & 
Gifts
19765 NW US HWY 441
High Springs, FL 32643
highspringsemporium.net
386-454-8657
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan de Sotomayor Alvarez,
photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.More responsibility,  more rewards.
As the nation’s low-cost grocery leader, we 
believe in providing the best value and quality in everything we do. For our employees, that means industry-leading wages, a great work environment and terrific benefits including:
2017ALDI believes in great responsibility leading to generous compensation, as demonstrated by our  5 year salary structure
 (Year 2 - $90k, Year 3 - $95k, 
Year 4 - $100k, Year 5 - $110k).
Find out more at careers.aldi.us/district  
Welcome to more.®Competitive  
Salaries - Starting  
at $80KFully Expensed 
Audi A3$5K Signing 
BonusAward-Winning 
TrainingCareer  
Advancement
100’s of
New Choices
Where:
Reitz Union-Tabling Area
When:
Monday January 8 
thru Friday January 12
Time: 
9 A.M. - 6 P.M.
Sponsor: 
Programs
Courtesy to the Alligator
Lisa Ly poses for a photo during her 21st birthday trip to Nashville, T ennessee. The UF applied physiology and kinesiology senior turned 21 on April 3.
Wilson said Lisa was one of the 
most driven people she’d ever met and 
always maintained a positive attitude 
toward everything.
“Whatever she put her mind to, she 
worked hard at it, but she worked at it with an enthusiasm that was conta-
gious,” Wilson said. “If something was 
difﬁ  cult, that was an opportunity. She 
never wanted to settle for less than 120 percent.” 
She was known as “Sweet Lisa.” She 
was a thoughtful, caring and positive 
person who found joy in everything she 
did, Wilson said.
“She just found joy in the everyday 
things we did together; she just appreci-ated them all,” Wilson said.
In Lisa’s sophomore year at UF, she 
became a sister in Alpha Delta Pi, after her godsister encouraged her. 
Sorority sister Janae Moodie said 
she wouldn’t forget a sisterhood retreat in Fall 2015, the day she became friends with Lisa. At the campground, Lisa stood up and talked about her “golden 
heart,” a place Lisa said was for people who were very impactful or inﬂ  uential in her life. 
“She had said that AC15 (Fall 2015 
pledge class) was going to be in her golden heart,” Moodie said. “I remem-
ber her saying that because it was such 
a unique way to describe loving some-one and loving people.”
Moodie, a UF psychology senior, 
said Lisa served as an example for her 
chapter and for students on campus. 
“She made everything into a posi-
tive,” Moodie said. “She always lived in the mindset that she was so blessed and 
that she had a responsibility to be kind 
and loving to others because of it.”
Lisa had a passion for Christianity, 
her boyfriend Preston Stephens said. She depended on the power of God to 
lead and change their life, and their re-
lationship revolved around their faith, he said. 
“I feel like I admired her faith more 
than she admired mine just because she was so steadfast to it, whereas some-times I would waver a little bit,” the 21-year-old University of Central Flor-
ida business management senior said.
The two had dated for six years, and 
Stephens planned to propose in March. He said he loved her for how much she cared for him, his family and his 
friends.
“One thing that our pastor said that 
she taught all of us is to love reckless-ly,” Stephens said. “I think the main 
message she got out of it was to love selﬂ  essly because she was one of the 
most selﬂ  ess people you’d ever meet; 
she never set enough time for herself.”
Lisa taught Stephens to change his 
attitude toward people, he said. 
“She was just a genuinely nice per-
son; no one didn’t like her,” he said. “I think one thing she taught me that 
I can apply to my everyday life now is 
to think of others before I think of my-self and to really think before I say and 
think before I do.”
Stephens said Lisa left an impact on 
everyone she met. 
“Lisa’s legacy is having a relent-
less power of positivity and hope,” he 
said. “She just had a way to cheer you 
up just with her smile; she had such a way, such a power of her personality to make you happy.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgEPILOGUE,  from pg 1She was a member of Alpha Delta Pi4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
The cost came from labor as 
workers temporarily moved bicycle 
racks and painted the lines on the 
new lot, Fuller said. The money did not come from student fees because parking services is an auxiliary from 
UF. It gets money from the payment 
of parking citations, decals, event parking and more.
“We’re happy to accommodate 
the students and expand (scooter 
parking) and make it a little less 
problematic to find a place to park,” Fuller said.
Meyers said he’s been meeting 
with Transportation and Parking Services since the beginning of his term and said students identified there was a need for more scooter parking close to Library West.
“If there’s a need for more scoot-
er parking on different locations on campus, then I’m more than happy to look into it,” he said.
Meyers said he wants to see if 
this new lot will meet the needs of 
students before they continue to ex-
pand to another possible location off of Southwest 13th Street, close to Little Hall. But so far, he said students have responded positively 
about the expansion.
Chalco, who has been driving 
his scooter since last Fall, said he’s 
glad the scooter expansion is con-
veniently close to Library West and 
Marston Science Library and will save him the typical seven minutes it took him to park during Fall se-mester.
“It’s very helpful,” he said. “It’s 
very easily accessible to students.”
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgSCOOTER,  from pg 1More parking could come
Police said Socorro’s case is not unique. 
GPD spokesperson Officer Ben Tobias said his department gets two to three similar re-
ports per week. A full squad of detectives is 
dedicated to handling financial fraud cases.
“It’s quite a big threat,” he said.Most financial email scams originate 
overseas, making it increasingly difficult for law enforcement to pursue traditional arrest and prosecution.
“That money is almost never recovered,” Tobias said.
He said UF’s capacity to deal with these 
scams on the front end is not lacking.
“People are being asked to get iTunes 
gift cards or prepaid credit cards,” he said. 
“That should strike a red flag for absolutely 
anyone.”
In an email to the Alligator, UFIT staff 
wrote they planned on contacting Socorro about her case.
“(We) always address the threat first as 
time is of the essence depending on the se-verity of the report,” staff said.The staff said it blocked close to six bil-
lion — 5,907,846,215 — harmful emails in 2016. But not all cyber threats get caught prematurely.
For cases that aren’t immediately blocked 
from the UF network, such as Socorro’s, UFIT relies on reports from victims.
“The biggest challenge is effectively ad-
dressing UF community members’ natural tendency to trust,” UFIT said.
Typically, UFIT will post to its alerts web-
page, alerts.it.ufl.edu, or send email notifi-cations about threats to IT staff members. Socorro said this notification system regard-ing scams is insufficient.
She said not all of the campus population 
is guaranteed an alert message, and students who aren’t from the U.S. require more de-tailed information.
“Don’t just tell us that these scams are 
out there, describe them,” Socorro said.
Socorro said she had to take things into 
her own hands and contacted the companies she lost money to. Best Buy and iTunes re-
imbursed her for $810 of the money spent.
“I was lucky in my situation, not every-
one can get this lucky,” she said.
@NasbyElliott
enasby@alligator.org
EMAIL,  from pg 1UFIT blocked close to six billion emails in 2016UNIVERSITY POLICE SAID 
MORE THAN A DOZEN 
UNIVERSITIES GOT THE 
SAME MESSAGE.
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Along with more than a dozen other 
universities, UF received an anony-
mous email Tuesday that threatened 
violence on campus unless the writer 
received a payment of 1.2 bitcoin, or about $19,735, police said. 
The email, sent to UF President Kent 
Fuchs, said threats would start at noon Wednesday if regular bitcoin payments were not made, University Police Sgt. Eddie King said. The Florida Depart-ment of Law Enforcement and the FBI 
are looking into the threat along with 
local police, though King said there likely is no threat. 
Since the initial email, no violence 
or threatening incidents have been re-ported. 
“Nothing has happened,” King said. 
“I would say it was a scam.” While exact details of the threat re-
main private due to ongoing state and federal investigations, King said the email described using pipe bombs on 
campus and targeting students and fac-
ulty. 
The writer of the email, who referred 
to themselves as “Only fair,” sent police instructions on how to purchase and 
deposit bitcoin, King said.  
On Thursday, the University of West 
Florida, one of the universities who 
received the threat, released a public 
safety notice urging people to “remain 
vigilant” and be aware of their sur-roundings.
UF spokesperson Janine Sikes said 
students should remain alert upon re-
turning to classes despite the threat 
likely being a scam.
“As always, we urge anyone seeing 
suspicious activity on campus to report 
it to the University Police Department,” 
Sikes said.
@hoffdavid123 
dhoffman@alligator.orgUF receives extortion threat 
for 1.2 bitcoin, likely a scam
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
As Paula Delpech searched for a new pair of 
ankle boots at Macy’s, she worried about what 
the store's closure means for the employees and the economy.
“What else do we have but Macy’s?” the UF 
nursing professor said.
The Oaks Mall location is one of 11 stores 
closing nationwide in 2018, as part of the fran-chise’s 100-store closure announced in August 
2016, according to a press release from the de-
partment store chain. The historic downtown 
Miami location is the only other Macy’s closing in Florida. Store associates were notified about the closure Jan. 3.
A clearance sale at the two Florida stores 
will begin Monday and continue through mid-March. 
The Oaks Mall has not announced what will 
replace Macy’s, a mall representative, Marissa 
Ellenby, wrote in an email.
The closures will allow the company to fo-
cus on both brick-and-mortar and online shop-
ping equally, the Macy’s press release said. The corporation expects to save $300 million 
by closing the 11 stores in 2018 and reducing 
production cost.Gloria Parker, a UF Health Shands Hospi-
tal nurse, shops at Macy’s for after-Christmas 
sales and is disappointed to see the store close.
“I’m from the older generation, and we 
never did online shopping,” she said. “I know people think it’s convenient, but I want to go pick up things, feel textures. Things like that you can’t do online.”
@amandanicrosa
arosa@alligator.orgMacy’s at The Oaks Mall 
closing, clearance sale starts
Macy's Locations Closing:
Laguna Hills Mall, Laguna Hills, CA
Westside Pavilion, Los Angeles, CANovato (Furniture), Novato, CAStonestown Galleria, San Francisco, CAThe Oaks Mall, Gainesville, FLMiami (downtown), Miami, FL
Magic Valley Mall, Twin Falls, IDHoney Creek Mall, T erre Haute, INBirchwood Mall, Fort Gratiot T ownship, MIFountain Place, Cincinnati, OHBurlington T own Center, Burlington, VT
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
New scooter parking is being constructed near the Chemistry Lab Building and is supposed to 
be open for the first day of classes, according to Student Body President Smith Meyers. It will provide additional parking to the Library West area. 
In Honor Of The 
Man And His Dream
Deadlines apply to Display 
and Classified advertisingThe DEADLINE for :
Wednesday, Jan 17 is 
Friday, Jan. 12 at 4 p.m.Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
Deadlines apply to Display 
Wednesday, Jan 17 is 
Friday, Jan. 12 at 4 p.m.
Advertising Deadlines For 
Next Week Are As Follows
DISPLAY: 
(352) 376 - 4482
CLASSIFIEDS: 
(352) 373 - 3463
The Alligator will not be publishing on Monday, 
Jan. 15 due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday.
An Inclusive Faith Community that affirms your:
• Inherent worth and dignity
• Search for meaning in a challenging world• Work and advocacy for social justice
Come worship with us! Sundays at 11:00 a.m.
www.uufg.org  
4225 NW 34th St.           352.377.1669
NOW ON
joehand.com
There’s a new GATOR in 
town, GATOR JACK songMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Giles
Alligator Staff Writer
With the help of a federal grant, 
researchers from around the country 
are updating an online tool for alge-bra students that will launch in Ala-chua County in January.
On Jan. 16, about 20 Alachua 
County Public School teachers will receive an updated version of Alge-bra Nation, an online program that helps students grasp algebra 1, ge-ometry and algebra 2 concepts, said Philip Poekert, the project director of the Virtual Learning Lab. 
The Virtual Learning Lab, which 
is made up of researchers from UF’s College of Education, the Univer-sity of Colorado and Study Edge, are personalizing the Algebra Nation program with an $8.9 million dol-lar grant from the U.S. Department of Education’s Institute of Education Sciences.
The update will give students 
suggested actions based on their ac-tivities and data collected from past users to help improve their math per-formance, Poekert said.
“We’re just trying to take some-
thing that’s good and make it bet-ter,” he said.
Algebra Nation initially launched 
in January 2013 as a free online pro-
gram tailored speciﬁ  cally to algebra 
1 students in Florida, aiming to im-prove end-of-course exam scores. The program has grown to include algebra 2 and geometry courses and has expanded into South Carolina, Michigan, New York, Alabama and Mississippi, Poekert said.
Follow-up research found that 
students who consistently used the program performed better on their 
end-of-course exams, said Carole 
Beal, a UF education professor and principal investigator for the Virtual Learning Lab. She believes these re-sults can be improved even further by making the experience more per-sonalized.
“There are a lot of resources 
available but the student chooses 
what to do, and sometimes students 
don’t always do the most effective thing,” Beal said.
Based on the videos students watch, practice problems they com-plete and other activity, the program will identify what course of action would be the most beneﬁ  cial to that student, she said.
“Sometimes students don’t bal-
ance watching videos and solving 
problems very well,” Beal said.
Katelyn Snell, a seventh-grade 
student at DeLand Middle School 
in DeLand, Florida, said her alge-bra 1 teacher frequently uses Alge-bra Nation in the classroom. While the 12-year-old said she doesn’t use the website much outside of school, the new personalization aspect may 
prompt her to log in more often.
“If I’m struggling with something 
and tutoring isn’t that day, then I can 
do that instead,” she said.Justin Lessem, a UF accounting 
senior, helps moderate discussions on Algebra Nation. The 21-year-old answers questions posted to the website by guiding students through problems and explaining concepts, he said.
Lessem said he is looking for-
ward to the personalization because he believes the suggestions will help identify students’ strengths and weaknesses. Once students have identiﬁ  ed areas of weakness, they can work more effectively, he said.
“Throughout the year you see the 
same students on there and then af-
ter a couple months they’re the ones 
helping other students, so it’s really great to watch them grow,” he said.
Alachua County students to try out revamped math tool 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida man, with the words “candle” 
and “light” tattooed on his eyelids, was ar-rested after three police ofﬁ  cers, a Taser and a police dog were used to detain him, Alachua County Police said. 
Clay Sanford George, 40, of Ft. White, 
Florida, was pulled over in a tan 2014 Buick for running a red light but drove off after stop-ping north of 147th Drive on Northwest U.S. Highway 441, according to an arrest report. He drove about a mile before he exited the car.
George told police he 
didn’t have a driver’s li-cense and yelled at them to 
call his mother, according to the report. 
When an ofﬁ  cer tried to 
put George’s hands behind his back, George shoved the ofﬁ  cer into the car door, police said. The ofﬁ  cer tried to tackle George, but he punched and bit the ofﬁ  cer in the face, police said. 
After a ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cer used a Taser on George 
with no result, a second ofﬁ  cer tried again, causing George to fall, according to the report.
After both ofﬁ  cers got on top of George to 
detain him, a third ofﬁ  cer arrived and success-fully used a police dog to get George to com-ply, police said.
“Take me to jail,” George said, according 
to the report.
George was charged with two counts of 
battery on an ofﬁ  cer and three counts of resist-ing arrest, criminal mischief and driving with a suspended license, the report said. He was taken to UF Health Shands Hospital, and then booked in the Alachua County Jail, where he remains, as of Sunday night, on an $80,000 
bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgMan bit, punched, shoved 
police oﬃ   cers before arrest
By Elliot Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
granted a UF-run project $8.7 million for a 
ﬁ  ve-year research project on food security 
and poverty alleviation efforts in Africa.
This grant is in addition to a $49 mil-
lion grant IFAS received in 2015 from 
the U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment, said Adegbola Adesogan, 
the director of UF’s Feed The Future In-novation Lab for Livestock Systems.    The funding goes to Adesogan’s lab, which researches topics dealing with the food and health of vulnerable people. UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences announced the grant Wednesday.
The Gates’ additional funding will allow 
researchers to improve livestock feeds and food safety in Ethiopia and Burkina Faso, Adesogan said. “We want this work to be sustained af-
ter the life of the grant,” he said. “We don’t want to do research that just sits on the 
shelf.”
Arie Havelaar, a Department of Animal 
Sciences professor, said funding will al-
low his team to study diseases transmitted from animals to humans to minimize child-hood exposure to harmful bacteria found in chicken feces.
“The process of selecting what would 
be funded has been difﬁ  cult and very in-
volved,” he said. 
Proper childhood health and develop-
ment is related to livestock productivity, 
Adesogan said. The research will focus on identifying efﬁ  cient feeding methods for livestock as they are versatile sources of capital, income and food in the community.
@NasbyElliott
enasby@alligator.orgUF-run project receives 
$8.7 million research grant
George
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
I’m loading up my last-semester bucket list — are you?
Welcome back! If you underwent a 
smartphone or social media cleanse this past break, I’ll bring you up to speed. Everywhere got really cold 
out, the #MeToo movement picked 
up speed and we’re not (yet) engaged in a nu-
clear war with North Korea. Is everyone caught up?
Great. It’s now Jan. 8, the ﬁ  rst day of the 
Spring semester and the start of the second week of 2018. For some of us, this is a new term in the beginning or middle of our academic ca-reers. For others, this will be the semester we say goodbye to UF, Santa Fe College or Gainesville itself: as graduating 
students, as professionals in search of new jobs, as people 
on to different places in the great beyond. What will you do with the rest of your time here?
As a graduating senior myself, I’ve been toggling back 
and forth between nervous excitement and sentimental nostalgia for a town I haven’t even left yet. I know I’ve talked about new-semester resolutions and yearly goals in the past, but this new semester — this new year — 
feels different. I can’t say, “Well, I’ll just do that next ti,” 
anymore. Next time is now — and that adds on a lot of 
pressure on the entries I’ve had on my bucket list since my 
ﬁ  rst day of freshman year.
So this has me thinking, perhaps it’s time I review 
that bucket list. So, without further ado, here are some of my major goals and must-do’s for my ﬁ  nal semester (and please feel free to borrow some for yourself to add to your own).
First up: Eat local, shop local. Your body and soul will 
thank you. This is the semester, reasonable budget allow-ing, I vow to try every Gainesville restaurant I haven’t gotten to yet. The range of diverse food options just in the 15-minute radius surrounding UF’s campus can totally surprise you — and the restaurants usually provide a qual-ity bang for your buck. I am not letting one hidden gem go outside my grasp this semester (and, in the spirit of friendship, you’re all invited).
I don’t know about you, but I’ll be showing 
up at more music venues and downtown shows 
this semester, too. The local music scene fea-
tures tons of awesome indie and underground artists, as well as a few more popular bands and musicians, too. Like the food in Gainesville, the range of musical acts and artsy shows is good for the soul.
Yeah, yeah, it probably goes without saying, 
but I’ll deﬁ  nitely be hitting up Midtown a little 
more this semester. I don’t plan to trudge my way through sloshy bar ﬂ  oors and crowded bathroom lines and stair-
wells in my 30s, so why not get it out of my system now?
Most importantly, I intend to tell my Gainesville net-
work — my closest friends, my club acquaintances, my 
professors and mentors — how much I have loved and appreciated their support throughout these past few years. Somehow, the years have simultaneously ﬂ  own by and taken a lifetime.
Without the network I have been so lucky to call my 
own during my time here, I truly don’t know how I would 
have done it. From the bottom of my heart, I want people 
to know how much their advice, vent sessions, late-night 
Midnight Cookie feasts, reality checks and hugs have meant to me each step of the way.
So there you have it. This is by no means my full buck-
et list for the upcoming semester, but it’s a good place to start. No matter where this Spring term takes you — or takes any of us — remember the goals you have set for yourself with each new day, month or semester. I know 
I will.
And for the love of all that is holy, can someone make 
sure I visit Devil’s Den Prehistoric Spring before May 6?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column appears on Mondays.Set realistic goals
It’s that time of the year again. The gym is ﬁ  lled to capac-
ity, the library is surprisingly full and the rude classmate you’ve dealt with for the past three semesters is suddenly rather friendly. It’s a new year, a new semester and a new chance for people to change for the better — or at least for 
them to pretend to.
According to Forbes, just 8 percent of people are actually 
successful in keeping their New Year’s resolutions. This unim-pressive follow-through rate is, in our opinion, a result of the unattainable goals people routinely set for themselves at the start of the new year.
Initially, we all have intentions that don’t appear to be in-
surmountable. We are able to look around at the other people in our lives and see them achieve the things we want — the things we think will make us happy — with ease. Our outside observations and lack of consideration for their natural talents, general lifestyle and personal history, make the goals we set look all too easy to achieve.
We start to think: If our roommate can go to the gym every 
day, why shouldn’t we be able to? If our sister got a 4.0 GPA when she went to UF, why shouldn’t we be able to do the same?
It’s great to get inspired by our friends and family, of 
course, but it’s important for us to keep in mind that everyone has their individual strengths and weaknesses.
For example, your roommate might make it look easy to 
go to the gym everyday, but they might have a long history of daily exercise or more time to devote to ﬁ  tness. Your sister might have gotten a 4.0 when she went to UF, but maybe she wasn’t as involved on campus as you are. We have to keep in mind everyone can’t be good at everything. In the same sense, your roommate might not be able to write as well as you can and your sister might not be able to truly enjoy philanthropic work like you do.
When we try to become the people around us and mimic 
their successes, we not only set ourselves up for failure, but we miss out on a real opportunity to improve ourselves. In other words, we need to stop using the new year as an excuse to force ourselves to be something we aren’t and start using it to build upon what is already great about us. This year, instead of trying to tack on new traits and falsiﬁ  ed interests with the start of the year, we need to try to focus on enhanc-ing the already unique and admirable traits we possessed the year before.
We should set goals that incorporate things we already en-
joy and focus on getting better at those things. Book lovers should set goals to read more books than they did the year be-fore, not to get better grades in math. Runners should set goals to run faster paces or further distances than the year before, not to lift heavier weights.
This isn’t to say we shouldn’t recognize our weaknesses or 
shouldn’t try to improve them. It’s to say we should come to terms with the fact that we have them and celebrate our tal-ents, rather than beat ourselves up over our failures.
When we improve upon what we are already good at, not 
only will we end the year more successful than the one before, but we will likely end it happier as well. Instead of wasting several weeks or months pretending to love yoga or faking an interest in calculus, you’ll be nurturing your desires and spending time making yourself happy. After all, isn’t that all we really want? To end each year happier than the last?
Melissa Gomez
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING EDITOR, 
PRINT
Mia 
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
Photos by T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff  
Hogtown Brewdown at First Magnitude Brewing Company, lo-
cated at 1220 SE Veitch St., organized by Hogtown Brewers, was 
an event full of beer, food and fun. Tickets were sold for $40 per person, and some of the proceeds benefited the Alachua County Humane Society.
RIGHT: Christina Carter, left, and Ryann Donahue, right, of 
The Homebodies perform live music during Sunday’s Hogtown 
Brewdown at First Magnitude Brewing Company. The Gainesville-based band specializes in soulful, acoustic music as well as covers of classic songs.
BELOW LEFT: UF third-year veterinary students Kaitlin O’Connor, 
Emily Rizzo, Erin Bentley and Kasey Bedard chat while enjoying appetizers and beer samples at the Hogtown Brewdown located at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Sunday afternoon. 
BELOW RIGHT: Gainesville residents T ammy and Kerry Brock 
participate in the Hogtown Brewdown’s silent auction benefiting the Alachua County Humane Society.  
Beer, food and music: Event fundraises for animal shelter
THE GROUP’S FIRST PROJECT 
AIMS TO SLOW DOWN BURN 
RATES OF WILDFIRES.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF alumnus has created an organiza-
tion to help solve issues of sustainability and urban development around the world. 
Russell Anderson, a UF sustainable de-
velopment practice alumnus, said the con-sortium, which will launch its website Wednesday, already has 52 members from 24 countries, speaking 14 different languag-es. The consortium addresses global sustain-ability issues on a local level, Anderson said.
“Everyone here has really great net-
works, and our goal is to really help bring opportunities to the individual that we work 
side-by-side with,” the 32-year-old said. 
The consortium’s first project will launch 
Jan. 15 and help slow the burn rate of wild-
fires by using plants like aloe, agave and 
cacti, which have high water contents, An-
derson said. 
“Nothing can really prevent wildfires, 
but we can slow it down significantly be-cause you have it up against a space with 
a really high water content,” he said. “The plants they’re recommending for these spac-es don’t burn as readily as most vegetation that you would find in a normal landscape.”
Anderson said the project could eventu-
ally help nations with uncontrollable wild-
fires. The consortium has proposed to re-
search the plants on 100-yard plots of land. The sites of these plots are unknown.
“If you think about the cost of planting one of these landscapes versus the cost of 
half a house burning down, it’s huge,” he 
said. “Our ability to save state agencies and insurance companies a whole bunch of money is huge, but we’re also helping to 
preserve life and property too, which is just 
as important.” 
These plants will also help to slow the 
spread of invasive plant species, Anderson said.
“This project is really us as a network 
getting our feet wet and how these policies 
and practices may rule out or translate into different countries.” 
Joe Lacey, the logistics manager for the 
consortium, said one of the biggest focuses 
for 2018 is getting grants for sustainable 
projects.
“The idea is to take the experience and 
knowledge and the connections, the net-working we’ve developed as colleagues, and 
be able to bring that into grant writing and 
viable action within the development com-munity,” the 43-year-old said. “The hope is that the network that we have can partici-
pate faster. If we could do all this together, 
it would be exponentially beneficial.” 
Anderson said 17 of the members who 
have already joined are UF alumni. 
“I got to talking with some of my peers 
more and more, and we realized how much 
we could support one another in our respec-tive projects, but in our collective long-term growth as well,” he said. “We want to help 
each other succeed and solve some of our 
global problems on a localized level.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgA UF alumnus’ global group is tackling sustainabilityMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
By David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
Hikers looking to enjoy some 
of Paynes Prairie Preserve State 
Park’s most popular trails could 
get their feet wet on the journey, 
park officials warn.
Minor flooding persists 
throughout much of Paynes Prai-
rie as a result of Hurricane Irma and heavy rains from September 
and October, park official Joe 
Weisberg said. La Chua Trail, one of the park’s most popular trails, and Cones Dike Trail still 
have water as deep as 1 foot. 
Last week’s rain added a couple 
more inches to the flooding, 
Weisberg said.
“You can pretty much hike 
most trails, you might just get a 
little soaked,” he said.
After Hurricane Irma, La 
Chua Trail remained closed un-
til mid-October. After the hurri-
cane, park officials estimated the 
storm damage to county parks to be at least $65,000, according to Alligator archives.
This sort of monthslong flood-
ing is beneficial to the prairie ecosystem, said Donald For-
gione, the park’s director. The 
floodwater kills off excess trees and shrubbery, which then be-
come food and shelter for insects 
at the bottom of the food chain.The last time this natural 
flooding occurred was in 2004, 
after Hurricanes Charley, Fran-
ces and Jeanne, Forgione said. 
Since September, the water from 
Hurricane Irma has gone down 
about 10 inches, but some parts 
of the prairie outside of the trails 
still have 6-feet-deep water.
“To us, the prairie isn’t flood-
ed. It’s just full of water,” For-
gione said. “Just like a hurricane 
and fire, it’s part of nature’s de-
sign and is perfectly healthy.”
Forgione said despite the 
flooding in the prairie, which hasn’t been seen in a decade, he hasn’t seen any dip in visitors.
“It hasn’t dampened the spirit 
of our visitors. If anything, our visitors enjoy coming out and 
seeing natural phenomenon,” he 
said. 
Weisberg said it’s unclear 
when the flooding will complete-
ly subside. Winter’s freezing 
temperatures and cloudy skies 
have prolonged the flooding.
“Until it warms up, the wa-
ter’s going to be about the same,” he said. “It really depends on the 
sun coming out and heating (the park) up a little bit.”
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.orgSome Paynes Prairie trails remain flooded after Irma
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
US Route 441 Still Flooded
The outer lanes on both sides of U.S. Route 441 through Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park are still 
closed nearly four months after Hurricane Irma. Flooding from heavy rainfall and a collapsed levee caused the lane closures.
REMEDIUM CO-FOUNDER DID 45 
GOOD DEEDS, ONE A DAY.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
For Eric Gilbert, his 45th day of Christmas 
ended Sunday.
Gilbert, a co-founder of Remedium, a health 
and wellness subscription box company, set out 
to complete 45 good deeds — one a day — for people in Gainesville, the 32-year-old said. He collected his good deed ideas from people who 
donated to a 45-day Indiegogo crowdfunding 
campaign for the launch of Remedium, which is set to open Friday. On Sunday, he handed out hot chocolate and shoes at Grace Marketplace, located at 3055 NE 28th Ave., in cold tempera-
tures.
Gilbert shared good deeds, such as helping a 
stranger buy her husband a suit for Christmas and volunteering at youth groups and animal 
shelters, on his company’s Facebook page. His first good deed was Nov. 22, when he drove his mother-in-law to the hospital.
“When it comes to the moment of opening 
your mouth and saying, ‘Hey, can I help you 
with this?’ I get a little nervous,” Gilbert said. “I 
think my heart skips a beat for the second there. But I’m always glad I did.”
On Nov. 24, while in line at Burlington Coat 
Factory, located at 2643 NW 13th St., he and his wife, Carol Gilbert-Orrego, overheard a woman had an item on layaway and offered to pay for her Christmas gift — a new suit — for her hus-band.
“It turned into a really cool moment, and the 
people at the store were kind of like, ‘Wow! What just happened?’ you know, so it just turned into a whole positive moment together.”Gilbert said his favorite good deed was 
his fourth, when he met a homeless man named Jim near Southwest 13th Street, who was holding a sign and asking for help.  
   Gilbert offered to help Jim with something, and Jim asked for a ride to Grace Marketplace. The men ended up grabbing lunch together at Taco Del Mar, Gilbert said.
“It was neat, not only was it helping him, 
but it felt more like a personal connection,” Gil-bert said. “Rather than just like doing a favor for somebody, it won me a little bit of a friendship for a moment.”
Sarah Wallace, Remedium’s graphic and web 
designer, said she was impressed how Gilbert put the company’s mission into practice.
“He wanted a way to show the world he was 
walking the walk, not just talking the talk,” Wallace said. 
Gilbert said the purpose of making the good 
deeds campaign at the same time he was fund-raising for his company was to emphasize the 
values he wants his company to represent.
“Sometimes when you go into business ven-
ture there’s a lot of questions and a lot of un-
knowns,” Gilbert said. “For 45 days we’re going 
to make a positive difference around our com-
munity and that’s going to be a part of our mis-sion right from the start.”
At times, Gilbert said, doing good was a chal-
lenge.
“Some days were challenging with trying to 
coordinate schedules and squeeze it in some-where, but that was also part of the adventure,” he said. “I feel more a part of this community 
now, and more aware of the needs here.”
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgCEO finishes 45 good deeds ahead of company launch
Courtesy to the Alligator
Eric Gilbert, a co-founder of Remedium, poses with a Burlington Coat 
Factory customer and her son. Gilbert, 34, paid for a men’s suit the woman had on layaway — a Christmas present for her husband.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
QUEEN OF THE WINTER FLOWERS
Gainesville resident Kaydie Vistelle looks at a purple swirl camellia among the other ﬂ  owers on 
display at the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens camellia show on Saturday. The 55-year-old said her neighbor asked her to attend the two-day event, which began on Saturday.
Will Clewis / Alligator Staff
A table full of camellias was on display at the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens camellia show on Saturday. The event sought to educate the public about the care, culture and appreciation of the ﬂ  ower.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was accused of calling 
a woman 50 times and telling her co-workers 
he would come visit their ofﬁ  ce, Gainesville Police said. 
Robert Burton Wetherington, 37, was ar-
rested Friday on a charge of stalking, accord-ing to an arrest report. He started messaging the woman in November over Facebook and met her for lunch at Southern Charm Kitch-en, located at 1714 SE Hawthorne Road, in early December. 
The woman told police 
the meeting was friendly, according to the report. She said after the lunch he began asking personal 
questions, but they met again at Depot Park, lo-
cated at 200 SE Depot Ave., later that month.
After, Wetherington’s attitude changed, and he accused her of sleeping with her men-tor, the woman told police.
She told him she wasn’t interested in a ro-
mantic relationship, police said. After calling her with no answer, Wetherington messaged the woman saying he was lonely.
“I do not react well to rejection, it causes 
major impulses,” he wrote, according to the report.
The woman told police she didn’t give 
him her personal number and was worried he would come to her house, police said.He called her ofﬁ  ce and told her co-work-
ers he would show up, according to the re-port.
He was charged with two counts of ha-
rassing phone calls in 2008, but prosecu-tors dismissed the case, according to court records.
He was taken to the Alachua County Jail, 
where he was released Sunday on a $15,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Man arrested after cyberstalking woman on Facebook
Wetherington
MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6GOOD QUALITY
RATTAN DINETTE SET
Glass-top table, 4 chairs. $150. Call or text 
352-256-7977    1-12-18-3-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
1-8-17-43-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
PRIVATE UNIT & BATH
Serene country setting in Micanopy. Utils & 
internet incl. Grad student preferred. Avail 
now. $650/mo. Call/text Lacey 352-318-4490    
1-8-17-8-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
Houses Available For Aug 2018
Walk, Bike Or Bus.
gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.comCall or text 352-339-2342        1-8-17-8-2
Charming Historic Cottage 2 BR 1 BA.Near Law school. CH/A, screened porch, granddaddy oaks. Available Now2703 NW 2nd Ave. 900 mo w/approved cred-it. No pets 352-332-5836     1-19-18-5-2
MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-2-18-11-13
NEED CASH?
Buying: Gold & Silver Jewelry, Watches, 
Coins, Currency, Collectibles
Call: 352-213-3802     1-31-10-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-31-18-10-14
Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
WANTED: Personal Assistant for very suc-cessful Entrepreneur. $20/hr. Must have vibrant personality, be in great physical shape, enjoys sporting events. Office sup-port; computer &amp; plan social functions; light house work/errands; some travel. Email resume & photo to: nebnepmac@gmail.com    1-8-18-6-14
1.  Make
1.  Reviewer5.  Block of metal
2.  Etch6.  Divvy up
3.  Summed 7.  Person in front
4.  ____ LakeAETCRE
CIICRTGONTI
TLAOL
VNGEAER
DTOETALDREEAL
ERCARTANSWERS: 1A-Create  5A-Ingot  6A-Allot  7A-Leader
1D-Critic  2D-Engrave  3D-Totaled  4D-Crater  B-Titanic1-8-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This movie was nominated 
for 14 Academy Awards.
BONUSACROSS
1 Green gem
5 Actress Greta
10 Ponzi scheme,
for one
14 Boy in “The Kite
Runner”
15 Toward the back
16 When tripled, a
1970 WWII film
17 Spanish “nothing”
18 Free, in France19 Reddish-brown
horse
20 Israeli
submachine gun
21 Admit to
wrongdoing incourt
23 Embark from a
dock
25 Spaniel’s
welcome
26 Indian-born
storekeeper on“The Simpsons”
27 Bening of
“AmericanBeauty”
31 Location-based
smartphonegame release of
2016
35 Half a bray36 Radio knob
37 1998 biopic
about modelCarangi
38 Travelocity ad
figure
40 Ctrl-__-Delete:
PC reboot combo
41 Similar set of
individuals
43 Reveal
46 Help
47 Negative
connection
48 Climbing plant
52 Inland sea
between Iran andSaudi Arabia
57 Dockworkers’ gp.58 Soothing plant
extract
59 Pageant
headgear
60 Prefix with lateral61 Arctic seabird62 No __ sight63 Bugs Bunny
adversary Elmer
64 Smartphone
message
65 Gave medicine to66 Golf ball 
supportsDOWN
1 Two-faced god2 Fill with wonder
3 Completed the
task
4 Significant period5 Steel-gray
metallic element
6 Disney mermaid
7 Country star
McEntire
8 The __:
Shakespeare
9 Pizza herb
10 Conflict11 Like much fall
weather
12 “I smell __!”
13 Lots of
21 Daily news
source
22 Coffee vessel24 Japanese
alcoholicbeverage
27 Ice cream
thickener
28 Old-style you
29 Pack (down)
firmly
30 Sheep girl
31 Sheepdog from
Hungary
32 Being aired33 S-shaped
molding34 Never, in
Dortmund
36 Little bit
38 Bereavement39 Bump on a branch41 Like many
animated films ...and a hint to 21-, 31-, 41- and 52-Across
42 Floral wreath
44 Remove from
office
45 Law, in Lille48 Madame of
physics
49 Arouse, as
interest
50 Avoid capture by
51 Surprise attacks52 Good old days53 Actress Sommer54 Gumbo thickener55 El __: weather
phenomenon
56 Wanders
restlessly
60 Baby newt
By Parikshit S. Bhat
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/08/1801/08/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, January 8, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
RGIS, LLC
Hiring NOW!
Inventory Associates• Starting: $9.00• Flexible p/t work• Promotion opportunities• Regular wage reviews• Grp health plan after 90 days• Equal Opportunity EmployerStart your career today!Apply @: www.rgis.comJob #: PRE1511       1-8-18-6-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-12-18-7-14
WANTEDBartender & Barback Experienced, Reliable and ResponsibleDirty Bar, Gainesville FL(352) 373-1141     1-10-18-5-14
Girls Place, Inc. Classroom CounselorsLooking for passionate & enthusiastic peoplePT M-F After SchoolApply online www.girlsplace.net     1-8-18-4-14
Psychology Office looking for Spring 
Semester Volunteer Office Interns. Two 
full-day a week commitment. Credit may 
be available through UF psychology and 
English Departments. Excellent writing and 
communication skills important.
Send vita/resume with letter of interest to
info@cpancf.com
1-17-18-6-14
Seeking PT help with admin and misc tasks. No exp nec, but professional communication, attention to detail, and willingness to learn are a must. Tasks include processing orders, data entry, folding apparel, and others. Exp with USPS, Quickbooks, Microsoft Office, and inventory are preferred. Flexible sched-ule is okay, but we need around 15 hrs/week split over 2-3 days. To apply, please send a resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com  1-19-18-5-14
Seeking part-time copy editor for scuba-related articles and educational texts and materials. Must have prior editorial/copy editing experience and must have advanced grammar knowledge. Please send resume and cover letter to corey@gue.com   1-19-18-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
Reduce Your Student Loans & Obtain Financial Freedom!  Join Our Affiliate Program At ConversionPros and Get Paid on 3 Levels! Unlimited Potential!  See Exciting Details at http://ernie187.recruitlikeamachine.com/partner    1-8-18-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Friday, January 12, from 
9:00 a.m to 5:00 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR HAS THE 
FOLLOWING POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Copy Editors, Photo Interns, 
Contributing Writers.
Visit us at 
either location!
CAMPUS:
Weimer G207
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th Street
Visit the Independent Florida Alligator’s OPEN HOUSE Facebook event and meet the editors 
WELCOME BACK
YOU MAKE
A DIFFERENCE
GIVE BLOOD
T ext HERO
to 63928
to find your
nearest
Big Red Bus!
oneblood.org/gainesville
106306FREE $10 Gift Card and  
T-Shirt for all donors!14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A Gainesville house, located at 304 NW 15th T errace, caught ﬁ  re on Dec. 30 
due to an unattended candle in the front of the house, leaving its ﬁ  ve residents homeless, Gainesville Fire Rescue Lt. Ronald Thomas said. One resident who was inside during the ﬁ  re was trapped before being rescued by Gainesville Police and GFR. The resident was sent to the hospital and treated for smoke inhalation, and the three GPD ofﬁ  cers were treated for smoke inhalation on site.
Alligator Archive - Jan. 19, 1977
Editor’s Note: Over winter break, meteorol-
ogists said a temperature drop and expected 
rain could cause snow to fall in Gainesville. Though that didn’t come to pass, we at the Alligator wanted to take you back to Jan. 19, 
1977, when snow did fall.
Snow! ‘Heaviest snow ever’ causes 
stir in Gainesville
By Dennis Kneale
Alligator Staff Writer“It’s snowing in Florida. Class is dis-
missed.”
With that, journalism professor Jon 
Roosenraad turned loose 40 students — some of them already hanging out windows in the stadium to catch elusive snowﬂ  akes — to celebrate the ﬁ  rst heavy snowfall in Gainesville in ﬁ  ve years.
“This is the heaviest snow since I’ve 
been here for 30 years,” Gainesville Mayor Jim Richardson, a UF business professor, said. “I’ve seen a little bit drift down three 
or four times, but not like this.”
And while the precipitation was far from 
blizzard proportions, it did cause telephone 
lines to become “snowed under” with call-ers talking about the Florida ﬂ  urries.
Phones on the UF campus and in other 
parts of Gainesville could receive incom-ing calls only because heavy phone trafﬁ  c “locked” telephone wires and kept phone 
users from getting dial tones, a company 
spokeswoman said.
One Southern Bell Telephone and Tele-graph Company employee said, “The last time the phone lines were this bad was when President Kennedy was shot.”
While temperatures dropped below 20 
degrees early Tuesday morning, students 
and other residents in ﬁ  ve apartment com-
plexes were left without light and heat from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. when a wire fell into transmission and distribution lines.
WCJB weatherman Mel Turner said 
Tuesday’s snow was the ﬁ  rst for Gainesville since 1972.
“As far as I know, this is the heaviest 
snowfall ever in Gainesville. I’d have to 
say we’ve got a legitimate snowfall,” Turn-
er said.
Temperatures were expected to go as 
low as the mid-teens Tuesday night and are projected to get only as high as the mid-40s today.
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Sgt. Ray 
Newman said Tuesday the snow may cause slick roads in and outside Gainesville.
“I imagine the snow will cause some 
problems for the drivers (Tuesday night) who don’t know how to handle the roads, but the displaced Yankees we have here will have no difﬁ  culty,” Newman said.
Meanwhile wispy snowﬂ  akes drifted 
and stuck onto frigid cars and the damp ground.
Residents in the Village Park apartment 
complex on Southwest 16th Avenue stood outside in the cold, yelling and taking pic-tures of one another in the snow.
The Murphree Commons turned into a 
snowball battleﬁ  eld as students happily In 1977, most were in awe 
of snow in Gainesville 
pelted one another with the white stuff 
that’s not supposed to fall in Florida.
About 100 students gathered on the 
Plaza of the Americas to walk amidst the snowfall — and continue to grin at one an-
other.
Ben Gross was one Northerner who en-
joyed the snow like everyone else.
“I haven’t seen snow in four years. I 
love it. I’ve been praying for it, it’s outra-geous,” Gross said.
“People are nicer when it snows out,” 
Donna Desimmone said.
But UF Executive Vice President Harold 
Hanson wasn’t impressed.
“I was born in Minnesota, raised in 
Wisconsin and lived in Norway. I don’t see 
any snow,” he said Tuesday.Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/sportsHow does Malik Zaire and 
other football players choose the type of facemask they wear on game days? Find out on pg. 17.By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
Three games into conference play, the Florida 
men’s basketball team’s identity is beginning to take 
shape.
A home victory over Vanderbilt along with two 
road wins against then-No. 11 Texas A&M and Mis-souri have shown coach Mike White that the Gators (11-4, 3-0 SEC) have leaders who can help the team sustain its undefeated start to SEC competition.
Senior point guard Chris Chiozza continues to 
blossom in crucial game situations, showcasing his clutch play with a game-winning steal and layup to 
give UF a 77-75 lead over Missouri with 0.1 seconds 
left on Saturday afternoon.
“I think he’s one of the most underrated guys 
in the country,” White said on Thursday. “From a toughness standpoint, from an accountability and de-pendability standpoint, he’s just in a good rhythm.”
Playing at least 32 minutes in each of the team’s 
first three SEC contests, Chiozza has averaged 14 points and six assists, both slightly above his season averages.
Defensively, the senior continues to create havoc 
in opponent passing lanes. He has totaled five steals 
in conference play, including matching his season 
high with four against the Aggies.
Chiozza isn’t the only veteran to elevate his game.Junior forward Kevarrius Hayes continued his 
strong play on Saturday against Missouri, scoring in double figures for the first time this season with 10 points to go along with five offensive rebounds.
The Gators are asking a lot of Hayes defensively 
in the absence of injured big men John Egbunu, Isa-iah Stokes and Chase Johnson.
Hayes has patrolled the paint well, swatting away 
10 shots through the team’s first three conference matchups and creating uncomfortable looks inside Chiozza, Hayes propelling Florida to top of the SEC standings
Bulldogs, Crimson Tide meet tonight in national title game
Georgia and Alabama will square off in the College Football Playoff Nation-
al Championship tonight at 8 p.m. in Atlanta. The game will be broadcasted on ESPN.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
MEN'S BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
 
After receiving an inbound pass at the 
top of the key, Florida forward Paulina 
Hersler pulled up with five seconds left in the fourth quarter. Down by two, Hersler 
missed a shot to the right of the rim, but 
guard Dyandria Anderson pulled down an offensive rebound and scored a layup with 
less than one second remaining to send the 
game to overtime.
It was the highlight play in UF’s regula-
tion comeback against Ole Miss on Sunday in Oxford, but the Gators (8-8, 0-3 SEC) would ultimately come up short against the Rebels, losing 78-75 in double overtime.
Toward the end of the first half, Ole Miss 
(11-5, 1-2 SEC) held a double-digit lead 
over UF and was flustering the Gators’ of-
fensive attack. The Rebels limited Florida to 33.3 percent shooting from the field in the 
game’s opening 20 minutes and held it to 
only 21 points.
Turnovers also played a big role in the 
Gators poor start. Florida recorded nine giveaways in the first quarter, paving the way for the Rebels to score 12 points off 
UF’s mishaps.
“We need more out of our upperclass-
men, playing with the ball, handling pres-Gators drop third straight game 
in double-OT loss to Ole MissAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Chris Chiozza is averaging 14 points and six assists per game in SEC play this season. "I think he's one of the 
most underrated guys in the country, " UF coach Mike White said.
 SEE M-BBALL,  PAGE 18
GYMNASTICS
By Alana Gomez
Sports Writer
The moment junior Alicia Boren’s feet hit 
the mat at the end of her uneven bars rou-
tine, her face transformed into a smile as bright as the sparkles on her uniform.
The wait was over. Boren had just fin-
ished her first event of the season, registering a solid 9.900. 
On Saturday, the No. 2 Gators (1-0) 
opened regular-season action away from home against West Virginia in a 195.900-194.425 win. Boren boosted the team’s vic-tory with an all-around score of 39.575, the highest ever to open a season in UF’s history.
The Gators will enter their first home meet of the season on Friday against No. 3 LSU, an opponent they haven't defeated since 2011.
Florida's regular season meet against the 
Tigers last season on March 5, 2016, ended 
with UF losing 198.150-196.600 and LSU 
earning the 2017 SEC title. Florida will look to write a different narrative against the Ti-gers in 2018, backed by its home crowd at the O'Connell Center. It will need to make up for some of the minor mistakes and stumbles that took place against West Virginia, but the team doesn’t expect anything to hold them back in its next meet.
“I think the biggest takeaway is to not lin-
ger on what happened at this meet,” Boren said in a release after the win over WVU. “I UF moving on after season-
opening win against WVU
SEE W-BBALL,  PAGE 18 SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 18MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
FOOTBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
The average football game only features 
about 11 minutes of actual football, accord-
ing to the Wall Street Journal, with the other 49 lost to runoff between plays. So tonight, when Alabama plays Georgia in the College Football Playoff National Championship, take one of those dormant 49 minutes of replays, huddle shots and sideline views to inspect Crimson Tide quarterback Jalen Hurts and his Bulldogs equal, Jake Fromm. 
Many things about the two are similar. 
They’re both 6-foot-2. They’re both un-
derclassmen. They both often wear wrist-
bands. But if you’re looking for differences, 
one of the first you might notice after skin 
color and hair length is their facemasks. 
Hurts wears a Riddell Revolution Speed 
S2BD-SW-SP while Fromm wears a Riddell SpeedFlex SF-2BD. That coded language 
means nothing to pretty much anyone — 
even the players themselves — outside of 
team equipment managers, but those seem-
ingly random assortments of letters and 
numbers offer players something that foot-
ball can’t steal: identity.
Unlike baseball or basketball, football 
players are hidden under their helmets dur-ing games, their expressions as anonymous 
as their eyes. Jersey numbers help identify 
them, but everyone’s jersey numbers look 
the same. That leaves facemasks as one of 
the main ways players can escape from the 
vagueness that comes with wearing a mask. 
In some way, their helmet and facemask 
choices offer some voice of individuality. 
So how, exactly, do players at Florida de-
cide what that voice will be?
The man to start with is Jeff McGrew, 
UF’s associate director of football equip-
ment. He oversees UF’s equipment opera-
tions, making sure each player has shoulder 
pads that fit and ensuring those pads arrive 
at that player’s locker on time. McGrew 
said he usually sorts by position group 
when guiding players for helmet selection. 
Let’s use offensive lineman Chris Bleich 
— the top lineman currently committed to 
UF in the 2018 recruiting class — as an ex-
ample. He’s already on campus as an early 
enrollee, but assuming he hasn’t picked out 
his helmet yet, he’ll enter a room with Mc-Grew. 
He’ll try on all the helmet types UF has 
to offer and find the best fit. McGrew would 
recommend some of the more high-impact 
models for him since his position requires regular contact. Once he picks which hel-
met fits best, McGrew will explain which 
facemasks go with that helmet, along with 
some advice. 
“This one has a little more to it,” he 
might say. “It’s probably for a guy down in 
the trenches.”
But maybe Bleich plans on wearing a 
hard chin strap, so he doesn’t need that ex-
tra protection. In that case, he might opt for a lighter facemask. 
McGrew said that historically, linemen 
on both sides of the ball have favored 
large facemasks for extra protection while 
skill position players like the lighter ones with less bars, which give them more vi-
sion. However, he added that times have 
changed. “I think the facemask has kind of be-
come more a part of the look — the cool look that kids wanna have,” he said. “The bigger guys have really kinda gone away 
from wearing the bigger facemask design 
kind of for that position. They kinda natu-
rally just wanted to wear something that’s light and looks more flashy.”
Former Florida quarterback Malik Zaire 
is one example of someone who took that 
light and flashy approach with his Schutt 
AiR XP Pro helmet with a basic, single-bar facemask. 
“It was all about simplicity,” he said. “It 
was pretty basic and gave me the most vi-
sion. And it looked the best, in my opin-
ion.”That seems to be the general balancing 
act for players: What’s the most functional, sure, but also what looks the coolest? Mc-Grew said he’s seen players’ interest in that 
aspect rise in recent years. 
“When guys come in,” he said, “they 
want a mirror.”
Like players’ evolution in wanting cool-
looking headgear, McGrew said the equip-ment staff has evolved as well in regard to 
safety. Riddell and Schutt, the two most 
common helmet manufacturers, contact Florida whenever they come out with a new product. So do other smaller companies like 
Xenith. That, McGrew said, allows the staff 
at Florida to be constantly aware of the saf-
est models available, which are ordered when necessary. 
“If there’s a new helmet out there,” he 
said, “then we’ll know about it.”
When that next order is inevitably 
placed, the new helmets will join four main 
types currently used by UF, while the ac-
companying facemasks will swell an inven-tory that McGrew estimated is already over 200 strong. Which, while safety remains 
paramount, offers players some reprieve 
from that anonymity brought on by foot-
ball. 
“There’s definitely a visual appeal to it 
as well,” McGrew said. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgEver wonder how football players choose their facemasks? 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Former UF quarterback Malik Zaire wore a Schutt AiR XP Pro helmet with a basic, single-bar facemask. “It was all about simplicity, ” Zaire said. “And it looked the best, in my opinion. ”
It’s a little more complicated a process than you’d think18   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018
for opposing players.
“He’s not a guy that’s going to move bod-
ies,” White said after Hayes’ eight-point, five-
block performance against Texas A&M on Tuesday. “But to do his best and hold his own against elite length and elite girth… he gave 
everything he had.”Redshirt sophomore forward Keith Stone 
showed growth as a scorer and defender at the other forward spot as well. After a career-high 
18 points versus Texas A&M, Stone showed offensive consistency with a 13-point outing against the Tigers.
Stone projects as a stretch four who can 
spread defenders out with his perimeter shot. Six made jumpers from beyond the arc over the past two games has Stone’s three-point shooting percentage at a solid 53.1 percent.
“It’s what we’ve seen in practice for a long 
time,” White said. “And we were really ready for him to break out for a long time… It was no surprise to our staff or his teammates.”
Chiozza, Hayes and Stone – all players 
who have been with White through his three seasons at Florida – are growing under added pressure and important game situations.
The veterans’ play will determine the po-
tential of the team as SEC play continues, es-pecially until the return of UF’s injured play-ers.
“We’re in a decent rhythm right now,” 
White said. “It’s about who plays well and who’s getting more minutes and who’s getting 
better and sometimes, who finishes games.”
@SkylerLebron
slebron@alligator.org
M-BBALL,  from pg. 16Stone scored 18 against Texas A&M on Tuesdaysure, being aggressive,” UF 
coach Cameron Newbauer 
said in a release.
The second half, how-
ever, was a different story. The Gators’ offense improved 
its efficiency, making 43.2 percent of its shots, and the 
team’s defense made stops 
when it needed to, limiting the Rebels to eight points in the 
final 4:27 of regulation. The 
comeback effort, capped off by Anderson’s game-tying score, 
sent the contest to overtime.
In the two additional peri-
ods, Florida and Ole Miss went back and forth. Neither team 
led by more than three points, and both teams held a lead at 
least once in each overtime.
UF was leading by two 
points with four seconds left in the first overtime when 
Rebels guard Alissa Alston drove down the right side of the paint and beat the buzzer 
to tie the game. In the second 
overtime, Gators forward Hal-ey Lorenzen missed a game-
tying three-pointer as time 
expired to seal Florida’s third consecutive loss.
Lorenzen led the team with 
19 points and 10 rebounds, notching her eighth double-
double of the season. UF’s 
leading scorer, Funda Nakka-soglu, also punched in anoth-
er double-digit scoring outing 
with 18 points.
“We weren’t ready out of 
the gate for some reason but battled back,” Newbauer said. “It’s tough to swallow this one 
when you fight back so hard 
and have some really good moments here and there.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgW-BBALL,  from pg. 16Gators lost by three
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Dyandria Anderson's late-game heroics 
weren't enough to help UF get past Ole Miss on Sunday.
think it’s to be strong and be positive and get ready.”
LSU counted for one of UF’s two losses in the 
regular season last spring. Come Friday, Florida 
doesn’t want to give up a win in home territory so easily.
“(They’re a) very talented team,” coach Jenny 
Rowland said in a release. “I know they’re gonna get to the gym on Monday and kick it up a notch for our next home meet.” 
Against West Virginia, the Gators faced the chal-
lenge of swapping players in and out of the lineup, with some gymnasts put in events they weren’t used to. After adjusting to its circumstances, UF pulled out a win with senior Alex McMurtry leading bars 
and vault and Boren placing first in floor and beam.
“I think all we have to learn is just expect any-
thing,” McMurtry said in a release. “We had some 
falls and mistakes and that’s usual this time of the year and that’s fine, so I think we just need to be ready for anything.”
@alanaa_gomez
agomez@alligator.orgGYMNASTICS,  from pg. 16UF faces LSU at 
home on FridayReduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTSTRACK & FIELD
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
Ten Gators made their collegiate debut 
and the Florida men’s and women’s track 
and ﬁ  eld teams won ﬁ  ve events to kick off 
their indoor seasons on Saturday at the Or-
ange and Purple Classic in Clemson, South Carolina.
Versatile sophomore Grant Holloway 
swept both rounds of the 60-meter hurdles, winning the ﬁ  nal round with a time of 7.69 seconds. Holloway won SEC and NCAA titles in the same event last year.
He also ﬁ  nished third in the 300-meter, 
behind junior Kunle Fasasi and freshman Benjamin Lobo Vedel, who tied Holloway’s school record of 32.80 seconds to win. 
Senior Lloydricia Cameron took ﬁ  rst 
place in the shot put with a mark of 17.32 
meters. Cameron also won an SEC title in 
the shot put in May 2017.Florida dominated in the weight throw, 
with redshirt junior AJ McFarland (ﬁ  rst, 21.24 meters) and freshman Thomas Mar-dal (second, 20.49 meters) leading the way 
on the men’s side while redshirt junior Jon-
tavia Dykes was runner-up with a toss of 17.44 meters in the women’s competition.
Redshirt junior Harry Glasser had UF’s 
ﬁ  fth ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish in the pole vault. 
Senior KeAndre Bates, an SEC and 
NCAA champion in the long jump, ﬁ  nished fourth on Saturday, but Gators coach Mike Holloway wasn’t too concerned.
“With the bad weather across the coun-
try, it was hard for some people to train 
while they were at home,” he said in a re-
lease. “I’m not worried about that. I want-ed to see effort, I wanted to see focus. We pretty much saw that across the board to-day.”
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org Gators place ﬁ  rst in ﬁ  ve events at Orange and Purple Classic
Wednesday, Jan. 10
Men's Basketball  vs. Mississippi State, 7 p.m., SEC 
Network
Thursday, Jan. 11
Women's Basketball  vs. Kentucky, 7 p.m., SEC 
Network +
Friday, Jan. 12
Gymnastics  vs. LSU, 6:45 p.m., SEC Network
Men's T ennis  @ ITF Futures, All Day
Women's T ennis  @ UNLV Invite, All Day
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Commodores 
Invitational, All Day
Saturday, Jan. 13
Men's Basketball @ Ole Miss, 1 p.m., CBS
Men's T ennis  @ ITF Futures, All Day
Women's T ennis  @ UNLV Invite, All Day
Men's/Women's Track & Field @ Commodores Invitational, All Day
Sunday, Jan. 14
Women's Basketball  vs. LSU, 1 p.m., SEC Network
Men's T ennis  @ ITF Futures, All Day
Women's T ennis @ UNLV Invite, All DayAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The Florida men’s basketball team (11-4, 3-0 SEC) plays twice this week, facing Mississippi State at 
home on Wednesday and Ole Miss on the road on Saturday.
TH
restaurant & roo ftop barEAdmission - 18 and Up
1718 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK 
(Wells start at 25¢)
(Drafts start at 25¢)
LIVE DJFREE WELLS 
LIVE DJWEDNESDAY NIGHT
FREE DRINKS  
FOR LADIES + LIVE DJ
1728 West University Avenue
7pm-12am
$3.99   
½ Pound Burger
$5 All  
Craft Pints7 pm – 12am
2-4-1 Appetizers 
2-4-1 Classic 
Daiquiri’s  
(Fresh not Frozen)
Trivia 7:30pm
7pm – 12am
$5 Flat Breads 
(Margherita or Buffalo Chicken)
$2 Premium 
Wells
$2 Glasses  
of Wine
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Margaritas 
on Tap
$3 Lemon  
Drop Shots
$4 First 
Magnitude 
Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – Close7pm – 12am
$5 Mac N’ 
Cheese
(Buffalo Chicken or  
BBQ Pulled Pork)
$3 Sangria  
of the Week
$3 Craft Cocktail 
of the Week
$3 Craft Beer  
of the Week
LIVE DJ   
9pm – CloseNIGHT 
SPECIALS
7pm – 12am
$3 Tequila Shots
$4 Jager & 
Fireball Shots
$4 Swamp  
Head Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9pm – CloseSUNDAY
FUNDAYMONDAY
BURGER NIGHT2-4-1 
TUESDAYS
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHTFRIDAY SATURDAY
BLOW-OUT
WEDNESDAYSTHURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTYDoor @ 9pm
All You Can Drink Wells
@ 10pm
HAPPY HOUR
ALL DAY ON SUNDAY
$3 Pork Rinds
$3 Wells
$4 Stoli Mules
$4 Edamame 
$4 Swamp  
Head & First 
Mag Drafts20   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 8, 2018