We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gators No. 7 soccer team opens 
season Friday
UF takes on Florida Gulf Coast in an exhibition 
in Ft. Myers. See who will likely take the pitch,
pg. 15UF rakes in $414 million for ﬁ  scal year 2017
Private donations to the university have surpassed $400 million 
for three consecutive years, pg. 5
Suspect in Gainesville bank robbery arrested
The man could be connected to six other robberies, pg. 4VOLUME 112 ISSUE 109
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Danielle Ivanov
Alligator Staff Writer
If you’re having a “ruff” day, one resource 
to try on campus is dog therapy. Offered at both 
Santa Fe College and UF, respective programs 
“Paws & Relax” and “Yappy Hour” connect 
students with Beau, Marco, Siggi and Gabe, the 
four campus therapy dogs.
Beau, the most well-known therapy dog, is 
5 years old and handled by Terry Biehl. He can 
often be found at UF Health Shands Hospital, 
attending reading time with kids at William S. 
Talbot Elementary School or in the Santa Fe 
counseling ofﬁ  ce. 
His favorite treat is freeze-dried chicken 
hearts, and when he’s not working, he likes to 
sit on the couch and stare out the window with 
his brother, Teddy, Biehl said.
Marco is Santa Fe’s second therapy dog, and 
he also works at the local Ronald McDonald 
House and Peaceful Paths.
He turned 3 years old last March and loves 
manchego cheese and “interacting with people. 
He doesn’t like hats though,” his owner, Sergio 
Caballero, said.
Both dogs are hypoallergenic and very mel-
low around newcomers.
The Santa Fe program was pioneered by 
Beau a year and a half ago after Lara Zwilling, 
coordinator of the Santa Fe Counseling Center, 
met him at a fair in town, Biehl said.
Beau usually visits for one to two hours, giv-
ing students and faculty much-needed stress 
relief.
Playing with a therapy dog reduces blood 
pressure and releases the endorphins serotonin, oxytocin, dopamine and prolactin, the hor-
mones responsible for happiness. It also reduces 
the amount of pain medication people need and 
lowers cortisol, the hormone responsible for 
stress, according to Biehl and a study by Rebec-
ca Johnson of the University of Missouri.
In return, the therapy dog also experiences a 
ﬂ  ood of endorphins from being pet and played 
with.
At UF, Barbara Welsch began “Yappy Hour” 
seven years ago to reduce student stress, said 
Jennifer Stuart. Gabe and Siggi, the good boys of 
UF, are the pets of Stuart and Welsch.
Therapy dogs, with training, can work to 
relieve stress for anyone, even those in crises, 
Biehl added. They can improve depression, 
comfort rape survivors and even help people 
overcome their fear of dogs.
“We had a young lady who came in who was 
visibly shaken; she had tears in her eyes,” Zwill-
ing said of a past “Paws & Relax” session. “She 
kind of relaxed when she saw Beau, and Beau 
went straight to her… They bonded instantly. 
It’s just amazing. They (therapy dogs) just re-
ally can read the body language of a student.”
Zwilling said attendance usually varies from 
10 to 15 people during the Fall and Spring se-
mesters at Santa Fe, and her ofﬁ  ce is hoping to 
garner more excitement for “Paws & Relax.”
This Fall, “Yappy Hour” will be 3:30 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m. every Tuesday in the UF Counseling 
& Wellness Center.
“Personally, I think just about anyone can 
beneﬁ  t,” Stuart said. “‘Yappy Hour’ gives stu-
dents a break from stress and gives them an 
opportunity to connect, both with the dogs and 
with each other.”The good boys: UF, Santa Fe employ handful of therapy dogs
By Morgan McMullen
Alligator Staff Writer
Patricia Carey originally wanted 
to be a teacher. She said she ﬁ  nds 
people interesting and wanted to 
teach sociology and psychology af-
ter she graduated from the Univer-
sity of Annhurst in 1972.
Instead, Carey’s path took her 
into the newspaper industry. She 
moved to Gainesville in 1980 after 
working in the sales departments 
at different commercial newspa-
pers in Connecticut. Carey, 68, de-
cided to interview for a job at The 
Independent Florida Alligator on a 
whim from her mother. She was 
then hired as the advertising direc-
tor.
After working for The Alligator 
for 35 years — the last 12 of which she spent as the general manager 
— Carey announced her intention 
to retire at the beginning of 2019.
“I really thought that I had re-
ally done all I can for The Alliga-
tor,” Carey said. “There’s nothing 
else that I could do, so I decided to 
step aside to let somebody else do 
something new, innovative.” 
The Board of Directors for Cam-
pus Communications, Inc. will de-
cide on the next general manager of 
The Alligator. 
Ellen Light, an administrative 
assistant at The Alligator, said she 
had mixed feelings when Carey told 
the production staff of her plans.
“I teased her. I said, ‘You 
couldn’t spare ﬁ  ve more years until 
I retire?’” Light said. “I totally un-
derstood why and knew eventually 
that was going to happen.”By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
In 2017, UF President Kent 
Fuchs announced the “Faculty 
500” initiative, a plan to hire 500 
new faculty by Fall semester to 
rank in the top-5 public research 
universities in the country.
Typically, 300 to 400 new em-
ployees are hired each year, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando said. 
About 230 new faculty members 
were hired to start this Fall, and 
the remaining 270 faculty will be 
hired by Fall 2019, putting the ini-
tiative a year behind its goal.
The majority of the new fac-
ulty members are in the science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics departments with 
some prioritization in liberal arts 
and sciences, Orlando said. The 
$52 million cost for the increase 
in faculty is funded by the Florida 
Legislature, alumni and university 
resources.
The emphasis on STEM ﬁ  elds 
will increase the number of fac-
ulty members who are awarded 
millions of dollars each year for 
their research. UF announced last 
Tuesday that the colleges of Medi-
cine, Engineering, Liberal Arts and 
Sciences and the Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences received 
record-breaking amounts of mon-
ey for research in 2018.
The growth of faculty, research-
ers and research funding will help to rank UF nationally in the top 5 
public universities, Fuchs said.
“In the vast majority of uni-
versity rankings, the University 
of Florida is among the top 10 
public research universities in the 
nation,” Fuchs said in an ofﬁ  cial 
statement.  “Our goal now is to be 
among the top ﬁ  ve.”
The hundreds of new faculty 
will also lower the student to fac-
ulty ratio from a 20:1 ratio to 16:1, 
Orlando said. This ratio is used to 
determine a university’s ranking 
compared with other research in-
stitutions. 
Dana Bartosova is one of 13 
new faculty members in the De-
partment of Mathematics who will Alligator GM set to resign 
after 35 years with paperMore than 200 new faculty hired to 
begin in Fall as part of UF initiativeDanielle Ivanov / Alligator Staff
Marco, a therapy dog used by Santa Fe College, sits in front of a counselor. 
SEE FACULTY,  PAGE 4
 that was going to happen.”
T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 109
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarAMNOONPM
HIGH  92° LOW  74°2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
GATORFeed
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
Tweets of the Week
Meme of the WeekVOLUME 112 ISSUE 109
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Karla Paredes, Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Emily Perpich, Bismarie Plasencia,
  Ruben Riera
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneTHURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
By Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
The suspect of a Wells 
Fargo robbery was arrested by 
Gainesville Police a few hours 
after the crime was committed.
Obadiah Dillard, 40, is sus-
pected of committing six rob-
beries since Aug. 1. The most 
recent being the robbery at the 
Wells Fargo at 1717 NW 13th 
St.
The past robberies that oc-
curred were at Alliance Credit 
Union at 412 E. University Ave.; 
CVS Pharmacy at 311 SW 13th 
St.; CVS Pharmacy at 901 N. 
Main St.; O’Reilly Auto Parts 
at 1208 E. University Ave. and 
Family Dollar at 508 NE 23rd 
Ave., according to a release.
For the past week, a sus-
pect entered these banks and 
businesses, implied that he had a weapon, demanded cash 
and then ﬂ  ed the area on a bi-
cycle, according to a release. 
By the time ofﬁ  cers arrived at 
the scenes, the suspect already 
changed clothes or bicycles and 
blended back into society.
Around 1:30 p.m., a robbery 
was reported at Wells Fargo, 
according to GPD spokesperson 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. 
No weapon was seen, but 
it was implied by the suspect, 
according to a GPD Facebook 
post. Dillard allegedly ﬂ  ed on a 
bicycle.
When the incident was 
reported, 22 GPD school re-
source ofﬁ  cers were conducting 
a training at Gainesville High 
School and quickly crossed the 
street to set up a perimeter, ac-
cording to a GPD media release.
“Our school resource ofﬁ  -
cers are not here just to keep the schools safe,” Tobias said. 
“They just happened to be at 
the right place at the right time. 
Just to have that force of ofﬁ  -
cers in the area so quickly lead 
us to the suspect.” 
Dillard was seen entering 
an apartment in Georgetown 
Apartments at 1324 NW 16th 
Ave. and was arrested, accord-
ing to the release. A witness 
from the bank also identiﬁ  ed 
him as the suspect, according 
to a GPD Facebook post.
Detectives are still working 
to conﬁ  rm that Dillard is re-
sponsible for the recent burglar-
ies that started Aug. 1, accord-
ing to the release. Dillard will 
be charged with at least three 
counts of robbery and more are 
expected.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgSuspect arrested after midday bank robbery at Wells Fargo
Devoun Cetoute / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police arrested a man following a bank robbery of the Wells Fargo 
at 1717 NW 13th St. 
begin their ﬁ  rst semester at UF in Fall. Bar-
tosova, assistant logic professor, worked in 
Germany, Brazil and Pittsburgh at Carnegie 
Mellon University.“It was an opportunity that came up, and 
it is very important to get a permanent po-
sition. And certainly the logic group is very 
strong,” she said. “So, when the offer came, 
it was impossible to reject it even though I 
still had one year more in Pittsburgh.”
Bartosova said her main goal for her ﬁ  rst semester is to connect with her students and 
get them interested in her ﬁ  eld as well as or-
ganize UF’s yearly logic conference.
Another long-term goal of hers is to cre-
ate a foreign exchange program with her stu-
dents and students from places she’s stud-
ied, like Brazil.“Certainly, the faculty all over has been 
diminishing in the previous years, and logic 
has suffered a lot from that as well,” she 
said. “The new faculty will be able to have 
some stronger inﬂ  uence because there are so 
many of us coming. Also, the revival is cer-
tainly very attractive for the future.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.orgNew hires have their own personal goals
FACULTY,  from pg 1THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Juliana Cuccaro
Alligator Contributing Writer
After having to use bottled wa-
ter since opening, the Ronald Mc-
Donald House in Gainesville was 
given the gift of in-house water.
The house, located at 1600 SW 
14th St., received three water fil-
tration systems Monday from Best 
Water Solutions.
Before, the house depended 
entirely on donations of bottled 
water, Ronald McDonald House 
Charities of North Central Florida Executive Director Sherry Hous-
ton said. The donation will also 
reduce the house’s plastic use and 
waste.
RMHCNCF director of house 
operations and programs The-
resa Drews said the house would 
sometimes use more than 100 
bottles a day. With the new filtra-
tion systems, that number can be 
reduced to zero.
Blue Water Creations also do-
nated personal, reusable water 
bottles for every family, Houston 
said. “Having this purified water is 
a true benefit to our families,” 
Drews said. “It will have a lasting 
impact.” 
The 31-room house is at full 
occupancy all year. Occupants 
have access to fresh meals from 
one of two kitchens, laundry ser-
vices, housekeeping and activi-
ties, Houston said.
The purpose of the house is 
to provide a homelike setting for 
families where they can be close 
to their critically ill children be-
ing treated at UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital, Houston 
said. 
“Our families are going through 
so very much,” Houston said. “It’s 
a priceless gift for them.”
Having readily available fil-
tered water is important for any-
one at the house, Houston said, 
but especially for new mothers 
making formula or people with an 
autoimmune disease. 
Jorge Zukoski, co-owner of 
Best Water Solutions, said he was 
excited to donate the filtration 
systems, and his team knew the difference it would make for the 
house.
“We wanted to help them ac-
complish their goals,” Zukoski 
said. 
The systems were installed in 
three places in the house, Zukoski 
said. One was installed in the back 
kitchen, and two were installed in 
the front kitchen. 
“We are the safety net for our 
families,” Houston said. “Having 
purified water is just an added 
luxury that makes their stay that 
much more comfortable.”
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
UF brought in $414 million in dona-
tions over the last fiscal year. 
This is the third consecutive time that 
private giving to the university has sur-
passed $400 million, said Joe Mandern-
ach, senior associate vice president and 
chief development officer for UF. A total 
of 73,929 alumni and friends made gifts.
The largest single donation was 
for $10 million from Jon and Beverly 
Thompson of Fort Myers, Mandernach 
said. 
This was the fourth year of the uni-
versity’s eight-year “Go Greater” cam-
paign, Mandernach said. UF hopes to 
raise $3 billion by the end of the cam-
paign. 
“I think the excitement that has been 
generated by the September announce-
ment that UF was a top 10 public insti-
tution was a clear push to the support,” 
Mandernach said.
Student Government will be work-
ing to foster alumni participation mov-
ing forward with Student Body Presi-
dent Ian Green’s announcement about a launch of the “Class Council Agency.” 
The agency will help UF as it reach-
es for a top-five public schools ranking 
from U.S. News & World Report, Green 
said. The program will be headed by a 
chairperson and elect a class president 
to the sophomore, junior and senior 
classes of undergraduate enrollment.
The chairperson will be appointed by 
Green and require confirmation from the 
Student Senate.
The idea for the council is modeled 
after institutions like the University of 
California, Berkeley and the University 
of Virginia, which are already ranked in 
the top five.
The hope is that the council can 
teach students the importance of giving 
back to the UF community, Green said.
“And so, if you know and have a de-
sire to give back even before you gradu-
ate, once you do graduate, you’re going 
to immediately give back, and that’s go-
ing to increase our (alumni participation 
rate),” Green said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgBy Devoun Cetoute
Alligator Staff Writer
It took six police officers and a K-9 to 
place a Gainesville man in handcuffs after 
he fled into the woods Tuesday.
Samuel Cox, 30, was 
charged with two counts 
of battery on an officer, 
carjacking, resisting with 
violence, striking a police 
K-9 and possession of few-
er than 20 grams of mari-
juana.
On Tuesday around 
6:30 p.m., Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
deputies responded to a carjacking at 15464 
SW State Road 45, according to the arrest 
report. The victim said Cox went up to his 
work car and opened the driver’s door while 
he was still in the seat.
Cox and the victim fought for control of 
the door before the victim slammed it shut 
on Cox’s hand, according to the report. Cox 
fled south on State Road 45.
Cox went into a home at 15614 SW State 
Road 45 and fled out the back door into the 
woods, according to a report. Police talked 
to a witness on the next driveway, who pointed out the last spot Cox was seen.
K-9 deputies then began tracking Cox, ac-
cording to the report.
When trying to find Cox, deputies passed 
a roughly 6-foot rattlesnake that tried to bite 
K-9 Knight but missed, said ACSO spokes-
man Brett Rhodenizer. The deputies shot the 
rattlesnake and continued with the search.
When Cox was found, he fought ACSO 
deputies as they tried to arrest him, accord-
ing to the report. During the fight, Cox re-
fused their requests to stop resisting and 
was bitten by K-9 Knight.
During this struggle, Cox bit a K-9 deputy 
on the elbow, breaking the skin and draw-
ing blood, Rhodenizer said. Cox also hit an-
other deputy and Knight.
Other deputies arrived to help the K-9 
officers, according to the report. It took six 
deputies to place Cox in handcuffs. When 
he was in handcuffs, less than 20 grams of 
marijuana was found on the ground beneath 
him.
Cox remains in Alachua County Jail in 
lieu of a $111,000 bail.
@devoun_cetoute
dcetoute@alligator.orgRonald McDonald House receives three water filtration systems
Private donations to UF hold 
steady over $400 million  ACSO arrests man accused of 
striking police dog, battery
Cox
Column
Column: How We Lost Our 24/7 Library WestSee you later, Alligator: 
Stefano’s goodbye column
Part V: Things that make you go ‘hmmmm’
Given this is my ﬁ  nal column for the sum-
mer, I wanted to go over everything that 
went wrong in the way Student Govern-
ment handled juggling Newell Hall and 
Library West. Well, perhaps not just ev-
erything that went “wrong;” maybe also things 
that make you go “hmmmm.”
Back in 2012, the Student Body president 
pitched the idea to renovate Newell Hall into a 
“library without books.” Now a “library without 
books” sounds about as nice as a “restaurant 
without food” or a “puppy without a soul” but 
whatever. The Gainesville Sun took note with headlines like 
“Library without books is on UF ‘wish list’” and “Plan for 
old building is electronic library.” Fast forward to 2018. Sud-
denly, we’ve made a complete 180 and argue that our SG 
dollars shouldn’t go toward libraries and Newell Hall is just 
a study space.
So once Newell opened and we realized we were a bit 
short on cash, we went and switched over most of our funds 
from funding Library West’s overnight hours to funding 
Newell. We talked it over with the provost’s ofﬁ  ce, and they 
agreed to fund a study in which they would pick up the tab 
of funding 24/5 Library West hours while we continued to 
fund Newell. “We do realize that students need to have a 
say in this matter,” said the Student Body president at the 
time.
Now, students may have had a say in the matter, but 
did anyone listen? The survey portion of the study showed 
an overwhelming preference toward keeping Library West 
open 24/7. “You spoke, and we listened. Using the data 
from this survey, as well as the 24/5 pilot program this past 
Fall, we have worked with the provost to secure funding for 
Library West to be open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,” 
said a man who would become Student Body president in a 
video posted on our SG Facebook page. What he didn’t say 
was that this was just going to be for the second part of the 
study. In fact, the video omits any mention of a future study, 
which is certainly cause for suspicion.
So when SG put out the announcement that overnight hours were ﬁ  nally going away (now that the 
study was over), people were pretty pissed. I 
suppose part of it might have been the accompa-
nying graphic, which could be described as “one-
sided” or “inaccurate.” Either way, they didn’t 
properly cite the data and SG wouldn’t provide 
a link to the ﬁ  nal study, so that wasn’t very nice.
Then SG thought it’d be really cute to shift 
some of the blame on the provost, saying that 
“The Provost’s Ofﬁ  ce made their decision based 
on the data collected,” even though the point of 
the entire study was that SG could make a good 
decision. The last page of the study literally says “this data 
is provided so that Student Government can make informed 
decisions about its future support for overnight study space 
in either or both facilities.”
SG claims its hands were tied due to a lack of money, 
but then they got a $400,000 budget increase, which they 
used on other things even though at the point in the year 
we got the increase, it wasn’t too late to hash things out 
with Library West. So yes, we really could have had two 
24/7 study spaces on campus during the Fall/Spring, but the 
powers-that-be saw differently, so that sucks.
Last week, I pointed out two things in my column. First, 
that the link on our website to the amended ﬁ  scal year 2018-
19 budget was broken: “404 - File or directory not found.” 
Second, I highlighted a couple instances of what some folks 
could call egregious overspending. I took those numbers 
from a report called the Docutraq Transparency Report, 
which shows the amount of all the Student and Travel Ac-
tivity Requests submitted and is updated every month.
Not too soon after, the link to the budget was ﬁ  xed. The 
link to the transparency report? “404 - File or directory not 
found.”
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science junior and 
Murphree Area senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government.THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Throughout the semester, I’ve read and edited some pretty 
bad columns, so I’m hoping I’ve learned how to write a 
good one. 
My time as a copy editor at The Alligator might not have 
been long, but that doesn’t mean my association with this 
paper hasn’t been. 
I found out about The Alligator back at my community college, 
and I knew that I wanted to be a part of this paper. I remember 
sitting in my multimedia writing class and seeing then Editor-in-
Chief Emily Cochrane talk about the paper, recruiting contributing 
writers and talking about the open house. I knew that was my 
time. 
I started — like many others — as a contributing writer. I 
walked down the Weimer Hall stairs to the tiny room located 
somewhere in the dungeon. There was pizza, and I was intrigued. 
I went up to the laptop, wrote down my information and the 
emails started pouring in. 
And like many others, I stopped writing after taking “Report-
ing.” That doesn’t mean I didn’t want to be part of the staff. I 
thought about if I would ever be able to add the famous “@TheAl-
ligator alum” to my Twitter bio. Now I can.
During my time as a copy editor, I managed to do a lot of things 
that weren’t necessarily my job. I submitted the Pride Month so-
cial media logos to be more inclusive (which hopefully gets used 
every June). I started a podcast with the editor of The Avenue, 
which is available on iTunes, Google Music and Spotify. I even 
helped develop a new part of the paper where we highlight a tweet 
and a meme of the week. 
Apart from all the laughs and stressful times this semester 
might have brought, it also gave me me memories and friendships 
that I will always be able to look back on from my last semester 
at UF. 
It made me realize that a lot of people don’t know how to write, 
read or pay attention. Dear contributing/staff writers, when I ask 
you to read me back your notes and quotes from your notes — 
and not your story — I mean it. It’s obvious when you’re reading 
it back from the copy you sent to your editor, which is frustrating. 
If you don’t look at your notes, you will think that everything that 
is written is correct, which isn’t always true. 
Dear columnists, I appreciate you trying to inform the people, 
but you’re here to write an opinion and not a story. Leave all the 
numbers and stats behind. The copy editors already have a decent 
amount to fact check, and you’re not making it any easier for us. 
Also, don’t get your opinions from tweets, sweetie.
Dear editors, I know you see bad grammar on the stories and 
don’t ﬁ  x it. It’s not that hard to put a comma in the right place. 
Like I said, make our lives a little easier. Thanks. 
Overall, my time at The Alligator has been pretty great. I left 
my mark, and now it’s time to say my goodbyes. I had an amazing 
team of copy editors who helped me get better at this craft and a 
phenomenal chief who taught me more about AP Style than any 
class I’ve taken at UF. She’s not even in the J-school. They put up 
with my comments on everything, even the inappropriate ones, 
and I couldn’t be more thankful for them.
I have many more things to say, but I have to wrap it up before 
the other copy editors start deleting sentences to make space for 
other things in the paper. 
Working for The Alligator has been the best part about my 
summer and probably one of the best parts about moving to 
Gainesville. I am truly sad to leave, but I’m honored that I was 
given this opportunity and would do it all over again if given the 
chance. As I walk across the stage Saturday and continue with my 
life, I will always remember my time in a room with people who 
went from being strangers to becoming my best friends. 
Stefano Ferreyros is a UF journalism senior. He worked at The 
Alligator as a copy editor for the Summer semester.
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITOR
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Love Pizza by the Slice?
Step behind the counter with our feature on the 
midtown favorite, Italian Gator Pizza, on page 8.Got Y our Head in Space? 
Loosey’s prepares for Friday’s blow-out event. Flip to page 9 for 
the details!THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Lindsey Brenemen
Avenue Writer
Mermaids from across the nation gathered 
at Ginnie Springs last weekend.
Tami Baker, 38, reached out to the online 
network of “mermaids,” enthusiasts who in-
vest thousands of dollars to swim in custom-
made tails. Upward of 100 mermaids, aged 
6 through 60, gathered at the springs for the 
weekend.
Baker was a 5 year old in Mansﬁ  eld, Ohio, 
when she saw the 1984 ﬁ  lm “Splash.” She 
said everyone wanted to be a mermaid then.
Baker was scrolling through her Facebook 
feed 30 years later when she came across a 
video. In it, one of her friend’s daughter was 
swimming in a Fin Fun tail. Fin Fun is a com-
pany that produces water-friendly fabric tails 
that slip over the legs and feet. Baker won-
dered, “Why didn’t they have those when I 
was a kid?”
Curious, Baker said she hopped online and 
began researching mermaid tails. She decided 
to buy a cloth tail, the lowest cost option, 
ﬁ  rst. Baker fell in love the minute she ﬁ  rst 
ﬂ  ipped her ﬁ  n.
She decided to make her own sequin tail 
next. She hand-sewed the entire tail, which 
took her a little over a year.
Chelseabelle Rioux was a small child in Mississippi when she decided she was going 
to become a mermaid. She took a long raft 
and cut two holes in it. She slipped her tiny 
legs into the raft and jumped into her apart-
ment pool.
Rioux couldn’t swim. Unable to free herself 
from the makeshift tail, she began to drown.
The tennis coach from the apartment com-
plex dove in to save her.
Clinging to the side of the pool, Rioux’s 
dream was still intact. She was determined to 
become a mermaid one day.
Now at 43, Rioux said buying a tail ﬁ  ve 
years ago was the best decision she’s ever 
made. Swimming every weekend has im-
proved her health, even causing her to quit 
smoking so she could dive deeper.
Rioux said every mermaid makes a tail at 
some point or another.
Haley Edwards, a 21-year-old theater ma-
jor at Converse College, makes silicone tails 
herself. She sculpts each scale by hand. The 
tail she was wearing Saturday had 980 scales.
Another one of her tails was sported by her 
best friend, Ariel Shelton, 21. Shelton is from 
Jacksonville, but the two have been insepa-
rable since Mermania, a national mermaid 
conference, two years ago. Edwards said she 
is now charging $1,200 for her creations.
Baker said silicone tails can cost anything 
from $900 up. In addition, mermaids invest in handmade tops, scuba certiﬁ  cations, GoPros 
and crowns.
The tail Baker wore cost $5,000, and the 
tail Rioux was wearing cost $3,000. The sili-
cone tails are completely custom, so whatever 
the mermaid can think, a retailer can make 
happen.
Lori Reeves Schaefer, one of the matri-
archs of the Florida Springs Mermaids group, 
owns the most tails. She said she entered the 
mermaid world when she bought fabric tails 
for her granddaughters two years ago. Af-
ter buying one for herself to swim alongside 
them, Schaefer was hooked. She now owns 
more than 10 tails.
The mermaids said the tails were akin to 
driver’s licenses; it’s how they identiﬁ  ed one 
another. Schaefer is different from most mer-
maids because she shares her tails and acces-
sories. 
I went to Ginnie Springs expecting to 
simply interview some women who enjoyed 
wearing expensive tails while swimming. I 
was surprised to immediately be welcomed 
into the ranks of a supportive community of 
“merpeople.” 
I sat on the steps of the entrance to the 
spring between Baker and Rioux talking to 
the “merpeople” for 20 minutes before they Mermaids take over Ginnie Springs
LIFESTYLE
 NIGHTLIFE
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
We’d love to give you all the details 
on these great events, but there just 
isn’t time! Gainesville is always buzzing 
with exciting local events, so don’t miss 
out. Here’s a quick rundown of what’s 
coming up:
Thursday:
The Gator Salsa Club offers free ba-
chata dance lessons every Thursday 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Ben Hill Grif-
ﬁ  n Stadium between Gates Three and 
Four. 
Friday:
The Atlantic will hold “2000s Nite” 
with DJ Drew Love on Friday from 10 
p.m. to 1:45 a.m. Guests 21 years old 
and up are welcome with no cover 
charge.
Saturday:
First Magnitude Brewing Company 
is joining forces with the Conservation 
Initiative for the Asian Elephant to cele-
brate the Fourth Annual World Elephant 
Day Celebration. The event, which will 
run from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m., will feature 
beer discounts for donations, a silent 
auction, CIFAE apparel for sale, rafﬂ  e 
prizes and Southeast Asian art.
Sunday:
Sundays at The Atlantic mean ka-
raoke with DJ Yurgie Bear. Guests 21 
years old and up can sing along and 
enjoy all-night happy hour from 8 p.m. 
until close.
Tuesday:
Tuesdays are trivia nights at 1000 De-
grees Pizza of Gainesville. Questions and 
prizes are open to all ages.
Wednesday:
Union Street Farmers Market is a 
weekly event held on Bo Diddley Com-
munity Plaza from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
High Dive is showing “Donnie 
Darko” on Wednesday as part of their 
weekly cult movie nights with Soul 
Spice Tacos. The showing is free and 
begins at 9 p.m.Weekly 
Event 
Calendar
Brian Cosgray
Over 30 mermaids gathered at Devil’s Eye at Ginnie Springs for an aquatic adventure.
SEE MERMAIDS,  PAGE 88   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
It’s 2:00 a.m. on what you’d like to 
believe is still a Saturday night. Stu-
dents all over Gainesville have been 
bar hopping or pub crawling, depend-
ing on their physical state. The point? 
They are all hungry. Hungry for some 
good, old fashioned drunk pizza that 
will soak up the bad decisions of the 
night. Enter a late-night, Midtown 
classic: Italian Gator Pizza.
Italian Gator Pizza, known by 
many as Pizza by the Slice was estab-
lished in 2000. The Italian Gator Pizza 
staff has been serving the colorful 
characters that are UF students after 
dark since. Located in between The 
Social and Jimmy Johns in Midtown, 
it serves as the prime location for a 
midnight snack… and some interest-
ing stories.
Nighttime employees Augustus 
Daniels and Laura Martin say that 
while the work environment is fun, 
it can deﬁ  nitely get chaotic and in-
tense with hundreds of kids drunkenly 
screaming orders, demanding more 
parmesan and demonstrating utmost 
entitlement. According to Daniels and 
Martin, students can get loud, belliger-
ent and bratty. Nonetheless, they en-
joy the job!
“I deﬁ  nitely enjoy it, mainly be-
cause of who I work with. You just 
learn how to deal with everything go-
ing on outside. It’s deﬁ  nitely taught 
me a lot about patience,” Martin said.
According to Martin, the peak time 
of business is anywhere from 11:00 
p.m. to 2:00 a.m. Sometimes the line 
will stretch as far down as the Salty 
Dog Saloon or Fat Daddy’s, but that 
doesn’t stop your average frat bro or 
sorority girl from ﬁ  ghting his or her 
way to the front. The employees main-
tain composure as kids will try to ﬁ  ght 
them on prices and slices. They’ve 
even had entire shakers of parmesan 
cheese stolen.
“Yeah, somewhere, someone’s def-initely got a shrine of shakers from us. 
Sometimes they will give them back, 
though,” Daniels said.
The employees claim that while 
students can be entitled and fairly rude 
to them, they are actually more aggres-
sive toward each other. One claimed 
that sometimes they have to call the 
cops on them, but it never escalates 
into anything terrible. Nonetheless, 
they have some juicy stories to tell.
Last Friday night, a male college 
student caused a ruckus when buying 
two slices of pizza from Martin. Ac-
cording to Martin, he was being fussy 
over the fact that she did not give him 
a penny back when he paid $3 for piz-
za that was $2.99.
“Sometimes you give them change 
and they don’t want it, sometimes you 
don’t give them change and they do 
want it. It’s a weird unspoken rule 
when working here,” Martin said.
When Martin did not give the 
boy his change back, he looked at 
her disapprovingly and said “uh, my 
change?” He then proceeded to come 
back later in the night with his friends 
and tried to tell another employee that 
the price of the pizza was $1.89 and 
not $2.99. The employee attempted to 
calm the student down by telling him 
the deﬁ  nite price of the pizza, but the 
situation escalated. He angrily held up 
the line, yelling profanities at the em-
ployees.
“When people are being extremely 
rude, we try to kick them out of the 
window but you can’t kick kids off the 
sidewalk,” Daniels said. “We don’t 
have bouncers or anything. Occasion-
ally there will be someone who insists 
on staying, and at the point it’s kind of 
like, ‘What to do?’”
Needless to say, the employees 
have dealt with their fair share of 
chaos. As a recent UF graduate, Mar-
tin claims that, if nothing else, the kids 
nowadays aren’t necessarily more en-
titled than when she went to school 
but reafﬁ  rm that image.Midtown madness at 
Italian Gator Pizza
FOOD
insisted I slip into a tail, too. 
Schaefer pulled off her tail 
and booties and helped me into 
them. 
Rioux and Schaefer swam be-
side me and taught me a couple 
of tricks: Keep your knees rela-
tively straight and use your core. 
One of the best poses is out-
stretching one hand and blowing 
kisses with the other. Flips are 
much easier if you have a nose 
plug. 
I have a lot of experience in 
the water. I swam competitively 
for 13 years under Steve Lochte, 
but the women were right. Deep 
diving with a ﬁ  n adjusted to your 
body’s measurements was un-
like any other aquatic endeavor.
While the “mercommunity” 
may be more than welcoming, 
outsiders are not always kind. 
The mermaids said they are often questioned online as to why they 
would choose to spend money 
on such an expensive hobby. 
Mermen are degraded even 
more. Wesley Croft, 29, was 
the only merman wearing a tail 
when I was at the spring. He said 
he was too scared to put a tail on 
for more than a year. 
“To all the other mermen, 
don’t be afraid of being made fun 
of,” Croft said. He said being a 
part of the most amazing and ac-
cepting community makes hate 
from the outside irrelevant. 
Baker said there was more 
than 10,000 people interested 
in the event on Facebook. She 
didn’t expect this. The Ohio mer-
maid had organized the event as 
a way to take pictures with her 
photographer, Brian Cosgray, 
and meet up with some of her 
friends from Florida.
Baker has made a career as 
a professional mermaid. She started doing kids’ birthday par-
ties. Now she does everything 
from the home and garden show 
in the International Exposition 
Center in Cleveland to pirate 
festivals to the most proﬁ  table 
weekend at her local lake. She 
said her portfolio is essential, 
because in Ohio, the idea of a 
mermaid is completely foreign to 
most people.
But Rioux doesn’t charge for 
her work. She owns two pet sa-
lons and is a mermaid almost ev-
ery weekend in Florida springs 
as a volunteer with Florida 
Springs Mermaids.
The group is present most 
weekends at Alexander Springs. 
It is holding another Mermaid 
Meetup with the world-famous 
Hannah Mermaid at Ginnie 
Springs on Aug. 25. The group’s 
motto is “You can swim with 
us.”‘Don’t be afraid of being made fun of’
MERMAIDS,  from pg 7
Michael Rioux
Chelseabelle Rioux diving through Ginnie Springs.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
Let us help your 
dog stay healthy 
and happy!
3717 NW13th St.
Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 372-8387
shoresanhosp.comWellness Day &  
Vaccine Clinic  
for dogs
Friday, August 17
8 am - 6 pm
By Gregory Florez
Avenue Writer
“Our destiny beyond the Earth is not only 
a matter of national identity but a matter of 
national security.”
President Donald Trump’s statements 
to the National Space Council in June were 
meant to be taken seriously. But some, 
like Danny Hughes, owner and operator of 
Loosey’s Downtown Gainesville, feel differ-
ently.
At 9 p.m. Friday, Loosey’s will host 
Space Force Recruitment Night. Admission 
for the event costs $5, and it will feature a 
costume contest, drink specials and musical 
performances from The Mermers, Cartridge 
Carnage and Jason Guy Smiley.
For Hughes, the event is not so much a 
grandiose statement as it is an opportunity 
for levity in an otherwise black hole of po-
litical discourse.
“We’re not really even making fun of the 
president,” Hughes said. “It’s just that he 
said we’re going to ﬁ  ght a war in space, and 
it’s something we wanted to capitalize on.”
Hughes said Loosey’s is more often a mu-
sic venue than it is a themed party location. 
However, with the summer drawing closer 
to its event horizon, Hughes wanted to have 
some fun before the season ended.
Originally, the idea for this event was 
pitched to Hughes by Jason Guy Smiley, a 
folk punk musician, after the president’s re-
marks in June. Hughes was skeptical at ﬁ  rst but eventually grew to enjoy the satirical na-
ture of the concept.
Hughes said the event itself is open to 
both sides of the political spectrum. The em-
phasis is on the ﬁ  nal frontier, not political 
discourse.
Even so, the eventual reality of space 
exploration is not too absurd an idea for 
Hughes. Even among some UF students, the 
Space Force has been a long time coming.
“This is nothing more than a tongue-in-
cheek response to what’s all happening out 
there,” Hughes said. “No matter where you 
stand on the political spectrum you can at 
least appreciate that.”
Hughes said he would accept the oppor-
tunity to go to space in a heartbeat. But to 
even be considered for an astronaut candi-
date position at NASA, a person needs at 
least nine years of professional experience 
in a science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics related ﬁ  eld.
Much to the president’s dismay, NASA 
has since suspended its recruitment of pro-
spective astronauts. For now, a pseudo-par-
ody military recruitment event will have to 
do.
Hughes does not know what will come 
out of this event. Still, whether humans go 
to war with Martians or not, he remains 
hopeful for the future.
“It’s taken years for Gainesville to grow 
into itself,” Hughes said. “We’re playing all 
this by the seat of our pants, but I’m always 
excited to see what happens.”Loosey’s Downtown Gainesville sets its sights to inﬁ  nity, beyond
NIGHTLIFE
Courtesy to The Alligator
Loosey’s is preparing for galactic liftoff this Friday.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
****** Quaint 2 Bedroom *****
302 NW 7th Ter. 2nd story apartment. Close 
to UF. Small fenced yard. $690/month. Call 
352-870-2760.    8-9-18-7-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft.
$1800/mo. W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, pets welcome, no application 
fee, close to shopping, midtown, buses.
Call 352-338-1000                    8-22-18-7-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
MATTRESS SALE TWIN SET $69
FULL SET $89
QUEEN SET $149 KING SET $199
SAME DAY DELIVERY COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH 
GAINESVILLE 352-376-0953    8-24-18-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
1/1 in 2/2 duplex. Pool, gym, 
on 3 bus routes.
2 miles to Shands or Butler Pl.
Grad stud. pref. M/F. All inclusive.
$600 per month & $300 security. 
Avail 08/20.
eaglimo@gmail.
8-22-4-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,850/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
8-31-18-16-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call 
or text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    
8-31-14-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
CAFE RISQUE - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803 NOW HIRING
Cooks / Managers / Dancers
No Experience Necessary
24/7 Nude Entertainment
9-17-25-14
SIMEDHealth is hiring a full time Maintenance 
Technician for our Gainesville office location. 
$14-$16 per hour. 
Visit our website at
simedhealth.com/jobs to apply.    8-9-18-5-14
PART TIME - $15 PER HOUR - FUN  
Promote delicious wines at your local 
grocery store on weekends!
APPLY HERE: Cheerfulpromo@gmail.com 
Include your phone #                    7-7-18-3-14
Park Place Car Wash now hiring
must have valid drivers license and able to 
work Saturday OR Sunday. Apply in person    
9-21-18-15-14GAMEDAY HELP NEEDED
The Gator Sportshop is looking for part-
time cashiers to work home football games.  
Duties include cashiering and working floor.  
Apply at the Gator Sportshop at Gate 9 of the 
stadium.     8-31-18-8-14
Now Hiring! Lloyd Clarke Sports needs PT 
and FT Sales Associates. We are 1 mile 
north of UF on 13th St, next to Starbucks! 
Must maintain consistent weekly schedule 
with 1 day on weekend a must!    8-24-18-
6-14
Hiring Servers!!!
Exp. A Plus
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
8-22-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    9-7-18-34-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Student Positions Available
Editorial Production Assistant
The Alligator is accepting applications for
nighttime editorial production. The positions 
are only open to students, and applicants 
must be currently enrolled in classes at the 
University of Florida or Santa Fe College.
Position Responsibilities:
Duties include page layout and design using 
InDesign and other software.
Position Requirements:
Knowledge of newspaper design.
Experience with Adobe InDesign, Illustrator 
and Photoshop is preferred.
Ability to work from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday 
through Thursday during the fall and spring 
semester. Schedule is less demanding
during summer semester. 
A one year commitment is expected.
Previous applicants are welcome to reapply 
with current schedule.
Must be available to begin working 
August 21, 2018
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Great work atmosphere.
Part-time Positon.
Email cover letter, resume and available 
work schedule to Christina Cozart
at ccozart @alligator.org
No phone calls, please.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
1. MOVIES: Who directed the movie 
“La Dolce Vita”?
2. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
famous Olduvai Gorge located?
3. MYTHOLOGY: Tyr was a Norse 
god of what?
4. MUSIC: What pop group sang 
“Love Shack”?
5. PRESIDENTS: How old was The-
odore Roosevelt when he was inaugu-
rated?
6. SCIENCE: In what century was 
Isaac Newton born?
7. HISTORY: When was the last year 
the Dodgers played in Brooklyn?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the symbol of the zodiac sign 
Scorpio?
9. LANGUAGE: What does the 
Greek prefix “speleo” mean?
10. MEASUREMENTS: How 
many bottles of champagne are in a 
jeroboam?
Answers
1. Fededrico Fellini
2. Tanzania
3. War
4. The B-52s
5. 42
6. 17th century
7. 1957
8. Scorpion
9. Cave
10. Four
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 6, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
8-15-18-10-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Make Money Online
While In College. 
https://tinyurl.com/y86d9y4a     
8-15-18-5-20Learn how to make up to $400
doing surveys as a student. 
Go to: http://www.makemoneynow.shop/
8-15-18-5-20
$4000/ mo playing video games.
Learn how to become a tester for the latest 
video games. Go To: www.paidtoplay.club    
8-22-18-4-20
"Learn A Cappella Singing"
start Sept. 6th Contact Beth:
bethsing@bellsouth.net or 352-870-5555
six lessons GainesvilleChorus.com Free!    
9-10-18-6-20
LEARN HOW to make an extra $400 per 
week doing surveys as a student Go to www.
collegeopportunity.service    8-15-18-2-20
Learn how to make an extra $375/wk as a 
student. No Surveys! No cold calling! Go to: 
www.studentopportunities.club     8-24-18-4-
20
EMAIL PROCESSOR Needed Immediately.  
No Previous Experience Required.  Training 
Provided.  Great Part-Time Income. Visit 
http://bit.ly/EPS4students      8-22-18-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21FREE E-BOOK
 "Lying For Fun and Profit" 
Exposes media promotion of health fraud. 
www.smashwords.com           8-9-18-2-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LARGE HABITAT FOR SNAKE
2 pieces. $130 or best offer. Pick-up only. 
text 727-504-8382                8-15-18-3-24Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ACROSS
1 Kvetch’s phrase
9 Obstruct
14 Military award
phrase
15 Cut out for
marriage?
16 Lombardy skiing
destination
18 Feed bit
19 “Can I get a word
in here?”
20 Addams cousin
22 One of many
standing in a
Mexican bar
27 Merged comm.
giant
29 Large garden
ornament
30 Viewed warily
31 Looks down on
34 Gas __
36 Gene Autry
Easter song
critter
41 Extreme degree
42 Moot point
43 Toulouse-
Lautrec’s
birthplace
46 Like -trix, at
times: Abbr.
47 Brief “I think”
48 Carl Orff opus
54 “Law & Order: __”
55 Boy of la casa
56 Farmers’
business: Abbr.
58 Vacation spots
found in each set
of puzzle circles
64 Stand out
65 Behind closed
doors
66 Publicizes showily
67 Car named for a
small warship
DOWN
1 Many times o’er
2 Pirate song
snippet
3 Classic circus
adjective
4 Site with clickable
RSVPs
5 Industrial-sized
tank
6 Helen Keller is on
its st. quarter7 Brief chuckle
8 Dry run
9 Cygnus’ brightest
star
10 Budget rival
11 Gretchen of
“Manchester by
the Sea”
12 Presumptuous
13 Mortar’s partner
17 Revelation
reaction
21 “Chopped” host
Allen
23 Ice cream buy
24 “Spenser: For
Hire” actor
25 __ particular
order
26 Student’s
backpack burden
27 Econ. indicator
28 Exec’s accessory
32 Sturdy fabric
33 RR stop
34 Copier need
35 Jungian
archetype
37 Stir-fry staple
38 Buddha statues,
Japanese silk
prints, etc.39 Periodic table
suffix
40 Celestial feline
43 Carrier products,
briefly
44 Profuse
45 Like some
hillsides
49 Ludicrous
50 Array just before
an odometer
reaches 100,00051 “So?”
52 __ acid
53 Family member
57 Dele canceler
59 Cup rim
60 Eclectic musician
Brian
61 Original D&D
company
62 Prepare to 
drag
63 Sault __ Marie
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/09/1808/09/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 9, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Game fish
5 Body wrap spot
8 Clams up, with
“down”
13 Jaunty tune
14 Like a dotted
note, in mus.
15 Overflowing (with)
16 Sign of spoilage
17 Ending with Wal
18 High-calorie cake
19 Kontinental
Hockey League
trophy named for
an astronaut
22 Wrangler maker
23 Homer’s neighbor
24 Have grand plans
26 Airport area with
carousels
31 Pulitzer-winning
author James
32 One of a clashing
pair, perhaps
33 Gobbled up
37 Moral misstep
38 Planning to wed
41 Glorifying
homage
42 Do a bakery job
44 Part of pewter
45 Olympian
warmonger
46 One arranging
gigs
50 1965 Yardbirds
hit
52 Corrosive
substance
53 Fruity beverages
54 Joke used
repeatedly ... and
aptly found in
19-, 26-, 38-, 46-
and 54-Across
60 “The Kiss”
sculptor
62 Old Royale 8’s
63 Jessica of “Dark
Angel”
64 “Ready Player
One” novelist
Ernest
65 Eye protector
66 Clout
67 Missouri River
tributary
68 Seeker of intel
69 Eye woe
DOWN
1 Paperless journal
2 “Radames’
Letter” musical3 Trudge (through)
4 Off-the-wall
5 Getz of jazz
6 Pique-nique
place
7 Bona fide
8 One way to
stand
9 WWII flag-raising
island
10 Peeling gadget
11 Big name in
makeup
12 Smith of Fox
News
14 Wee bit
20 Stephen of
“Counterpart”
21 “Don’t text and
drive” ad, e.g.
25 Mottled
26 Enjoy the sun
27 Feudin’ with
28 Heredity unit
29 Albumen
container
30 Tropical raccoon
relative
34 Zoomed
35 Garden in a
Sistine Chapel
mural
36 Source of some
tweets
38 Genesis kingdom39 Gimlet liquor
40 World’s third-
most spoken
language
43 Belittling
45 Inevitable
generational
differences
47 Dinghy
implement
48 Small knobs
49 “We the Living”
writer Rand50 Megastars
51 __ blitz
53 West Coast gas
brand
55 Twice-monthly
tide
56 Prone to 
prying
57 Market surplus
58 With skill
59 Powerful wind
61 Name change
indicator
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/08/1808/08/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 8, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  ____ team
1.  Parody5.  Nervous
2.  Self-____6.  Proportion 
3.  Voted into office7.  Quiet flyer 
4.  ____ poolCROCSE
TIERSASEENT
ARIOT
RTNLCOO
LEDCTEELGDREI
NRODOIANSWERS: 1A-Soccer  5A-Tense  6A-Ratio  7A-Glider
1D-Satire  2D-Control  3D-Elected  4D-Indoor  B-Arctic Tern8-9-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This bird has the longest 
annual migration. 
BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sports
VOLLEYBALL AND SOCCER RANKED IN TOP 10
The UF volleyball and soccer teams are both ranked at No. 7 in the preseason 
coaches polls for their respective sports.  Antonio Callaway, former 
Gator and current Cleveland 
Browns receiver, was found 
by police with marijuana, gun 
parts and ammunition during a 
trafﬁ  c stop Wednesday.THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
HOOPS
The Associated Press
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — The 
NCAA is carving out a limited 
role for agents to work with col-
lege basketball players and is 
changing key parts of its rules-
enforcement system as part of nu-
merous reforms in the wake of a 
corruption scandal.
The Indianapolis-based gov-
erning body for college sports 
announced Wednesday that its 
Board of Governors and Division 
I Board of Directors had adopted 
a “series of signiﬁ  cant policy and 
legislative changes” as part of an 
effort to “fundamentally” change 
the NCAA’s structure. Some are 
immediate, while others ﬁ  rst re-
quire action from other agencies 
— such as the NBA changing the 
age limit for draft-eligible players 
that has fueled the wave of “one 
and done” at the college level.That follows late-April recom-
mendations from the commission 
headed by former U.S. Secretary 
of State Condoleezza Rice follow-
ing a federal investigation into 
alleged bribes and kickbacks de-
signed to inﬂ  uence recruits on 
choosing a school, agent or ap-
parel company. Georgia Tech 
president and Board of Direc-
tors chairman Bud Peterson said 
the NCAA had pushed through 
changes in about 3 1/2 months 
that would “normally take us 
about two years through the gov-
ernance process.”
“Today was obviously a very 
important day for the NCAA 
and especially for men’s basket-
ball, and ... Division I,” NCAA 
President Mark Emmert said in 
a teleconference with reporters 
Wednesday afternoon.
The agent changes are about 
transparency and offering a legiti-mate avenue for communication 
or advice that previously could’ve 
taken place in the shadows — and 
raised the likelihood of attracting 
unscrupulous actors.
Now college basketball players 
can work with an NCAA-certiﬁ  ed 
agent while testing the waters of 
declaring for the NBA draft. Col-
lege players ﬁ  rst would have to 
request an evaluation from the 
NBA Undergraduate Advisory 
Committee about their draft pros-
pects after the season, and that 
would clear the way to enter into 
a written agreement — disclosed 
to the NCAA or school — with the 
agent.
That agreement must end if 
the player returns to school.
Agents would be allowed to 
cover minimal expenses such as 
meals and transportation associ-
ated with meetings or workouts 
with pro teams, though the NCAA said that might ﬁ  rst require re-
visions to the Uniform Athlete 
Agent Act — a version of which is 
in place in more than 40 states to 
regulate unethical agent conduct. 
Previously pro teams could cover 
some of those expenses.
The agents would have to be 
certiﬁ  ed by the NCAA by no later 
than August 2020, agents certiﬁ  ed 
by the NBA players’ union would 
qualify until a formal deadline is 
set.
The NCAA included a provi-
sion allowing agent access for 
high school players identiﬁ  ed as 
an elite prospect by USA Basket-
ball beginning July 1 before their 
senior year. But that is dependent 
on the NBA and players’ union 
lowering the age limit of draft-el-
igible players to 18, which would 
clear the way for elite players to 
go from preps to pros. It’s unclear 
what impact that would have on colleges recruiting NBA-ready 
prospects.
The changes also include al-
lowing a player to return to school 
if undrafted, but only if he sought 
the NBA advisory evaluation and 
participated in the scouting com-
bine — a number that NCAA se-
nior vice president of men’s bas-
ketball Dan Gavitt said would be 
“very limited in scope.” That, too, 
would ﬁ  rst require tweaks to NBA 
and players’ union rules.
There were also signiﬁ  cant 
changes to the enforcement pro-
cess to handle cases of rules viola-
tions, including the appointment 
of Rice-recommended indepen-
dent groups to handle and resolve 
complex cases. Emmert estimated 
that would apply to maybe ﬁ  ve 
cases annually.
The changes also allow the 
NCAA to accept outside infor- NCAA adopts college basketball reforms for draft, recruiting
Slowly but surely, the to-
tem pole is shifting.
For decades, foot-
ball has been America’s 
sport. It’s the most popu-
lar game around, rife with jock 
rock stars (jock stars for short). 
But now it’s under siege from 
multiple angles, and I don’t think 
it can retain its supremacy for-
ever.
Looking back decades ago, it was football 
that supplanted baseball as top dog among 
the major American sports. But the same cy-
cle that catapulted 100 yards of green grass 
into the spotlight will, eventually, force it out.
That’s right. The NBA is on the move, and 
has been for the last 30-plus years. 
The Lakers and Celtics dynasties helped 
popularize the sport in the ‘80s before pass-
ing the torch to Michael “Air” Jordan in the 
‘90s. 
Then, in the early 2000s, the most-hyped 
rookie in the history of professional sports be-
gan his NBA career. No one knew that he’d 
be widely considered the second-best basket-
ball player in the history of the sport. And no 
one knew that his impact would be felt just 
as strongly off the court – if not more than his sheer greatness on the court.
Yes, let’s start with LeBron 
James.
He is the face of the NBA, and 
has done a masterful job repre-
senting the game of basketball 
for the last 10 years or so. Not 
only is he the most well-rounded 
player ever, his humanitarian ef-
forts are absolutely astounding. 
LeBron has always been good 
about giving back to his community. His I 
Promise School is a project that will improve 
the quality of countless lives. The school of-
fers better access to education for at-risk kids 
and their parents – as well as covering college 
tuition for its graduates – and is symbolic of 
the NBA’s progressive attitude.
The face of the NFL today is not a player. 
It’s a messy argument over the national an-
them. I don’t need to explain to you what’s 
going on there, nor point out what a bad look 
it is for professional football. 
Like I said, it’s a mess, just like NFL com-
missioner Roger Goodell’s checkered past 
as the league’s decision-maker. The NFL’s 
reputation as an organization more tolerant 
of issues such as domestic violence than oth-FINAL COLUMN: The NBA will 
surpass the NFL in popularityHuang Story Short / OpinionUF athletics events in the 
month of August
Andrew Huang
Twitter: @ AndrewJHuangAug. 17 
Soccer vs. Washington @ Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium, 7 p.m.
Aug. 18 
Volleyball exhibition (Orange 
vs. Blue) @ Exactech Arena, 2 
p.m.
Aug. 19
Soccer vs. Florida Atlantic @ 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium, 6 p.m.Aug. 25
Volleyball vs. Texas at the 
VERT Challenge in Lincoln, 
Nebraska, 4:30 p.m.
Aug. 26
Soccer vs. Oklahoma State 
@ Cowgirl Soccer Complex, 
Stillwater, Oklahoma, 2 p.m.
Antonio Callaway, former 
Aug. 31
Volleyball vs. Central Florida/
Louisville at the Bubly Invitational 
@ Exactech Arena, 4 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Southern 
California at the Bubly Invitational 
@ Exactech Arena, 7 p.m.
Soccer vs. UCLA @ Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium, 7 p.m.Aug. 24
Soccer vs. Ohio State @ Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium, 7 p.m.
Volleyball vs. Nebraska @ Bob 
Devaney Sports Center, Lincoln, 
Nebraska, 7 p.m.
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE  16SEE AP, PAGE  1614   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
FOOTBALL
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The UF offensive coaches spoke to the 
media Tuesday, and each of them talked 
about their evaluations of fall camp so far. 
Here’s what we learned about the skill 
positions from each coach.
The quarterbacks need to buckle 
down and learn the offense.
UF quarterbacks coach Brian Johnson 
said that with a short time until the first 
game and limited reps in practice, all of his 
quarterbacks will need to put in extra work 
to prepare for the season.
“So as a group we have to really, really 
watch what the other guy’s doing and learn 
from their mistakes, so when we get that 
same opportunity, we’re not double coach-
ing,” Johnson said. 
Redshirt sophomores Feleipe Franks and 
Kyle Trask and freshman Emory Jones are all 
in the early stages of learning Dan Mullen’s 
offense, so separating them hasn’t been easy 
for Johnson thus far. 
Franks started eight games in 2017, while 
Trask hasn’t seen a snap in his collegiate ca-
reer. However, Johnson doesn’t see Trask’s 
lack of experience as much of a disadvan-
tage, and he likes the leadership qualities the 
quarterback has shown. 
“To me the biggest thing... is that they 
need to lead through their personality,” 
Johnson said. “He is likable. Now it’s about 
coming out and executing and putting people 
in position so they can highlight their talents 
as well.UF may line up in two-back sets. 
Greg Knox has been Dan Mullen’s run-
ning backs coach since joining him at Mis-
sissippi State in 2009. His familiarity with 
the offense may only be second to Mullen 
himself, and when asked if he’d utilize Flori-
da’s depth at the position by using two-back 
sets, he was rather optimistic but thought the 
backs were 20 to 25 days from learning those 
formations. 
“Well, we’re going to use our talent,” 
Knox said. “If they can handle it, we’ll do it.”
While Knox emphasized that spots on the 
depth chart aren’t clear, he said senior Jor-
dan Scarlett has revealed himself as a leader 
of the unit. But he also said Scarlett needs 
continue to progress physically as he’s re-
turning from suspension from the 2017 cam-
paign. 
“He’s in that process of getting himself 
back to where he was in the past condition-
ing wise and physically,” Knox said. “So he’s 
just grinding through it.”
Wide receivers have a long way to go, 
but Jefferson shows promise. 
Co-offensive coordinator and wide receiv-
ers coach Billy Gonzales stressed that his re-
ceivers and the offense as a whole need to 
work on retaining information. 
But along with learning the playbook, the 
two things Gonzales said he wanted from his 
receivers were beating man-to-man coverage 
and blocking. 
“I’ve stressed to them, ‘if you can’t block, 
you’re not gonna play, as gifted as you are,’” 
Gonzales said.
While transfer wide receiver Van Jeffer-
son is as inexperienced with the offense as all other players at his position, Gonzales 
has seen special qualities in his attitude and 
work ethic. 
The co-offensive coordinator referenced 
an instance where Jefferson misran a go 
route, and he told him what to work on to 
correct. On the very next rep, Jefferson ran 
the play to his coach’s specifications and 
beat his defender. 
“When guys are listening, taking the 
coaching, you know their attention to detail, 
so you’ve got a chance to be successful with 
those guys too,” Gonzales said.
Scott recruited Krull based on his 
baseball skills.
Tight ends coach Larry Scott left Tennes-
see for Florida and brought with him Lucas 
Krull, a  pitcher from Jefferson College in 
Kansas. 
Krull played one season of football in high 
school, and Scott evaluated his high school 
tape and made a visit to a Jefferson baseball 
game on a recruiting trip to watch him pitch. 
“He was actually throwing in the 90s as 
a lefty coming off the hill,” Scott said. “That 
was a pretty impressive thing to watch.”
Even though Krull was playing a totally 
different sport, his athletic ability was all the 
coach needed to see before offering him a 
scholarship. 
“It’s all hand eye coordination, athleti-
cism, and natural reaction,” Scott said. “All 
of those things that you really can’t coach a 
guy to have, he’s either got those instincts or 
he doesn’t.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFocuses from fall camp at each offensive skill position
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Senior Jordan Scarlett is working on his 
conditioning, according to UF running backs 
coach Greg Knox. 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
 
The last time the world saw 
the UF women’s soccer team, 
it was shut out in a 2-0 loss 
against SEC rival South Carolina 
in the NCAA quarterﬁ  nals.
Now, with 10 of their starting 
players back on the roster, a No. 
7 ranking in the United Soccer 
Coaches preseason poll and a 
freshman class boasting numer-
ous accolades, the Gators aren’t 
lacking in pressure as their 2018 
campaign begins on Friday in an 
exhibition match against Florida 
Gulf Coast.
Perhaps Florida’s best re-
turning player is its leading 
scorer from 2017 in sophomore 
Deanne Rose, whose freshman 
performance of nine goals, three 
assists and 21 points earned her 
First Team All-SEC honors. 
Redshirt junior Parker Rob-
erts and senior Rachelle Smith, 
the Gators’ two other All-SEC 
representatives, return to the 
pitch for 2018 as well.
On the opposite side, UF will 
look to ﬁ  ll the hole left by Gabby 
Seiler, who graduated after the 
2017 season.
“Leaders like (Seiler) don’t 
come around that often,” head 
coach Becky Burleigh said in a 
release after last year’s loss to South Carolina.
Seiler, who clocked in six 
goals, eight assists and 20 points 
during the 2017 season, was one 
half of the Gators’ dynamic of-
fensive duo and an offensive 
spark that Florida will hope to 
replicate in 2018.
The exhibition against FGCU 
will see UF’s freshman class 
take to the pitch for its ﬁ  rst 
game. Of the ﬁ  ve incoming 
freshmen, three � Taylor Baksay, 
Mary Peace and Samantha Toba 
are forwards and will compete 
with returning players Alyssa 
Howell, Madison Alexander and 
Melanie Monteagudo to earn a 
starting forward spot. 
All three come to the Gators 
with experience under their belt: 
Baksay earned Pinellas County 
Athletic Conference North coun-
ty ﬁ  rst-team honors in 2018, 
Peace was a member of Orlando 
City in the Elite Clubs National 
League and Tobar played with 
Boca United F.C.
The other two freshmen, de-
fender Georgia Eaton-Collins 
and midﬁ  elder Cassidy Lindley, 
will also be in an uphill climb to 
earn a starting spot. 
Eaton-Collins’ resume is im-
pressive, having played with 
England’s national team at ﬁ  ve 
age groups and winning Player 
of the Year 2017-18 for the Arse-nal Under-20 team. 
However, both Smith and 
junior Julia Lester will be re-
turning this year after starting 
during the 2017 season, leaving 
Eaton-Collins and senior Sara 
Wilson with tough competition. 
Lindley, awarded MVP for 
the West team in the 2017 High 
School All-American Game in 
Orlando, is one of 14 midﬁ  eld-
ers on the roster, ﬁ  ve of which 
are returning starters from the 
2017 season.
The Gators will test the wa-
ters with their freshman class 
and returning backbone against 
FGCU, a team that ﬁ  nished its 
2017 season with a 14-4-1 re-
cord.  
The Eagles scored a goal 
against South Carolina in a 2-1 
loss early in the season, a feat 
UF couldn’t accomplish in 2017. 
The team should prove a decent 
ﬁ  rst test for Florida, as it won 
the Atlantic Sun Conference last 
year but was eliminated in the 
ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA Tour-
nament by USF, a team that the 
Gators defeated 1-0 in the sec-
ond round. 
The match will take place at 
the FGCU Soccer Complex at 7 
p.m. 
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.org  UF looks to improve on strong foundation at FGCU
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore forward Deanne Rose is UF’s leading returning scorer. She 
racked up nine goals and three assists in 2017. 
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2018
mation in investigations that has 
been “established by another ad-
ministrative body or a commission 
authorized by a school.”
The NCAA says that will save 
time since investigators would no 
longer have to independently con-
ﬁ  rm those details, which could 
come apply to the current corrup-
tion case with federal investiga-tors having access to information 
through subpoenas and wiretaps 
— tools the NCAA doesn’t pos-
sess.
The changes also include re-
quiring school presidents and 
athletics staff to commit “contrac-
tually” to cooperate fully with in-
vestigations, stiffer penalties for 
violations and regulation of the 
summer recruiting circuit.
Federal prosecutors announced last fall they had charged 10 men 
— including assistant coaches at 
Arizona, Auburn, USC and Okla-
homa State along with a top Adi-
das executive — in a fraud and 
bribery scandal. The case has en-
tangled schools such as Kansas, 
North Carolina State, Maryland 
and Louisville, among others, 
though prosecutors withdrew a 
criminal complaint in February 
against one of the defendants. 
ers is another black eye for foot-
ball. The upcoming Urban Meyer 
decision will shed a lot of light on 
where football in general lies when 
it comes to these cases.
How about Jameis Winston? 
How many times does his name 
have to be tied to sexual assault/ha-
rassment before he gets more than a 
three-game slap on the wrist?
But a sweeping shift in societal 
views and values always comes 
slowly, just like the stripping down 
of what is arguably football’s great-
est appeal as a spectator sport: the 
violence.
People enjoy boxing, MMA and 
other forms of humans doing things 
that damage other humans’ bodies. 
Football is no exception. 
New studies continue to reveal 
the severe nature of long term dam-
age to football players’ bodies (not 
just concussions – players deal with 
injuries to their knees, shoulders 
and everything in between). These 
studies corroborate the achy stories 
of retired players who are paying 
the price today, a price they weren’t 
warned about.
But now groups of football fans, coaches and players alike condemn 
the new safety rules as an attack 
on the core of what makes football,  
well, football.
Enforcing stricter rules on tack-
ling is starting to take away the 
boom-type, exclamation-mark plays 
that excite the crowd in ways other 
sports can’t.
But basketball has exclamation-
mark plays, too. These athletes can 
put on a dunk show on any given 
night, and Steph Curry and the 
Warriors have been extremely inﬂ  u-
ential in the three-point explosion 
that’s rippling through all levels of 
the game today.
That’s another thing basketball 
has on football: points. There’s so 
much more scoring in basketball. 
And modern teams are scoring 
more and more points as the years 
go by.
Basketball is also easier to follow 
on a screen than football. It’s a ﬁ  ve-
on-ﬁ  ve game, meaning there’s less 
to keep up with than the 11-on-11 
nature of football. 
And player empowerment in 
basketball is way, way ahead of 
football. Of course, a lot of that is 
thanks to LeBron James, but ask 
yourself this: As an employee work-
ing for someone else, would you rather have better working condi-
tions or worse? Which business 
do you respect more, the one that 
treats its workers right or the one 
operating on the tyrant-and-the-
slave model?
With all that being said, the tele-
vision ratings tell the other side of 
this story. While basketball’s num-
bers are on the rise while football’s 
decline, the gridiron still holds a 
comfortable lead on the hardwood 
court when it comes to television 
viewership. 
A 2017 Gallup poll revealed 
that 37 percent of Americans con-
sider football their favorite sport, 
compared to 11 percent who chose 
basketball (football had dropped 
from 43 percent about 10 years ago, 
though, showing the slow nature of 
this transition).
At the end of the day, we’re 
witnessing football creeping into 
metaphorical old age, as basketball 
is hitting its metaphorical athletic 
peak. As football devolves, basket-
ball evolves.
It’s the survival of the ﬁ  ttest.
 
Andrew Huang is a sports writer. 
You can follow him on Twitter @
AndrewJHuang or contact him at 
ahuang@alligator.org.
Penalties for violations will be stifer
Twitter: @riverhwellsAP,  from pg 13
COLUMN,  from pg 13