We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Basketball?! Basketball.
The Gators men’s basketball team made its debut in an 
exhibition game Tuesday night. Find out who did what, 
pg. 14Local religious leaders speak out
More than a dozen religious leaders took to City Hall to speak 
about the Pittsburgh killings, pg. 5
Student Government for Puerto Ricans
The Student Senate passed a resolution in support of aid for UF 
Puerto Rican students affected by Hurricane Maria, pg. 4WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 30
ABOUT 50 STUDENTS RALLIED 
FOR REPUBLICANS.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Reagan was the only canine that made 
an appearance at a Red Wave Rally.
The small French bulldog walked 
alongside Republican public ofﬁ  cials Flor-
ida State Sen. Keith Perry, U.S. Rep. Ted 
Yoho and Florida Rep. Chuck Clemons  on 
Turlington Plaza for a rally Tuesday after-
noon. The public ofﬁ  cials are running for 
reelection and came to encourage students 
to vote.
About 50 people attended the rally that included Chick-ﬁ  l-A chicken sandwhiches 
for those who wore “Team Yoho” stickers.
Patrick Miller, a 20-year-old UF political 
science junior, organized the event to en-
courage students to become informed on 
the candidates.
“We’re trying to rally conservative stu-
dents on campus and get them energized 
and motivated to get out and vote,” Miller 
said.
Perry said promoting music and the 
arts in education and vouching for small 
businesses are his priorities.
“I think that we’re doing a state and 
country a disservice by not allowing young 
people to go out and pursue their dreams,” 
Perry said.Holding a rally at UF allows students to 
engage with politics, Yoho said. 
“The privilege and the rights of vot-
ing are so important,” Yoho said. “Yet 
so many people don’t take advantage of 
them.”
Jeremy O’Brien, a 21-year-old UF po-
litical science junior, came to the rally 
dressed in a chicken suit. 
“I’m out here to protest them and re-
mind them that they are too chicken to 
stand up to corporate interests,” O’Brien 
said. “That’s why they are handing out 
Chick-ﬁ  l-A.” 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org ‘Red Wave Rally’ brings out 
students and public officials
MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Julie Mallinger woke up in her residence hall Sat-
urday morning and ﬂ  ipped open her laptop to browse 
Facebook like she would on any other weekend.
But it wasn’t an ordinary weekend in her home of 
Squirrel Hill, a Pittsburgh suburb. 
The 18-year-old UF biomedical engineering freshman 
texted her dad when she saw a livestream of a crime 
scene.
Mallinger’s dad told her 11 people were killed during 
a mass shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue. He told 
her to not be surprised if she recognized some of the 
names of the deceased. 
Turlington Plaza fell silent at 12:30 p.m. Monday 
when more than 200 students and community members 
gathered at a vigil to honor those who died. The vigil was 
hosted by Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center, the UF Jew-
ish Student Union and UF Hillel. 
UF has one of the largest populations of Jewish un-
dergraduate students in the U.S., with 18 percent of the 
total undergraduate population being Jewish, according 
to Hillel International.
Mallinger and two other Jewish UF students from 
Squirrel Hill, 18-year-old Morgann Green and 18-year-
old Olivia Hirshman, spoke at the vigil about discovering 
their community was attacked. 
The Anti-Defamation League said it believes the Tree 
of Life shooting to be the deadliest attack on the Jewish 
community in the United States. 
Mallinger said shootings don’t ever happen in Squir-
rel Hill. She remembers eating pizza with friends and 
celebrating bar or bat mitzvahs. 
“A lot of people here don’t really know Pittsburgh at 
all,” she said. “Now people know what it is for the wrong 
reasons.”
Rabbi Aharon Chaim Notik of Chabad and Rabbi 
Adam Grossman of UF Hillel encouraged the students 
present to spread kindness in the face of hatred. 
“Today, no matter your religion, your race, your 
creed, your sex, your gender, we are all targets,” Gross- UF Jewish students 
hold vigil to honor 
Pittsburgh victims  
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Republican State Sen. Keith Perry speaks to rally attendees Tuesday afternoon at the Red Wave Rally on Turlington 
Plaza. Perry said, “Give me a call and we’ll discuss issues. ” State Rep. Chuck Clemons and U.S. Rep. T ed Yoho also 
attended the event to tell students to vote. 
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 3
SG IS IMPLEMENTING DIVERSITY 
PROGRAMS TO HELP RECRUIT 
MINORITY STUDENTS.
By Angela DiMichele 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The black population at UF has declined 
since Student Body President Ian Green’s parents graduated more than 30 years ago. 
Now, Green is looking to be the catalyst 
for increased diversity on campus.
Six months after Green took ofﬁ  ce, more 
than 100 students gathered Tuesday night at 
the University Auditorium to hear his State 
of Campus Address, where diversity was 
just one of the things on the agenda. Green 
talked about new Student Government pro-grams, outreach and student life. 
The Bridges Minority Outreach Program, 
which was established in May, has been one 
step toward increasing diversity at UF, he 
said. The program works with six Florida 
schools from Jacksonville to Tampa to re-
cruit minority students.
Green also talked about the new Diversity 
Programming Committee, which meets with the presidents of the university’s largest di-
versity organizations to talk about what the 
communities want from SG. 
Val Raymond said he wasn’t surprised to 
see the University of Southern California’s 
Race and Equity Center study that surfaced 
in September, which gave UF an ‘F’ for race  Student Body President reﬂ  ects on his last six months
SEE CAMPUS,  PAGE 3T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
HIGH  85° LOW  61°
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Sustainable Transportation Fair
Sustainable UF is host-
ing the 2018 Sustainable 
Transportation Fair and Electric 
Vehicle Expo from 10 a.m. to 
2 p.m. today on the northeast 
corner of the Reitz Union Lawn 
behind the Hub and Marston 
Science Library. Come out to 
learn more about the sustain-
able transportation options on 
campus and in the community 
through interactive tabling 
activities, an electric vehicle 
expo, free bike repair, e-bike 
demo rides, giveaways and 
more. The event is free and 
open to all UF staff, faculty and 
students. For more informa-
tion, visit sustainable.ufl.edu/
sustainable-transportation-
fair/ or e-mail info@sustain-
ability.ufl.edu.
First Magnitude beer launch 
Thursday supports butterfly 
conservation
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History and First Magnitude 
Brewing Company will host a 
fundraiser to help support but-
terfly conservation from 5-8 
p.m. Thursday. First Magnitude 
will release a new beer made 
with blueberries and pome-
granates called “Atala Pale Ale,” highlighting the rare 
Atala butterfly. The suggested 
donation of $10 includes $1 
off all beers. A $15 donation 
includes a signature glass and 
$1 off all beers. T-shirts, pins 
and six-packs will also be avail-
able for purchase. All proceeds 
will directly support imperiled 
butterfly recovery efforts in 
Florida. For more information, 
visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
event/atala-ale or call 352-
273-2022.
Florida Museum to host ‘The 
Lost Bird Project’ beginning 
Thursday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will display “The Lost 
Bird Project,” which includes 
five bronze-casted sculptures of 
the extinct Carolina parakeet, 
great auk, heath hen, Labrador 
duck and passenger pigeon, 
starting Thursday. Artist Todd 
McGrain created the statues 
as a tribute to endangered and 
extinct species. Ranging from 
4 to 6 feet in height, the sculp-
tures were permanently placed 
where each bird was last seen 
in the wild, ranging from 
Fogo Island, Newfoundland, 
to Okeechobee, Florida, with 
traveling exhibits of the same 
figures touring nationally. For 
more information visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/lost-bird or call 352-846-2000.
Arts and Crafts Bazaar at Ocala 
Palms 
An arts and crafts bazaar will 
be held at Ocala Palms Golf & 
Country Club, on U.S. Highway 
27, one mile west of Interstate 
75, Exit 354, from 9 a.m. to 2 
p.m. Saturday. Guests can shop 
from a variety of crafters and 
artists. A hot dog lunch will be 
available for purchase, as well 
as desserts at a bake sale.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to pfry@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit entries before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in 
the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. VOLUME 113 ISSUE 30
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe Starling
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
man said. 
Students passed out tealight 
candles and candlesticks as Julia 
Sabra, a 21-year-old UF psychol-
ogy senior, led the crowd in sing-
ing “Ose Shalom,” a prayer that 
means peace for Israel and the 
world, Sabra said. 
Sabra played the guitar slowly 
as the crowd sang the words to 
the prayer. 
Tears rolled down cheeks, 
and arms were wrapped protec-
tively around waists. 
“They’re singing through us, 
and we feel their presence with 
us when we carry on in the joy 
and celebrating of life,” Sabra 
said. 
Sabra said the voices of the 
people singing with her at the 
vigil made her feel powerful and 
supported. 
“Not just listening but contrib-
uting your voice to the moment 
makes everyone feel a part of it and feel stronger in the commu-
nity,” Sabra said. 
UF President Kent Fuchs was 
among one of the speakers at the 
vigil. After the prayer, he said 
UF students and faculty must be 
“Gators in solidarity” in times of 
tragedies like mass shootings.
“First, you just express your 
grief,” Fuchs said to The Alliga-
tor. “Secondly, it’s a time to re-
new our commitment to actively 
express love. Not just the lack of 
hate but the actual act of love.”
Colin Silverman, the president 
of the UF Jewish Student Union, 
stood on a raised platform and in-
vited all UF students to Shabbat 
dinners on Friday nights. 
Silverman, a 22-year-old UF 
accounting junior, said he wants 
to honor the lives lost through 
food, conversation and celebra-
tion. 
“It takes a village to combat 
anti-semitism,” he said.  
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgVIGIL,  from pg. 111 people were killed in Pittsburgh.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Ashley Cavallo (left) holds a candle to honor the lives lost in Sunday’s mass shooting at the Tree of Life 
Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Cavallo, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore  with a minor in Jewish 
history, said, “We will survive, we will continue on and we won’t let terror stop us from doing what we need 
to do. ” The vigil, which was held on Turlington Plaza on Monday afternoon, was organized by the Lubavitch 
Chabad Jewish Center, UF Hillel and the Jewish Student Union.
equity.
Raymond, the 23-year-old UF SG diver-
sity affairs executive secretary, said the 
Bridges Program may be the most effective 
in combating this ranking. 
“When the ranking came out, it was not 
a shock to many people,” Raymond said. 
“For some people who maybe are offended 
by the ranking, we don’t need to parse the 
numbers and say there’s been progress. We 
need to focus on what the numbers actu-
ally say.” 
Beyond diversity, Green discussed sev-
eral new SG initiatives, including an SG-
funded lifted boat ramp for disabled stu-
dents at Lake Wauburg North Shore.
Next year’s Gator 1 Card will include 
hotlines for the Counseling and Wellness 
Center and U Matter, We Care, Green said, and free on-campus tutoring services are in 
the works. 
In January, Green said he’d lobby in 
Tallahassee to get UF more money to build 
more non-academic buildings on campus.
To help students rise in the top ﬁ  ve pub-
lic university ranks, Newell Hall’s quiet 
hours from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. on the third and 
fourth ﬂ  oors are instrumental in promoting 
individual studying habits, Green said.
Green said he has also worked to pro-
vide ﬁ  nancial literacy classes to students 
called Cash Course with the Ofﬁ  ce for Stu-
dent Financial Affairs. 
“Programming is more than just putting 
on events and giving out free food,” Green 
said. “It’s about uniting us as Gators by 
strengthening the Gator nation as we know 
it today.” 
@angdimi
adimichele@alligator.org CAMPUS,  from pg. 1Green wants to increase diversity.
 □ Improve blue light system
 □ Put mental health hotlines and emergency 
phone numbers on Gator1 Cards
 □ Covered shelter bus stops to protect students 
from rain
 □ Lobby for the bonding of state Capital 
Improvement Trust Funds to build a brand-new 
Health and Wellness Center and other projects
 □ Opportunities for students to attend meet and 
greets for ACCENT speakers and SGP guest 
artists
 □ Meal swipe program for food insecure students
 □ Gator football tickets available on phone
 □ Expand ATM locations on campus
 □ Integrate gender-inclusive housing options on 
campus
 □ Align ﬁ  nancial aid disbursements for graduate 
and professional students with their calendars
 □ Bimonthly SG meeting with city ofﬁ  cials and 
police addressing local issues
 □ Increase halal and kosher food options on 
campus
 □ Implement live capacity updates at Southwest Rec and Student Rec
 □ Expand free printing across campus and to 
residence halls
 □ 2-ply toilet paper in on-campus buildings
 □ Introduce a textbook donation and rental 
program
 □ Advocate to promote the African American 
Studies Program to departmental status
 □ Implement virtual ofﬁ  ce hours for Student Body 
Executive ofﬁ  cers
 □ Develop a scholarship for graduation caps and 
gowns
 □ Launch a ﬁ  nancial literacy program
 □ Revitalize SG Diversity and Programming 
Committee
 □ Lobby for Bright Futures funding for Innovation 
Academy students
 □ SG programming to honor Gator ROTC and 
veteran students
 □ Grant program for innovative student-driven 
projects
 □ Advocate for Clean Dream ActIMPACT’S PLATFORM POINT CHECKLISTKEY: □ COMPETED
 □ IN THE WORKS
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
□
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
GUIDE TO 
 DINING OUT
DINING OUT
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, waffles, savory 
waffle cones, homemade sweets, 
juices and smoothies.Vegan/gluten 
free options. Like us on Facebook.  
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 
10-3  dailygreendowntown.org
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been 
coming to The Yearling Restaurant. 
If your parents, grandparents, or 
greatgrandparents went to UF they 
most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a 
wide variety of seafood + steaks. 
Top it off with our famous sour 
orange pie. Now that is a meal any 
FL Gator can enjoy. So come on 
out to the creek + take a step back 
in time. Only here can you see the 
legendary bluesman Willie “The 
Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.ITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is 
perfect for dinner any day of the 
week. Come in and check out one 
of the best wine lists in town. Ask 
questions and learn while you wait 
for the chef to put out nothing but 
goodness from the kitchen using 
fresh, simple, and local ingredients. 
Ask about our Monday Wine Dinners 
and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, 
Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 South Main St.  
(352) 375-7372
LOCAL
Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy 
Hours around: $3 wells, 1/2 off 
select wines by the glass, $5 select 
specialty cocktails, $1 off all beers; 
3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south 
of Archer Road on 13th Street in the 
Shands Parking Garage. Private 
room available. Great for rehearsal 
dinners, student life organizations, 
and other group events. Always 
taking reservations, call us at 872-
5181. Like us on Facebook and follow 
us on Instagram @chefcarlwatts for 
upcoming events and daily specials.SPECIALTY TEAS
Mai Kai
Kava has been served for 3,000 
years as an alternative to alcohol 
used for ceremonial, political, 
medicinal, and social purposes. 
Come try our Kava, Kratom, Mate,
and other teas in Downtown 
Gainesville. Open weekdays 
12pm-12am, weekends 12pm-1am 
and Sundays 12pm-5pm.  
17 W. University Ave.  
maikaikava.com
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end 
and discover lots of vegetarian 
dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and 
sustainable wine. Dine inside the 
historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 
NW 2nd Street. Open for lunch 11-
2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 Tues-
Sat.  welcometocivilization.com BREAKFAST
Donut Connection
World’s Best Coffee, Fresh donuts 
& pastries made on premises daily 
since 1990. Egg & cheese with 
bacon, ham, or sausage on a 
Thomas’s english muffin or bagel. 
Call ahead 352-375-0376. Your order 
will be ready when you arrive 5205 NW 
39th Ave. Drive-thru available Open 
everyday 5am -7pm Free wi-fi, senior 
discount, wholesale prices available.
KOREAN
Momoyaki
Authentic, savory traditional and 
modern Korean dishes with the best 
sushi in town Weekday specials 
including 2 rolls for only $8 from 
10:30am-3pm. and buy one get one 
beer, wine and sake from  
4pm-7pm! 352-384-3733
RAMEN
Electric Ramen
I made it through the wilderness
Somehow I made it through
Didn’t know how lost I was
Until I found you
Lunch: Mon-Sun 11am-3pm
*NEW*  Dinner: Wed-Sun: 5pm-9pm 
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482THE RESOLUTION WILL BE SENT 
TO UF ADMINISTRATION.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government is asking for UF ofﬁ  cials 
to disburse Bright Futures scholarships to Puerto 
Rican students recovering from Hurricane Maria. 
The SG Senate passed a resolution, a non-
binding written statement, calling for UF ad-
ministration to revisit the policy that determines 
Bright Futures eligibility for students displaced 
by the storm, according to the resolution. 
The resolution was written to aid students 
who relocated to Florida from Puerto Rico in the 
wake of the hurricane, said one of the resolu-
tion’s authors, UF philosophy freshman Alfredo 
Ortiz. It helps students who may already be fac-
ing ﬁ  nancial hardships caused by the storm, Or-tiz, 18, said.
“I am glad that the matter is not only ac-
knowledged by the Student Body, but it is passed 
unanimously by the Senate,” he said. “When the 
resolution is presented to the administration, the 
importance will be clear to them.”  
In addition, the Senate passed a bill to in-
crease the time the SG Supervisor of Elections 
must be unafﬁ  liated with an SG party from one 
to two years before taking on the supervisor role, 
according to the bill. 
The bill will better uphold neutrality in SG 
elections, said one of the bill’s authors, Sen. Ben 
Lima (Inspire, District D).
“The bill allows students to have conﬁ  dence 
that their votes are being counted correctly, and 
their voices are being heard in an accurate and 
ethical manner,” Lima said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgStudent Government shows support 
of displaced Puerto Rican students
Shelbie Eakins / Alligator Staff
Doggy day scare
A dog named Eli dresses up as a shark Tuesday evening during the Yappy Hour 
Barktoberfest event at The Swamp restaurant. Eli and other costumed furry 
friends ﬂ  ooded the patio of the restaurant, where they were served water 
bowls and doggy-friendly appetizers.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
ABOUT 30 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite the robes, suits and 
religious stoles, thirteen reli-
gious leaders weren’t on the 
steps of City Hall to worship. 
The Alachua County Faith 
Leaders Alliance gathered 
Tuesday afternoon to speak to 
about 30 people in wake of a 
shooting that killed 11 people 
at the Tree of Life Synagogue 
in a Pittsburgh suburb Saturday 
morning. 
Twenty-two local faith lead-
ers wrote an ofﬁ  cial statement 
after the shooting to denounce 
hate speech and anti-semitism, 
said the Rev. Catherine Dearlo-
ve, a co-founder of the alliance. 
Five leaders took turns reading 
the statement, followed by indi-
vidual speeches. 
Dearlove, of the Trinity Met-
ropolitan Community Church, 
organized the talk for mem-
bers of the Alliance to promote 
peaceful rhetoric and show 
solidarity with the Jewish com-
munity. The Alliance also held a talk before white nationalist 
Richard Spencer spoke at UF in 
October of 2017, she said. 
“Even though we believe all 
different things, Gainesville can 
see that we can come togeth-
er and respect a mutual love 
for humanity,” she said. “We 
would like our Jewish friends to 
know that we are with them.”
Jean-Paul Calixte, 51, a 
member of the Parkview Bap-
tist Church, came to hear the 
group speak because “silence 
sends the wrong message,” he 
said.
“When you have the local 
leaders, including the mayor, 
make a statement about a par-
ticular incident of catastrophe, 
it makes you feel that we are all 
in this together,” he said.
Mayor Lauren Poe told the 
crowd that Gainesville resi-
dents do not condone hate and 
must call it out whether it be 
on a playground or at City Hall.
“The only way we make this 
anti-semitic mass murder the 
last is by taking action against 
it,” he said,” and that is what 
we are going to do right now.”
 ,
@mbeery
mbeery@alligator.orgLocal religious leaders speak out against anti-semitism at City Hall
McKenna Beery / Alligator Staff
Mayor Lauren Poe calls on a crowd of 30 people to denounce hate speech and anti-semitism Tuesday 
afternoon outside of City Hall. When one person is harmed, it takes a toll on everyone, he said.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORCease and desist: A 
comprehensive collection 
of small irritations
The Alligator’s editorial board is always on the hunt for 
wrongdoers to write editorials about. We keep a watchful 
eye on who elevates our heart rate, no matter how small 
the infraction, so we can take them to task in a 600-word 
smackdown. But most of the people who end up on our 
list are too mundane to merit a full declaration. We have com-
piled a selection of those who didn’t make the cut so we may 
condemn them all simultaneously. We hope none of our readers 
are a part of these groups who commit small, commonplace sins.
Our grievances begin with a category of individuals whose 
personalities revolve around having mundane superiority com-
plexes. Some feel superior because they can drink more than 
others. If you didn’t black out at the last party, they will let you 
know that they drank more than you did. Others mount a high 
horse because they manage to stay awake in class despite only 
running on three hours of sleep, whereas you’re having a low-en-
ergy afternoon with an ample five. How dare you mention your 
headache in their more sleep-deprived presence? Black coffee 
drinkers, you who look down on the supposedly weak and unso-
phisticated who take cream and sugar: Your self-deprivation does 
not make you superior. Everyone also seems to have a friend 
who will chime in with their opinion when you mention you 
have Spotify or Apple Music — because of course one is better 
than the other, and it’s never the one you have.
Some students also seem to think they know more than their 
professors and speak up without reason in class to make a cor-
rection. These students unashamedly spout mistaken facts to a 
subject matter expert who may have lived through the events 
they’re describing. The worst part is they don’t know how much 
they don’t know.
One group deserves special classification — those who be-
come zen spiritual counselors after reading ‘Siddhartha’ once in 
What is the Good Life.
On the topic of Good Life, freshmen are the origin of 
several more grievances. Now that they’ve been accepted into 
Gainesville’s culture and become Gators, it’s time they were told 
that being a junior by credits is not impressive. Freshmen, we 
advise you not to casually bring up your advanced classification. 
Avoid the eye-rolling altogether. The same goes for freshmen who 
think they can triple major. Drop the act before you’re crushed 
under the weight of your own backpack.
Roommates are simultaneously our best friends and worst en-
emies. As a subcategory of human, roommates are more prone 
to leave takeout in the fridge long enough to ferment or let a dish 
grow a moldy wig on the counter. The fungus-cultivating room-
mate is more common than you’d think, and if you don’t have 
roommates like that, it’s probably you.
There are several dating sinners we’d like to point out. To 
those who list liking “The Office” as their only personality trait: 
branch out. That’s not exciting enough, even if your impression 
of Kevin spilling the chili is on point. If you find yourself paying 
for an empty apartment and staying with your significant other 
most nights, do your wallet a favor and just move. There is also 
a category of people who will go on a coffee date but sit silently 
through it, forcing an awkward hour onto the other party. Worse 
are those who refuse to talk about anything except school and 
classes. 
We will end by mentioning the most puzzling group of all; 
they cause us more so to scowl than bristle in frustration. They 
are everywhere around you. They walk among us and look like 
us, but do not be fooled — they could not be more different. They 
pull the cord as the bus approaches the Hub. Please alert the 
authorities if you see them.Why Andrew Gillum has not earned my support
I always have an open mind when it comes 
to elections. I’m not a partisan. I want to 
hear from all the candidates and give them a 
chance to present their ideas. 
I recently gave this chance to Andrew Gil-
lum, the Democratic nominee for governor, but I 
cannot and will not be supporting him this No-
vember. Why? Gillum is an extremist. Some of his 
views and associations exist completely outside of 
the mainstream. 
To start, Gillum doesn’t believe in policing. In 
his own words, if “a law enforcement official has to go to a 
weapon, to a gun, to a baton, to a Taser,” then law enforce-
ment has gone “too far by their very presence.” We can look 
to countries like France to see what unarmed policing is like. 
France may be reconsidering its unarmed police force for ob-
vious reasons. The government has identified 78 attempted 
terrorist attacks over the last five years. It’s difficult to stop 
such attacks if police are unarmed. 
This isn’t Gillum’s only position on the issue. Gillum has 
rightfully come under fire for signing the Dream Defenders’ 
“Freedom Pledge,” a pledge that states if elected governor, 
Gillum will commit to “divest” from “police.” When his 
opponent Ron DeSantis raised this pledge at a recent CNN 
debate, Gillum claimed he had “no idea” what DeSantis was 
referring to. Gillum’s defense isn’t believable. Politicians 
don’t sign pledges and later forget. 
The Dream Defenders hold other radical beliefs. The orga-
nization’s “Freedom Papers” highlight a creepy utopian and 
communist vision where “by virtue of being born” people 
have a right to “food,” “health care,” “work,” and “living 
wages.” The document states that police and prisons have 
no place in justice. Most alarmingly, the organization calls 
for an end to our national borders. Gillum himself has said 
he would like to abolish Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment, the government agency that enforces immigration law. 
Does Gillum believe in these crazy ideas? If he doesn’t, 
then why not associate with a different and more moderate 
organization? Unfortunately, this isn’t a first-time offense. In 2016, Andrew Gillum addressed the Florida 
chapter of the Council on American Islamic Re-
lations. The left-leaning Democratic mayor even 
acknowledged that he welcomed and thanked the 
group. CAIR has longstanding ties with Hamas, 
a terrorist organization with goals of obliterating 
Israel. An FBI agent investigating the organization 
testified that the group was a front for Hamas. Ad-
ditionally, CAIR Florida’s Executive Director Has-
san Shibly (who has formally spoken on campus 
several times) has tweeted that “Israel & it’s sup-
porters are enemies of God and humanity.” He also seemed 
to justify the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attacks in Paris by blam-
ing the United States. 
None of this information is new. CAIR’s ties with Hamas 
and justifications for terrorism have long been public knowl-
edge. Who casually associates with a group that has been 
credibly accused of having ties with terrorists? And one 
would think that if a person mistakenly associated with a 
group like CAIR, they would correct the record and disavow 
them right? Nope. Not Gillum. Gillum and his campaign 
don’t even try to hide it. They brag about it. Gillum’s cam-
paign manager recently told the Miami Herald that Gillum 
welcomed CAIR to Tallahassee just last year. 
Gillum is clearly a charismatic politician. He wouldn’t 
have made it this far if he wasn’t, but Floridians who are 
captivated by his campaign have some serious thinking to 
do. Is this the type of person you want running the state? I 
don’t. I want a governor who believes in the full enforcement 
of the law. I want a governor who believes in our existence 
as a nation through our borders. And I certainly don’t want 
a governor who associates with groups linked to terrorism. 
Gillum could’ve ended speculation about his radical associa-
tions by publicly disavowing these groups. He hasn’t, and 
that should be telling as to what he really believes. I hope 
Floridians remember that on Election Day.
Eduardo Neret is a UF finance senior. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.
Eduardo Neret
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Lately, when spending time with friends 
— whether we’re lunching, brunching 
or contemplating whatever the latest 
mini-dilemma is on our radar — our 
conversations seem to circle back to the 
same realization, which typically comes in the 
form of “Wow … after graduation, it’s really 
the end,” or, “Not to be all ‘Debbie Downer,’ 
but this is it, you guys.”
Sometimes, these conclusions are mixed 
together with a tinge of sarcasm, but a lot of 
times they’re not. And even though it’s no se-
cret that post-college life is a different animal 
compared with the routines we’ve become 
familiar with on campus, I can’t help but sit 
in silence on the blanket sentiment that the 
end of college is the end of all things good in 
our lives. 
What happened to being at least a teensy 
bit excited for the future? Am I allowed to look 
ahead and truly think that some of the best 
days and experiences are yet to come without 
doubting whether or not I’ve lived up every second of my time in college?
It’s true that for many students 
on the cusp of graduation what lies 
ahead is unknown. The normal 
feelings of uncertainty in regard to 
at least some aspect of the future 
weigh heavy on anyone getting 
close to turning the tassel. I feel 
it,too, and there’s no question se-
niors who are preparing to gradu-
ate in December feel it even more.
Somewhere along the line, though, I de-
veloped this tiny, but prominent, voice in the 
back of my head that reminds me the trivial 
aspects of college aren’t (and don’t have to 
be) these be-all, end-all experiences. As far-
out as this sounds, it’s almost as if I’ve had an 
imaginary form of currency for my “absolute 
best moments ever,” and I subconsciously 
haven’t wanted to use them all up during col-
lege.
I think having this mindset has been posi-
tive because it’s allowed me to reﬂ  ect and be conscious of all the choices I’ve 
made throughout the past few 
years — from the activities and 
opportunities I’ve chosen to com-
mit to, to the meaningful relation-
ships and friendships I’ve invested 
in. Similarly, self-reminders help 
me not take to heart situations or 
stressors that likely won’t matter 
months from now. 
It’s not to say the people I’ve 
met and the experiences I’ve had as a stu-
dent haven’t shaped who I am, because the 
truth is that my time in college has brought 
about many turning points that have inspired 
me and changed me for the better. However, 
when I hear others compare being done with 
college to the end of the world as we know 
it — and I simply don’t feel the same way — I 
ﬁ  nd it’s easy to spiral into a black hole of self-
doubt, questioning whether or not I’ve soaked 
up everything about the past four years.
It seems my generation has gotten sucked into thinking college is our last chance to be 
“relevant” or to achieve or gain whatever it 
is we’re looking for, as if we receive our di-
plomas and immediately get tossed on a rack 
in the “Must Go Now” aisle at a department 
store.
It’s true that college is and has been a trans-
formative and exciting time, and what follows 
is inherently very different — but what hap-
pened to being optimistic about the future?
It may be easier said than done, but I think 
we would do well to remind ourselves that 
moving on doesn’t have to mean drifting apart 
or away from all things exciting meaningful 
or fun. Instead, I think to take a leap into the 
next phase of our lives or even just thinking 
about what’s next often brings to light what 
we really see ourselves pursuing and the peo-
ple and relationships we feel most connected 
to — and that’s pretty big.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Remember college fondly, but remember to look ahead too
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.org
"The stage is set for the an-
nual festivities!” UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs screams 
in delight as the cameras 
pan around the familiar 
arena, showing 35,247 tributes with 
eager ﬁ  ngers ready to begin the hard-
est struggle of their lives. It is 8:59 on 
Monday morning, the 29th of Octo-
ber — class registration is less than 
a minute away. While there are sig-
niﬁ  cantly less murder and double-suicides during 
UF’s registration process, its free-for-all style and 
cut-throat tactics draw many parallels to Suzanne 
Collins’ massive dystopian battle royale (the 
Fortnite-before-Fortnite) “The Hunger Games.” 
As this time of year is upon us once more, I feel 
the strategies on how to succeed are important 
to share.
Just as in “The Hunger Games,” the most es-
sential goods are taken in the ﬁ  rst minutes. In the 
ﬁ  ctionalized ﬁ  ght between tributes, the goods in 
the Cornucopia consist of strong weapons, food, 
ﬁ  rst aid and other items that either ensure the 
survival of a player or the death of an opponent. 
In Gainesville’s very own rendition of this death-
struggle, the Cornucopia is ﬁ  lled with something 
more valuable: easy gen-eds. I’m talking that 
“too-good-to-be-true” biology course that has a 
5.0 on “Rate My Professor” and supposedly gives 
no homework or the English course that touts an 
astonishingly empty list of textbooks. These class-
es, just as the items in “The Hunger Games,” are 
gone ﬁ  rst, taken by players with a large advan-
tage, and leave the painful sight of ﬁ  rst-blood in 
their wake. Juniors and seniors swoop in, just like 
the Career tributes from the wealthy districts, and 
secure these classes. Sophomores, and especially 
freshmen, are left to ﬁ  ght over scraps, unless they 
are able to somehow get lucky, or in the Honors 
Program for early registration. However, many 
of these students are naive and unprepared, en-
tering the vicious process with a blind optimism 
and trust in the universe that has long since been 
beaten out of upperclassmen by the battering ram 
of collegiate life. Without a game plan, losing out 
on that biology or English class rearranges entire 
schedules for these baby Gators, possibly shifting 
the course of their entire semester. They are but 
casualties in the great game of registration that 
provides entertainment for faculty. 
So how do you navigate the murky waters of 
class registration with expeditiousness and efﬁ  -
ciency? For upperclassmen, half of the job should 
be done for you before the countdown to 9 a.m. 
Monday is up. Smaller, upper-division courses 
are generally less competitive, as they are more 
specialized and geared toward smaller sections of 
the Student Body. This is the most powerful argu-
ment I know in favor of doing well and passing your classes: Registration becomes 
a lot easier. Of course, this is not 
generalizable to all upper-division 
courses nor is it applicable to all 
upperclassmen. Some of our elder 
Gators, as mentioned, are still navi-
gating their gen-eds, some for good 
reason and others because college 
was the ﬁ  rst taste of independence 
and/or alcohol they experienced in 
their entire lives, and their ﬁ  rst two 
or three years at UF were, as they say in hip-hop, 
“lost in the sauce.” Either way, these students 
should still be OK for registration, as they get ﬁ  rst 
dibs on the Cornucopia of coveted courses. It is 
the underclassmen, desperately ﬁ  ghting for a few 
select gen-ed classes, who are truly in need of a 
sureﬁ  re strategy for success. 
These students should do two things to guar-
antee success, but at the very least, survive in 
the dawning minutes of class registration. First-
ly, underclassmen should be prepared to cut 
their losses and take their second, third or even 
fourth picks. It is imperative that they don’t be-
come emotionally attached to any given profes-
sor or course, or they will be demolished in the 
herd of rushing Gators and fall off their projected 
course altogether. Having a few palatable options 
is good as a security measure; it will keep you 
alive. It will not guarantee success, though. To 
ensure victory at the Cornucopia, underclassmen 
will need to single out one class they really want, 
copy the course code and as soon as their regis-
tration opens, paste the code and add the course 
immediately. With both of these strategies and a 
little luck, underclassmen will get schedules that 
doesn’t make them consider dropping out.
The most depressing thing about the re-
semblance of class registration to “The Hunger 
Games” is how inescapable it is for younger stu-
dents. There is no real direction I can give to UF 
to improve the process, as even though it stands 
currently with death, destruction and despair, 
class registration goes about as smoothly as it 
possibly could. For upperclassmen, the process 
should serve as nothing more than a morbidly 
hilarious reminder of the pain they felt upon 
missing out on a class years back. For underclass-
men with the correct strategy, it will not devas-
tate them. It is a select few each year though, the 
unprepared and overwhelmed, who will experi-
ence the brutality of human nature in the ruthless 
arena of UF’s very own “Hunger Games,” but in-
stead of losing their lives, they will be deprived of 
much more important things: friends, academic 
plans, possibly their GPA and hope for a success-
ful future.
Kyle Cunningham is a UF English and history 
freshman. His column appears on Wednesdays.In a world of social media, 
where symbolism and sub-
tweets reign supreme, a 
new dynamic could be in 
order as rumors of Twit-
ter removing the “like” button 
circulate throughout media 
spheres.
During an event last week, 
Telegraph reported Twitter co-
founder Jack Dorsey as “not 
a fan of the heart-shaped but-
ton.” Dorsey continued by saying he had 
plans to ax the button in the future, a bold 
move for a social media that thrives on 
billions of likes a day. 
As the internet freaked out over the 
news, the ofﬁ  cial Twitter communications 
team tweeted, “As we’ve been saying for a 
while, we are rethinking everything about 
the service to ensure we are incentivizing 
healthy conversation, that includes the 
like button. We are in the early stages of 
the work and have no plans to share right 
now.”
There seem to be no major changes in 
the works for Twitter, at least not in the 
near future. However, it begs the ques-
tion, what is Twitter without the “like” 
button? What is social media, in general, 
without the “like” button? 
It’s hard to imagine a social media 
world where you can’t offer a show of 
solidarity through a “like” or a “favor-
ite.” Dorsey said getting rid of the “like” 
button would help to facilitate healthier 
conversation and discussion. Twitter has 
never been a place for healthy discussion. 
It thrives on conﬂ  icts and meme culture. 
Twitter users took to, well, Twitter to 
show their disagreement with Dorsey’s 
idea. 
“You realize that not all of Twitter is a 
stage for debate, right? Many of us artists 
appreciate, and need likes to judge how 
we’re doing with the communities we are 
a part of. Removing the like button would 
destroy a lot of indie artists focusing on 
Twitter,” said digital artist Zeshio, in a 
tweet. 
Another Twitter user, Jen Kirkman 
tweeted, “Finally. Twitter is getting rid 
of the biggest problem on their platform - 
the LIKE button!!! We’ve all had enough 
verbal harassment, death or rape threats 
from that LIKE button. It’s time the LIKE 
button went. Cuz that sure is Twitter’s biggest problem, the LIKE but-
ton.” 
“Likes” don’t mean you’re 
just “liking” something. It’s a 
show of solidarity, or it’s a way 
to bookmark a thought. It’s a 
way for businesses to measure 
how an audience is receiv-
ing something, and it’s a way 
to understand what people 
around you are talking about. 
Social media is a mode of 
conversation, but part of that is the sym-
bolism that goes along with it. “The heart, 
in contrast, is a universal symbol that 
resonates across languages, cultures and 
time zones. The heart is more expressive, 
enabling you to convey a range of emo-
tions and easily connect with people. And 
in our tests, we found that people loved 
it,” wrote Akarshan Kumar, a Twitter 
product manager, according to Bustle. 
Social media is a language, and as Ku-
mar says, there are certain aspects that are 
universal like like or retweet. We know 
the difference between liking a tweet from 
your best friend’s experience at Chick-ﬁ  l-
A and someone else’s tweets about gun 
control. Both are an act of camaraderie 
but in very different ways — the former 
is showing an appreciation for someone’s 
experience, the latter is offering an agree-
ment on someone’s opinion. 
It would be hard to facilitate a calm 
and agreeable conversation on Twitter 
without a “like” button because the only 
options left would be the retweet and the 
comment section. The comment section 
of Twitter is a breeding ground for 280 
characters of pure anger being spewed 
back and forth. All that would be left of 
Twitter without a “like” button would be 
a comment section full of contradicting 
thoughts. 
However, if Twitter chooses to move 
forward with its app, people will adapt to 
it. Social media is always changing and so 
are the people using it. Twitter thrives on 
words spoken and unspoken, and that’s 
just a part of our cultural language today. 
Without a “like” button, people would 
have to ﬁ  nd a new, symbolic way to show 
their mutuals how much they care.  
Michaela Mulligan is a UF journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.UF ‘Hunger Games’: spring registration What would Twitter be like if 
‘likes’ disappeared?
Kyle Cunningham
opinions@alligator.org
Michaela
Mulligan
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Spooky snacks!
Check out page 10 for our quick and easy recipes for   
Halloween treats.Need a costume?
Flip over to page 10 for the Avenue’s guide to last minute 
costumes that will have you ready for anything!By Tranelle Maner 
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville became Indio, California, 
when Soulchella came to the city Sunday 
evening, as UF’s Homecoming and Gator 
Growl team created a Coachella-themed 
event for Soulfest 2018. 
Soulfest is an annual multicultural event 
that showcases the talent in the Gainesville 
and UF communities. The free event has 
moved to multiple homes throughout its 
years, including Turlington Plaza, Flavet 
Field, Reitz Union, North Lawn and ﬁ  nally, 
the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, 
which has been its home since 2014. On Sunday, 12 combined group and 
solo acts took the stage of the Phillips Cen-
ter, competing for a chance to showcase 
their talents at Gator Growl. 
The competition had six judges ranging 
from students to administrators, including 
Lauren Vu, a UF psychology senior and co-
president of the Asian American Student 
Union, Akil Reynolds, a UF public health 
senior and president of the Black Student 
Union and William Atkins, the senior di-
rector of multicultural and diversity affairs. 
“I really enjoyed the evening and I’m 
very proud of Brittany (Amade, Director of 
Soulfest and a UF psychology and sociol-
ogy senior) for making sure that tonight was a multicultural event and experience,” 
Reynolds said. 
Highlights of the evening include the 
announcement of the group and solo win-
ners, who will be performing at Gator 
Growl. Among them were Danza Dance 
Company and solo performer and jazz 
singer D.J. McDufﬁ  e, who sang the song 
“Feeling Good,” originally recorded by 
Nina Simone. McDufﬁ  e has been known 
more recently for his cover by Michael 
Bublé. 
Other acts from the night include TSS 
dance group, pianist Nathan Athouriste, 
a marketing sophomore, who performed 
pop hits like Ariana Grande’s “God Is a Woman,” as well as Vertax, a Chinese yo-
yo group, among others.
Alejandra Vioa, a UF information sys-
tems sophomore, wasn’t originally going 
to the showcase, but after witnessing all 
the diverse talent, she said she’s glad she 
did. 
“It was really interesting and deﬁ  nitely 
more talent than I thought,” Vioa said. “I 
really liked Sabor Latino.” 
At the end of the event, before the an-
nouncements of the winners, attendees 
were also treated to a special performance 
from the National Panhellenic Council.
“I really, really enjoyed the entire 
event,” Vioa said.   UF students show their cultural pride with Soulfest 2018
CULTURE
Tranelle Maner/Avenue Staff Writer
Premier UF dance group Danza Dance Company perform a contemporary 
routine to secure a win with the judges.
Tranelle Maner/Avenue Staff Writer
Latin dance group Sabor Latino perform a warrior routine.
By T aylor McLamb 
Avenue Contributing Writer
It’s that time of year again– 
Halloween. For many college stu-
dents, it’s a time where they can 
relive their childhood, dressing up 
as their favorite television charac-
ters, horror movie icons or celebri-
ties. 
However, this time around, many will be consuming Hallow-
een-inspired liquors instead of ac-
tual candy. Or, they could be hav-
ing both. As someone who set up 
shop in the 50-percent-off candy 
aisle, who am I to judge?
This Wednesday, grab your 
nearest drink of choice and 
proceed to knock one back 
every time you have one of 
these ghoulish encounters.                                                    Take a sip when…
-You’ve heard a remixed ver-
sion of “The Monster Mash” for 
the billionth time.
-Someone eats all the candy 
you were supposed to hand out to 
kids.
-That someone was you.
-The boy from Tinder who 
ghosted you three months ago re-
incarnates to ask you if you’re up. Take a shot when…
-You get asked a million times 
what your costume is, and you 
have to repeatedly explain that 
you’re Dwight Schrute but sexy.
-When watching a horror 
movie, you realize that you aren’t 
scared because nothing is scarier 
than reality.
-You’re getting too real 
and starting to upset people.                 Finish your drink when…
-You lose a friend in the corn 
maze.
-You get an email from your 
professor conﬁ  rming that the pa-
per is still due tomorrow.
-You have to tell someone that 
yes, their costume is racist. 
-You’ve been asked to show 
your “BOO-bies” once, and that’s 
more than enough. The Avenue’s haunting Halloween drinking game
SpookyWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
BURGER 
NIGHT
$3.99 BURGER
(1/2 LB. ANGUS BEEF) 5PM- CLOSEMONDAY NIGHTS
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595In the Creekside Mall Plaza
BURGER 
$3.99 BURGER
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
Visit us at Bo Diddley Plaza  
Farmers Market  Wed. 4-7 pm
954-882-2879
@Emma Jeens Pies
By Emma McAvoy 
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville’s local theater orga-
nization Florida Players presented a 
production of “Speech and Debate” 
by Stephen Karam at the Squitieri 
Studio Theatre over the weekend. 
“Speech and Debate” tells a 
story of the slice of life that is high 
school and adolescence. The pro-
duction explores issues of teen 
angst, sexuality, unlikely friend-
ships and acceptance. Three teens 
struggle on their journey of coming 
to terms with who they really are in 
an oppressive society that attempts 
to force them into boxes.  
The cast featured Trevor Spence 
(Solomon), a UF theatre perfor-
mance sophomore, Kaylie Heyner 
(Diwata), a UF public relations ju-
nior and Aaron Kienstra (Howie), a 
UF theatre performance sophomore. 
Director Jesse Desrosiers laid out a 
simple, yet powerful, vision of the isolation these teens face.   
“Speech and Debate” examines 
the lives of three teenagers living 
in Salem, Oregon, who befriend 
each other under unlikely circum-
stances and begin to navigate who 
they really are in a high school 
that preaches conformity. On the 
surface, this play is a comedy, but 
there are many layers of love, hate, 
heartbreak and sadness that each of 
the creators captured beautifully. 
Playwright Stephen Karam’s 
text in “Speech and Debate” was 
colloquial and casual, but all three 
actors gave each word honesty and 
substance, which perfectly aligned 
with the vision of director Jesse 
Desrosiers. 
“Stephen Karam is just brilliant. 
The play is written very casually, 
just regular dialogue, but every sin-
gle word has meaning and depth if 
you really dig into it. Script analysis 
is very important,” Desrosiers said. 
Desrosiers’ goal  for the show-
case was to showcase a vision of simplicity and isolation for the show 
in order to show how the characters 
overcome obstacles of self-doubt 
and loneliness. 
“I really wanted to focus on the 
isolation that people put in this so-
ciety, the loneliness that they felt….
These characters are kind of forced 
to just take what’s given to them 
and deal with it. The show is very 
actor-focused. The design elements 
simply enhanced the action,” Des-
rosiers said. 
 Spence gave a thoughtful, in-
tricate performance as Solomon, 
a teen who struggles with self-ac-
ceptance. His moment-to-moment 
thought process was clear. One 
could see his thoughts ticking away; 
each thought inspired the next. His 
physicality was tense, condensed 
and possessed a nervous quality 
that captured the character of Solo-
mon well. 
Kienstra had nice vocal variety 
and a good sense of truth. He por-
trayed Howie, a gay teen who is out and proud, with clarity and a 
nice combination of truth and teen 
angst. 
Heyner gave a quirky, humor-
ous portrayal of Diwata, with con-viction and a good, clear delivery 
of her lines. All the actors should 
be commended for ﬁ  lling the stage 
with an excellent tension and rais-
ing the stakes.   Florida Players present powerful production of ‘Speech and Debate’
THEATRE
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Florida Players put on a production of “Speech and 
Debate” at the Squitieri Studio Theatre at the Phillips Center.
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer 
Happy Halloween Gainesville! To those 
looking to get spooky in the swamp and 
have a party tonight but are unsure of 
what to serve to their ghouly guests, look 
no further. If you’re a college student on a 
budget who’s looking to get into the spirit 
with some fun treats, here are a few easy 
recipes to try tonight and hopefully carry 
into the Halloweens to come. 
Ghost Pizza Bagels  
These cute little snacks will lift the spir-
its of friends and have them satisﬁ  ed for 
the long night of treats ahead. 
Ingredients:  
Pizza bagels or mini bagels 
Sliced mozzarella cheese 
Marinara Sauce
Black olives or another topping for eyes 
Directions: 
Cut mozzarella slices into ghost shapes. 
Spread marinara over bagel and place 
the mozzarella ghost on top.
Toast until the cheese is melted.
Cut olives or other ingredient into eyes 
and place on the ghost.
Rice Krispy Tombstones
Create this sweet treat that will rock the 
graveyard and be a success among your 
party guests. 
Ingredients: 
Rice Krispy Treats (homemade or store 
bought)
Icing Pen
Chocolate chips 
Directions:
Cut rice treats in tombstone shape with 
a knife.
Melt chocolate chips in the microwave 
for one minute. 
Dip the treats in melted chocolate and 
refrigerate to harden for 30 minutes. 
Decorate tombstones with icing pens.Cofﬁ  n Brownies
Bury your cravings in these decadent 
deadly treats. 
Ingredients: 
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract
3 eggs
3/4 cup ﬂ  our
1/3 cup + 2 1/2 tbsp cocoa
1/4 tsp + 1/8 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt
*or buy your favorite box brownie mix 
Icing pen
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease 
a 9×9 square baking pan or line it with 
parchment paper.
2. Mix together the oil, sugar and va-
nilla extract.
3. Add eggs and mix until well-com-
bined.
4. Combine ﬂ  our, cocoa, baking powder 
and salt.
5. Slowly add the mixed ﬂ  our, cocoa, 
baking powder and salt to the egg mixture 
until well-combined.
6. Pour the batter into the pan and 
spread evenly.
7. Bake for 25-30 minutes or until a 
toothpick comes out with a few crumbs.
8. Let the brownies cool then cut into a 
cofﬁ  n shape. 
9. Decorate your treats as spooky as you 
want.
Spooky SandWitches
A hearty sandwich does the body good. 
Make some delicious ﬁ  nger foods for your 
friends. 
Ingredients:
White bread 
Mayonnaise 
Turkey
Ham 
Cheese 
(Other sandwich ﬁ  xings)
Directions:
1. Use your white bread and other in-gredients to assemble your ideal sandwich.  
2. Cut your sandwich into spooky 
shapes like a witch’s hat or skeleton bones. 
Treats or Tricks Bowl 
You’re the devil playing tricks tonight 
by creating this horrifying bag of tricks or 
treats. 
Ingredients:
M&Ms
SkittlesPaper bags 
Directions:
Get paper bags and load one bag with 
only M&Ms, one with the Skittles and for 
the last bag, you could be sweet and make 
it one ﬂ  avor, or you could be tricky and 
mix the two together.
Label the solo bags and mark the last 
one with a question mark.
Watch your guests get unsettled as they 
question if this is a trick or a treat.  Spooky snacks for Halloween
Tranelle Maner/Avenue Staff Writer
Ghost Pizza Bagels are both easy and delicious. These make a great ﬁ  nger 
food for hungry Halloween guests.
FOOD
By Jackie DeFreitas 
Avenue Contributing Writer
We’ve all been there: You check the date, 
are surprised to ﬁ  nd that it is indeed Hallow-
een and have no costume in sight. But have 
no fear, here are four quick and easy Hallow-
een costumes that will leave you looking like 
you had it planned all month long.   
The Cast of Riverdale
Grab a couple of your friends, and dress 
up as Riverdale’s cast of murder mystery-
solving characters. 
For angsty Jughead: Wear a beanie and 
function a paper crown to go around it. All 
you’ll need is some construction paper, scis-
sors and tape! Finish off the look in all black 
apparel and, if you’ve got one lying around, 
a motorcycle jacket. 
For preppy Betty Cooper: Style your hair 
into a high ponytail, and wear a pastel-col-ored sweater with a collared shirt under-
neath. 
For Cheryl Blossom: To start, you’ll have 
to paint your lips that signature cherry red. 
Next, style your hair using a large curling 
iron to get those old Hollywood waves. Wear 
an A-line skirt, a red top and a black choker 
necklace to accomplish Riverdale’s queen 
bee look. 
If sassy yet classy Veronica Lodge is more 
your speed: Find a black dress and pearl 
necklace. Of course, be sure to carefully 
draw on her signature black cat-eye. 
To dress up as Riverdale’s main charac-
ter, Archie: Spray paint your hair red with 
a little temporary hair paint; it’s cheap and 
washes right out. Plus, it really makes the 
look. Draw on a few freckles or rock your 
natural ones. Finally, a long sleeve baseball 
t-shirt, jeans and converse complete the Ar-
chie look. Moth and lamp
With your best friend or signiﬁ  cant other 
at your side, dress up as the meme that de-
scribes obsession so well. 
As the moth side of this two-person cos-
tume: Wear dark browns or neutrals, and 
ﬁ  nd a pair of wings. If the only wings on 
hand are brightly colored, spray paint them 
brown. Wear black, round sunglasses, and 
create antennas out of pipe cleaners or 
bendy straws. 
If you ‘love lamp’: Wear a bright yellow 
shirt. For bonus points, walk around with a 
lampshade, and put it over your head when-
ever someone asks to take a picture of your 
awesome costume. 
Salt Bae
From the stealth moves to the succulent 
meat, this costume will be a hit with your 
social media savvy friends.
For this iconic Internet persona: Wear a white T-shirt, black pants and sunglasses. 
Draw on a precise mustache and goatee, and 
style your hair in a low ponytail. To com-
plete the look, carry around a salt shaker, 
and sprinkle a little bit of salt on anyone who 
passes by. 
Jackson Maine and Ally from 
“A Star Is Born”
To dress up as the characters from the 
blockbuster ﬁ  lm, “A Star Is Born,” you can 
use items already scattered in your closet. 
To dress up as Ally: Cheetah print pants 
and a black tank top will immediately make 
onlookers recognize your costume. Top off 
the look with a black, wide-brim hat and 
boots. 
For Jackson: An oversized corduroy or 
neutral colored jacket paired with dark jeans 
and a white t-shirt will do. Also, draw on 
a beard or sport your natural facial hair to 
achieve his extra scruffy look.  Party tonight? Here are four easy, last-minute costumes
NIGHTLIFEBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We 
will not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit 
discrimination in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of 
advertising that is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under thos e classifications. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  
•  Although this newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and 
acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Social Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
SERVERS NEEDED!!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
11-2-10-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    11-2-18-10-14
REAL ESTATE JOB
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email: contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com         
11-7-18-10-14
Part-time position at horse boarding farm, won -
derful atmosphere, perfect for someone look -
ing to work around horses a few afternoons a 
week. Must have experience and reference. 
Please contact khcherokee@aol.com      10-
31-18-5-14
1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only U.S. president born on the island 
of Manhattan?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of Ethiopia?
3. U.S. STATES: Which state is 
home to Mount Rushmore?
4. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is rep-
resented by the condition astraphobia?
5. LITERATURE: Which of Shake-
speare’s plays produced the line, “Nei-
ther a borrower nor a lender be”?
6. FOOD & DRINK: In which centu-
ry was tea introduced to Europe?
7. MOVIES: Who sang the title song 
to the movie “Pretty Woman”?
8. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
baseball great once said, “Never let 
the fear of striking out keep you from 
playing the game”?
9. GAMES: What kind of word puz-
zle was introduced Dec. 21, 1913 in 
the New York World?
10. MEDICAL: What is a more com-
mon name for the condition called 
achromatopsia?
Answers
1. Theodore Roosevelt
2. Addis Ababa
3. South Dakota
4. Fear of thunder and lightning
5. “Hamlet”
6. 16th century
7. Roy Orbison
8. Babe Ruth
9. Crossword puzzle
10. Color blindness 
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 29, 2018King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDSAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Bruce Haight
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/31/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/31/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, October 31, 2018
ACROSS
1 Story with many 
chapters
5 Hoops gp. since 
1996
9 Colorado tribe
13 Curved fastener
15 Remote batteries
16 Former Persian 
ruler
17 Actor who’s 
anxious to get the 
Halloween party 
startled?
19 Only
20 Man __: trendy 
hairstyle
21 Neighborhood
22 Sonnet line 
fivesome
23 Communications 
co. with a blue-
and-white globe 
logo
24 Sci-fi character 
trying to creep it 
real?
27 Bends to retie 
laces, say
29 Velvet-voiced 
Tormé
30 Air rifle ammo
31 One might put 
stock in it
32 Small keyboard
35 Comedian who 
says no body’s 
perfect?
39 Zero
40 Composer who 
was a CBS 
reporter
43 Medium ability
46 __ de deux
47 Everycity, USA
49 Pop group whose 
music is in 
en-crypted files?
53 __ shot
54 Pear centers
55 __ B’rith
56 Former Fed chair 
Bernanke
57 Just barely
58 Actor who frights 
for every part?
61 Show impatience, 
in a way
62 Opposite of away
63 Actor Nick
64 Ice cream brand
65 Messy stack
66 Ran, as dyeDOWN
1 Speaker for low 
sounds
2 Momentarily will, 
after “is”
3 Travel with the 
band
4 Greece neighbor: 
Abbr.
5 Gets one’s feet 
wet
6 Bedevil
7 Sweetie, in  
slang
8 Donkey
9 50states.com 
graphic, for  
short
10 Crime film group
11 Dangling  
jewelry
12 Mideast 
chieftains
14 Pooch who 
shared  
spaghetti with 
Lady
18 Crocus kin
22 Florida key, e.g.
25 Novelist Zola
26 Russo who plays 
Frigga in “Thor” 
films
28 Uncork, say32 Smidge
33 Fenced-in area
34 “Africa” band
36 Chowderheads
37 Dudes-only
38 Spongy toy
41 Matte finish?
42 Like this puzzle’s 
theme?
43 Way out
44 Brief TV plug
45 Kidd stuff
47 Remote button48 Complete, as a 
PDF contract
50 Gives over (to)
51 Michelle 
Robinson’s 
married name
52 Gen. Assembly 
member
58 “Lower your 
voice!”
59 Country singer 
David Allan __
60 Steal from
By C.C. Burnikel
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/30/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/30/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, October 30, 2018
ACROSS
1 Beauty queen’s 
topper
6 Standoffish
11 Irish folk dance
14 Naysayers
15 “Z: The 
Beginning of 
Everything” star 
Christina
16 Santa __ winds
17 *Easy-to-read 
character
19 “Real World” 
channel
20 Triangular Indian 
pastry
21 Skinny fish
22 Buzzing insect
23 Luxury bag 
monogram
24 *Cruise stop
28 Like much 
Scotch
30 Purchase at 
Lowe’s
31 July 4th 
nonstarter
34 Kagan of the 
Court
37 “Grr!,” say
40 *Microsoft 
Outlook service
42 Freight weight
43 *FaceTime 
alternative
44 1988 film farce 
fish
45 Asian part of 
Egypt
47 Assist
48 Goes to seed
50 “Enchanted” 
fantasy film girl
52 *Emphatic 
typeface
56 Patriots’ org.
59 Stool pigeon
60 Put a spell on
61 Decline to 
participate
64 Cigar refuse
65 Parting words 
suggested by 
all or part of 
the answers to 
starred clues
67 Peg for a round
68 “Grr!”
69 “Tomorrow” 
musical
70 Slip up
71 Cozy spots
72 Rent-a-car 
choiceDOWN
1 File folder 
projections
2 Mosaic technique
3 Molecule parts
4 Cough drop 
name sung in 
ads
5 Seeks answers
6 “__ you 
listening?”
7 Soda bottle size
8 Four pairs
9 Spotted wildcat
10 Evergreen tree
11 One-pot New 
Orleans dish
12 Major chip maker
13 Chairperson’s 
order keeper
18 Place for a 
campaign button
25 “Waiting for 
Lefty” playwright
26 Archaeologist’s 
find
27 Fail suddenly, 
with “out”
29 Desserts in Little 
Italy
31 Morning drops
32 Actress Thurman
33 Longtime “CBS 
Evening News” 
anchor35 “There’s __ in 
team”
36 Building add-on
38 Hudson Riv. tech 
school
39 Went first
41 Worshiped star
46 “Iron Chef 
Gauntlet” host 
Brown
49 Devious plan
51 San __: Texas 
city, familiarly
52 Steaming mad53 Law enforcement 
shocker
54 Overflows (with)
55 Yank in Yemen, 
for short
57 No longer lost
58 Saint __: 
Caribbean island
62 School bake sale 
orgs.
63 In that case
65 They’re related
66 Cards checked at 
the gate, briefly
1.  At the bottom
1.  Lengthier5.  Synthetic fiber 
2.  ____ center6.  A lot
3.  State ____7.  Dreaded
4.  Extended creditWSELTO
GRLOENNONYL
FENTO
MELWEOC
NROSETAEERDFA
ELADNOANSWERS: 1A-Lowest  5A-Nylon  6A-Often  7A-Feared
1D-Longer  2D-Welcome  3D-Senator  4D-Loaned  B-Angel Falls10-31-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ was named after a U.S. aviator, 
who was the first person to fly over it.
BONUS
16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Dan Mullen is expected 
to protect the redshirt status of 
freshman quarterback Emory 
Jones (pictured). Jones has two 
games of eligibilty left before 
that priviledge is revoked. Gators on the move in a pair of polls
The College Football Playoff committee revealed its ﬁ  rst top-25 rankings 
Tuesday afternoon. It put UF at No. 11, just ahead of UCF and behind Ohio 
State. The Florida women's cross country team also climbed back into its 
coaches poll at No. 21 after a second-place ﬁ  nish at the SEC Championships. Mark My Words / Column
Linebacker David Reese had to issue 
a wake-up call around this time last year. 
He called out his teammates after a 
39-point loss at Missouri that followed 
a 35-point loss at the hands of No. 
1-ranked Georgia the week prior, and he 
was doing it as a sophomore because no 
upperclassman would. 
“We knew what we needed to do, 
and we still didn’t accomplish it,” he said 
in 2017. “It’s upsetting, but it’s something to learn 
from going on.”
The Gators (6-2, 4-2 SEC) suffered another dis-
appointing blow on Saturday, a 36-17 defeat that 
all but eliminated them from contention in the SEC 
East. But the attitude of this team compared to that 
of last year’s squad is completely different. 
Just look at what sophomore defensive tackle 
Kyree Campbell had to say at Monday’s press con-
ference.
“The way we handle this loss is going to deter-
mine the rest of the season,” he said. “So every-
body is expected to come out today and have one 
of the best practices of the season.”
Campbell’s an underclassman with big expecta-
tions for how his team bounces back from a loss, but that doesn’t come from just him. 
That comes from the tenured leaders of 
this Florida team and from its coaches.
It starts with guys like Reese, who 
remains one of the outspoken leaders 
of the defense, and wide receiver Josh 
Hammond, who said on Monday that 
they have to “be more physical” and 
“continue to grow as a football team.”
The attitude is not only different at 
media events, but it’s noticeable in the team’s play. 
Feleipe Franks fumbled critically on his own 
one-yard line in the third quarter on Saturday. The 
2017 defense -- the same one that appeared to lay 
down to Georgia in the ﬁ  rst quarter -- would have 
accepted defeat in this instance. The Bulldogs, re-
gardless if they tacked on a ﬁ  eld goal or a touch-
down, were going up by two scores barring a turn-
over. 
But the 2018 Florida defense never thought 
about giving up and letting UGA in for six. 
“We just knew we had a lot to play for,” Reese 
said. “We didn’t want to let that rope slip. We still 
had a chance to come back.”UF has adjusted its attitude from a year ago
Mark Stine
twitter: @mstinejrBASKETBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
Mike Okauru ran his defender 
directly into Dontay Bassett’s pick, 
a screen play that would make Ste-
ven Spielberg jealous. 
Bassett rolled toward the bas-
ket, and Okauru sliced the ball 
through two defenders to the big 
man for an emphatic jam.
The pair executed the exact 
same pick-and-roll sequence one 
possession later and worked it to 
the same degree of success.
The plays were a microcosm of 
the Florida Gators’ 95-70 win over 
the Florida Southern Moccasins 
last night.
Defense was at a premium dur-
ing the contest, and coach Mike 
White agreed.
“We were exposed by Flori-
da Southern in several different 
areas,” White said. “(Defense) 
wasn’t very good.”
Instant Analysis
The opposition was weak. Flor-
ida Southern has a 42-48 record 
over its last three seasons.  But 
the Gators led a balanced attack against Florida Southern, with sev-
eral players stepping up to shoul-
der the burden of production.
One such player was freshman 
forward Keyontae Johnson. It’s 
clear that if the Norfolk, Virginia, 
product can stay healthy, he’s go-
ing to be a mismatch for any team 
regardless of size.
He was active on the court, 
going 5-for-7 with 12 points and 
eight rebounds.
Freshman point guard Andrew 
Nembhard also looked smooth 
in the half-court offense and had 
great vision. 
“He has a high-level under-
standing of the game,” White said.
He struggled shooting the ball, 
going 2-for-7 with four points, but 
dealt four assists. 
Senior transfer guard Jalen 
Hudson routinely looked like the 
best player on the court, making 
difﬁ  cult shots seem easy. One 
knock on Hudson — and several 
other Florida veterans — was shot 
selection. Hudson went 4-for-10 
(3-for-6 from three) and 14 points, 
but many of his shots were unnec-
essarily difﬁ  cult.Gators ride balanced eﬀ  ort in exhibition with Mocs
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Forward Dontay Bassett ﬁ  nished with 12 points on 5-for-5 shooting, including a perfect 2-for-2 
showing from three-point range. He played nine minutes during the game. 
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16
SOCCER
By River Wells
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators’ sideline 
stormed onto the ﬁ  eld when time ran 
out, cheering and shouting as subs 
greeted the players on the pitch. A 
Vanderbilt player sat defeated on the 
grass, weeping into her shirt as the 
Commodores’ SEC Tournament ap-
pearance came to an end Tuesday 
night. 
The Gators, who just barely slipped 
into the tournament, defeated Vander-
bilt 1-0 at the Orange Beach Sportsplex 
in Orange Beach, Alabama. UF will 
advance to the semiﬁ  nals and play 
Arkansas while No. 1-seed Vanderbilt 
will head back to Nashville.
It didn’t take long for Florida to strike ﬁ  rst. It was only the 7th minute 
when forward Lais Araujo crossed the 
ball to the center of the Commodores’ 
box. Forward Madison Alexander was 
lying in wait, and she beat two de-
fenders to ﬂ  oat the ball into the goal 
to put the Gators up 1-0.
The match was closely contested 
throughout both halves. Both UF and 
Vanderbilt took 11 shots, but Florida 
was just more efﬁ  cient with ﬁ  ve shots 
on goal to Vanderbilt’s four. Florida 
also played a cleaner game, but only 
marginally, tallying seven fouls across 
the match to the Commodores’ 11.
Aside from the game-deciding 
goal early on from Alexander, both 
goalkeepers played well defensively. 
Florida goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese, Florida stuns top seed 
Vandy to advance to 
semiﬁ  nals against Arkansas
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
FOOTBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
It seemed like a routine tackle at first.
Both cornerback C.J. Henderson and de-
fensive lineman Adam Shuler went for the 
hit against Georgia running back D’Andre 
Swift and collided with each other. 
Shuler got up right away. Henderson did 
not.
The sophomore, who anchors Florida’s 
defensive back unit, sat out the remainder of 
the game. Freshman Trey Dean and redshirt 
sophomore C.J. McWilliams were left to face 
Bulldogs quarterback Jake Fromm for the 
majority of the game, which resulted in 240 
passing yards and three touchdowns.
Henderson’s presence was missed, but he 
won’t be out for too long. Florida head coach 
Dan Mullen said the sophomore only has a 
bruised back, not structural damage, and is 
expected to be ready to play against Missouri 
this week.
The Gators will definitely need him. 
When they play the Tigers at 4 p.m. at Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium on Saturday, they will 
go up against one of the best quarterbacks in 
the SEC in Drew Lock. 
“I think any time you have guys that have 
the talent of (Henderson) that obviously 
helps you because you’re facing an NFL 
quarterback,” defensive coordinator Todd 
Grantham said, “probably first round pick, 
that’s got a cannon for an arm, that can do a 
lot of things.”
A first-round pick would certainly match Lock’s production this season. He ranks sec-
ond in the conference in passing yards with 
2,144 and is tied for second with 16 pass-
ing touchdowns. He has also thrown the ball 
more than any SEC quarterback, and as a re-
sult, has the most completions.
Missouri has little to show for it, though. 
The Tigers rank last in the SEC East with a 
winless conference record, and they are 4-4 
overall with wins against UT Martin, Wyo-
ming, Purdue and Memphis. 
Grantham said the team still can’t take 
Missouri lightly, especially with memories 
of last season’s 45-16 loss fresh in Florida’s 
mind.
“They’re probably the most explosive — 
well, they are the most explosive offense 
we’ve seen to date,” he said. “It’s a team that 
beat us up pretty good last year.”
Having Henderson back for the Missouri 
game will be huge for the Gators’ thin sec-
ondary with sophomore Marco Wilson out 
for the year. Henderson has amassed 20 
tackles on the year and leads the team in 
pass breakups with five. He’s also tied for 
second on the team with two forced fumbles 
and has two sacks. 
“Oh, it helps a lot,” defensive lineman 
Khairi Clark said on Henderson playing on 
Saturday. “You know he’s basically our top 
cornerback so we definitely need him to go 
to war with our guys.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHenderson not missing time, will be ready for Drew Lock and Missouri
Alligator File Photo
Cornerback C.J. Henderson exited Saturday’s game against Georgia with a lower back 
injury. Coach Dan Mullen said the sophomore didn’t sustain any structural damage.
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
A little over a year ago Florida’s 
volleyball players took the court at 
the O’Connell Center with a calm 
and humble demeanor in a Sunday 
afternoon matchup against the Ken-
tucky Wildcats. They carried their 
undefeated record onto the floor 
with a solemn sense of duty.  
But the Gators couldn’t keep up 
with a relentless Kentucky team 
that forced a loss in four sets. 
“I said before, they’re a Final 
Four team,” Wise said following the 
defeat. “I think they can win it all.”
But Wise wasn’t too concerned 
with the blemish seeing how the 
contest lined up so early in the sea-
son. It marred the team’s perfect re-
cord, one that has still never been 
achieved at UF. The closest that 
Florida came to a spotless season 
was in 1996 when the team went 
37-2.
The Gators got their revenge a 
few weeks later last year as they 
swept the Wildcats in Lexington.
Stepping back onto the hard-
wood at Memorial Coliseum could 
remind the Florida veterans of that 
feeling from last year as the No. 11 
Gators take on the No. 12 Wildcats 
at 7 tonight. 
Kentucky will put its undefeat-
ed conference record on the line 
at home against a younger Gators squad that has had to learn to deal 
with adversity without the presence 
of four 2017 All-Americans.
The Gators (19-4, 10-1 SEC) are 
without former middle blocker Rha-
mat Alhassan, who led both rosters 
with six blocks in last season’s first 
matchup, and former outside hitter 
Carli Snyder, who worked her way 
around the court registering an ace, 
10 kills and eight digs. 
The Wildcats (16-4, 10-0 SEC) 
find themselves in the same pre-
dicament. They’re without former 
middle blocker Kaz Brown — one 
of the leaders in kills during the first 
contest — and former outside hit-
ter Darian Mack, who hit a season 
high 13 kills during last year’s first 
matchup.
In the Gators’ revenge game a 
few weeks later, Snyder racked up 
a team-high 15 kills, and right-side 
attacker and All-American Shainah 
Joseph logged 12 kills.
The absence of four All-Ameri-
cans has been more noticeable than 
Dennis yelling random lines of lit-
erature in Turlington Plaza. But the 
Gators aren’t worried. This season’s 
theme is all about growth. 
Florida tested out a different 
lineup in its Sunday afternoon 
contest against Mississippi State. 
The odds were in the Gators’ favor 
as the team swept the Bulldogs in 
Starkville.
The sister duo of Marlie and Allie Monserez typically takes the 
reins from the back of the court, 
controlling the offensive tempo. In 
Sunday’s matchup, however, soph-
omore transfer Holly Carlton helped 
run the offense as a setter and right-
side pin hitter. The 6-foot-7 utility 
player normally plays in one rota-
tion as the sole setter on the court, 
but she worked her way around all six rotations during the contest.
Florida’s look also altered with-
out the presence of freshman out-
side hitter Thayer Hall, who leads 
the roster with 261 kills in 22 
matches.
Instead, former outside hitter 
and current right-side attacker Mia 
Sokolowski took the reins on the 
left-side pin, logging two kills and three errors.
The Gators split the series with 
the Wildcats last season. Only play-
ing each other once this season 
could easily set the tone for the SEC 
Championship.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
 Gators volleyball prepares for rival matchup in Kentucky
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Right-side hitter Holly Carlton (right) played against Mississippi State on Sunday in a role that featured 
more playing time for herself. She ended the match with 11 kills and three digs. 
The same goes for senior 
guard KeVaughn Allen. White 
has harped on Allen’s lack of ag-
gression in the past. Last night he 
forced some shots that could have 
been passed out.
A few other things UF could im-
prove is not allowing the backdoor 
cut on defense and not biting on 
pump fakes. More than once, the Mocs got loose on the baseline or 
got a defender in the air for easy 
shots.
The Gators saw many of the 
same issues they saw last season. 
When the offensive tempo slows 
down, the team has trouble scor-
ing.
This and That
Junior forward Keith Stone led 
the team with 10 rebounds. Junior center Gorjok Gak didn’t play; ac-
cording to White’s press confer-
ence last Thursday, he’s still re-
habbing an injury.
Not usually thought of as a 
sharpshooter, Bassett went 2-for-
2 from three in the contest. Con-
versely, Locke is known as one 
of the better shooters on the team 
and went 3-for-4 from three in the 
second half.
Redshirt freshman forward Isaiah Stokes has lost a ton of 
weight from last year and brings 
an element to Florida’s game that 
it hasn’t seen in a while — a big 
man that plays with legitimate 
post moves.
At one point, Stokes received 
the ball near the left baseline. He 
faked right, turned 180 degrees 
left and drilled a fadeaway jumper 
that rivaled Dirk Nowitzki’s.
“He’s got more moves than that 
one,” Johnson said of Stokes.
He netted six points on 3-of-6 
shooting.Florida opens its regular season 
with a big test Nov. 6 at 9 p.m. 
against Florida State. The Gators 
haven’t beaten FSU since 2013. 
Defensively, UF will need to 
improve if it is to beat the ’Noles 
in Tallahassee after allowing 70 
points to the Mocs.
What exactly needs to get bet-
ter? Okauru balked on the speciﬁ  cs 
and offered a more broad answer.
“Everything.”
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2018
restaurant & rooftop barTHE
THURSDAY
LADIES NIGHT
THURSDAY NIGHT ROOFTOP PARTY
All You Can Drink Wells  @ 10pm - 12pmDoor @ 9pm$9.99 LUNCH 
SPECIALS 
11 am – 4pm 
WEDNESDAY  
Cali Steak Wrap
THURSDAY
Cajun Chicken Pasta$5 Mac N’ Cheese  
(Buffalo Chicken or BBQ Pork)
$5 Mules (Moscow & Specialty)   $6.99 Tenders & Fries
$2 Premium Wells
$2 Glasses of Wine
Live DJ 9pm - close7pm-12am 7pm-12am
1728 West University Avenue
WEDNESDAY
LADIES NIGHT
LADIES NIGHT
Free Drinks for Ladies Live DJ
1718 West University AvenueMAC N’ MULE
WEDNESDAYSLast season, we saw interim head 
coach Randy Shannon essentially lie 
to the media when he announced 
quarterback Malik Zaire would be 
the starter against South Carolina 
following a bad start in the loss to 
the Tigers. Shannon said Zaire did 
well moving the ball down the ﬁ  eld 
despite the fact that he never led a 
touchdown drive in 10 possessions. 
However, Dan Mullen responded 
to Franks’ having the worst game of 
the season by stating what needed 
to be said. He missed some throws. 
There was a lack of ball security on 
the fumble. The attention to detail 
was missed. 
The coaches and the upperclass-
men of this Florida team are holding 
everyone accountable now. The dif-
ference showed up in Jacksonville. 
I expect the difference to be more 
glaring this homecoming weekend, 
when the Gators try and take much 
sought-after revenge against Mis-
souri. 
Mark Stine is the online sports 
editor for The Alligator. Follow him 
on Twitter @mstinejr or contact him 
at mstine@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14
BASKETBALL,  from pg 14Forward Keith Stone led Gators with 10 reboundswho broke the school record for shutouts 
in her game against Arkansas a week ago, 
notched four saves across the night, a sta-
tistic matched by Vanderbilt keeper Lau-
ren Demarchi. 
Marckese played aggressive defense. 
She came out to meet crosses well outside 
the 18-yard box and routinely cut off de-
fenders to make leaping catches. 
Despite the close play between the two 
teams, it was the Gators who came out on 
top, getting perhaps the ultimate revenge 
on a Vanderbilt team that bested them 2-1 
earlier in the season.
The team continues to defy the odds as 
statistically one of the worst teams in the 
tournament. Florida will have to win the 
SEC Tournament to advance to the NCAA 
Tournament. Marckese asserted after the 
upset win that Florida’s sudden improve-
ment in play is simply the result of neces-
sity.
“We know everything is on the line, 
and there’s nothing to do when your 
back’s ag ainst the wall except push,” she 
said.
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 14Marckese recorded four saves in 29th career solo shutout
Alligator File Photo
Senior goalie Kaylan Marckese has paced the Gators to a pair of consecutive wins in the SEC 
T ournament. "There's nothing to do when your back's against the wall except push, " she said.
