We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
GATORS LOSE TO BEARS
Florida’s baseball team struggled against Mercer on Tuesday 
night at McKethan Stadium, resulting in its ninth defeat of the 
year, pg. 18One year later, Impact party keeps promises
A breakdown of how the executive ticket completed goals, pg 13
A UF student is graduating — after nearly 18 years 
She started at UF in 2000, pg 3VOLUME 112 ISSUE 85
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FEATURE
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Alexa Tirse was devastated 
three years ago when she thought 
she was denied admission to her 
dream school, UF.
It wasn’t until a few days later 
that she went back to the letter and 
learned she hadn’t been turned 
down. Her mother had seen on 
Twitter some students were of-
fered admission through the newly 
launched Pathway to Campus En-
rollment Program.
“It took me a while to process 
things,” the 21-year-old said.
Tirse read past the letter’s ﬁ  rst 
three paragraphs, discovering she 
was one of about 3,000 extended 
an offer to PaCE in its inaugural 
year.
Now, Tirse, a UF English se-
nior, will graduate a year earlier 
than expected alongside nine oth-
ers from the PaCE program’s ﬁ  rst 
class.
“It was not necessarily what I 
had planned, but I overcame the 
obstacles and made the most out 
of it,” said Tirse, who will be at-
tending Cornell Law School in the Fall.
UF President Kent Fuchs said 
the PaCE students used the ﬂ  ex-
ibility of the program and its online 
classes to excel in other areas.
“They are true trailblazers,” 
Fuchs said. “And it is really special 
that they are actually graduating 
ahead of others in their class.”
The PaCE program, launched in 
February 2015, is a hybrid degree 
that enrolls students online their 
ﬁ  rst two years or until they reach 
60 credit hours before transitioning 
them to a traditional on-campus 
enrollment. 
While online, students pay 
25 percent less than normal for 
their tuition and aren’t opted in 
to activity fees unless they are in 
Gainesville, said Evie Cummings, 
the director of UF Online.
PaCE is unique from other on-
line programs in the country be-
cause students are taught by the 
same faculty who teach on cam-
pus, Cummings said. 
“These students are Gators 
from the ﬁ  rst day,” she said. 
Without a rigid in-class sched-
ule, Zachary Silver, a UF sociol-
ogy senior, stayed at his home in Orlando to help the family care for 
their ill grandfather, who died in 
February.
“It deﬁ  nitely gave me the op-
portunity to help out with him a 
little more,” Silver said.
Whether it was driving to and 
from doctor’s appointments or 
watching Spanish League soccer 
games, Silver and his grandfather 
had always been close, and it was 
special that he could be there for 
him, Silver said. The family gath-
ered almost every Sunday evening 
for dinner, he said.  
Alexa Trout, another PaCE stu-
dent who will graduate in May, re-
covered from running in the New 
York City Marathon with her legs 
up in bed and her laptop open to 
her coursework.
Ahead of the race, Trout, a UF 
public relations senior, ran a total 
of 550 miles to train. Her training 
plan was ﬁ  ve days a week for 16 
weeks. 
“There’s no way I could’ve 
done it if I was taking traditional 
classes,” the 21-year old said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.orgBy Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
A noose in Weimer Hall. Slurs on a 
whiteboard. Richard Spencer.
One racially charged incident after 
another, and Bianka Ramirez’s per-
ception of UF was changing. So she 
sought answers. 
Where could students of color, like 
herself, go to feel safe? Where could 
they ﬁ  nd people who let them feel 
confused, angry or alone — together? 
“It was like something woke up in 
me,” Ramirez said.
She soon learned the place she 
sought, a two-story wooden building 
that stood along West University Ave-
nue, was demolished in August. Now 
the space is an empty lot encased by 
green mesh, littered with Bud Light 
cans and crabgrass, awaiting a $7.8 
million reconstruction. 
The Institutes of Hispanic-Latino 
Cultures, commonly known as La Ca-
sita, and the Institute of Black Culture, 
known as the IBC, were some of the ﬁ  rst spaces at UF dedicated to racial 
identity. Now demolished and a year 
behind reconstruction schedule, some 
students like Ramirez feel pressured 
to keep memories alive. 
The 90-year-old buildings, crum-
bling and termite-infested by the time 
of their demolition, had hard-fought 
histories that students like Ramirez 
worry won’t be passed down, espe-
cially as more students who never 
learned about the old spaces come in.
On April 15, 1971, more than a 
decade after UF desegregated, black 
students planned a peaceful pro-
test to occupy UF President Stephen 
O’Connell’s ofﬁ  ce and demand an 
African American cultural space on 
campus, but the demonstration quick-
ly escalated when a rock was thrown 
and police were called,  according to 
Alligator archives.
By the end, 66 students were ar-
rested, many of whom were either 
expelled or left school. Ten months 
later in February 1972, O’Connell for-
mally dedicated the Institute of Black First 10 students to graduate 
from PaCE program this SpringStudents struggle to 
keep memory of IBC, 
La Casita aliveTHEY WERE SHOT AND 
KILLED FIVE DAYS AGO. 
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
With a New York Police Department patch 
clutched in one hand, 9-year-old Kaden Rogers 
waved with the other to ﬁ  rst responders who 
drove by him.
Dressed in a shirt that said “I Back the 
Blue,” Kaden stood at the edge of South Main 
Street outside the Bell High School gymnasium 
Tuesday morning.
“I’m thinking about being a police ofﬁ  cer 
when I grow up because they are the real su-
perheroes without powers and stuff,” Kaden 
said.
Kaden said Deputy Taylor Lindsey, 25, and 
Sgt. Noel Ramirez, 29, were brave. The depu-
ties were eating at Ace China restaurant on 
Thursday when John Hubert Highnote, 59, of 
Bell, Florida, shot and killed them, according to 
Alligator archives. 
Five days after the shooting, Kaden and 
thousands of others — holding American ﬂ  ags, 
black and blue ribbons and “We Back our Blue” and “Gilchrist Strong” signs — watched 
the procession of more than 100 law enforce-
ment agencies from across the country escort 
two black hearses from the school for about 45 
minutes down small country roads to Bronson 
Cemetery.
Before the procession, the deputies were 
memorialized in a service in the school’s gym. 
About 2,000 people, including law enforcement 
ofﬁ  cers from Florida, New York, Illinois and 
Massachusetts, ﬁ  lled the gym’s bleachers and 
folding chairs on its court. 
Those who spoke at the ceremony, includ-
ing Gilchrist County Sheriff Bobby Schultz and 
Gov. Rick Scott, talked about the sacriﬁ  ces both 
men made. Scott said the most difﬁ  cult part of 
his job is attending ofﬁ  cers’ funerals.
Schultz said Lindsey told his mother when 
he was young that he wanted to “ptrol,” before 
he could say the word patrol. 
He said Ramirez once read that his name 
was on the “Outstanding List” and was so ex-
cited that he went to lunch to celebrate but was 
less thrilled when told that meant he had out-
standing reports. 
“There’s no way that I could do them jus-‘Never be forgotten’: Thousands honor killed deputies
Davio Rodriguez / Alligator
Law enforcement ofﬁ  cers drive under the U.S. ﬂ  ag as part of the funeral procession on 
South Main Street in Bell, Florida for the two deputies who were shot in Trenton. 
 SEE DEPUTIES,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
HIGH  82° LOW  58°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Museum presents 
‘Science on Tap’ 
 The Florida Museum, Digital 
Worlds Institute and First 
Magnitude Brewing Co. will 
present the first “Science on 
Tap” event showcasing the tree 
of life tonight from 5 to 9 p.m. 
All proceeds will directly sup-
port the University of Florida 
Biodiversity Institute. For more 
information, visit floridamu-
seum.ufl.edu/event/science-on-
tap-tol or call 352-727-4677.
Midnight Fun Run 
UF RecSports is calling all super-
heroes for a Midnight Fun Run 
tonight. The event is open to fac-
ulty, staff, students and guests. 
Each participant will receive an 
event T-shirt and breakfast fol-
lowing the race. Registration is 
available on RS Connect.
Runoff election early voting  
Early voting sites for the 2018 
City of Gainesville runoff elec-
tion will be open until Saturday. 
Hours of operation are 9 a.m. 
to 5 p.m., except Tuesday and 
Thursday when locations will be 
open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The 
early voting locations are Cone 
Park Branch Library at 2801 
E. University Ave., Millhopper 
Branch Library at 3145 NW 
43rd St. and the Supervisor of 
Elections Office at the Josiah T. 
Walls Building at 515 N. Main St.
‘What Were You Wearing?’ art 
exhibitThe “What Were You Wearing?” 
art exhibit is being displayed un-
til Monday on the third floor of 
the Ustler Hall Library. STRIVE 
at GatorWell and the American 
Student Medical Association 
have collaborated with anony-
mous UF student survivors to 
show the outfits they wore dur-
ing their attacks. For more info, 
call 352-273-4450.
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month
April commemorates the first 
Japanese immigration to the 
U.S. on May 7, 1843. It also 
honors the Chinese immigrants 
who worked to complete the 
transcontinental railroad May 
10, 1869. Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs will celebrate 
Asian Pacific Islander Desi 
American Heritage Month with 
events until today. The 2018 
theme is the Japanese concept 
of ikigai, meaning “a reason to 
live.”
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters, 
which helps people get more 
comfortable speaking in pub-
lic, meets at 5:45 p.m. every 
Tuesday in Steinmetz Hall, 
Room 1031. Meetings are free to 
attend and open to all. For more 
information, visit talkinggators.
toastmastersclubs.org.
Florida Museum to host STEAM 
Wars May 4
The Florida Museum invites 
Star Wars fans for a fun event 
mixing cosplay and science on 
International Star Wars Day! STEAM Wars is a Star Wars-
inspired event featuring STEAM 
(science, technology, engineer-
ing, arts and mathematics) disci-
plines on “May the fourth.” For 
more information, visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/steam-
wars or call 352-273-2055.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mmcmullen@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
Correction
In an article published Monday 
titled "Gainesville Police: Man 
shot, killed near Satchel's Pizza," 
The Alligator incorrectly report-
ed the man died near Satchel's. 
The article has been updated to 
more accurately reflect that the 
shooting happened in northeast 
Gainesville and was not near 
Satchel's.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 85
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Engagement Managing Editor  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
 Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
  rellenbogen@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
 Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
  mmcmullen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
 Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
 Copy Editors Victoria Gingras,   Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
PRESIDENTIAL
SERVICE  AWARDSCENTER FOR LEADERSHIP AN D SERVICETHE DAVID AND WANDA BROWN
STUDENT ACTIVITIES AND INVOLVEMENT
Congratulations to the recipients of 
the Presidential Service Awards!
PRESIDENTIAL SERVICE AWARD WINNERS:
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE VISIT:Abby Marion
Aishwarya Krishna Iyer
Alan Alvarez
Alfredo Patino
Andrew Darvin
Ariana Faraji
Arianne Maya
Ashley Nicole Tringas
Bo Walters
Brady L. Nettina
Brianna Rochebrun
Chase Labiste
Cheleste Onorato
Cy-Anne Small
David Notman
Erica Camacho
Evan Robins
Farwa SyedFitzroya Nugent
Gabrielle Tatro
Grace McLaughlin
Gregory King
Hannah Farrell
Heather Ryan
Ilyssa Schatz
Jacky W. He
Jessica Killingsworth
Jose Pavon
Karen Cohen
Katerina Kolarova
Katherine Collins
Khattiyuth Chharath
Larkyn Ridgway
Larry Nguyen
Lawson Jaﬀe
Luisa GonzalezLynzee Janowitz
Madison Hull
Maha Muneer
Marie Rivera
Naomi Edwin
Natalie Weiner
Nicolette Elle Duong
Olivia Azadikhah
Phyllis Chovoor
Raul Daniel Fagundez Jr.
Rhina Garcia
Robert Lugo
Salar Khan
Sarah Wilder
Shiv Krishnaswamy
Soﬁa Bever
Stephanie Leonard-Jose
http://www.leadershipandservice.uﬂ.edu/awards/presidential_service_awards/OUTSTANDING SERVICE 
AMONG UNDERGRADUATE 
STUDENTS RECIPIENT
Ilyssa SchatzOUTSTANDING SERVICE AMONG
GRADUATE/slash.casePROFESSIONAL 
STUDENTS RECIPIENT
Aishwarya Krishna IyerLEADERSHIP AND SERVICE 
ADVOCATE OF THE YEAR 
AWARD: COMMUNITY PARTNER
Beth KurtzmanLEADERSHIP AND SERVICE 
ADVOCATE OF THE YEAR AWARD: 
UF FACULTY AND/slash.caseOR STAFF
Kate Fletcher
OUTSTANDING SERVICE LEARNING  OR COMMUNITY BASED 
LEARNING AWARD RECIPIENT
Aishwarya Krishna Iyer
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733
3501 SW 34th St
(352) 377-5733NYX, Hair Pieces 
Extensions, Wigs
Newberry Square
location NOW OPENARCHER 
BEAUTY  
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
When Michael Cizek graduates in 
May, he’s saying goodbye to more 
than just the UF campus. He’s part-
ing ways with an icon: an orange and 
blue 1968 Schwinn Twinn dubbed 
the Gator Tandem.
Cizek, a UF international business 
senior, has ridden the Gator Tandem 
across the Homecoming stage, down 
Southwest 34th Street and on the 50-
yard line of the football ﬁ  eld. 
Cizek posted the bike for sale on 
the UF Student Football Ticket Ex-
change with a price tag of $1,000 
April 8. Since his post, four stu-
dents and university staff members 
showed interest in the bike. 
Cizek rode the Gator Tandem on 
occasion around campus, usually of-
fering rides to friends or picking up strangers on the way to class. 
He’s known for honking its little 
blue horn to greet people. 
“You get to meet a new friend. 
You get to go someplace you weren’t 
expecting,” he said. “It’s like Uber 
driving but way more fun.”
Ben Gonzalez, a UF sports man-
agement graduate student and 
Cizek’s freshman-year roommate, 
wasn’t surprised when Cizek bought 
the bike their freshman year. He said 
Cizek had a habit of impulse buying 
on Craigslist.
The 22-year-old  said seeing the 
bike brings him back to freshman 
year.
“Things didn’t matter as much, 
and we were able to enjoy the col-
lege experience before getting all 
wrapped up in doing well in school 
and ﬁ  nding jobs,” Gonzalez said.UF senior to sell Gator 
Tandem featured in 
‘Tandem Two Bits’By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Contributing Writer
During her time as a student, 
Lindsay “Coco” Hames has seen 
fax turn into email, Tim Tebow’s 
college career come and go and her 
band’s song featured in the movie 
“Whip It.”
At 35 years old, Hames is gradu-
ating this semester with her b0ach-
elor’s degree in English, which took 
about half of her life to complete. 
She started at UF in Summer 2000 
as an English major, but she strug-
gled to keep up with the course 
load as her music career started to 
take off. 
“You get to that point where 
you can’t believe you’re about to be 
done with this,” Hames said. “I’m 
proud of myself.”
The self-taught singer, guitar-
ist and songwriter started her UF 
career by scheduling her time be-
tween on tour and on campus. But eventually, she left UF at the end of 
2002 to tour full time.
Hames promised her father, a 
UF Law School alumnus, she would 
ﬁ  nish her degree. She moved to 
New York City and then to Los An-
geles in 2003, where the desire to 
ﬁ  nish her degree nagged her.
While she bounced between cit-
ies, Hames started working with 
the university’s Department of 
Continuing Education, now known 
as Flexible Learning, she said. The 
program offers year-round online, 
self-paced courses for students. 
While touring in Europe in 2017, 
she learned her father was sick and 
had to have heart surgery. She ﬂ  ew 
back to America to be with her 
father when she remembered the 
promise she made to him. He asked 
her when she would graduate.
“I made a joke, saying, ‘I could 
never ﬁ  nish because you got sick. 
You know, I promised you that one 
day I’d ﬁ  nish, and if I don’t do it, then you’ll never die,’” Hames said. 
In Fall 2017, Hames went back 
to school. She and Ryan Braun, an 
advisor at the College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences, came up with a 
plan so she could graduate in two 
semesters by taking online classes 
while she was in Memphis, Ten-
nessee.
Records at UF don’t show if 
Hames holds the record for the lon-
gest time taken to complete a bach-
elor’s degree. Braun said, however, 
many students take long gaps be-
fore returning to their education.
“There are still barriers to higher 
education, but geography is be-
coming less and less one of them,” 
Braun said. 
In less than two weeks, Hames 
will ﬁ  nally graduate from UF, fol-
lowing the footsteps of both her 
parents and her older sister.
“It’s OK that it took 18 years be-
cause I didn’t miss anything,” she 
said. It took half her life, but this UF 
student, singer is graduating4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
Coach Mullen to speak May 24, 2018  
7 pm. Holiday Inn (13th & Univ.) Free to guests, $25 for guests.
Apr. 26, ESPN’s Mark Schlabach,  free to all
• Discounts at local businesses, 
including food, drinks, 
and golf; see website for 
complete list www.FGTC.
org  or www.facebook.com/
FightinGatorTouchdownClub  
or @FGTCgators
• Access to buy football season 
and away game tickets• Contributed over $400,000 
to endowment for athletic 
scholarships
• Monthly guest speakers  
Jan-July, and weekly mid-Aug 
to mid-Nov, with upcoming 
golf and fishing tournaments
HAPPY HOUR EVERY DAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
Culture.
La Casita, founded in May 1994, was giv-
en by the university unfurnished, leaving its 
student founders to fend and piece together 
the home on their own, according to Alliga-
tor archives.
Ramirez worries the university isn’t do-
ing enough to pass on the legacy. Currently, 
most students rely on word of mouth, she 
said.
“We need more of an institutional mem-
ory,” she said.
The last time students were allowed in 
the buildings was December 2016. In the 
meantime, students have been using La Sal-
ita or the Black Enrichment Center, spaces 
within UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Af-
fairs, on the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union.
Kalimah Ujaama, a UF political science 
and African American studies junior, said 
she went to the IBC nearly every day before 
it closed and still visits the ofﬁ  ce space in 
the Reitz.
Ujaama said the absence of the house 
gives more power to MCDA because the 
longer it takes to build, the further removed 
incoming students are from the history. 
“It’s kind of like slave logic to be honest,” 
the 22-year-old said. “It’s not with malicious 
intent, but it something that’s being created 
by the lack of urgency.”
When she can, Ujaama tries to tell 
younger students about the history of the 
old buildings.
The buildings’ histories haven’t been 
formally taught until this Spring through a 
course titled Black and Latinx History of the 
Gator Nation, said Ryan Morini, the associ-
ate director of the Samuel Proctor Oral His-
tory program and professor of the class. 
“To be blunt, UF has been afraid of con-
fronting its history,” Morini said. “We’ve 
gotten some support in speciﬁ  c places, but I 
wouldn’t say this institution as a whole has 
been supporting it.”Will Atkins, the senior director for Mul-
ticultural and Diversity Affairs, said his of-
ﬁ  ce and UF’s administration are working to 
make the construction process as transpar-
ent as possible. The ofﬁ  ce faced backlash in 
June 2017 when they pitched combining the 
two cultural spaces into one building.
The proposal sparked “No La IBCita,” 
a student movement that fought to keep 
the houses separate. In July 2017, MCDA 
announced the buildings would stay sepa-
rate — but the redesign would setback the 
project nearly a year, according to Alligator 
archives.
UF never set a speciﬁ  c start date for the 
construction, but it’s expected to start this 
Summer and ﬁ  nish in about a year, Atkins 
said. 
Since October, the ofﬁ  ce has held eight 
interactive feedback sessions with students 
and the architectural ﬁ  rm designing the in-
stitutes, DLR Group.
The process went on longer because pro-
posals went over budget, which Atkins said 
was expected.  He said they wanted to listen 
to all student suggestions, then go back and 
adjust.
“We want to do it right, and we don’t 
want to rush through it,” he said.
Beaudelaine Mesadieu, a UF construction 
management and interior design freshman, 
joined the project committee to get more 
experience. She said there aren’t as many 
freshmen who go to planning meetings com-
pared to upperclassmen who knew the old 
institutes.
At meetings, students can spend up to 
three hours debating color schemes and 
room arrangement, she said.
“I’m not so emotionally attached, so I’m 
not so biased with it,” Mesadieu said.
While the designs await approval for 
construction, many younger students con-
tinue to ﬁ  nd comfort and a sense of home in 
the Reitz Union ofﬁ  ces.Keanna Nembhard, a UF political science 
freshman, said the Black Enrichment Center 
helped her transition to UF, the ﬁ  rst predom-
inantly white institution she attended. 
“I was really concerned about having 
a community here or feeling included,” 
Nembhard said.
Before arriving on campus in August, 
much of what she knows about the IBC 
came from the outraged “No La IBCita” 
movement she saw on Twitter. It showed 
her how important the spaces were to some 
people, she said.
David Rojas, a UF biomedical engineer-
ing senior who used to frequent La Casita, 
said he thinks the ofﬁ  ce in the Reitz is serv-
ing current Hispanic and Latino students. 
He said after the protests, the tears and 
sense of loss, everyone had to return to 
their schoolwork, seniors had to prepare to 
graduate and people had to leave behind the 
building that once was. 
“The reality is that we do have to move 
on with our lives,” he said. 
Now, Rojas, 21, claims the same gray 
desk in the Reitz Union space, nestled 
against the room’s far wall, nearly every 
Monday and Wednesday.
When he looks up from his biochemis-
try book, he sees freshmen Mauricio Perez 
Rodriguez and Mayra Rodriguez laughing 
about the day, or stressing about their class 
registration. He sees Alberto Barcenas nap-
ping on the room’s blue carpet, which he in-
sists is more comfortable than the couches. 
He knows there are still old friends who 
haven’t stopped by the ofﬁ  ce, either too 
busy or too angry with how things ended — 
with how things are going. 
But Rojas doesn’t blame them. They’re 
attached to the old building, he said. And 
he hopes the newer students will ﬁ  nd their 
home, whether it’s in the ofﬁ  ce spaces now 
or the future building.
@_ElohEltice. There’s no way that I can articulate what 
they meant to us,” Schultz said.
Kim Davis, a High Springs resident and UF 
alumna from the 1980s, stared at the two cas-
kets on the stage in front of her, each covered in 
an American ﬂ  ag, and the four deputies silently 
guarding them.
She knew the men inside both caskets. She 
used to hire Ramirez, when he wasn’t working for 
the Gilchrist County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, on the week-
ends at Gilchrist Blue Springs State Park.
“The deputies may be gone, but they’ll never 
be forgotten here in Gilchrist County,” Davis said. 
After the ceremony ended at about noon, at-
tendees exited and stood outside the gym as both 
caskets were carried to the hearses and about 45 
bagpipers and drummers from different agencies 
played “Amazing Grace.” Members of the Patriot 
Guard Riders stood on both sides of the road lead-
ing to Bell’s South Main Street holding American 
ﬂ  ags.
The music stopped, and the only sound was 
Ramirez’s father crying and calling out in Span-
ish. As one deputy held him, he said “My son, 
they killed my son.”
At the cemetery, three helicopters from the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and Gainesville 
Police Joint Aviation Unit ﬂ  ew overhead after 
bagpipers and drummers played for the deputies 
one last time.
Gainesville Police Sergeant Renee Guyan was 
one of the seven GPD ofﬁ  cers that ﬁ  red three cer-
emonial shots into air to end the funeral service at 
about 3:30 p.m. with a 21-gun salute.
“It’s a way to support the family and show 
how much their family members’ service means 
to the community and to us,” she said.Reconstruction has been delayed about a year Seven police 
oicers ired three 
ceremonial shots
DEPUTIES,  from pg. 1WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
A dime holed up inside a 
pocket of his pants was the 
only thing my grandfather 
carried with him the day he 
left Cuba.
In a way, the rest of his life — 
and his family’s lives — depended 
on that coin. As he boarded a plane 
headed to Miami gripping my grand-
mother’s hand, he planned to use 
the money to call a friend who would pick him 
up from the airport.
He led a dictatorship. He escaped police of-
ﬁ  cers who wanted to arrest him for his rebel-
lious actions. He aid goodbye to 35 years lived 
on the island. 
When he got to the U.S., he worked as a taxi 
driver for Diamond Cab Company. He worked 
hard. Eventually, he was offered a job in Hon-
duras. He uprooted his family, moved to a small 
country in Central America and worked harder. 
He worked as a car salesman and a construc-
tion manager. My grandmother worked, too. 
She was a teacher at an American school. But 
when the U.S. Southern Association of Schools 
and Colleges demanded all staff members to 
bring their degrees in, and she couldn’t exactly 
ﬂ  y out to Cuba to get hers, she was laid off. 
So my grandparents did what they always 
did. They continued to work hard. They found-
ed a private bilingual school, which celebrated 
its 50th anniversary last May. 
When I was a little girl, my dad woke up 
every morning and drove to that same school 
at about 5 a.m. to make sure the buses left in 
time to pick up the students. Every evening, I 
hugged him hello when he got home. I remem-
ber how he smelled — a combination of sweat 
and worn out cologne from the long work day. 
My mom stayed at home and worked just as 
hard (or maybe even harder) raising four close-
ly aged children. I remember how she smelled 
— always like some sort of food from cooking. 
Listening with open eyes, raised brows and 
hung jaws, my three brothers and I heard my 
dad recount our grandparents’ story countless 
times when we were kids. Every single time, my dad would ﬁ  nish it off the same 
way. 
“Work hard,” he would say. “If 
you work hard, you can do anything 
you want.”
Working hard is what allowed 
me to get a scholarship and enroll 
at Florida Gulf Coast University in 
Fort Myers in 2014. It’s what helped 
me grow at Eagle News, the school’s 
weekly publication. 
Working hard is what brought me to 
Gainesville and made me a Gator. It’s what 
empowered me to get through long nights and 
nerve-wracking tasks at The Alligator.
The most important lesson I’ve learned in 
my 21 years is hard work can get you any-
where. A strong work ethic is the best super-
power you can have. It doesn’t matter if you 
have no talent or no resources — or neither. 
If you work hard for your dreams, I promise 
you’ll make them a reality.
I dreamed of someday moving to the U.S. to 
study among some of the most brilliant minds 
and on some of the richest spaces on Earth — 
and I did it by working hard. Looking back, I 
can see my grandparents’ dream was to protect 
their family. My parents’ dream was to see their 
four children happy. Hard work gave them that.
Working hard — until your back hurts and 
your eyes twitch and you feel like you have 
never been more exhausted in your life just to 
think the same thought again each day after — 
matters. Not only because it’ll enable you to 
achieve your goals, but also because working 
hard builds character. 
It gives you a purpose in life. 
Jimena Tavel is a UF journalism senior. 
She is the engagement managing editor of The 
Alligator. Dream. Then work hard for your dreams. Column
Jimena T avel
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s easy to lose your voice.
Maybe it’s that mo-
ment of hesitation before 
you answer a question, or 
the pressure in your chest 
that makes you think twice 
before speaking up. Maybe 
it’s the fear that even if you 
did talk, no one would listen. 
I lost my voice when I was 
5, after my younger brother 
was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syn-
drome, a form of autism that’s consid-
ered high-functioning. The label didn’t 
change the way I saw my brother. Until 
that point, I assumed all brothers had 
quirks like mine: he preferred a green 
plate at dinner, disliked physical contact 
and could talk to you about space and 
physics well past your point of under-
standing. But I quickly learned others 
didn’t see him as I did.
Questions of ‘What’s wrong with 
your brother?’ left me silent, a tightness 
in my throat and my eyes trailing to the 
ground. 
Eating lunch alone became routine. 
But that was mild compared to the treat-
ment from teachers who yelled at me 
when my brother misbehaved and gave 
me detention when I left class to walk 
him to my mom’s minivan. 
I navigated school silent and un-
noticed, and because of that, I learned 
to listen and observe. As my parents 
waged battles to get my brother the re-
sources he needed, they showed me the 
importance of standing up for those who 
can’t defend themselves. So when I got 
to college, I sought to reclaim my voice 
and to pick a career where I could give 
a voice to the voiceless. It’s because of 
that I stumbled into a dilapidated build-
ing at 1105 W. University Ave. — The 
Independent Florida Alligator. 
Through my ﬁ  ve semesters at The Al-
ligator, I’ve learned to not only speak up for myself, but for others, as 
well as expose problems and 
ask questions. I owe that to my 
friends and colleagues. 
Even though we eventually 
left the building where I found 
myself, the people who helped 
me ﬁ  nd my voice never left 
me. The building never made 
the paper, but the people did. 
Now on 13th Street, three years 
later, I still found myself surrounded by 
loud, passionate, ink-and -coffee-stained 
student journalists. 
But in working to give others a voice, 
we almost lost ours. A free press is vi-
tal to democracy, and there is a real 
threat to the freedom for student jour-
nalists across the country to report on 
their respective institutions. That’s why 
we started an initiative to save student 
newsrooms, bringing attention to the 
challenges facing student media. The 
voice of student journalists and the com-
munity members they cover is worth 
preserving. Freedom of the press is free-
dom of the people.
Maybe you’ve never felt voiceless. 
And if so, that’s great. But maybe you 
feel this way now. If that’s you, know 
it won’t always be that way. You will 
ﬁ  nd your voice again, and you’ll need 
help along the way. So surround your-
self with passionate people, and make it 
your mission to work with them. They 
will push you to be better. They will in-
spire you to think bigger. They will be 
the people with whom you change the 
world. 
And always keep your past in the 
back of your mind. It will drive you for-
ward.
Caitlin Ostroff is a UF journalism and 
political science senior. She is the digital 
managing editor at The Alligator.The Alligator helped me ﬁ  nd my voice.Column
Caitlin Ostroff
opinions@alligator.org
May 5th marks the end of my jour-
ney at UF, but it also marks the be-
ginning of my unexpected journey 
here.
 On a day much like today, at 
the end of the Spring semester two years ago, 
I was looking to add some “je ne sais quoi” to 
my college experience. I came across The Alli-
gator’s website, and luckily, they were in need 
of photographers for the summer. They took a 
chance on me, a pre-med student, who did not 
know diddly-squat about journalism.
 I remember the ﬁ  rst call I got from Gi-
useppe, the editor-in-chief of The Alligator 
during my ﬁ  rst semester working here. It was 
Sunday, June 12, 2016. He asked me to join 
him on the drive south to Orlando to cover the 
Pulse shooting, but I declined because I had to 
study for my organic chemistry exam. Twenty 
minutes passed, and I called him back. I didn’t 
understand what it was, but I knew I had to go. 
A sense of duty ensued.
 I remember getting out of the car near the 
OneBlood Blood Donation Center and seeing 
the long line of people ready to donate. I re-
member walking along Orange Avenue. Every direction I faced there were count-
less expressions of frustration, deso-
lation and anxiety. There was er-
ratic breathing in the air as people 
heavily sobbed and tears trickled 
down their cheeks. We heard word 
of a small vigil at Lake Eola Park 
and followed a crowd of 200. 
The sky was grey and eerie, and 
raindrops lightly sprinkled across 
the faces of the mourning. I saw 
how strangers lent each other a shoulder to cry 
on and how grief slowly turned into a powerful 
strength of love as each speaker lifted the spir-
its of those present. The commonality of grief 
among the crowd was one of the many things 
that uniﬁ  ed them. Grief is a reﬂ  ection of love, 
and when we lose people we love, it hurts. It 
hurts so much that it breaks us open, allowing 
us to be vulnerable and more willing to express 
our emotions. Words can’t describe how much 
love ﬁ  lled the air, but you could almost feel 
it pressing up against your chest. I failed my 
organic chemistry exam with a 59, but it was 
all worth it.
 I remember being backstage at a local drag show where I witnessed the trans-
formative nature of a drag queen. I 
saw her reﬂ  ection in the mirror as 
she effortlessly blended her make-
up, brushed her hair, glued her 
fake nails and strut across the stage 
in leotards, corsets and dresses all 
while wearing heels. I also remem-
ber feeling the fear in graduate stu-
dent voices protesting on Turlington 
Plaza a recent federal visa and im-
migration ban brought upon by an executive 
order. The uncertainty of whether they would 
be able to stay in the country after completing 
their studies was petrifying. Although I’m not a 
student visa holder or a drag queen, document-
ing their challenges by photos and video pro-
vided me with a small glimpse into their world. 
For a few minutes, I felt what they felt. If it 
weren’t for The Alligator, I would have other-
wise walked past the protest and thought noth-
ing of it. Instead, I heard about people leaving 
Iran to ﬁ  nd a better future for themselves and 
their families. Being there extended my own 
political and social concerns and allowed me 
to humanize each subject. I remember getting accepted and it being 
one of the happiest moments during my col-
lege experience. I remember going out on my 
ﬁ  rst assignment. I remember getting my ﬁ  rst 
front page photo. Each time I was ﬁ  lled with a 
rush of self-actualization, and it made the cor-
ners of my lip squirm.
 I remember how each editor has pushed 
me to be better, how nervous I was shooting 
my ﬁ  rst football game in Death Valley, how 
each protest still gives me a rush of adrena-
line and how Jimena and I ended up in Geor-
gia on our way to Tallahassee (for a protest, 
of course).
Photojournalism has expanded my world. I 
have been made aware of my own privileges, 
but most importantly, I have learned about hu-
manity. I have been taken outside of myself 
and become a better listener and a more em-
pathetic person. There’s more to learn and ex-
perience in life besides organic chemistry, and 
little did I know, two years ago I would embark 
on my best experience at UF. Thank you, and 
see you later, Alligator. 
Alan Alvarez is a UF psychology senior. He 
is the photo editor at The Alligator. What I learned at The Alligator: The scope of humanity through my lensColumn
Alan Alvarez
opinions@alligator.org“The most important lesson I’ve learned 
in my 21 years is hard work can get you 
anywhere .”
Jimena T avel
 Engagement Managing EdiorThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
For the past 45 years, 2 months and 25 days, The Al-
ligator has been independent.
It’s a title we earned — one we made the second 
word on our masthead after an editor in 1971 pub-
lished a list of abortion clinics in protest of state law. 
The rift between the student staff and then UF president, 
Stephen C. O’Connell, got so tense that the state attorney 
general ruled that to protect the First Amendment rights of 
the student journalists, UF and The Alligator should split. 
Though the editors didn’t plan the paper’s independence, 
they saw the value: the freedom to cover UF without re-
striction, to not worry about budgetary slashes if reporters 
offended the administration or Student Government. 
But if you look at the editorial in our ﬁ  rst independent 
paper on Feb. 1, 1973, much of the editors concerns could 
be copied and pasted into today’s. It talks about the need 
for editorial freedom but also the need for ﬁ  nancial support. 
Forty-ﬁ  ve years later, it’s not only a concern of ours but 
of student-run newspapers across the country. A few weeks 
ago, the board of The Daily Campus at Southern Methodist 
University voted to dissolve its paper and go back to the 
university in face of ﬁ  nancial woes. Alligator editors have 
a well-founded history of being bold. After seeing the Daily 
Campus re-afﬁ  liate with its university, we started a cam-
paign to #SaveStudentNewsrooms, highlighting nationwide 
concerns of editorial independence and ﬁ  nancial stability. 
It’s made a considerable amount of noise in the last 20 days, 
and in that time we’ve seen numerous other papers recount 
how their staff works for no pay, how administrations have 
prevented interviews with university employees and even 
universities suing their own students. 
We work hard to keep you informed so you can cast 
your ballots in local elections, SG elections and even the 
presidential election. We have writers run out of class for 
breaking stories, and some wake up at the crack of dawn to 
pursue others. In between classes, exams and life, our staff 
is here because the long hours and low pay are worth it. We 
want you, dear reader, to know that we hope you hear our 
message in our last paper of the semester: We need your 
help in making sure The Alligator is here to stay for years 
to come. 
If you pick up a paper, thank you. If you reach out to 
share your stories, thank you. As The Alligator joins other 
student-run publications in the push for more awareness, 
we ask that you help us transition into a digital-ﬁ  rst publi-
cation. We still provide content online every day. 
In that ﬁ  rst editorial in 1973, one of the ending lines 
read, “For years The Alligator has come to you free. And 
it will continue to do so. Now we need your ﬁ  nancial sup-
port.”
Forty-ﬁ  ve years later, we’re echoing the call of past edi-
tors. Our staff earns meager wages for the work they put in. 
Newsprint costs are going up from tariffs. We will continue 
publishing for free, but independent student journalism 
comes with a cost. It needs your support.
Viva the Independent Florida Alligator. Viva the Independent 
Florida Alligator. 
Column
From the editor-in-chief: Journalism ain’t dead. Chill.
This is supposed to be the moment where I 
look back at my time at The Alligator and 
reﬂ  ect. 
I could tell you about the late nights, 
hard-fought stories and small victories in 
ﬁ  nding the right words. 
I should tell you about how I started here as 
a freshman who felt a tug in her chest to work 
alongside other student journalists who became 
like family. 
But I will not. 
Not here, at least. Come ﬁ  nd me. Let’s grab some coffee, 
and I can tell you then. 
Here, in this space I cherish deeply, I want to tell you 
about my future. And yours, too. 
In the next year or so, I will (hopefully) have a job that I 
love. I will meet passionate people who care about keeping 
their communities informed. I will write. 
But journalism is suffering. It’s difﬁ  cult to accept. How-
ever, I’ve always been a believer in confronting a problem 
directly, even if it makes my stomach churn. 
So let’s talk about it. If you’re reading this column, maybe 
by chance or on purpose, you know The Alligator. You know 
journalism. My hope is if a story ever made you cry, gasp or 
scream, you care about the fact that journalism is suffering. 
Student newsrooms in particular do the best they can, but 
like all professional newsrooms, they’re struggling to survive.
Because the story that made you cry, gasp or scream 
made someone else feel something, too. At The Alligator, I 
have poured hundreds of hours over my own stories to make 
sure they capture the people behind them. But journalism 
needs people to care as we search for sustainable business 
models. 
The bottom line: The stories of your community will go 
uncovered if there are less people able to write about them. 
Less people of color in newsrooms could mean communities 
being ignored. Not because people don’t care but because they have so much going on already. Not only 
that, but the ﬁ  nancial strain is causing journalism 
to become a career only people with money are 
able to afford pursuing. 
Perhaps one of the most troubling trends is the 
idea that low-income students who cannot afford 
to take an unpaid summer internship will be dis-
suaded from pursuing this career. But their voices 
are needed. 
Because here’s the thing about journalism: It’s 
a ﬁ  eld about humans, by humans. One of the best pieces of 
advice I have ever heard from a UF journalism professor: 
Don’t lose your humanity. Remember to be a human ﬁ  rst, 
because the stories we write are rooted in the art of story-
telling. I truly believe journalism, even if it goes completely 
digital in my lifetime, will continue to tell the stories about 
communities that have been ignored for a long time. 
A strong democracy needs a free press. Freedom of the 
press is freedom of the people. We are lucky to have an inde-
pendent press in the U.S. — of that I have no doubt. 
In the last of this space, I want to thank everyone who has 
helped me pursue this craft called journalism. The reason I 
have gotten the opportunities I’ve had is because there were 
editors who took a chance on me, friends who wanted to see 
me grow and family who supported me through it all. 
A mi mamá: Gracias por todo. Nunca me dijiste que no 
iba a poder completar esta carrera, siempre dijiste que debía 
que hacer lo que me hiciera feliz. Te quiero, por siempre.
This column is supposed to be a farewell to the news-
room that took me in, but I know from our alumni the ties to 
The Alligator are never truly cut. You write your own reality, 
but I hope you write it with the idea of a free press.  
Because guess what?
Journalism ain’t dead. Chill. 
Melissa Gomez is a UF journalism senior. She is the 
editor-in-chief of The Alligator. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
DIGITAL
MANAGING 
EDITORJimena T avel
ENGAGEMENT
MANAGING 
EDITOR
Melissa Gomez
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
A dime holed up inside a 
pocket of his pants was the 
only thing my grandfather 
carried with him the day he 
left Cuba.
In a way, the rest of his life — 
and his family’s lives — depended 
on that coin. As he boarded a plane 
headed to Miami gripping my grand-
mother’s hand, he planned to use 
the money to call a friend who would pick him 
up from the airport.
He led a dictatorship. He escaped police of-
ﬁ  cers who wanted to arrest him for his rebel-
lious actions. He aid goodbye to 35 years lived 
on the island. 
When he got to the U.S., he worked as a taxi 
driver for Diamond Cab Company. He worked 
hard. Eventually, he was offered a job in Hon-
duras. He uprooted his family, moved to a small 
country in Central America and worked harder. 
He worked as a car salesman and a construc-
tion manager. My grandmother worked, too. 
She was a teacher at an American school. But 
when the U.S. Southern Association of Schools 
and Colleges demanded all staff members to 
bring their degrees in, and she couldn’t exactly 
ﬂ  y out to Cuba to get hers, she was laid off. 
So my grandparents did what they always 
did. They continued to work hard. They found-
ed a private bilingual school, which celebrated 
its 50th anniversary last May. 
When I was a little girl, my dad woke up 
every morning and drove to that same school 
at about 5 a.m. to make sure the buses left in 
time to pick up the students. Every evening, I 
hugged him hello when he got home. I remem-
ber how he smelled — a combination of sweat 
and worn out cologne from the long work day. 
My mom stayed at home and worked just as 
hard (or maybe even harder) raising four close-
ly aged children. I remember how she smelled 
— always like some sort of food from cooking. 
Listening with open eyes, raised brows and 
hung jaws, my three brothers and I heard my 
dad recount our grandparents’ story countless 
times when we were kids. Every single time, my dad would ﬁ  nish it off the same 
way. 
“Work hard,” he would say. “If 
you work hard, you can do anything 
you want.”
Working hard is what allowed 
me to get a scholarship and enroll 
at Florida Gulf Coast University in 
Fort Myers in 2014. It’s what helped 
me grow at Eagle News, the school’s 
weekly publication. 
Working hard is what brought me to 
Gainesville and made me a Gator. It’s what 
empowered me to get through long nights and 
nerve-wracking tasks at The Alligator.
The most important lesson I’ve learned in 
my 21 years is hard work can get you any-
where. A strong work ethic is the best super-
power you can have. It doesn’t matter if you 
have no talent or no resources — or neither. 
If you work hard for your dreams, I promise 
you’ll make them a reality.
I dreamed of someday moving to the U.S. to 
study among some of the most brilliant minds 
and on some of the richest spaces on Earth — 
and I did it by working hard. Looking back, I 
can see my grandparents’ dream was to protect 
their family. My parents’ dream was to see their 
four children happy. Hard work gave them that.
Working hard — until your back hurts and 
your eyes twitch and you feel like you have 
never been more exhausted in your life just to 
think the same thought again each day after — 
matters. Not only because it’ll enable you to 
achieve your goals, but also because working 
hard builds character. 
It gives you a purpose in life. 
Jimena Tavel is a UF journalism senior. 
She is the engagement managing editor of The 
Alligator. Dream. Then work hard for your dreams. Column
Jimena T avel
opinions@alligator.orgIt’s easy to lose your voice.
Maybe it’s that mo-
ment of hesitation before 
you answer a question, or 
the pressure in your chest 
that makes you think twice 
before speaking up. Maybe 
it’s the fear that even if you 
did talk, no one would listen. 
I lost my voice when I was 
5, after my younger brother 
was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syn-
drome, a form of autism that’s consid-
ered high-functioning. The label didn’t 
change the way I saw my brother. Until 
that point, I assumed all brothers had 
quirks like mine: he preferred a green 
plate at dinner, disliked physical contact 
and could talk to you about space and 
physics well past your point of under-
standing. But I quickly learned others 
didn’t see him as I did.
Questions of ‘What’s wrong with 
your brother?’ left me silent, a tightness 
in my throat and my eyes trailing to the 
ground. 
Eating lunch alone became routine. 
But that was mild compared to the treat-
ment from teachers who yelled at me 
when my brother misbehaved and gave 
me detention when I left class to walk 
him to my mom’s minivan. 
I navigated school silent and un-
noticed, and because of that, I learned 
to listen and observe. As my parents 
waged battles to get my brother the re-
sources he needed, they showed me the 
importance of standing up for those who 
can’t defend themselves. So when I got 
to college, I sought to reclaim my voice 
and to pick a career where I could give 
a voice to the voiceless. It’s because of 
that I stumbled into a dilapidated build-
ing at 1105 W. University Ave. — The 
Independent Florida Alligator. 
Through my ﬁ  ve semesters at The Al-
ligator, I’ve learned to not only speak up for myself, but for others, as 
well as expose problems and 
ask questions. I owe that to my 
friends and colleagues. 
Even though we eventually 
left the building where I found 
myself, the people who helped 
me ﬁ  nd my voice never left 
me. The building never made 
the paper, but the people did. 
Now on 13th Street, three years 
later, I still found myself surrounded by 
loud, passionate, ink-and -coffee-stained 
student journalists. 
But in working to give others a voice, 
we almost lost ours. A free press is vi-
tal to democracy, and there is a real 
threat to the freedom for student jour-
nalists across the country to report on 
their respective institutions. That’s why 
we started an initiative to save student 
newsrooms, bringing attention to the 
challenges facing student media. The 
voice of student journalists and the com-
munity members they cover is worth 
preserving. Freedom of the press is free-
dom of the people.
Maybe you’ve never felt voiceless. 
And if so, that’s great. But maybe you 
feel this way now. If that’s you, know 
it won’t always be that way. You will 
ﬁ  nd your voice again, and you’ll need 
help along the way. So surround your-
self with passionate people, and make it 
your mission to work with them. They 
will push you to be better. They will in-
spire you to think bigger. They will be 
the people with whom you change the 
world. 
And always keep your past in the 
back of your mind. It will drive you for-
ward.
Caitlin Ostroff is a UF journalism and 
political science senior. She is the digital 
managing editor at The Alligator.The Alligator helped me ﬁ  nd my voice.Column
Caitlin Ostroff
opinions@alligator.org
May 5th marks the end of my jour-
ney at UF, but it also marks the be-
ginning of my unexpected journey 
here.
 On a day much like today, at 
the end of the Spring semester two years ago, 
I was looking to add some “je ne sais quoi” to 
my college experience. I came across The Alli-
gator’s website, and luckily, they were in need 
of photographers for the summer. They took a 
chance on me, a pre-med student, who did not 
know diddly-squat about journalism.
 I remember the ﬁ  rst call I got from Gi-
useppe, the editor-in-chief of The Alligator 
during my ﬁ  rst semester working here. It was 
Sunday, June 12, 2016. He asked me to join 
him on the drive south to Orlando to cover the 
Pulse shooting, but I declined because I had to 
study for my organic chemistry exam. Twenty 
minutes passed, and I called him back. I didn’t 
understand what it was, but I knew I had to go. 
A sense of duty ensued.
 I remember getting out of the car near the 
OneBlood Blood Donation Center and seeing 
the long line of people ready to donate. I re-
member walking along Orange Avenue. Every direction I faced there were count-
less expressions of frustration, deso-
lation and anxiety. There was er-
ratic breathing in the air as people 
heavily sobbed and tears trickled 
down their cheeks. We heard word 
of a small vigil at Lake Eola Park 
and followed a crowd of 200. 
The sky was grey and eerie, and 
raindrops lightly sprinkled across 
the faces of the mourning. I saw 
how strangers lent each other a shoulder to cry 
on and how grief slowly turned into a powerful 
strength of love as each speaker lifted the spir-
its of those present. The commonality of grief 
among the crowd was one of the many things 
that uniﬁ  ed them. Grief is a reﬂ  ection of love, 
and when we lose people we love, it hurts. It 
hurts so much that it breaks us open, allowing 
us to be vulnerable and more willing to express 
our emotions. Words can’t describe how much 
love ﬁ  lled the air, but you could almost feel 
it pressing up against your chest. I failed my 
organic chemistry exam with a 59, but it was 
all worth it.
 I remember being backstage at a local drag show where I witnessed the trans-
formative nature of a drag queen. I 
saw her reﬂ  ection in the mirror as 
she effortlessly blended her make-
up, brushed her hair, glued her 
fake nails and strut across the stage 
in leotards, corsets and dresses all 
while wearing heels. I also remem-
ber feeling the fear in graduate stu-
dent voices protesting on Turlington 
Plaza a recent federal visa and im-
migration ban brought upon by an executive 
order. The uncertainty of whether they would 
be able to stay in the country after completing 
their studies was petrifying. Although I’m not a 
student visa holder or a drag queen, document-
ing their challenges by photos and video pro-
vided me with a small glimpse into their world. 
For a few minutes, I felt what they felt. If it 
weren’t for The Alligator, I would have other-
wise walked past the protest and thought noth-
ing of it. Instead, I heard about people leaving 
Iran to ﬁ  nd a better future for themselves and 
their families. Being there extended my own 
political and social concerns and allowed me 
to humanize each subject. I remember getting accepted and it being 
one of the happiest moments during my col-
lege experience. I remember going out on my 
ﬁ  rst assignment. I remember getting my ﬁ  rst 
front page photo. Each time I was ﬁ  lled with a 
rush of self-actualization, and it made the cor-
ners of my lip squirm.
 I remember how each editor has pushed 
me to be better, how nervous I was shooting 
my ﬁ  rst football game in Death Valley, how 
each protest still gives me a rush of adrena-
line and how Jimena and I ended up in Geor-
gia on our way to Tallahassee (for a protest, 
of course).
Photojournalism has expanded my world. I 
have been made aware of my own privileges, 
but most importantly, I have learned about hu-
manity. I have been taken outside of myself 
and become a better listener and a more em-
pathetic person. There’s more to learn and ex-
perience in life besides organic chemistry, and 
little did I know, two years ago I would embark 
on my best experience at UF. Thank you, and 
see you later, Alligator. 
Alan Alvarez is a UF psychology senior. He 
is the photo editor at The Alligator. What I learned at The Alligator: The scope of humanity through my lensColumn
Alan Alvarez
opinions@alligator.org“The most important lesson I’ve learned 
in my 21 years is hard work can get you 
anywhere .”
Jimena T avel
 Engagement Managing Edior8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
Move-out 
mania?
We got you.
Grab everything you need to make 
it through move out—from cleaning 
products to storage bins and more.
UF Campus T arget
Just north of campus 
on Univeristy and 13th
Move-out 
©2018 Target Brands, Inc. The Bullseye Design and Target are registered trademarks of Target Brands, Inc. C-000807-02-006WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Farewell column:
Parting words from our editor (p. 11)Locochino: 
Local band to open for TAUK (pg. 10)WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Thursday marks Swamp Records’ ﬁ  fth 
annual showcase with performances from 
both local and out-of-state talent.
Swamp Records, the UF student-run 
record label, will present a lineup of 10 lo-
cal artists headlined by Sam Stan of Fort 
Lauderdale and Netherfriends of Chicago. 
Local performing artists are ﬂ  ipturn, Ret-
rolux, The Hails, Just Neighbors, The Fo-
rum, Hugo $anchez, Rollin Cobson, DJ 
Robzilla, Nick Natural and Side Trakd.
“Our headliners are really fun and re-
latable artists and are more genre-bend-
ing,” Swamp Records President Mika 
Sheerin said.
Local acts will represent a variety of 
genres including indie, rap, punk, rock 
and house music.
The Swamp Records Showcase will 
be held at Heartwood Soundstage from 
6 p.m. to 1 a.m. Tickets for the show 
are available at Eventbrite.com or from 
Swamp Records staff for $8 in advance. 
Tickets will also be available at the door 
for $10.
“We just want to showcase under-
ground music to the Gainesville popula-
tion,” Sheerin said, “having one night 
to kind of show the community what 
Gainesville has to offer, especially to those who have never been to a local show.”
In addition to music, the Swamp Re-
cords Showcase will have Dank Cakes and 
Off The Griddle selling food, as well as 
merchandise vendors from Always True 
Collective, Zen Crystals and The Terp 
Market.
Sheerin said the Swamp Records Show-
case event directors are working to bring 
their graphics and art to life with a ‘90s 
theme and various photo opportunities.
Netherfriends is the stage name for 
the Chicago one-man-band created by 
Shawn Rosenblatt. Netherfriends is an art-
ist known for homemade beats, relatable 
lyrics and a penchant for releasing new 
music as often as possible.
Because of his constant musical experi-
mentation and evolution, Netherfriends’ 
style can be difﬁ  cult to label. He often 
jumps from genre to genre or creates a 
new genre altogether, like “Blues Trap,” 
he said.
After college, Netherfriends quit his 
day job, gave up his lease and broke all 
personal ties to tour the 50 states and re-
cord music in each state. For the next six 
years, Netherfriends toured constantly 
without a home base to return to.
Netherfriends has performed in 
Gainesville on numerous occasions, but to 
those who haven’t seen him before, Neth-
erfriends said, “I don’t use backing tracks. 
I play everything live. I’m not going to stand still. I’m going to be dancing with 
everybody and just have a good time.”
Flipturn signed on as a Swamp Records 
ﬂ  agship artist in fall 2017. In the past 6 
months alone, the ﬁ  ve-piece alternative 
indie rock group has performed regularly 
in the area, won a spot at Okeechobee 
Music and Arts Festival and released a 
single and their sophomore EP “Citrona.”
Before ﬂ  ipturn signed on to Swamp 
Records, bassist Madeline Jarman worked 
with the label.
“If I wasn’t going to be in the music 
scene with my band, I wanted to be in it 
any way I could,” Jarman said.
When one Swamp Records artist, The 
Delta Troubadours, left the label to move 
to Nashville, Jarman quit her job at the la-
bel to vie for the open spot. Flipturn won 
their place.
Now ﬂ  ipturn is preparing for their ﬁ  rst 
tour extending into the Northeast. The 
ﬁ  rst leg of their Citrona Tour includes 
performances in Fernandina Beach; 
Awendaw, South Carolina; Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Easton, Massachusetts; and 
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
The group will release the second leg 
of tour dates in the coming week.
While the label’s current focus is cen-
tered on this year’s showcase, Sheerin said 
Swamp Records may be looking to bring a 
new artist onto the label in the near future.Swamp Records Showcase to be held Thursday night
MUSIC
Courtesy to The Alligator
Chicago-born artist Netherfriends is one 
headliner for the showcase.
By Brooke Steinberg
Avenue Contributor
UF’s Danza Dance Company, a pre-
miere student-run performance dance 
company, will celebrate 20 years with its 
Anniversary Showcase on Saturday.
The show will include performances 
from Danza members as well as a guest 
performance from IndepenDANCE stu-
dio in Gainesville, said Gaby Carballo, 
the public relations chair on the execu-
tive board for Danza.
There is a lot more importance on this 
showcase in the company because it is 
the 20th anniversary, Carballo said.
Carballo, a 19-year-old UF theatre 
and English major, noticed a lot more in-
volvement this semester from an execu-
tive member’s perspective because the 
members know it’s the anniversary, and 
people are trying to leave their legacies.
Multiple styles of dance are highlight-
ed within the show with every dance 
member showcasing their strong suits, 
Carballo said.
When Danza’s executive board was 
choreographing the ﬁ  nale, they made 
sure to include multiple dance styles to 
showcase how Danza has grown over 
the past 20 years, she said.Carballo said she feels a personal con-
nection to this showcase.
“I thought it was really nice that Dan-
za and I have the same birthday,” she 
said. “We’re both turning 20 this year, so 
it was really special that I got to be here 
and be on the executive board and help 
make sure the show is really special.”
The audience will be able to see how 
Danza is special in terms of the differ-
ent styles of dance, Carballo said. Danza 
doesn’t stop with just one style of dance; 
there’s many styles in the show.
Carballo personally choreographed a 
musical theater number for the showcase 
— something she has never done with 
Danza before.
To prepare for the anniversary show-
case, the dancers rehearse every Mon-
day from 7 to 10 p.m. with one member 
teaching a class at the beginning and 
everyone working on their dances in the 
second half of rehearsal.
“We have all been working super 
hard to show everyone how great Danza 
is,” Carballo said.
The 20th Anniversary Showcase is dif-
ferent from previous showcases mainly 
because it is advertised differently, said 
DiDi Paulino, a 21-year-old UF health 
education and behavior major. Danza is focusing a lot on their alumni connec-
tions for this speciﬁ  c showcase.
“We are just celebrating 20 years of 
this organization, which is a great mile-
stone,” said Paulino, who will be serving 
as Danza’s president starting Fall 2018.
This will be Paulino’s sixth semester 
in Danza, and she believes Danza is spe-
cial because it acts as a stress reliever.
“This event is very special because I 
think a lot of times college students don’t 
really have a stress reliever,” Paulino 
said. “Twenty years ago people brought 
this organization to campus as a stress 
reliever and as an activity that they can 
do in college to help students physically, 
emotionally and mentally.”
This show represents the members ap-
preciating their past, enjoying the present 
and looking at the future of the company 
with hope, according to the Facebook 
event for the anniversary showcase.
People coming to the showcase 
should expect to see some great dance 
moves and a lot of love and passion for 
the dance company, Paulino said.
Danza’s 20th Anniversary Showcase 
will be held at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts at 7 p.m. Saturday. The 
doors open at 6:30 p.m. The show is free 
and open to the public.Danza Dance Company to host 20th Anniversary Showcase
Photo by Grace King
Danza’s 20th Anniversary Showcase will focus 
on alumni connections in particular. 
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer 
His calloused ﬁ  ngers gripped the 
rim of his American IPA, melodically 
picking it up, putting it down, pick-
ing it up, putting it down, as if drawn 
in and out by the breath of the famil-
iar conversation.  
Lead guitarist Brian Johnson sat 
at a table across from his brother 
and three-year band manager, Dave 
Johnson. They both sported faded 
tees and overgrown beards while 
they lifted a glass to reminisce on 
their band’s journey from 2014 to 
now.
 The bearded brothers agreed 
from starting as a couple of neigh-
bors just jamming out to now open-
ing for one of their favorite bands 
four years later, it’s been a musi-
cian’s dream come true.
Local jam band Locochino will 
open for TAUK at 9:30 p.m. Thur-
day at High Dive for the headliner’s 
Gainesville stop on its Shapeshifter 
Tour. Tickets for the show are avail-
able between $13 and $15 at ticket-
ﬂ  y.com.
 Locochino will debut its new 
song while opening for TAUK, an 
all-instrumental progressive rock 
band performing its newest al-
bum, “Shapeshifter I: Construct,” 
on Thursday. Locochino’s music is 
available on Bandcamp.com, along 
with CDs that will be sold at the 
venue.
Taking another sip, Brian said 
seeing TAUK in Gainesville’s back-
yard is a bigger name than the local venues are used to seeing. It’s some-
thing that just doesn’t happen, he 
said. Normally, you would have to 
take a road trip to catch them per-
form.
A loyal fan who’s admired 
TAUK’s long “melodic riffs” for four 
years and seen them perform live 
several times, Brian said it’s always 
easy to draw inspiration from them.  
 “I’ve deﬁ  nitely taken a couple 
pages out of his book,” he said.
Similar to Locochino, he said 
both bands have the same instru-
mentation and also plan some time 
for improvisation during live perfor-mances.
Improvisation is like having 
“bookends” on stage, Brian said. 
You know where you’re starting 
and you know where you’re ending 
up, but you have to ﬁ  gure out the 
middle while you’re on stage.
Lifting his beer and chiming in, 
Dave said, “That’s always the magic 
of a jam to me. It’s kind of like a 
treasure hunt. You never know what 
you’re gonna get.”
Brian and Dave estimated a solid 
turnout for Thursday, especially 
with TAUK attracting a larger crowd 
than Locochino’s loyal regulars.Brian said they have seen the 
same crowds of people show out 
for Locochino consistently over the 
years.
By being the manager, Dave said 
he has really gotten to know the fans 
because he is always in the crowd 
instead of on stage with the band.
“It’s always cool, too, because 
it’s kind of like friends coming to-
gether every time,” he said.
Brian and Dave sipped the last 
few gulps of beer and said their fans 
would probably agree Locochino’s 
style has evolved over the years.
“It’s kind of mellowed out, com-pared to what it used to be like,” Bri-
an said. “It’s not quite as intense.”
“The band, or you?” Dave joked.
In fact, Brian is now the only re-
maining member from the band’s 
original four members from its 
founding in September 2014. With 
musicians coming and going over 
the years, Brian has gone from being 
the oldest musician in the group to 
the youngest, he said.
Current keys player Blake Briand 
is now the oldest Locochino mem-
ber, having recently celebrated his 
40th birthday party, Brian and Dave 
said.
 Dave laughed and said, “There’s 
still a tombstone in the front porch 
that says ‘RIP Blake’s youth.’”
With the current lineup, Brian on 
guitar, Briand on keys, Ryan Hiers 
on bass guitar, Benny Cannon on 
drums and all members sharing vo-
cals, Brian said Locochino deﬁ  nitely 
falls into the jam band niche within 
Gainesville.
Yet each member still contributes 
in his own way to the band’s unusu-
al sound, with Brian’s melodic gui-
tar, Briand’s R&B ﬂ  avor, Hiers’ past 
punk experience and Cannon’s iron-
ic taste in both musical soundtracks 
and Dave Matthews hits.
A melting pot of musical talent 
and genres, it’s doubtful Locochino’s 
sound will ever stop evolving.
But for now, Brian and Dave 
agree they can’t wait to share the 
stage with some of the music scene’s 
best and make some great music.
“It’s gonna be a hell of a good 
time,” Brian said.Local band Locochino to open for TAUK at High Dive show
Courtesy of Red Hot Pepper Studio
Local group Locochino has been part of the Gainesville music scene since 2014. 
By Emma Witmer 
Avenue Writer
The 2018 Spring semester is on 
its last leg, and between ﬁ  nal exams 
and ﬁ  nal projects, you just might 
be, too. With only four days until 
the madness ends, college students 
across Gainesville are in need of 
some relief and relaxation.In other words, ﬁ  nals are rough, 
so here’s a playlist to calm you 
down between your second freak 
out and third cup of coffee. Repeat 
what you like, and skip what you 
don’t. Just don’t forget to breathe.
For a link to this playlist on Spo-
tify, check out Twitter @TheFlori-
daAve.
“Breakdown” by Jack Johnson
“Ivy” by Frank Ocean“Cherry Wine” by Hozier
“Sideways” by Citizen Cope ft. 
Santana
“It Was a Good Day” by Ice Cube
“Yellow Ledbetter” by Pearl Jam
“Iris” by Goo Goo Dolls
“River” by Leon Bridges
“Fantasy” by Alina Baraz and 
Galimatias
“Juke Jam” by Chance the Rap-
per ft. Justin Bieber and Towkio“Moon Tower” by Dirty Heads
“Sunday Candy” by Donnie 
Trumpet and The Social Experiment
“Who Says” by John Mayer
“Sunday Morning” by Maroon 5
“Tennis Court” by Lorde
“Northern Downpour” by Panic! 
At The Disco
“Home” by Phillip Phillips
“Scar Tissue” by Red Hot Chili 
Peppers“What They Want” by Russ
“Red Eye” by Vance Joy
“Angela” by The Lumineers
“Rivers and Roads” by The Head 
and The Heart
“Vienna” by Billy Joel
“Let It Be” by The Beatles
“(Sittin’ On) The Dock of The 
Bay” by Otis Redding
“By Design” by Kid Cudi ft. An-
dré 3000Avenue’s ﬁ  nals playlist to chill you out and cheer you up
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018   ALLIGATOR   11
Putting into 600 words just what 
Gainesville means to me is impossible, 
and discussing all the things I learned or 
diving into my friendships is even more 
impossible. I decided to dedicate this 
column to something The Avenue highlights 
every week: Gainesville’s entertainment scene.
While bars and parties ﬁ  lled plenty of my 
time in school, the memories that stick out 
most are the ones I made when I stepped out 
of the college scene and into the local one.
It’s the memories I made at places like First 
Magnitude, dancing and singing with friends 
while the band onstage played “Wait For The 
Moment” by Vulfpeck. It’s times I interviewed 
groups like Locochino and spent more time laughing at their jokes than asking 
questions. It’s the raw talent I wit-
nessed at places like The Jam and 
the feeling of awe I experienced 
when I saw about 100 locals turn up 
to ﬁ  ght for it at a city council meet-
ing. It’s the sight of more than 1,000 
students packing out the Florida 
Theatre for performers like Tchami, 
and all those conversations I had at 
art galleries, the Hippodrome State 
Theatre and tiny downtown bars. And, most 
importantly, it’s the friendships I strengthened 
and the new ones I made through art, music 
and other forms of entertainment.
During college Gainesville taught me you don’t need to be in a big city to ex-
perience something new each night. 
In addition to these experiences, 
writing about the local scene made 
a tangible impact on me. While 
many of my classes preferred hard 
news, The Alligator gave me a place 
to pursue entertainment.
When I was writing stories, it 
never really felt like work. My editor 
never said no to an idea, and I tried 
to bring this openness to my editor role as well. 
The combination of experiencing and covering 
the local scene helped me realize a career in 
entertainment is the one for me.
My goodbye to the local entertainment scene won’t be the hardest to make, but I wouldn’t 
be the same without that or The Avenue. For 
those spending more time in Gainesville, I’ll 
say this: Invest in and appreciate your local 
entertainment scene. Don’t be afraid to get 
out of your comfort zone and reconnect with 
friends through art and music. Gainesville has 
so much to offer between our university, col-
lege nightlife, local entertainment scene and 
everything in between.
And for anyone reading this, I hope each 
part of this city brings you as much joy as it 
brought me these past four years. 
Natalie Rao is a journalism senior and 2018 
Avenue editor.Goodbye Gainesville: What four years of entertainment taught me
Natalie Rao
opinions@alligator.org12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
Congratulations 
Jasmine Robinson Hocutt, M.S. Mathematics; 
Jeramiah Hocutt, Ph.D. Mathematics; Jaylynne 
Hocutt, B.S. Mathematics. Mom(’86) and Dad(’85) 
are very proud. We love you all! Go Gators!!!
Make a difference!
Become a Crisis Line Counselor for 
The Alachua County 
Crisis Center
Training begins:
May 19, 2018
For more information, please contact:
Jan Greene (352) 264-6782
jgreene@alachuacounty.us
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
Walking into the locker room at San Francis-
co’s Olympic Club, Andy Zhang was unfazed.
The 14-year-old had a chance to meet his 
heroes: Tiger Woods. Rory McIlroy. Phil Mick-
elson. Bubba Watson.
However, he wasn’t interested in getting 
any autographs.
It was July 2012. Zhang was at the U.S. 
Open, but not as a spectator. He was there on 
merit.
Following a blistering qualifying perfor-
mance for the event, Zhang was selected as one 
of its ﬁ  rst alternates. And after Englishman Paul 
Casey withdrew because of an injury, Zhang 
was thrust into the spotlight. He became the 
youngest person to ever compete at the U.S. 
Open.
His story became national news. He was 
the talking point of one of golf’s most presti-
gious events. But not all of the talk was posi-
tive. Fans wondered if Zhang was worthy of 
such an event. They wondered if there was an 
ethical dilemma with having a young teenager 
compete in an adult’s game.
Woods — who won his ﬁ  rst major before 
Zhang was even born — came to his defense.
“It’s not too young if you can do it. That’s 
the great thing about this game. It’s not handed 
to you,” he said at the time. “You have to go 
out and put up the numbers, and he did.”
•   •   •
Speaking to him today, you wouldn’t be 
able to tell that Zhang once had to leave his 
whole life behind and venture to an unknown 
country without speaking its language. Despite 
his lack of citizenship, Zhang has grown accus-
tomed to living in the United States.
He was born in Beijing, China, on Dec. 14, 
1997. Most of the members of his extended 
family were farmers while he was growing 
up. His dad had his own trade business and 
his mom was a doctor. And living in a coun-
try where golf was banned until the mid-1980s 
for being considered too high-class, the sport 
didn’t seem like a logical career path — and it 
especially wasn’t seen as a reason for uplifting 
a family.
But that thought started to become a possi-
bility when Zhang began playing golf at 7 years old. He quickly realized he had talent, and after 
traveling to Florida for a golf tournament that 
he ended up winning, a friend raised the idea of 
Zhang relocating to Florida full time.
After giving it some thought — seeing the 
superior facilities in the United States and re-
alizing his potential in golf — Zhang and his 
mother moved to Bradenton, Florida, when he 
was 10 years old, while his father and sister 
stayed behind.
Neither Zhang nor his mother spoke any 
English, but they needed to get him enrolled 
in school.
Zhang remembers sitting in the ofﬁ  ce at 
Windermere Preparatory School as his mother 
attempted to sign him up for classes. He was 
denied admission because of his lack of English 
proﬁ  ciency. He felt ashamed.
One decade later, Zhang shrugs off the Win-
dermere incident. It’s not in his nature to focus 
too much on himself. But since that day, Zhang has continued to grow both as a person and as 
an athlete.
•   •   •
Despite Zhang not playing particularly well 
at the U.S. Open in 2012, the accomplishment 
of him even participating can’t be understated.
Through the ﬁ  rst nine holes, Zhang was 8 
over at 42. He recovered on the back nine, ﬁ  n-
ishing at 9 over at 79.
Alongside the likes of defending champion 
Rory McIlroy, then-No. 1 Luke Donald and 
former Masters winner Bubba Watson, Zhang 
failed to make the cut.
But the opportunity still gave him a taste of 
his ultimate goal: playing on the professional 
circuit with household names like Woods and 
Mickelson.
It also helped put him on the map as a golf-
er.
“Publicity wise, it deﬁ  nitely gave a huge boost,” Zhang said.
But he still had four years before college. As 
he got older, he received interest from schools 
across the country. By the time he committed 
to Florida in 2015, he was Golfweek’s No. 1 re-
cruit in the class of 2016.
From the beginning, the University of Flor-
ida was a natural ﬁ  t for Zhang. There was the 
obvious geographic proximity as he could drive 
home on weekends. Three of his best friends 
from junior golf already went to the school. 
But perhaps the deciding factor was UF’s new 
coach, J.C. Deacon.
After legendary coach Buddy Alexander re-
tired in 2014, Deacon was one of several can-
didates interviewed to replace him. Considered 
a long shot to get the job, one of Deacon’s bar-
gaining chips was that he promised to then-ath-
letic director Jeremy Foley that he would bring 
Zhang to the Gators.
And after Deacon was hired, he did just 
that. In fact, Zhang was the ﬁ  rst player to com-
mit to Florida during Deacon’s tenure.
“I’ve always admired Andy from afar,” Dea-
con said. “He was on my mind from day one 
when I got here.”
•   •   •
Despite never winning a collegiate tourna-
ment, Zhang is currently ranked as the No. 
30 amateur golfer in the world. After just two 
years at UF, he is planning on leaving school to 
turn professional at 20 years of age when the 
season ends next month.
What Zhang has lacked in hardware he has 
made up for in consistency. A mainstay in Flor-
ida’s lineup, he competed for the Gators in all 
but two of their events this season. He has also 
gained trust from his coach, who has slotted 
him into the No. 2 spot in the lineup in three 
straight events leading up to the SEC Champi-
onship, which begins today in St. Simons Is-
land, Georgia.
To his coach and his teammates, there is no 
limit to what Zhang can do in the world of golf.
“I’m guessing we’ll be watching him at The 
Masters in a couple years,” his teammate and 
close friend Gordon Neale said. “I’m sure he’ll 
have a good career on the PGA Tour.”
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.org
 OPEN SEASON: Andy Zhang’s drive to golf’s biggest stage 
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Florida sophomore Andy Zhang played in the 2012 US Open when he was 14 years 
old, making him the youngest golfer to compete in the event in its history.
MEN’S GOLFWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. 
Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook. 
436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3 
dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked 
goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmBREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to 
UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie 
“The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
GUIDE TO 
  DINING 
OUTBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Student Body President 
Smith Meyers completed his term 
Tuesday, and President-elect Ian 
Green will take over today. Here’s 
a review of what suggestions the 
Impact Party made during Meyers’ 
campaigning that were accom-
plished or are in progress:
Spring 2017: 
Simplify the degree audit so it 
is easier for students to understand 
—completed
Meyers made the degree audit 
program user-friendly by working 
with the One.UF committee to of-
fer the degree audit and other stu-
dent services through the new UF 
COMPASS program. Improve crosswalk and traffic 
safety on campus — completed
Meyers and the UF Office 
of Transportation and Parking 
worked together to increase cross-
walk safety on Gale Lemerand 
Drive by adding crosswalks and 
medians between Museum Road 
and Stadium Road. 
Provide healthier food options 
at campus gyms — completed
Freshens was replaced with 
Shake Smart at the Reitz Union 
and the Southwest Recreation 
Center, which would bring health-
ier food options to students on 
campus.
Designate online testing loca-
tions — completed  
Six rooms in Library West were 
designated for ProctorU and online exams where students can reserve 
the rooms to take exams. The 
room is equipped with a computer 
and webcam for testing needs. 
Expand scooter parking — com-
pleted 
Scooter parking for 45 to 55 
scooters was added by Library 
West. 
Fall 2017: 
Ensure the input of students is 
taken into account through a cam-
pus-wide referendum regarding 
the location of a 24/7 SG-funded 
library — completed
A survey was created to con-
sider which library to fund. In De-
cember, it was announced Library 
West and Newell Hall would be 
open 24/7. 
Lobby for expansion of the Bright Futures Scholarship Pro-
gram — completed
This was approved by Gov. 
Rick Scott at the end of the Florida 
legislative session.  
Alleviate mental health con-
cerns of students through the hir-
ing of new psychologists for the 
Counseling and Wellness Center 
continuously over time to reflect 
the growing Student Body - com-
pleted  
Eight new mental health coun-
selors were funded permanently in 
November. 
Enhance the student experience 
by introducing the first ever UF 
spring music festival — completed  
The Wetlands Music Festival 
took place at the end of February, 
attracting about 3,000 attendees, according to Alligator archives. 
Other:
Laundry grant — complete
Former Student Body Treasurer 
Revel Lubin started a program to 
offer students in need a free $30 
laundry card for washers and dry-
ers in residence halls. 
Lobby for health and wellness 
center — completed
Although the funding wasn’t 
approved, Meyers lobbied for 
the funding for a new center that 
would include a gym, infirmary 
and a counseling and wellness 
hub on Norman Field. It would’ve 
cost about $90 million and been 
about 260,000 square feet. 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgOne year later, Impact executive ticket keeps promisesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
Lake Property Liquidation
Foreclosure Resale $39,900Before Foreclosure sold for $137,900Financing Available. Being sold off May 5th!Watch Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com877.712.3650Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC. Licensed Real Estate Broker.      4-20-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     4-20-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    8-13-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 8-13-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     8-13-25-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY2008 Yaris 2-door hatchback. 37mpg hwy, 5-speed, A/C, new tires & brakes,CD, power windows, mirrors, locks, Advanced air-bags, tilt steer. VG-condition, clean. 208K. Bluebook 
$3,666, sell $2,949. 352-213-8769 Rich   
5-15-18-2-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
2 male Grad students seek amale roommate who is clean &studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,own bed/bath, on bus stopclose to UF. Pool, hot tub,tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83705-15-18-21-2
House across from Law house available August 2018! 4/2 full bath renovated, gran-ite counter tops, parking, WD, lawn care and sunroom for studying! Walk to class! $2250  352-317-6353    5-22-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifiedsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-17-18-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Experienced Swim Lesson Instructors need -
ed beginning in May. Please email resume, hours of availability, and 2 references to jwilby@cox.net     5-17-18-5-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    5-15-18-4-14
Makos Aquatics Club of GainesvilleIs looking for swim/lesson coachesfor May &amp; summer work. $11.00 anhour. Send resume/3 references tokraus.leonard@gmail.com      5-15-18-4-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
1. ART: Which artist from Iowa 
painted the iconic “American Goth-
ic”?
2. BUSINESS: Where is the Target 
store’s headquarters?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the lon-
gest mountain range in North Ameri-
ca?
4. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-
ing of the Latin term “ad infinitum”?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
When does winter begin in the South-ern Hemisphere?
6. NOBEL PRIZES: Who was the 
only prime minister to win the Nobel 
Prize for Literature?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What are the 
ingredients in a Moscow Mule?
8. ANATOMY: What is the most 
common blood type in human beings?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the largest rodent in North America?
10. LITERATURE: How many lines 
are in a Shakespearean sonnet? 
Answers
1. Grant Wood
2. Minneapolis, Minnesota
3. Rocky Mountains4. Going on forever5. June 216. Winston Churchill7. V odka, ginger beer and lime juice8. O positive9. The beaver
10. 14
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
April 23, 2018King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Bring VR to your party!
Rent Oculus Rift/PC & SteamVR games. 
Drop at your location Fri, pick up Mon, 
$250+dep. Call/txt (904) 701-8680.     5-31-
18-7-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifiedsTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!" 
1.  Small
1.  Yield 5.  ____- new
2.  Picture6.  ____ Coast
3.  Lair7.  Bother
4.  Trial ____GLTHSI
MSUTBIABDNR
VRIYO
MGNIEIA
UIDHEOTESPRTE
WREYLAANSWERS: 1A-Slight  5A-Brand  6A-Ivory  7A-Pester
1D-Submit  2D-Imagine  3D-Hideout  4D-Lawyer  B-Birthstones4-25-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: There are a total of 12 of 
these nativity gems. BONUS
ACROSS
1 Dull
6 “Stronger than
dirt” cleanser
10 PCs’ “brains”
14 Backspace over
15 Try to throw, at a
rodeo
16 Tall concert
instrument
17 Solar power, e.g.
20 Animal that
sounds dull
21 Those opposed
22 Simplifies23 Charged particle25 Gender problem
26 Soul mate
33 Humiliate34 Grand-scale
poetry
35 It’s right on the
map
38 Slo-mo reviewer
39 Inning with a
stretch
42 “Michael Collins”
actor Stephen
43 Any of three
10th-century
Holy RomanEmperors
45 Jazzman
Jackson
46 Caravan stops48 Heavy military
barrage
51 Exact revenge on52 Big lug
53 Letters after
thetas
56 Until next time, in
texts
59 Slanted page?
63 Common
transmission
feature
66 Sportswear brand
67 Lawman played
by Russell and
Costner
68 Ill-fated Ford
69 Lady Gaga’s
“Cheek toCheek” duettistBennett
70 Helpful hints
71 Virtual
transaction
DOWN
1 Chef’s flavoring2 Double Delight
cookie
3 Tennis great
Mandlikova4 Password
partners
5 Litter cry
6 “SOS” band
7 Month with
fireworks
8 Blackjack
components
9 Vintage Jag
10 Inexpensive
brand
11 Golf targets
12 Try to convince13 1974
Gould/Sutherland
CIA spoof
18 “Worst Cooks in
America” judge
Burrell
19 Within walking
distance
24 Mine extractions
25 Main idea
26 Syrup brand
since 1902
27 Skeptical words28 Tripartite
commerce pact
29 Underworld
boss?
30 Be in a bee31 Florence’s __
Vecchio
32 Foot bones36 Lifeline reader37 Overpower with a
shock
40 Give off
41 Boxer Oscar De
La __
44 Fine cotton fabric47 Provides with, as
an opportunity
49 Trial
50 Hot streak
53 “__ ain’t broke ... ”
54 Minestrone pasta55 Snagglepuss, e.g.56 Bangkok native57 Maryland athlete,
for short
58 Slangy
affirmatives
60 Tuscan tower site
61 First name in
stunts
62 Proofreader’s
“drop this”
64 Just out of the
pool
65 Dead end?
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/25/1804/25/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 25, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 __ jacket:
soldier’s
protection
5 Reeded
woodwinds
10 Like some humor
13 NASA prefix
14 Grow fond of
16 Elisabeth who
played Finlay on“CSI”
17 Video game
preview
19 Window section
20 Naturally bright21 College sr.’s test
22 Elevator name
23 Exemplary
27 Commercial cow
30 Before, in verse
31 Many Louvre
paintings
32 Columnist
Maureen
33 End of most work
wks.
34 Arresting image?
37 Boxing legend
38 Romantic jewelry
item
40 “A Wrinkle in
Time” directorDuVernay
41 Sewer entrance43 Past its prime
44 “My turn!”
45 Soccer score46 Mineo of film47 Muse of 
memory
48 Latin phrase
about certaineffects of alcohol
52 Johns, to Elton
53 Finish in front54 Long look58 Riga resident59 Social sin ... and
what 17-, 23-, 38-and 48-Acrossare guilty of?
62 Significant
others, in modern
slang
63 __ Creed64 Windy City daily,
familiarly
65 Take a wrong
turn, say
66 “Spider-Man”
actor Willem
67 Racy Snapchat
messageDOWN
1 Passing fancies
2 Oniony soup
ingredient
3 Military force
4 Powdered drink
mix brand
5 Be a debtor of
6 Place for mixed
drinks
7 Surgery ctrs.
8 Political refugee
9 Shop
10 “Such sad news!”11 Written in
mystical, ancientletters
12 “Holy moly!”
15 Candy box size
16 Thread holders
18 Vague sense24 Liveliness25 Of the Great
Lakes, only
Ontario is smaller
than it
26 Diana of “Game
of Thrones”
27 Mild cheese28 Kinks title woman
with “a dark
brown voice”
29 Campaign ad
target
33 Naturally evolving34 Pop’s __ Vanilli
35 Fertility clinic egg
36 Sticky strip
38 Interlibrary __
39 Strong sound
from the savanna
42 Raises, as a sail44 Newspaper
extras
46 New York lake
named for a Five
Nations tribe
47 Yucatán native48 “Gee!”
49 Musical
shortcoming
50 Brightly colored51 Snicker55 Send packing
56 Computer
operating system
57 Pride Month
letters
60 NBA official61 __ Balls: Hostess
treats
By Bruce Haight©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/24/1804/24/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 24, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018   ALLIGATOR   17
WE TAKE YOUR WORKOUT TO  
THE NEXT LEVELMEMBERSHIPS 
AS LOW AS 
$19.99
A MON TH & $0 DOW N 
 
ATHLETIC TRAINING   
 TRX STRENGTH TRAINING PERSONAL TRAINING TANNING   
COME SEE ALL THAT WE 
OFFER!
. 24 Hour Access 
.Boxing 
.Cardi ovascu lar T raining 
. Perso nal & Group Training 
.Sauna 
.Turf Training.Athletic Performance 
Training 
. Group Fitness Cl asse s 
. Pro Shop 
.Group exercise cl asse s 
 24/7 in our NEW  
On Demand stu dio!JOIN  NOW  AT BAILEYSGYM.COM 
3441 W. Universi ty Ave. 
GAINESVILLE, FL 
Corner of Universi ty & 34th  
352-373-4439 
 VISIT US  TODAY! 
*See Club for detailsCoach Tim Walton and 
Florida's softball team are 
facing Florida State today at 6 
p.m. at Katie Seashole Pressly 
Stadium.CALLAWAY FAILS DRUG TEST
Former UF wide receiver Antonio Callaway tested positive for marijuana at the 
NFL Combine, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter. Callaway was suspended 
last season for his alleged involvement in a credit card fraud scheme along with 
eight other teammates. The NFL Draft starts on Thursday and ends on Saturday.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Who the hell are you?
Do you know? 
Have you ﬁ  gured it 
out yet?
I sure as hell 
thought I knew who I was 
and, more importantly, who I 
wanted to become. It was crys-
tal clear in my mind for over a 
decade.
But after working at the Al-
ligator for the past two and a half years, I 
realized I was dead wrong.
And I couldn’t be more grateful to this pa-
per for that reason.
My family didn’t have cable growing up, 
and neither of my parents — both profes-
sional musicians — cared about sports. I had 
zero exposure to the world of athletics for the 
ﬁ  rst 10 years of my life.
I never saw games on TV. I couldn’t have 
told you who Michael Jordan or Derek Jeter 
were. I didn’t even know the Gators were 
a college football team. Whenever I heard 
classmates of mine talk about Florida, I 
thought they were referencing an NFL fran-
chise.
And as clueless as I was about sports back then, I was even more oblivious 
to the fact it was about to be-
come my biggest passion in life.
On June 8, 2006, purely out 
of chance, I watched my ﬁ  rst 
professional basketball game. I 
was sleeping over at a friend’s 
house, and his dad had Game 
1 of the 2006 NBA Finals on be-
tween the Miami Heat and the 
Dallas Mavericks.
As cliche as it sounds, I couldn’t take my 
eyes off the TV. I was mesmerized.
I still remember Jason Terry torching the 
Heat for 32 points on 13-of-18 shooting. I 
still remember the roar of the crowd as Dirk 
Nowitzki swished a pair of three-pointers 
from the top of the key. I still remember the 
adrenaline I felt as the game came down to 
the wire in the ﬁ  nal minutes of the fourth 
quarter.
From that day on, I was hooked. Sports 
became my biggest obsession.
I learned every player on every team in 
every league. I’d look at box scores on my 
parents’ desktop computer each night and 
keep track of standings and statistics on an The Alligator taught me I’m not who I 
thought I was. And that’s 100 percent OKYou're Dylan Me Smalls / Goodbye Column
Dylan Dixon
Twitter: @dylanrdixonI have an Alligator ‘a’ tattooed on 
my right forearm, and many of 
my friends and family thought it 
was a terrible idea. But it’s been 
about a year and a half since I 
got that bulky black ‘a’ sewn into 
my skin forever, and just yesterday, 
I looked down at it while shower-
ing and thought, “Man, this was a 
great idea.”
I unfortunately can’t claim credit 
for it — I don’t know how long it’s 
been happening, but I know several former Al-
ligator writers and editors who also bear the un-
mistakable marker. And with my last byline in 
the publication that will quite literally stay with 
me for the rest of my time on Earth, I want to ad-
dress why I — and some others, I imagine — felt 
compelled to pay $60 to have a plain black ‘a’ 
embroidered on my skin. Why that simple sym-
bol that means nothing to just about anyone who 
sees it means everything to me. 
It starts with direction. I arrived at UF in fall 
2014 as a journalism major with no experience 
in journalism whatsoever. My parents will tell 
you my favorite catchphrase back then was, “It’s 
good enough,” because I said it after submitting 
my half-assed assignments that I didn’t really 
care about. All I knew starting college was that 
I liked writing and I liked sports, so I ﬁ  gured I’d 
give sports writing a try. I applied for the Alligator in 
spring of 2015, and then-sports edi-
tor Jordan McPherson and assistant 
sports editor Graham Hall hired me 
over two future Alligator editor-
in-chiefs for reasons I still haven’t 
really ﬁ  gured out. Thank God they 
did, though. 
I started as a copy editor, and in 
the fall I became the cross country 
writer. I enjoyed the work and soon 
enough was promoted to women’s 
basketball writer. Then, at the end of the semes-
ter, sports-editor-to-be Ian Cohen sent me a text 
message asking if I wanted to be his assistant for 
the coming semester. 
I learned later that he offered me the job be-
cause about four other people rejected him ﬁ  rst, 
but hey, I wasn’t complaining. I accepted imme-
diately, still unsure if I wanted to pursue sports 
journalism but enjoying the ride. The direction 
ﬁ  nally came that spring, while working with Ian 
and managing online editor Emily Cochrane on 
a feature story.
I’d written feature stories before, but this was 
the ﬁ  rst one that was really dissected and torn 
apart. I still have the comments saved — “ughh-
hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. cliche as hell.” “this 
whole paragraph is unnecessary, and makes my 
soul sad.” “If I took a shot every time you used Seek out your own Alligator experienceSweet and Bauer / Goodbye Column
SEE DIXON,  PAGE 20 SEE BAUER,  PAGE 20
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriBASEBALL
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer 
At least a few of the 3,133 
Gators fans at McKethan Stadium 
Tuesday night probably didn’t see 
it coming. After Florida (34-9, 14-4 
SEC) won its series against No. 14 
Kentucky with relative ease over 
the weekend, they probably be-
lieved the Gators were due for a 
nice, easy midweek win against 
Mercer.
They were wrong.
As UF shortstop Deacon Li-
put weakly chopped a ball back 
to Bears pitcher Robert Broom in 
the bottom of the ninth for the ﬁ  -
nal out, McKethan Stadium hardly 
made a sound.
That is, except for the hoot-
ing and hollering emanating from 
Mercer's dugout that spilled onto 
the ﬁ  eld following the Bears’ 6-4 
win over the No. 1 team in the na-
tion.
Broom played the role of hero 
for Mercer (29-14), pitching the ﬁ  -
nal six innings of the game while 
striking out 12 batters. 
Right-hander Hunter McMullen 
started the game on the mound for 
Florida, and it became evident ear-ly on that it wouldn’t be his night.
He issued three consecutive 
ﬁ  rst-inning bases on balls, includ-
ing back-to-back four-pitch walks 
and a bases-loaded freebie for the 
ﬁ  rst run of the game.
Compounding the obvious com-
mand issues for McMullen was a 
wild pitch in between them all.
Fellow freshman Connor 
Churchill relieved McMullen after 
the latter lasted just 2.1 innings, 
but it could hardly be called a re-
lief.
Churchill gave up two runs 
on four hits through 0.2 innings, 
getting yanked in the fourth after 
sandwiching a throwing error on a 
pick-off attempt between a pair of 
singles. 
All four of the Gators’ runs 
came in the ﬁ  rst inning, with two 
coming from right ﬁ  elder Wil Dal-
ton’s team-leading 16th homer of 
the season. 
After suffering just its second 
losing streak of the season, Flori-
da will look to rebound Thursday 
when it begins a series with Au-
burn. 
@MorganMcMufﬁ  n
mmcmullen@alligator.org. Broom handles Gators, cleans up early mess for Mercer
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Right ﬁ  elder Wil Dalton hit his team-leading 16th home run in the ﬁ  rst inning of Florida's 6-4 loss to 
Mercer on Tuesday night in Gainesville.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018   ALLIGATOR   19  
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
CRACK!
A golf ball soared from the first 
tee and traveled into the center of 
the fairway.
Na-Yeon Choi stepped off the 
tee box and looked satisfied. Back 
in 2012, she won the US Women’s 
Open.
But this wasn’t 2012 anymore.
Kevin Smeltz — Choi’s coach at 
the time — swears he’ll never for-
get what he saw next.
He was coaching another player 
who was paired with Choi at the 
2016 US Women’s Open — Sierra 
Brooks.
Choi was a seasoned veteran on 
the tour, while the relatively un-
known Sierra turned 17 on the sec-
ond day of the tournament.
Smeltz knew Sierra had poten-
tial but wanted to see her match up 
against elite international competi-
tion.
Sierra strided up to the first tee 
box, stalked the ball from behind 
and took a hack. 
And the ball flew. And flew. 
And flew. 
Scorching down the center of 
the fairway, the shot landed near 
Choi’s ball, but it didn’t stop. It hit 
the turf with a thud, rocketed back 
up into the air and dribbled down 
the course another few seconds 
before halting 30 yards past Choi’s 
ball.
Choi, the former No. 2 player in 
the world, gasped. “Coach, how far 
can that girl hit it?” she wondered. 
Smeltz replied, “She can hit it 
pretty damn far.” 
•   •   •
Brooks, a sophomore transfer at 
Florida, is one of the best players in 
college golf this year, as evidenced 
by her being named to the ANNIKA 
Award Watch List, which honors 
the top college golfer in the country.
“Sierra stands out from any 
golfer I’ve ever coached, and I’ve 
coached some great golfers,” said 
Cheryl Anderson, Sierra’s former 
high school coach.
Sierra grew up around golf. Her 
father and coach, Brent, played at 
North Florida and had one of the 
top-20 scoring averages in UNF 
men’s golf history before playing 
professionally for three years and 
then starting a family with his wife, 
Lora.
Sierra’s resume includes finish-
ing runner-up in the US Amateur 
Championship, playing on Team 
USA’s junior team, winning the 
American Junior Golf Association’s 
TaylorMade Championship and 
rising as high as third in the Polo 
Junior Golf Rankings and fifth in 
Golfweek Women’s Amateur Rank-
ings. To top it off, she was named 
Girls’ Junior Player of the Year by 
the Florida State Golf Association in 
2015.
Sierra began her college career 
at Wake Forest but underwent a tumultuous journey to get to UF, 
where she has competed in seven 
tournaments this spring. She has 
finished first twice and second once. 
Only twice in those seven tourna-
ments has she finished worse than 
11th and only three times worse 
than fifth.
Anderson can still recall the mo-
ment she realized Sierra was a spe-
cial player at a 2014 tournament.
During the tournament, Sierra 
found herself in a tough situation 
during one particular hole.
She had a downhill lie about 210 
yards away from the pin and elect-
ed to hit a 2-iron to try and carry it 
to the green.
A 2-iron club isn’t constructed to 
hit far with a downhill lie because 
the club is built like a driver. You 
don’t hit a driver off of anything be-
sides a tee. That’s just golf-101.
But Sierra doesn’t care for your 
conventional wisdom. She pounded 
the ball onto the green.
“I have never seen a high school 
girl do anything like it,” Anderson 
said. “I said to myself right then 
and there, ‘This… this is the real 
deal.’”
•   •   •
Sierra committed to play col-
lege golf at the University of Florida 
early on in her high school career. 
Like, really early. Like 14-year-old-
freshman-in-high-school early. By 
the time she was 16, she realized 
that a decision with such magni-
tude couldn’t have been properly 
made by someone so young, so she 
decommitted from UF to review her 
options.
“Sierra just found that at the 
time, (Florida) wasn’t the perfect 
fit for her when she was in high 
school,” childhood friend Dreé 
Fausnaugh said. “I think she just 
wanted to branch out more.”
In addition to taking another 
look at Florida, she considered 
North Carolina, LSU and Wake For-
est. After taking a trip to Wake For-
est, she fell in love with everything 
the Demon Deacons had to offer. 
From the golf course to the coach-
ing staff, it seemed that she fit in. 
Sierra and her father, Brent, en-
joyed the staff and said it was one 
of the main reasons she decided to 
attend the university.
“I just fell in love with it,” Sierra 
told the Winston-Salem Journal 
back in February 2015. “I think it 
was about 30 degrees, but I was 
promised that it isn’t always like 
that.”
Two weeks after enrolling at 
Wake Forest, however, Sierra start-
ed having problems with her wrist.
She felt clicking accompanied by 
a pain that seared through the joint 
like a white-hot flame. Then it got 
worse.
And worse.
And worse.
And worse.
But she continued to play. 
Whether she was told to or chose 
to depends on who you ask. If you ask friends and family, they say she 
was told to just play through the 
pain by Wake Forest coaches and 
doctors.
“She was having some pain and 
they shot her up with cortisone,” 
Brent said. “Never even consulted 
anybody.”
One of Sierra’s former team-
mates said Sierra made the decision 
to play.
“She’s so competitive… she 
didn’t take time off,” said the for-
mer teammate, who asked to re-
main anonymous. “We had another 
girl who was completely healthy 
and could have played in the tour-
naments. People (within the team) 
were unhappy that she didn’t rest.”
That rift spread further and fur-
ther over time and caused Sierra to 
become isolated. She began won-
dering if she made the right deci-
sion by attending Wake Forest.
Moreover, one of her friends and 
teammates, Mathilda Cappiliez, left 
the program unhappily in early 2017 
and said to Golfweek, “I can’t wait 
to go home and play golf… go to Q-
School (LPGA Qualifying School) in 
the summer and be happy.”
Doubt snaked its way into the 
back of Sierra’s mind and strokes of 
bad luck kept hitting her.
She elected to have a minor pro-
cedure on her wrist, Brent said, not 
to repair it, but to “clean it a little 
bit.”The surgery went well and re-
moved the clicking, but the pain 
lingered.
About a week after the surgery, 
while participating in college work-
outs, she fell on a box with all the 
pressure on her wrist and tweaked 
it once again. But she continued to 
push through the pain, both men-
tally and physically.
“They were definitely some of 
my tougher times I’ve had as a golf-
er,” Sierra said, “and as a person, 
too.”
Her life seemed like it just kept 
spinning and spinning further down 
into oblivion. Sierra couldn’t do the 
one thing she came to do: play golf.
“She needs golf,” Fausnaugh 
said. “She loves golf. To be away 
from home mixed in with being 
injured and not being able to play 
drove her crazy.”
Her life kept its downward spiral 
until she met Randall Hunt.
And her faith in Wake Forest 
was shaken further.
•   •   •
Randall Hunt was in North Caro-
lina when he got the call.
Once a Division I golfer at Pep-
perdine University, he committed 
the year the Waves won the NCAA 
title in 1997.
Then a catastrophic car accident 
left his right arm completely para-
lyzed and derailed his career. He was told he would never regain use 
of it and would be in pain his entire 
life.
But Hunt wasn’t convinced and 
wound up inventing a system called 
“Bionetics” that gave him control of 
his right arm again. He returned to 
golf.
Bionetics is “an interactive sys-
tem of assessment and exercise de-
signed to restore and enhance the 
human body,” according to Hunt’s 
website.
Sierra had been going to a doc-
tor through the university. As her 
family’s frustrations mounted, they 
began to search for other doctors, 
which resulted in the minimally in-
vasive surgery.
At the same time, tension con-
tinued to fester at Wake Forest. Si-
erra thought her teammates might 
not believe her story. The notion 
that she was either faking the inju-
ry so she wouldn’t have to play, or 
that she was forcing herself to play, 
began to spread.
The powder keg building be-
tween Sierra and the rest of the 
team appeared to be teetering on 
the edge of explosion.
Read the rest of this story online 
at alligator.org/sports.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgFULL CIRCLE: Sierra Brooks’ redemption tour hits Florida
Chris O’Brien / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Sierra Brooks transferred from Wake Forest to Florida after suffering a wrist injury that 
derailed her first season with the Demon Deacons.
20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
4 pc Chicken Tenders Snack 
with Buttermilk Biscuit 
only $3.99
Choose from Supremes or Homestyle Tenders
Breakfast • Lunch • Dinner • Open Daily: 6 AM - 10 PM
www.bojangles.com • 3120 SW Archer Road • (352) 745-7221
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
free
BUY ONE BURGER
1402 W.UNIVERSITY AVEOpen until 3am ON FRI & SAT.Not Valid with aNy other  coupoN  or offer.
limited time oNly.free premium  SiNGle BurGer
with eVery BurGer purcha SeNEED A STUDY BREAK?
GET  ONE
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
40 percent of food in the U.S. is wasted
REDUCE F D WASTE8.5-by-14-inch yellow notepad.
I could recite entire rosters on demand, 
whether it was all 15 men on the Utah Jazz 
or all 53 on the Detroit Lions. I was a walking 
encyclopedia of sports knowledge, and — by 
the time I reached middle school — the only 
career I had any interest in was one covering 
athletics.
I’d tell friends, family, teachers and any-
one else who would listen that I was one day 
going to work for ESPN. I’d tell them I had 
it all ﬁ  gured out. I’d tell them I’d found my 
calling.
Everyone who knew me in my teenage 
years knew me as the kid who was going to 
be a sports writer.
And once I received my acceptance letter 
from the University of Florida, everything ap-
peared to be falling into place. I chose journal-
ism as my major. I spent my ﬁ  rst year and a 
half of college experiencing different opportu-
nities with the school’s radio station.
Then — after applying for a sports writ-
ing position during the middle of my sopho-
more year — I was hired by the Alligator as its 
men’s tennis beat writer.
It’s one of the greatest things that has ever 
happened to me, but not for the reason I ever 
expected.
My passion for sports has always been an 
11/10, but my passion for writing is probably 
a 5/10 at best. I didn’t think that would matter 
at ﬁ  rst. I assumed my adoration for buzzer-
beating three-pointers and walk-off home 
runs was all I needed to truly enjoy the job.
But in order to thrive in this industry, it 
doesn’t matter how much you love sports.
You really, really, really have to love writ-
ing — like REALLY love writing — too.
And I never would have found that out in 
college if I hadn’t worked at the Alligator.
I covered men’s tennis, soccer, women’s 
basketball, baseball and football in my two 
and a half years with this paper. Attending 
games was a blast. Talking to athletes was 
cool as hell. But I never experienced that same feeling of happiness when I sat down to write 
stories. It simply wasn’t my calling.
After assessing my options over the past 
couple semesters, I decided in January I won’t 
be pursuing a career in journalism after gradu-
ation.
And that’s perfectly OK. I couldn’t be more 
satisﬁ  ed with my experience at the Alligator. I 
did things I’ll remember for the rest of my life.
Whether it was writing 2,500-word feature 
stories on deadline, going on 19-hour road 
trips for football games or receiving the amaz-
ing honor of getting to serve as this paper’s 
sports editor over the past four months, I’ll 
look back on every second of my time at the 
Alligator with a fondness I couldn’t have ac-
quired anywhere else.
And even though the outlook of my future 
has gone from being crystal clear to murky 
and uncertain, that’s what life is all about.
The Alligator taught me I’m not who I 
thought I was, and I couldn’t be more grateful 
to the paper for that reason.
 
Dylan Dixon was a writer and former 
sports editor for the Alligator. Follow him on 
Twitter @dylanrdixon.DIXON,  from pg. 18
the word ﬁ  gurative, I’d be hella drunk rn.”
It was one of the worst days of my life. 
It was one of the best days of my life. 
Because of that editing, which took place 
past midnight in an old frat house-turned-news-
paper-building full of asbestos and mice run-
ning up and down wires into random holes in 
the wall, I discovered a real passion for human-
interest storytelling. 
It sounds so cliche to say that, but it’s hon-
est. For the ﬁ  rst time in my life, I wasn’t doing 
something to make it “good enough.” I was do-
ing something because it moved me in a way 
that nothing else had, in a way that gave me 
the opportunity to impact other people with my 
work. 
That ﬁ  rst story led me to pursue other in-
depth pieces that explored uniting human prin-
ciples of dreams, determination and fragility. 
Whether I succeeded or failed at addressing 
those themes is up for debate, but regardless, 
working at the Alligator is what made me pas-
sionate about addressing those themes in the 
ﬁ  rst place. 
Plus I was working with people who, even if 
their passions weren’t the same as mine, were 
passionate about something. Sports. Rights. 
Equality. Justice. Just about every co-worker in 
my 3.5 years at the paper has had their own 
passion and a willingness to explore it with 
their own voice. I encourage all ﬁ  ve people still 
reading this to seek that out in their own lives 
— doing so has brought me more happiness 
and fulﬁ  llment than I imagined possible when I 
started college. 
In her short story “The Age of Discretion,” 
French philosopher Simone De Beauvoir wrote, 
“Making money does not seem to me a very 
elevating ambition.” Lord knows I will likely 
never make much money as a reporter, and 
most of my colleagues at the Alligator would 
probably agree. But as De Beauvoir alludes to, I 
don’t give a f---. And that was not an easy sum-
mit to reach.
It goes back to wanting to be “good enough” 
— for what, exactly? I suppose to make money 
and live comfortably. The Alligator helped me overcome that and ﬁ  nd a passion for some-
thing greater than money and ambition alone, 
and then it reinforced that passion with six en-
thusiastic friends having dinner at Calhoun’s 
On The River in Knoxville, Tennessee, prior 
to the Gators playing UT, or with the whole 
newsroom popping champagne at the end of 
another long semester, or with the nightly food 
runs to Leonardo’s and Five Guys and Kabab 
House that caused me to gain 20 pounds (no 
exaggeration) since freshman year, or with the 
friends and challenges that will inspire me for 
a lifetime. 
Nothing — not a falling out, any argument 
or even me getting ﬁ  red — would change that. 
My Alligator ‘a’ will remind me of that forever, 
because as setbacks and misfortune and heart-
ache inevitably reveal themselves in my career 
and in my life, it sure isn’t something I want to 
forget. 
Ethan Bauer was a writer and former sports 
editor for the Alligator. Follow him on Twitter 
@ebaueri.BAUER,  from pg. 18
DYLAN DIXON 
ALLIGATOR RESUME
SPRING 2016: MEN'S TENNIS BEAT 
WRITER
FALL 2016: SOCCER BEAT WRITER
SPRING 2017: WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL BEAT WRITER/
FOOTBALL BEAT WRITER
SUMMER 2017:  BASEBALL BEAT 
WRITER/SPORTS EDITOR
FALL 2017: FOOTBALL BEAT 
WRITER/ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR
SPRING 2018: SPORTS EDITOR
STORIES PUBLISHED:  202ETHAN BAUER 
ALLIGATOR RESUME
SPRING 2015: COPY EDITOR
FALL 2015: CROSS COUNTRY BEAT 
WRITER/WOMEN’S BASKETBALL BEAT 
WRITER
SPRING 2016: WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
BEAT WRITER/FOOTBALL BEAT 
WRITER/ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR
SUMMER 2016: BASEBALL BEAT 
WRITER/ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR
FALL 2016: FOOTBALL BEAT WRITER/
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR
SPRING 2017: BASEBALL BEAT WRITER/
FOOTBALL BEAT WRITER/SPORTS 
EDITOR
FALL 2017: FOOTBALL BEAT WRITER
SPRING 2018: BASEBALL BEAT WRITER
STORIES PUBLISHED: 29322   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2018
Editor’s note: Below is a compilation of 
testimonials submitted by current and 
former student journalists. Over the 
past 20 days, we have collected their 
stories as a way to show how the stu-
dents working in newsrooms today become 
the professional journalists of tomorrow.   #SAVESTUDENTNEWSROOMS
Name: Ariana Figueroa
College newspaper: The Independent Florida 
Alligator
Where I am now: News Assistant at CNN
I would not be the journalist I am today without 
my student newspaper. And that’s not because The 
Alligator gave me an environment that allowed me 
to learn how to write, edit and make mistakes. All 
of those skills are valuable, but the reason I am still 
in journalism is because of those lifelong friends I 
made at the paper. Those friends were the ones that 
calmed my doubts about whether or not I’d make 
it as a journalist and gave me conﬁ  dence when I 
needed it most. I would have quit a long time ago 
if it weren’t for that support group I found at my 
student paper.
The Alligator gave me the ability to be a leader 
and grow into the woman I am today, and it gave me 
a sisterhood I never imagined having.
Student papers matter and the experience and 
friendships made there are priceless. If student pa-
pers don’t get the support they need and deserve, 
it’s going to put limits on what the next generation 
of journalists can accomplish.Name: Rocio Hernandez
College Newspaper: The Nevada Sagebrush (Reno, 
Nevada)
Where I am now: News Associate at The Associ-
ated Press
Working at the University of Nevada, Reno’s Ne-
vada Sagebrush was one of the best decisions I made 
as a student because sitting in your college classrooms 
can only teach you so much. The student newsroom 
gave me the opportunity to learn by trial and error. The 
stakes were higher because it went beyond my profes-
sors’ eyes and a letter grade, and goes out to all the 
students. I started off as a volunteer, then moved on to 
assistant news editor and then news editor. 
I learned the hard work and responsibility that 
goes into publishing a paper weekly and how to be a 
leader in the newsroom. But because I was paying for 
my education on my own without help from my par-
ents, I couldn’t stay on staff beyond two years. We just 
weren’t getting paid enough for it to continue being 
worth it for me. But because of the experience I got, I 
went on to get internships at professional newsrooms. 
I don’t think I would be where I am today without the 
Sagebrush.Name: Ben Brasch
College Newspaper: The Independent Florida 
Alligator
Where I Am Now: The Atlanta Journal-Constitu-
tion, Hyperlocal Reporter
I wouldn’t be where I am today with the annoy-
ing rat in my apartment wall if not for my student 
newsroom experience. The people I worked with are 
so good I shudder to think of us back in the same 
newsroom. We were all at our worst together in 
college, but we were getting better, and that meant 
something. It meant long hours for little pay and 
the love of the game. It prepared me for damn near 
every experience so far in my life. When a noctur-
nal beast fell from the ceiling of the decrepit former 
fraternity house and into the pit of people designing 
the newspaper, they ran over to the bar to tell us. 
The creature was run off and never seen again.
Journalism doesn’t just happen. We kept our fel-
low students in mind as we reported on corruption 
and the day’s news. We were the only watchdogs of 
50,000 other young adults. Few fall into journalism 
with grace. It takes time (read: money) and patience 
to get just serviceable.
SAVE
STUDENT
NEWSROOMS
More than 100 student 
newsrooms across the 
country are calling to 
#SaveStudentNewsrooms. 
Here’s what they’re 
asking. Read their stories.Editor’s note: In this paper, you will find 
some news. If there is anything The Al-
ligator has prioritized, it has been mak-
ing sure you know the news you need to 
know about to make informed decisions.  
      But in this special edition of The Alligator, 
we wanted to raise a concern about not just the 
problems our staff faces, but the difficulties fac-
ing student-run publications across the country.       As part of the #SaveStudentNewsrooms ini-
tiative, we wanted you to hear from the other 
student-run publications participating today. 
Below are editorials written by other publica-
tions in support of the initiative.  
As editor-in-chief of The Alligator, I have 
seen firsthand the work my staff puts into 
making a paper we are proud to put out. But 
I have also seen the damages of low pay, long hours and a demanding profession. 
Over the last few years, in the face of 
shrinking finances, student-run publications 
have had their independence jeopardized. 
Others have been forced to fold. Across the 
U.S., student-run newsrooms — just like pro-
fessional newsrooms — are struggling to sur-
vive. They are hemorrhaging.
This is why we started #SaveStudentNews-rooms. We write these articles, attend meet-
ings and hound sources, while juggling class-
es, exams and, for many of us, part-time jobs. 
We do it because we’re passionate and care 
about our communities. But as student-run 
publications transition during a digital era, we 
need the community’s support as well. 
Freedom of the press is freedom of the 
people.
The Free Press (Boston, MA) — 
Student journalists are the future news reporters of 
the country. There’s no better platform to learn about 
this career than to join a student-run publication. News 
is something that will always remain, whether it be in 
print or online, and it’s the current students who will be 
the ones to provide you the news.
College newspapers are also unique in the fact that we 
have access and insight to a university that no other pub-
lication has. Since college newspapers have a focus on 
their university and the surrounding community, we get 
the chance to provide a more in-depth coverage about 
our institution. Local publications may cover college ac-
tivities, but it is the college newspaper that is the expert 
on the Student Body. What’s also unique here is that we 
are all students ourselves, and what better way to rep-
resent a university than to have these articles written by 
the students themselves?
Journalists are facing a tough environment in this day 
and age with the frequent mention of “fake news.” We 
must train those going into this field to be prepared to 
handle an extremely challenging job. A student newspa-
per is the perfect starting point for those with an interest 
in journalism. It gives them their first real experience, 
better preparing them for a future career.
With this being said, college newspapers are facing 
tough times ahead.
Read the rest of the editorial at usmfreepress.org.
College Heights Herald (Bowling Green, 
KY) —
The Herald is just over one year removed from being 
sued by Western Kentucky University after Kentucky Attor-
ney General Andy Beshear ruled the university had to turn 
over records of faculty sexual misconduct to the Herald, 
citing that WKU has an ongoing responsibility to release 
Title IX records related to sexual harassment by university 
employees.
Can you imagine what coverage of the lawsuit would be 
like if the Herald did not have editorial independence and 
the university was allowed a final say over what could be 
published? Anything that might make the university look 
bad to the public could be taken out, even on controversial 
issues like sexual harassment that hold consequences for 
student safety.
This is why independent student publications are so im-
portant. They carry a responsibility to report accurately and 
fairly on issues that affect the public, even if it depicts the 
university in a negative light. While the Herald continues 
to uphold this responsibility, it does not take away from the 
fact that student publications across the country are facing 
serious challenges that are putting our editorial indepen-
dence at risk.
Read the rest of the editorial at wkuherald.com. The Independent Collegiate (Toledo, OH) 
—
In 2000, University of Toledo threatened our journalistic 
freedom to report stories, prompting us to become indepen-
dent. 
Eighteen years later, our presence to remain in print is being 
threatened. To put it simply, the Independent Collegian is dy-
ing. Despite the tireless efforts of our students and staff, we are 
not making enough money from ad revenue to survive.
This is the last thing we want to happen, yet it’s the only 
thing that will happen if we don’t receive any support. We 
care about our newspaper, but more than that, we care about 
truth-seeking journalism, a priority in today’s era of fake news.
Our staff commits to the IC week after week without any 
pay — something that has been sacrificed within the last se-
mester — for nothing more, but their passion for journalism
We’ve put plenty of thought into this. Trust us, we don’t 
make any decisions lightly. But if we can’t find any new rev-
enues of funding ourselves, find an increase in advertisements 
or find a mysterious benefactor, the IC will be no longer just 
after our 100th year.
This is us, as journalists, being very transparent with our 
readers. This is us asking you to support our journalistic free-
dom on reporting. This is us asking for your help.
Read the rest of the editorial at independentcollegian.com.The Daily Campus (Dallas, TX) —
As previously announced, the Student Media Company 
will be dissolving in May after nearly a century, forever 
altering the landscape of the free press on Southern Meth-
odist University’s campus. This outcome was, frankly, 
inevitable, but not because of the actions of the students 
involved with the media outlets run by the Student Media 
Company.
Students have reported from every corner of Dallas-Fort 
Worth, created layouts and done what was asked of them 
for the newspaper, the yearbook and online stories, but the 
adults charged with keeping us afloat let us down.
When the former executive director left abruptly in De-
cember, our interim director stepped in with a plan to save 
Student Media Company and the entire concept of an on-
campus free press.
Many of us expressed our concerns with Student Media 
Company’s finances for years, but nothing was changed. 
This last hope was dashed as the company’s board wasn’t 
interested in the slightest. Instead, students received a 
slightly more formal and bureaucratic version of “Nope, 
it’s too late. Sorry.” No editors in Student Media Company 
had a vote on the board. Their concerns were expressed 
and ultimately disregarded.
So, now what? The Daily Campus, in all its iterations, 
has been able to remain an independent news source since 
1930. Removing that independence completely disrupts the 
mission and purpose of a student newspaper both in serv-
ing our campus and the greater Dallas community.
Read the rest of the editorial at smudailycampus.com. 
The Tiger (Clemson, SC) — 
Imagine, just for a moment, what life would be like if The 
Tiger no longer existed. Who would you turn to for informa-
tion when a CATbus catches fire? Who would call out Univer-
sity of Colorado Student Government when it does something 
shady? What would you use for last minute wrapping paper 
when there are no newspapers to be found?
Unfortunately, that future isn’t far off. 
We stopped paying our staff in Fall 2014. Today, all of our 
student journalists do their work for free.
The Tiger, like many student-run newsrooms across the 
country, is struggling financially. And no one’s been talking 
about it — until now. 
Needless to say, we’re not going to go down without a 
fight. Yes, production nights are grueling. Yes, there are times 
when some of us think about quitting. Yes, we get upset when 
someone criticizes our work. Despite all of the blood, sweat 
and tears that comes with working here, we will go to the 
ends of the earth to keep this newsroom operating.
That’s why we’re joining the #SaveStudentNewsrooms 
movement, and we’re asking everyone reading this to join 
in on it, too. 
We can’t save The Tiger, and other student media outlets, 
without your help.
Read the rest of the editorial at thetigernews.com. The Nevada Sagebrush (Reno, NV) —
How are we going to expect 19-to-22-year-olds to fix the 
publication crisis the entire country is suffering from and has 
not yet fixed?
The professional publications that are making it work re-
quire a paid subscription or have a high number of donations. 
Student newsrooms can’t ask for their audience — students — 
to make donations or pay a subscription. So this leaves student 
newsrooms to rely on other sources of revenue that all come 
with a catch-22.
The first is to rely on the university to fund the student 
newspaper. This is a reality of the majority of student news-
papers across the country. This is problematic for a number of 
reasons. When a university controls the money, they can also 
control the content published — or rather, not published — in 
student newspapers.
Last semester, this university faced public relations crises 
involving racism and diversity issues from students and univer-
sity departments. The most notorious was when a student was 
not only identified but used as the face of the Unite the Right 
white supremacy march in Charlottesville, South Carolina in 
August. Yes, the university received national coverage because 
of this. However, there was far less coverage about the reaction 
the university had to this situation and the magnitude of the is-
sues that followed. But The Nevada Sagebrush was there.
We have been there writing about student town halls, ask-
ing the university administration tough questions and making 
sure attention on this issue is not going away. We’re not say-
ing our coverage was perfect, but it was necessary. If we were 
funded by the university, who knows if we would’ve been able 
to write these things and ask these questions. If we were fund-
ed by the university, they could cut our budget if they did not 
like what we were writing. 
Read the rest of the editorial at nevadasagebrush.com.#SAVESTUDENTNEWSROOMS
Editor’s note: Below is a compilation of testimonials sub-
mitted by current and former student journalists. Over 
the past 20 days, we have collected their stories as a 
way to show how the students working in newsrooms 
today become the professional journalists of tomorrow. 
Name: Isabel Bonnet
College newspaper: The Independent Florida Alliga-
tor
Where I am now: Founder of The Amsterdammer
“I arrived at The Alligator with nothing but experience 
in citizen journalism, and I left with an internship at Le 
Monde. Exactly one year later, I created a student-run 
newspaper myself in Amsterdam, The Amsterdammer, 
which uses The Alligator as its model. Every university 
should have a student newspaper, and if they don’t: Do 
it yourself. Student journalism teaches you what school 
can’t and introduces you to the practical journalism right 
away. I would have never had the idea or been able to 
create a student newspaper myself. I will be forever grate-
ful to The Alligator for giving me a place to learn without 
letting language be a barrier.”Name: Joey Cranney 
College newspaper: The Temple News (Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania)
Where I am now: Government reporter at The Post and 
Courier 
“It’s time for the public to stop underestimating student 
newsrooms. Rather, they should be embraced for their op-
portunity to expose wrongdoing in overlooked communities.
I worked for The Temple News at Temple University, 
starting as a freshman sports reporter in 2010 and graduat-
ing in 2014 as the paper’s editor-in-chief. The Temple News 
is not just a student newspaper — it’s a century-old institu-
tion for one of the largest universities in the country’s fifth 
most populated city. 
If your alma mater has a student newspaper that’s in 
danger of folding, you shouldn’t consider the issue as a 
potential loss for the university’s journalism program. You 
should consider it a loss for you and your community.”Name: Ken Schwencke
College newspaper: The Independent Florida Alliga-
tor
Where I am now: News Apps Developer at ProPublica
“When former a former managing editor at my student 
newspaper, The Alligator, noticed a map I’d published 
and asked me to work with her, it was the start of my 
career. 
As anyone reading this knows, the experience at a stu-
dent newsroom is incomparable: working on deadline, 
turning ideas on a dime, punching up. You have free rein 
to decide what’s news and to go after stories you think 
matter. It’s a freedom you might not get for a decade into 
your actual career and a crucial time to try new things 
and make mistakes.
So for all that, I’m thankful. It taught me more than 
class ever could, and without it I’d be something awful, 
like a lawyer.”
Name: Alexandra Gomes
College Newspaper: The Gatepost (Framingham, 
Massachusetts)
Where I am now: Reporter at The Sun Chronicle
“My journalism career started at a small, weekly stu-
dent-run newspaper called The Gatepost, which serves 
the Framingham State University community in Massa-
chusetts. Fellow student journalists taught me how to 
interview, transcribe, write, deal with police (on and 
off campus), shoot photos and videos, design a front 
page,and so much more. 
The kind of work we did there was relevant and im-
portant and oftentimes led to positive changes in the uni-
versity and administration. It was work that we could 
have definitely not accomplished had we not been inde-
pendent. Without independent student newspapers, col-
leges and their overlords are accountable to no one.”Name: Mia Gettenberg 
College Newspaper: The Independent Florida Alligator 
Where I am now: Harvard Law School
“Without a doubt, The Alligator showed me firsthand the 
passion and dedication of local journalists. We need students 
to continue pursuing their dreams in journalism, a profes-
sion increasingly coming under scrutiny in this political age, 
to hold our elected officials accountable, learn more about 
the world around us and know where to devote our attention 
and resources.
I always loved the news, though I never wanted to enter 
journalism myself. From the start, I knew I wanted to one day 
attend law school and pursue my interests in educational, 
environmental and civil-rights issues within the legal realm. 
However, my experiences at The Alligator and the friends I 
made along the way helped shape me into the person I am 
today — academically, professionally and personally.”Name: Rick Hirsch
College newspaper: The Independent Florida Alliga-
tor
Where I am now: The Managing Editor at the Miami 
Herald
“I worked at The Independent Florida Alligator while 
studying journalism at the University of Florida. In the 
summer of 1979, serial killer Ted Bundy went on trial in 
Miami for the murder of two female students at Florida 
State University. On a whim, I drove home to Miami to 
cover the trial and wrote a long enterprise profile that 
we published live with his guilty verdict. That story won 
first place in the William Randolph Hearst competition 
for general news writing. Only at The Alligator could I 
have the opportunity to be so ridiculously ambitious. We 
reached high, worked hard and learned daily journalism 
from my student peers — many of whom became friends 
for life.”
