We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaMONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
UF student arrested for possessing child porn
Police said he used a UF printing lab, pg. 4
RTS bus drivers ask for better wages
Some of them spoke at a City Commission meeting, pg. 3GATORS SQUEAK PAST GAMECOCKS
Florida’s baseball team defeated South Carolina 
on Sunday to win their ﬁ  rst SEC series of the year, pg. 15VOLUME 112 ISSUE 69
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a four-hour standoff with police ofﬁ  cers, a 
Gainesville man was arrested for allegedly shooting at a man he knew Sunday afternoon. 
Anthony Brown, 35, got into a heated argument with 
the man over $73 before Brown took out a gun and shot at him multiple times in his Windsor Terrace apartment on Southwest 20th Avenue near Winn-Dixie, said Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias, a Gainesville Police spokesperson. The man was uninjured.
Sandra Norris, 56, lives in the apartment next to 
Brown’s. Her grandchildren, Kentiya, Kobe, Ke-Ajah and Kenylla shook her awake from a nap at about 1 p.m. when they heard the gunﬁ  re.
“Grandma, Tony is out there shooting,” Norris said they 
told her.
Norris said Brown tacked a piece of cardboard with the 
Ten Commandments written on it to his door after the ar-gument. He then walked around carrying a Bible in one 
hand and his phone in the other, she said.
“God made me superior,” he said, according to Norris.
Police responded to the shooting at about 1:30 p.m. 
To stop Brown, they used a weapon that ﬁ  res sponge-like rounds meant to incapacitate its target but not pierce their 
body, Tobias said. It proved ineffective. 
Brown then went back into the apartment, where he 
had phone conversations with police negotiators while 
ofﬁ  cers blocked the road between Southwest 34th Street and Southwest 38th Terrace with patrol cars for about four GPD: Suspected shooter arrested near Southwest 20th Avenue
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Windsor T errace resident Sandra Norris appears distressed as armored police vehicles surrounded Southwest 20th Avenue Sunday afternoon.  “Never in a million years would I anticipate this happening, ” she said. 
By Remi Storch
Alligator Contributing Writer
The City of Gainesville is asking the pub-
lic how to honor rock legend Tom Petty.
The city announced Thursday it is con-
sidering six options to memorialize Petty, a singer and songwriter from Gainesville who died Oct. 2. Steve Phillips, director of the city’s Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department, said after Petty’s death, the general policy committee, made up of all the city commissioners, began to discuss ways the city could honor Petty’s life.
“He’s one of our local heroes,” Phillips 
said.
The six options include renaming a city 
street, renaming a city park or facility, add-ing a statue to a city park or facility, host-ing an annual concert or music festival, proclaiming Petty’s Oct. 20 birthday as Tom Petty day or dedicating the month of Octo-ber to his musical legacy. Participants also have the option to write in suggestions as well, Phillips said.
All the recommendations on the survey 
were suggested by the public. The six op-tions on the survey that were chosen were thought to be the most feasible by the city to put into action, Phillips said. Suggestions like renaming the city to “Pettyville” or re-naming the airport in Petty’s honor were not possible.
The public can vote for their favorite op-
tions on the online survey at surveymonkey.com/r/TomPettyMemorial.
The survey will close April 16 and results 
will be evaluated by the general policy com-mittee. A ﬁ  nal decision will be made shortly after, Phillips said. The city hopes to have the honor be completed or in the works by October of this year.
Phillips said there are currently no funds 
allocated toward any of the projects. The cost will vary depending on what is decided. Once the ﬁ  nal decision is made, the general policy committee will come up with a way Gainesville considers options 
to honor Tom Petty’s legacyBASKETBALL
By Benjamin Brandt
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s basketball team has 
unlaced its dancing shoes.
Its fate was ﬁ  nalized by a 69-66 loss 
to Texas Tech in the second round of the 
NCAA Tournament on Saturday night. And away with dreams of orange and blue con-fetti and hoisted hardware, escaped the era 
of guard Chris Chiozza.
In his ﬁ  nal game, the four-year Gator 
contributed 11 points and three steals de-
spite ﬁ  nding himself in foul trouble. He watched from the bench — where he sat 
with four fouls — as the Red Raiders stole 
Florida’s ﬁ  nal lead of the game by scoring nine unanswered points midway through the second half.
On their ﬁ  nal possession, the Gators 
(21-13) had a chance to tie the game with a three. Chiozza, who hit last year’s miracu-lous buzzer-beater to advance Florida to the Elite Eight, chose to do what he does best: pass. With less than 10 seconds left, 
he found guard Egor Koulechov open on 
the baseline. Koulechov missed on what would’ve been Chiozza’s 572nd career as-sist.
“We got what we wanted,” Chiozza said 
after the game. “We just didn’t make it.”
Even after forward Keith Stone snagged 
the offensive rebound and worked the ball to guard KeVaughn Allen for one ﬁ  nal at-
tempt, the ball didn’t fall.
However, Chiozza’s dazzling Florida 
basketball legacy didn’t require a fairytale 
ending. He led the SEC in assists per game 
(6.1) this season, while improving his as-
sist-to-turnover ratio from last year’s 2.4 to a career-best 3.4. He also stole the ball at the second-best rate in the conference (1.9 per game). At the regular season’s close, Chi- Chiozza era comes to close with 
Gators’ elimination from NCAAs
SEE PETTY,  PAGE 4SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 14SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 4
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
HIGH  80° LOW  66°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Sikhism at UF
The UF Sikh Students 
Association will host a Turban 
Day event on Turlington Plaza 
from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on March 21. The event aims to make UF students aware of 
Sikhism and offers a chance to 
do something out of the ordi-nary by experiencing someone else’s culture. As part of the event, the members of the Sikh 
Students Association will help 
tie turbans around students’ heads. For more information, call 352-877-0407.
‘Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops’The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar 
Association to present “Law 
in the Library: Restoration of Civil Rights Workshops” from 4:30 to 6:00 p.m. March 22 at Cone Park Library Branch, 
located at 2801 E. University 
Ave. Attorneys will provide one-on-one assistance to those who have been convicted of 
a felony and are interested in 
applying to have their civil rights restored. These presen-tations are free and open to the public. Registration is not re-
quired. For more information, 
visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in the UF Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open 
to all. For more information, 
visit talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org.Fulbright Awareness Month
The UF International Center will hold Fulbright Awareness 
Month until April 12. Multiple 
informational sessions for stu-dents, scholars, faculty and staff will provide opportunities to learn about the Fulbright 
application process and hear 
about the experiences of past scholars and students. This year, information sessions will 
be led by Peter VanDerwater, 
the director of outreach at the Council for International Exchange for Scholars in Washington, D.C. For more 
information, visit internation-
alcenter.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
AP NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Putin wins another 6 years as 
Russian leader
 MOSCOW — Vladimir Putin rolled to a crushing re-election 
victory Sunday for six more years as Russia's president.  
There had been no doubt that 
Putin would win in his fourth electoral contest; he faced seven minor candidates and 
his most prominent foe was 
blocked from the ballot. His only real challenge was to run up the tally so high he could claim an indisputable man-
date.
Death penalty for drug traf-
fickers part of Trump opioid plan
 WASHINGTON — President 
Donald Trump's plan to com-
bat opioid drug addiction calls for stiffer penalties for drug 
traffickers, including the death 
penalty where it's appropri-ate under current law. The president will unveil his plan 
Monday in New Hampshire, a 
state hit hard by the crisis. 
Retirees protest across Spain to 
demand a pension hike  
MADRID — Unions and re-
tiree groups called for protests in over 100 cities and towns across Spain on Saturday to 
demand that pension payouts 
rise in line with inflation. Many pensioners complain that the government's 0.25 percent increase in 2017 is in-
sufficient. Protestors braved 
rain and cold weather in Madrid to march behind a ban-ner saying "Protect Pensions in 
the Constitution."
State: Voicemail about cracks 2 
days before bridge fell
 MIAMI — An engineer left a 
voicemail two days before a 
catastrophic bridge failure in Miami to say some cracking had been found at one end 
of the concrete span, but the 
voicemail wasn't picked up until after the collapse, Florida Department of Transportation officials said Friday.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 69
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
By McKenna Beery 
and Meg Schloss
Alligator Contributing Writers
Gainesville Regional Transit 
System bus drivers showed up un-
expectedly to the Gainesville City Commission meeting Thursday to speak about their concerns with in-sufﬁ  cient wages, overworking and not being respected.
District 3 City Commissioner 
David Arreola said members of 
the Amalgamated Transit Union 
voiced their grievances with their jobs with RTS. Arreola said it is probably in response to the an-
nouncement the city recently lost 
20 drivers and will begin reducing 
RTS services this week as a result.
The city was not scheduled 
to talk about RTS, but the union 
members felt compelled to speak 
in the public comment section, he 
said.
Arreola said he and other com-
missioners also voiced their dis-
pleasure not only with poor em-
ployee treatment, but also with the 
RTS services cut back.
“I deﬁ  nitely agree that many of 
our bus drivers are being under-
paid and probably overworked if it 
is true that they are working over 
12 hours a day,” Arreola said. “In those cases, they are absolutely be-ing overworked.”
The decrease in routes is due to 
a lack of drivers, he said.
Arreola said the city is actively 
trying to hire for those positions in order to restore services to the level they were at before. There are ca-reer and job fairs already going on 
in efforts to hire more transit op-
erators, he said.
“The biggest thing is that peo-
ple’s days are going to be tremen-dously affected, and as a commis-sioner, that is unacceptable to me,” he said. “I am very glad our staff has initiated the process to try and hire more of these transit opera-tors.”
If every driver worked 12 hours 
a day for 7 days a week, RTS would still have more than 1,000 work hours unﬁ  lled, said Zefnia Dur-ham, president of the Gainesville chapter of the Amalgamated Tran-sit Union, the union representing labor at RTS.
“We’ve had issues before, but I think it’s at an all-time low this particular time,” the Durham said.
With the decrease in RTS work-
ers, drivers are being called in to work overtime on days they previ-ously had off, Durham said.
Only seven drivers out of 181 
have secured their top-out pay, the highest amount they are eligible to earn per hour, which is just un-der $20, Durham said. Those who have been with their companies for more than six years should have top-out pay, yet there are veterans 
who have been working with RTS 
for more than 18 years without it.
Terry Ivery, vice president 
of the Gainesville chapter of the union, said the starting pay for RTS 
bus drivers is $12.75. The majority 
of drivers currently make between 
$13.50 to $14. 
Durham said he believes there 
is a need to enforce a plan of trans-parency for new workers so they 
understand the progression in re-
ceiving raises. More people would be willing to work for RTS if they knew when they could expect a 
raise, he said.
RTS bus driver McRoberts Al-
phonse, 51, attended the meeting 
Thursday night and said the city keeps promising to work with RTS 
employees, but no one has actually 
helped them.
“I feel like we are all by our-
selves,” he said. 
Alphonse said he has been an 
RTS bus driver for 10 years and just last year received a raise to 
$15 an hour. He said he feels once someone has worked long enough with the city, they should receive 
their top-out pay, but the city of 
Gainesville has rejected almost ev-
erybody’s requests.
“In the next couple of months, 
if I don’t see RTS doing better, I may have to look for another job because it is hard to eat right now,” Alphonse said.RTS drivers are asking Gainesville city oﬃ   cials for change
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
An online panel of Alachua County and 
Gainesville politicians and political experts 
predicted City Commissioners Charles Gos-
ton and Harvey Budd will be re-elected in 
Tuesday’s municipal election.   
The Democratic political consulting ﬁ  rm 
Everblue Communications and Republican 
research ﬁ  rm Meer Research surveyed 11 
Republicans, 10 Democrats, one Indepen-dent and three undeclared to ﬁ  nd bipar-tisan “insider” predictions of Tuesday’s election results. The survey found 17 out of 
the 25 panelists, which included City Com-
missioner Adrian Hayes-Santos and former Alachua County Commissioner Cynthia Chestnut, predicted Goston would win and 
unanimously predicted County Commis-
sion incumbent Ken Cornell would win the county elections in November. The survey’s participants also predicted Randy Wells would win a County Commission seat.
The survey does not statistically reﬂ  ect 
Gainesville voters, according to the Meer Research website. 
Bryan Eastman, with Everblue Commu-
nications, wrote in an email this is the sec-ond time Meer and Everblue collaborated on an insider panel. Although the panel results aren’t always accurate, the insid-ers did correctly predict Hayes-Santos’ and 
Mayor Lauren Poe’s wins in 2016, he said.
“In these polarizing times, we think it’s important that discussions like these reﬂ  ect 
voices on all sides of the spectrum,” East-man said.
Most of the insiders also predicted 
Gainesville voters will vote to move elec-tions to August and establish the Gainesville Regional Utilities Authority, a governing 
body over Gainesville Regional Utilities.
Jeremiah Tattersall, a panel respondent 
and an American Federation of Labor and 
Congress of Industrial Organizations ﬁ  eld director, said he disagreed with the panel’s 
slight-majority favor of incumbent Budd 
over Gail Johnson for At-Large Seat 1.
“The energy out there for these new vot-
ers that are coming out are heavy Gail sup-
porters,” Tattersall said. 
Tattersall said the results were skewed 
too conservatively to accurately represent 
largely Democratic Alachua County vot-ers. The number of registered Democrats 
in Alachua County is nearly double that of 
registered Republicans, according to the Su-pervisor of Elections’ website. 
“Really, at the end of the day, Alachua 
County is a blue dot in a sea of red,” Tat-tersall said. “It’s not a purple dot, it’s not a slightly red and slightly blue dot. It’s a dark blue dot in a sea of red.” 
Check alligator.org for proﬁ  les on the 
candidates who will be on the ballot. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgAlachua County politicians oﬀ  er predictions for electionAlan Alvarez /  Alligator Staff
“I feel like we are all by ourselves, ” RTS bus driver McRoberts Alphonse, 51, said at a  Gainesville City 
Commission meeting on Thursday night.  The city is currently facing a bus driver shortage. 
Sources: Esri, HERE, Garmin, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCAN, GeoBase, IGN, Kadaster NL, Ordnance Survey, Esri Japan, METI,
Esri China (Hong Kong), swisstopo, © OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community
DISTRICT 4DISTRICT 1DISTRICT 2
DISTRICT 3
City of Gainesville  / Alligator Staff
Pictured is a map of District 1. Gainesville residents will be able to vote for city commission candidates on Tuesday – one to represent District 1 and one to represent the city at-large. 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018By Christi-Anne Weatherly
Alligator Contributing Writer
Parker Kaleo goes to Winn-Dixie 
every other week to pick up milk 
because the 2002 SW 34th St. loca-
tion is conveniently close to where 
he lives at the Ridge Apartments.
But the UF biochemistry and mo-
lecular biology sophomore might 
have to find a new place to buy 
milk, because the Gainesville Winn-
Dixie on Southwest 34th Street and 29 others in Florida are closing.
“I guess it’s a shock,” Kaleo, 19, 
said. “I wasn’t really expecting it.”
Southeastern Grocers, the parent 
company of Winn-Dixie Stores Inc., is filing for bankruptcy by the end 
of March, said Joe Caldwell, South-
eastern Grocers’ corporate commu-nications manager. The company announced Thursday it is closing 94 underperforming stores nationwide as part of a restructuring support agreement, which is a legal plan companies undergo when filing 
bankruptcy. 
The 94 closures also include 
Harveys and BI-LO locations, two 
other supermarket chains also un-der Southeastern Grocers, Caldwell 
said. 
These closures will reduce 
Southeastern Grocers’ debt by 
about $500 million, Caldwell said. The stores will be closed by April 30.
The Gainesville Winn-Dixie on 300 SW 16th Ave. is not part of the 
closures, Caldwell, said. 
A manager at the 34th Street lo-
cation declined to comment. 
Most current store associates can 
be transferred to sister locations if they choose to do so, Caldwell said. 
“Retention of our associates is 
our number one priority,” he said.
Gainesville resident Diamond 
Holloway said she is sad to see the 
Winn-Dixie will be shutting down because she finds the prices are bet-ter than most other grocers in the 
area.
“Sometimes they have a cheaper 
deal than Walmart so that’s basi-
cally why we come here a lot,” the 30-year-old said.
There have not been any an-
nouncements on what will replace the 34th Street location. Caldwell said Southeastern Grocers lease most of their store spaces, so it would be entirely up to the owner of the building.Winn-Dixie on Southwest 34th Street to close
hours.
Residents of the apartment complex 
were evacuated by police behind riot shields and ushered onto the sidewalk in front of the Winn-Dixie across the street, where they watched the crime scene in their own complex. Children played while their parents filmed and pointed to Alach-ua County Sheriff’s Office SWAT team ve-hicles, including an armed Hummer and a machine to take down a door, which were parked at the Campus USA bank parking lot that bordered the neighborhood.
Ultimately, the vehicles weren’t need-
ed to remove Brown from his home.
Brown’s girlfriend was inside the 
apartment during the incident, but she was not a hostage and has been detained by police, Tobias said. She might face criminal charges, he said. 
Tobias said negotiators convinced the suspect to come outside of his apartment, 
after which he was arrested. Tobias said 
Brown could possibly be charged with attempted homicide and aggravated bat-tery. Brown has not been charged, as of 
press time. 
Kentiya Carver and her siblings nor-
mally play where the shooting took place. 
The 12-year-old Kanapaha Middle School student was watching television when she heard fighting followed by gunfire from her apartment’s open window.
“I thought it was firecrackers at first,” 
she said.
Norris said she texted Brown and told 
him to give himself up to police. She de-scribed Brown as “godly” and their neigh-borhood as quiet and friendly.
“Never in a million years would I have 
expected this from him,” Norris said.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgSHOOTING,  from pg. 1Officers arrested him after he came out of his apartment 
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Police vehicles surround the Windsor T errace apartments on Southwest 20th Avenue fol-lowing a shooting at the apartment complex Sunday afternoon. 
to find funds for the memorial.
Daniel App, a 31-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said since the day after Petty died, he was already suggesting ways to honor Petty’s life to the city.
App, the lead guitarist and man-
ager of Heavy Petty, a Tom Petty and The Heartbreakers tribute band, said the way Petty is honored should remind people of his legacy and preserve the positive impact he had on many individuals.
App said he thinks that the best 
way to honor Petty, despite the six options listed, is to create a stage or center in the Depot Park area, similar to what is on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. He said this will allow people to have a place they can go to remember Petty and feel his presence.
That type of landmark is much 
more meaningful than renaming a street or declaring a Tom Petty day, App said.
“You would go there and feel 
his legacy, you feel his music, you feel all the positive things he has contributed to humanity,” he said.PETTY,  from pg. 1 The survey will be open until April 16
Iryna Kanishcheva / Courtesy to The Alligator
The owners of Visionary CrossFit, Carrie Martinez and Jesus Martinez, painted a T om Petty tribute mural as a gift to Sidney Lanier Center. 
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was charged 
Friday with possessing child 
pornography, which investiga-tors said he accessed once from a UF printing lab IP address, 
Gainesville Police said.
Trevon Quik Boyd, 21, was 
investigated 
by police af-
ter the Na-
tional Center 
for Missing and Exploit-ed Children was tipped by Dropbox Inc. about 
potential child pornography stored on a Dropbox account linked to Boyd’s email address, according to an arrest report.
Police subpoenaed records 
of Boyd’s Dropbox usage and found he had images and a video of child pornography, according to the report. From 
a search warrant of Dropbox, 
police found about 40 gigabytes of images and videos in Boyd’s Dropbox, but police didn’t say if all of the content was related to child pornography.
After his arrest, Boyd told 
police the email accounts and Dropbox account associated 
with the photos and video were 
his, according to the report. He told police he used the Dropbox account for sharing music.
Boyd was charged with two 
counts of possessing child por-nography. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail and fitted with an electronic monitoring 
device Sunday morning after 
he was released on a $30,000 bond.
Boyd is listed as a UF stu-
dent in the UF directory.
A UF trespass warning was 
issued against Boyd on the day of his arrest, according to UF Public Safety’s website.
Boyd could not be reached 
for comment.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGPD: UF student 
accessed child porn from UF printing lab
Boyd
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Each year, The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi 
initiates the top juniors, seniors and graduate 
students at the University of Florida. The 2018 
initiation ceremony will be held on April 4. 
Check your email now for your invitation to join.
WWW.PHIKAPPAPHI.ORGSTAND OUT  /f_rom THE CROWD
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.THE HUNTS ARE ORGANIZED 
BY THREE UF STUDENTS 
USING A FACEBOOK PAGE.
By Christine Skofronick
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sherry Kao counted the steps from 
Turlington Plaza to the second ﬂ  oor 
of the University Auditorium on Feb. 
20.
The UF biology sophomore fol-
lowed a clue posted on a Facebook 
page.
The 19-year-old found what she 
was looking for taped underneath a bench — a slip of paper labeled “Hunt #2 WINNER.” She won three Lollicup gift cards, two Krishna House cards 
and a Sababa gift card.
Kao’s search was part of Mini 
Treasure Hunts around UF Campus, a 
Facebook page that advertises small-
scale scavenger hunts, said Peter 
Theryo, one of the page organizers. 
The idea for the mini treasure 
hunts started with two UF students and Theryo, who’s a 23-year-old Gainesville resident. The three orga-nizers enjoyed games and puzzles, and wanted to make a fun way for UF 
students to  de-stress, Theryo said. 
The page went live in August, 
and the ﬁ  rst hunt was announced in 
a post Jan. 15. About six hunts have 
been conducted so far. Each one is 
about a week or two apart. A clue is posted on the page leading students directly to the winning paper. Student must take a selﬁ  e with it to ofﬁ  cially 
win, Theryo said.  
“People don’t want an insane, ‘Na-
tional Treasure’ style hunt,” he said, 
“I don’t think that they’d want to do 
a 22-step process that ends with steal-
ing the Declaration of Independence.” 
The type of clue changes from hunt 
to hunt, Theryo said. Past locations include behind the stairwell railing in 
McCarty A, inside a book in Smathers 
Library and by the Reitz Union Pond’s Veterans Memorial plaque.
The group is not sponsored, 
Theryo said. All prizes, usually gift cards or coupons to local restaurants, have been private donations from the organizers or their friends. After a win has been approved, the page will message the winner and coordinate 
how to receive the prize.
Kao said she solved an audio hunt, 
which was an audio recording shared 
on the Facebook page that started 
with the ringing of Century Tower and 
passed other recognizable sounds. 
Kao said she thinks the Mini Trea-
sure Hunts are a fun, interactive way to get a small community together.
“It’s rewarding when you are able 
to ﬁ  gure out the clues because you’re like, ‘Oh, I actually know this campus pretty well and know places where 
others might not know about,’” she 
said.UF students hunt for small treasures on campus using clues
Courtesy to The Alligator
Sherry Kao, a UF biology sophomore, 
participated in Mini Treasure Hunts around the UF campus, a Facebook page that advertises small-scale scavenger hunts. Kao, 19, won the the second hunt Feb. 20. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Editorial
We all have our breaking points. We all have a 
threshold that, if crossed, will cause us to feel over-whelmed and defeated. 
As college students, many of us toe the line of 
these breaking points daily. We ﬂ  irt with the idea of 
a mental breakdown and entertain the thought of giving up sleep 
entirely so we can meet all the goals we set for ourselves. This, unfortunately, is the curse of the overachiever: it causes us to push ourselves until it is physically impossible for us to push any 
harder.
When we came to UF as freshmen, most of us likely joined 
clubs, Greek life, intramural sports teams, volunteer organiza-tions and so on. We likely fell in love with each and every or-
ganization we joined and deemed each of them essential to our college experience. As we progressed through college, we tacked on more and more. Internships, harder classes, a second major, more clubs, honor societies, a relationship. The list kept growing as we took advantage of every opportunity in front of us. 
Regrettably, we didn’t realize we were overloading ourselves, 
and soon enough, we found ourselves near our breaking points.
Despite how many of us often recognize our sanity decreasing 
and ﬁ  nd our lack of personal time alarming, we continue to allow ourselves to be trapped within our obligations. This is something we must stop doing.
Eventually, the things once near and dear to your heart no 
longer have a place. The things that used to consume our minds are now just a thought in the back of our heads, taking away focus from more important tasks at hand. In other words, as we mature, we start to outgrow the things that helped us grow.
 Rather than stringing along our obligations, we need to let 
them go. We need to let them go to make way for ourselves.
We understand the idea of relinquishing yourself of nones-
sential obligations seems amiss. Aren’t we supposed to be build-
ing our resumes at all costs? Aren’t we supposed to be killing 
ourselves to get the best grades possible? Aren’t we supposed to be taking every advantage put in front of us?
In short: yes. But, we can’t do so at the cost of our happi-
ness. As we continue to add on more obligations without ﬁ  ltering through our old ones, we tend to forget about the most important obligation of all: the obligation we have to ourselves.
A lot of us feel indebted to our initial commitments. It makes 
sense. We owe them a lot. We wouldn’t have been able to get as 
far as we have without the friends we made initially, nor would 
we have been offered leadership positions, jobs or internships without the initial entry-level lines on our resume. But all good things need to come to an end.
We need to start being selﬁ  sh with our time and come to 
terms with the fact as we mature, the things and organizations we value need to as well. It might seem beneﬁ  cial to have inﬁ  nite lines of continuous involvement on your resume, but is it really worth it if you end up putting in half the necessary effort because you’re stretching yourself too thin? We think not.
If we really want to succeed, we need to put ourselves ﬁ  rst. 
We need to have time to check in with ourselves mentally and 
make sure we are sleeping enough, eating right and, yes, even 
enjoying some social interaction outside of club meetings and study groups. We need to remember to be people.Our biggest 
obligations should 
be to ourselves
Column
Lots of news can get lost in the shufﬂ  e 
these days, but I hope this piece won’t. Beginning late last month and stretch-ing past the ﬁ  rst week of March, teach-
ers across West Virginia went on strike 
to demand better salaries, beneﬁ  ts and a stop 
to charter-school expansion, among other de-mands.
Throughout the two weeks, teachers and 
staff in West Virginia refused to go to work in protest, forcing each county to shut down its schools for the duration of the strike. Photos of teachers handing out bagged lunches to students who rely on free and reduced lunches surfaced on Twitter during the strike, 
making it clear the teachers did what they could to help 
their students while protesting.
That’s truly the bottom line. Good teachers use their 
powers to help children and teens, yet we live in a country that undervalues their dedication and leaves their work both unappreciated. As a nation, we say we love our chil-dren and want to create a better world for future genera-tions. How can we do this if we don’t support the people 
who see and educate our kids, peers, friends and family 
most days of the year?
This is why we have to listen when our teachers have 
something to say. Too often teachers have to resort to si-
lence (“No one listens to us in this bureaucratic system, anyway”) or else create a national scene to get the at-tention they deserve (as is the case in West Virginia and potentially in Colorado). What if we had listened to their calls for help — for increased funding, for better insur-ance, for more classroom supplies in public schools — 
when they ﬁ  rst voiced these concerns?
We ask so much of our teachers without providing 
them with the means to carry out those interests. We de-
mand teachers know every last detail about their students and cater to each of their needs, even though this country has been experiencing a teacher shortage as recently as last September. Our politicians say we don’t have the money to increase teacher pay, though now we insist we can train and arm teachers to prevent the next mass shooting. The hypocrisy 
and ineptitude of some of our elected ofﬁ  cials 
never ceases to amaze me.
The teachers’ strike in West Virginia 
worked. Last week, The Nation reported their successes included “defeating an expansion of charter schools, killing a proposal to eliminate seniority, and scuttling a paycheck-protection 
bill,” defending their unions from further weakening and effectively securing a higher raise.
I, for one, am happy and proud these teachers and staff 
could take a stand for the issues that matter to them. I also feel a sense of overwhelming disappointment we have al-ready let down our teachers so badly they have to strike for days on end just to have their concerns taken serious-ly. This reﬂ  ects poorly on our national priorities. Before their demands were met, we had told an extremely impor-tant, nurturing and impactful part of our workforce they weren’t worth the solutions to the problems they raised. 
This just isn’t OK.
Honestly, think back to some of the favorite teachers 
you’ve had throughout your life: the ones who made even 
the driest of assignments feel like little adventures, the women and men who went the extra mile to help you learn grammar and spelling, the people who had them-selves and possibly even families to support through their jobs as teachers. These people deserve respect. They de-serve to be valued — and to know they’re valued.
We don’t do enough for our teachers, not even close. 
But we can change that. We can listen to them. We can thank them. And please, please, let us remember, when our politicians don’t do as we wish, we can vote.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and philosophy 
senior. Her column focuses on education.When the teachers speak, we need to listen
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
A new landmark study by 
the National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and 
Medicine shows abortions in the U.S. are safe and 
have few complications. It examines the four major methods used for 
abortions in this country, as well as 
women’s care from before the pro-cedure through follow-up care.
The research showed about 90 
percent of all abortions happen in the ﬁ  rst 12 
weeks of pregnancy and complications are rare. 
Previous studies have yielded consistent results. However, regulations in many states are com-promising this safety rather than helping it.
Some states require women seeking abor-
tions to receive counseling about the negative emotional effects they could experience. Why? According to research conducted at the Univer-sity of California, San Francisco, women are far 
more emotionally stressed if they are denied an 
abortion than if they receive one when they re-quest it. Those denied access had more anxiety, lower self-esteem and less life satisfaction than 
women who obtained them without an issue.
Essentially, this trial suggested the idea abor-
tions cause psychological suffering is incorrect. 
The researchers concluded there is no evidence to justify laws requiring women seeking abor-
tions to be warned about adverse mental health 
side effects. One of the researchers even went so far as to say, “If our goal is to protect wom-en’s health, the evidence suggests that expand-ing access is the best approach.” What a con-
cept, right?
The issue at hand here is mental health, 
but it is being used as evidence to incorrectly 
support the wrong side of the argument. Those 
who wish to restrict abortions often claim wom-
en’s mental health is the reasoning behind their opinion. However, the evidence to support this is either nonexistent or has been proven inac-curate by other studies.
Those who are pro-life, or, more accurately, 
anti-abortion, are under the assumption that denying women access to safe and affordable abortions and being forced to deliv-er a baby they do not want will be 
better for their mental health in the 
long run than the alternative. This is not only logically incorrect, but it has been disproven by research over and over again.
The stress caused by an unwant-
ed pregnancy is the sort of stress you can only truly understand if you have been through it. Legisla-
tors and lobbyists across the country are con-
vinced they know what is best for women ex-
periencing an unwanted pregnancy. Research has shown again and again they do not. The process of trying to obtain an abortion, being 
denied and the social stresses that often come 
with an unwanted pregnancy have been shown to produce much greater negative mental health effects than having an abortion does.
Having an abortion is not only a highly per-
sonal decision, but it is also a safe decision. It is more responsible than bringing an unwanted child into the world. We cannot say we are pro-life and then inadequately provide for that life 
once it has begun outside the mother’s womb.
It’s time for us to recognize this decision 
should be up to no one but the mother herself 
and the most severe negative mental health consequences associated with abortions arise 
when other people get involved. When people 
restrict access or share their negative opinions, women feel worse than they do when they are able to make their own decision without hear-ing how everyone else feels about it.
We are in a time of strong opinions, which 
is great. What is not great, however, is when people’s unsubstantiated opinions begin to hurt people around them. Women seeking abortions 
should be allowed to do so. If you don’t like it, 
that’s ﬁ  ne. Keep it to yourself. Let her make the best and safest decision for herself.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and 
psychology junior. Her column focuses on 
mental health.Abortions don't hurt mental healthColumn
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgIn 1947, Ross Allen, founder 
of The Reptile Institute at Sil-
ver Springs, donated an alli-
gator nicknamed “Albert” to UF. Before kickoff of every 
home football game, Albert was strapped to a leash and would 
lead the team onto the ﬁ  eld. He 
was then kept on the sidelines for the rest of the game. A chain-link pen was even built near Century Tower to keep the gator.
After one alligator was killed and another 
was kidnapped, UF moved away from live mascots in 1970. Nevertheless, UF has al-ways had an unusual relationship with the 
animals their mascot symbolizes. Today, 
some people pose dangerously close to them in natural areas like Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park or swim in lakes where signs with warnings of alligators litter the shores.
Either from a lapse of judgment or lack of 
concern to learn more about these reptiles, people seem to be growing apathetic toward the potential danger of alligators. Last year 
set an annual record for the number of al-
ligator attacks in Florida. With a booming state population growth rate and expanding development, interactions between alliga-tors and humans are likely to increase.
That being said, this column is not meant 
to scare anyone. Alligators are not man-eat-ing beasts, but any self-respecting Floridian also knows not to take a chance with them.
The phrase “alligators are more afraid 
of us than we are of them” is often thrown around, but does anyone ever wonder where this statement originated? Humans and alligators have not historically coex-
isted on an evolutionary timescale; alliga-
tors have been on this planet for the past 35 million years. As a result, humans have always seemed foreign to alligators, which is why alligators are not natural predators 
to humans. However, this does not mean al-
ligators won’t attack us. In a study of public records between 1928 and 2009, the North Carolina Department of Health found Florida averages about 
200 reports of nuisance alligators 
and ﬁ  ve unprovoked bites every year. Considering the chances of an encounter may be a little higher for a demographic of 
people that frequent nature trails 
and lakes with alligators present, the danger of alligators can't be ignored.
It's important to note alligators don't 
pose the same level of danger through-out the course of a year. According to the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, alligators are most active be-
tween temperatures of 82 degrees and 92 
degrees. They stop feeding when tempera-tures drop below 70 degrees and become dormant at temperatures under 45 degrees. Beyond temperature, alligator activity also 
depends on whether it is mating season. In 
two weeks, mating season will begin, which means alligators will become more aggres-sive until August as they begin to breed and 
form nests. 
If Floridians are more cautious of these 
animals during their summer plans this 
year, 2017 can become an anomaly rather an upward trend of dangerous alligator en-
counters.
Next time you come across one of the 
countless pieces of UF paraphernalia, 
know the symbol of an alligator wearing a turtleneck may be a bit misleading. Before 
wearing a UF T-shirt or going to visit one 
of the many natural attractions that deﬁ  ne Gainesville, think about what it actually means to be a Florida Gator. We must give 
these prehistoric reptiles the healthy respect 
they deserve.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineer junior. His column focuses on 
science.Just how dangerous are alligators?Column
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
Victoria E. Salomon / Alligator
The Swamp Restaurant celebrated St. Patrick’s Day on Saturday. It served Lucky Leprechaun 
Pitchers filled with green beer topped with whipped cream and Lucky Charms marshmallows.
Victoria E. Salomon / Alligator
Guest dancers at The Swamp Restaurant, located on 1642 W University Ave., show traditional Irish dancing. Food served included corn beef and cabbage.
Celebrating the Irish Holiday  
Exclamations like “Look! I found a good one!” rang out over the strawberry fields at the Family Garden Organic & Fair Farm on Saturday morning during their Strawberry U-Pick event. Groups of all ages filled the rows from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. trying to find the best berries. The field will be open to pick strawberries for the next two Saturdays before prime strawberry season comes to a close.
Kailia Jackson, 4, reaches down to grab a juicy strawberry before tossing it into her Minnie Mouse bucket Saturday morning at the Strawberry U-Pick event. The Family Garden Organic & Fair Farm requires customers to bring their own containers for the strawberries in an effort to cut down on waste. The  event will continue from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. for the next two Saturdays.
Strawberries and Sunshine
Photos by Shelbie Eakins 
Alligator StaffPhotos by Victoria E. Salomon 
AlligatorMONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
A Dancing Museum
UF dance students move and clap energetically during the Hip Hop Dance performance at the Harn Museum of Dance: Moving Bodies, Shaping Minds event at the Harn Museum of 
Art on Saturday  afternoon. The group welcomed people from the crowd to join them in dance. The event featured performances including classical Indian and West African dances.
Two UF dance students perform during the Atta Girl! dance. The Harn Museum of Dance event was presented by the UF School of Theatre and Dance in collaboration with UF College of the Arts’ Center for World Arts.
 Three dancers move together during the Duality of Patterning performance Saturday. UF dance senior and choreographer Karla Vanessa Narvaez, 25, said this dance was part of her senior thesis, and she was inspired to put it together after she traveled to Guinea in West Africa last summer.
Photos by Will Clewis
Alligator Staff10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk. Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR 
BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  
352-256-8370,352-246-8645
3-23-18-6-2
Several cute & clean houses & apts.for August in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. From $525/mo.Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     3-26-17-5-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-6-18-12-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Designated drivers are the greatestPsyhologial Assistant/Psychometrician
Neuropsychology
Min Bachelor's degree in
Psychology. Administration
and scoring of IQ, Memory,
neuropsychological tests to
children & adults. Requires
accuracy good people skills.
Will provide 2-3 months of
training for min. one yr.
commitment in paid position.
Letter of interest and vita
to info@cpancf.com
3-30-18-7-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $8.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-17-86-15HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
Swim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Photographer making underwater
Youtube videos at Blue Springs seeks
female models. Gig pays $25 for 90 minutes
plus pictures and park reimbursement.
Call for more info  352-286-4579
3-19-18-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 159404 or 160560 at www.gatordining.com     3-23-18-6-14
STEAM Play-Based Day CampHIRING for SummerMaster Builder Camp is for kids who like to build and make stuff! For more info visit: www.masterbuildercamp.com     4-6-18-10-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 Nude Entertainment
Micanopy, Florida
352-466-3803
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
Apply in Person
Cooks, Management, Waitresses
3-23-17-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-21-25-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Bird’s crop
5 Pols with a
donkey symbol
9 Specialized,
committee-wise
14 Operate with a
beam
15 Natural burn
soother
16 Set of beliefs
17 “__ That a
Shame”
18 “Hold your
horses!”
19 Cybercommerce
20 *Begin preparing
an evening meal
23 Nov. 11 honoree
24 Capital of Minn.25 Taxi driver27 Many a ’50s
pompadour
sporter
30 Catastrophic
2017 hurricane
33 “The fresh air is
delightful!”
36 Suffix with Jumbo
37 Spreads apart,
as one’s fingers
39 Hunt like a cat
41 Internet
connectivity delay
43 “The Waste
Land” poet T.S.
44 Tennis great
Gibson
46 Starlet’s goal48 Org. with Bulls
and Bucks
49 Bonkers50 Tart plant stalk
diced for pie filling
53 A : Z :: alpha : __55 Originate (from)59 Arctic toymaker61 Two-couple
outings ... and
what the answersto starred cluesare?
64 Civilian attire
66 Wordsmith
Webster
67 Hertz fleet68 Spring for a meal69 Fish in some cat
food
70 Otherwise71 Oozes72 “Don’t go”73 Actress Cannon
DOWN
1 Yearbook section2 Grammy winner
Bonnie3 “It’s __”: “No
problem”
4 Counter-wiping
aid
5 Procrastinator
6 Pre-college,
briefly
7 Cow’s hurdle, in
rhyme
8 Mystical
gathering
9 Severe, as
criticism
10 “__ & the
Women”: 2000
Gere film
11 *Downpour
12 “Garfield” dog13 Future stallion21 Slowpoke in a
shell
22 Body parts that
may be pierced
26 List of charges28 Big name in ISPs29 Chaotic mess31 “Butt out,” for
short
32 Dog in old
whodunits
33 “C’mon, be __!”:
“Little help,please!”
34 Woody’s son35 *Steaming
morning mugful38 Looked closely
40 “To __ it may
concern”
42 Yak it up
45 2012 Affleck
thriller
47 Seized the
opportunity
51 Favorite
hangouts
52 Prepared
(oneself), as for a
jolt54 Does film
splicing, say
56 Lombardy’s land57 Vice __58 German steel
town
59 Rescue squad
VIPs
60 Light, to a moth
62 Match in a ring
63 Singer Del Rey65 Bojangles’ dance
genre
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/19/1803/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, March 19, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Surfers’ banes
9 Figures in
Spanish skating
14 Caught15 Concord, for one
16 NBC slogan that
covered “Hill
Street Blues,”
among others
18 Took on cargo19 Orchestra area20 Some
functionally
limited
applications
22 WWII camp26 Feature of some
lights
27 NL West team28 Wee29 Hose38 “Mom,” e.g.39 Event on a fall
highlight reel
40 Zebra kin41 “Blueberries for
__”: kids’ bookawarded a 1949Caldecott Honor
42 Newsletter
editor’s filler
47 Has an online
chat with
51 Like evil villains54 Skeletal start?55 Sluggish
56 One who’s not at
all graceful
60 Put on
61 Popular
Canadian beer
62 Opposite ends63 License
requirements,
perhaps
DOWN
1 Timid types2 Arctic inhabitant3 Ristorante
regular?
4 World-record
finish?
5 Switch statuses6 Gulf states fed.7 Tijuana trio8 Newborn
mentioned inGenesis 4:259 Gives more than
the once-over
10 Crows’ crops
11 Attacked12 Work often with
subtitles
13 Where the same
questions are
asked annually
17 1989 Firth/Bening
movie
21 Log onto after a
crash, say
23 “CSI: Miami”
actress Eva
24 Like the arena
after the home
team’s winninggoal
25 Present with
many options
28 Timetable listings
29 Meas. checked at
a garage
30 River to the
Rhône
31 Former comm.
giant
32 Shuteye
sessions
33 Brownie maker
34 Suggest35 “Great Public
Schools for Every
Student” org.
36 Whse. filler
37 __ admin
42 Like fresh lettuce
43 Slow tempo
44 As good as it gets
45 Completely
cleanse
46 Asks for a hand?
48 Monterrey jack49 Apply50 Gets ready to file
52 NCAA ’Cane’s
rival
53 Airplane
platform?
57 Supplement, with
“out”
58 Give leave
59 “... thus wide I’ll
__ my arms”:“Hamlet”
By Alan Olschwang©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/17/1803/17/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Saturday, March 17, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Air ____
1.  Bravely5.  ____ anesthetic
2.  Reply to “Why?”6.  Join forces
3.  Rhythmic 7.  Like Snoopy
4.  Plunder, steal EBLBUB
DLBOYLLALCO
NTEUI
CESBEAU
TGNILLIAGEELB
CEFEELANSWERS: 1A-Bubble  5A-Local  6A-Unite  7A-Beagle
1D-Boldly  2D-Because  3D-Lilting  4D-Fleece  B-Lucille Ball3-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ began her performing career using the 
stage names Diane Belmont and Dianne Belmont. BONUS1. In 2017, Los Angeles Dodgers 
pitcher Clayton Kershaw made his 
seventh consecutive Opening Day 
start, tying a franchise record. Who 
else did it?
2. Who has led the American League 
in runs scored the most times?
3. Clemson’s Deshaun Watson set an 
ACC record in 2016 by throwing for 580 yards in a game. Who had held the record?
4. How many consecutive dou-
ble-double seasons of points and rebounds did San Antonio Spurs great Tim Duncan have to start his NBA career?
5. Who was the last Edmonton Oil-
ers player before Connor McDavid in 2017 to win the Hart Memorial Tro-phy as the NHL regular-season MVP?
6. How many consecutive years did 
Dale Earnhardt Jr. win NASCAR’s Most Popular Driver Award?
7. Name the last time before 2017 
that four American women made up the semifinals of tennis’ U.S. Open?
Answers
1. Don Sutton (1972-78).2. Babe Ruth, eight times (1919, 
‘20, ‘21, ‘23, ‘24, ‘26, ‘27 and ‘28).
3. Stephen Morris of Miami, Fla., 
threw for 566 yards in a game in 2012.
4. Thirteen seasons (the 1997-98 
season through the 2009-10 season).
5. Mark Messier, in 1990.6. Fifteen years.7. It was 1981 (Tracy Austin, Chris 
Evert, Martina Navratilova and Bar -
bara Potter).
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
March 19, 2018King Features Weekly Service15 Services 18 Personals 22 TicketsGordon Neale and the Florida 
men’s golf team ﬁ  nished sixth in the Schenkel Invitational on Sunday.T ennis teams win in T ennessee on Sunday
Florida’s men’s tennis team defeated Vanderbilt 4-3 in Nashville, while the 
women’s tennis team beat T ennessee 4-1 in Knoxville.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida men’s basketball coach Mike White 
said something at Saturday’s postgame press conference that made me realize just how far removed this team was from last season’s NCAA Tournament Elite Eight run.
Following UF’s 69-66 loss to Texas Tech in 
Dallas in the second round of the Big Dance, he paused a bit and pointed at Chris Chiozza and Egor Koulechov sitting to his left.
“If all 13 of my guys were as tough as these 
two,” he said, “we’d still be playing.”
It was the story of the season. Florida’s mental fortitude 
was about as inconsistent as it’s scoring. And it’s only going to get worse next year.
I’ll say it now. I believe the Gators will not be good in 2018-
19. They’ll make a postseason tournament, but they won’t attain nearly the same level of success as they did two years ago. I don’t even think they’ll make it further than the second round of the tournament next year, if they even make it.
When you look at what the future holds for UF, it’s easy 
to see why.
It will be without both Chiozza and Koulechov, two of Flor-
ida’s three leading scorers. Chiozza has been the only player 
to consistently deliver the defensive performances White was 
looking for from his team. On the offensive end, the senior point guard was known for both his passing ability and limited turnovers. He ranked sixth in the NCAA in assist-to-turnover ratio. You can’t replace what he brought to the team, espe-cially when he recorded 11 assists and no turnovers against St. Bonaventure on Thursday in the ﬁ  rst round.And while the Gators only had him for one 
year, Koulechov helped fuel Florida’s scoring ef-fort, averaging 13.8 points per game.
Mix those two departures with the possibility 
of Jalen Hudson leaving for the NBA draft — mock 
drafts have him anywhere from a late-second 
round pick to undrafted — the team’s scoring will go down the drain.
Sure, the Gators will still have KeVaughn Allen, 
who ﬁ  nished the season averaging double-digit 
scoring ﬁ  gures, but he has taken a major step back in terms of ﬁ  nding his conﬁ  dence. While he showed ﬂ  ashes of the of-fensive production he had last year, Allen oftentimes took a backseat to Hudson, Koulechov and Chiozza.
Meanwhile, when Florida needed more players to improve 
and add depth to the roster, only forward Keith Stone really stepped up his game. The redshirt sophomore took strides this season, increasing both his scoring and his effort on the boards to quickly earn a spot in the starting lineup.
But with just two, possibly three, proven players return-
ing next year, I don’t see the Gators being that good. Some of those close games from this season, like the 77-75 win against Missouri on Jan. 6, could have easily gone the other way if it 
wasn’t for players like Chiozza and Koulechov.
So unless more players start showing improvements and 
prove they can partially ﬁ  ll the void that some of Florida’s 
departing stars will leave, don’t expect too much next season.
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator’s assistant sports editor. 
Contact him at jdreilinger@alligator.org.Losing upperclassman leaders hurts Florida’s prospects moving forwardJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
The Associated Press
Florida lost to T exas T ech 69-66 in the second round of the 
NCAA T ournament on Saturday.
ozza was awarded a spot on both the All-SEC First 
Team and All-Defensive Team.
Perhaps his greatest achievement as a Gator, 
Chiozza became Florida’s most proliﬁ  c passer in program history when he surpassed Erving Walker in career assists earlier this month.
The impressive numbers revealed themselves 
in Chiozza’s impact throughout the season. Florida was often troubled by stretches of static offensive play, especially without Chiozza on the court. At times when nothing seemed to work, it was his ex-plosiveness in charging to the basket that frequently 
spurred production.
“We do play through (Chiozza),” coach Mike 
White said. “We have been stagnant with him out 
of the game. We’re going to miss him dearly, of 
course.”
But his impact extends further than the record 
books. It goes beyond the memories of game-win-
ning buckets.
Chiozza wore the orange and blue with pride. His 
relentless effort on both ends of the ﬂ  oor strength-ened the standard of Florida basketball. His younger teammates recognize that, solidifying his legacy.
“That’s a dude I look up to,” freshman guard 
Mike Okauru said of Chiozza. “We play the same position and I watch everything he does. You know, I love (the seniors).”
 @bhb1227
bbrandt@alligator.org  BASKETBALL,  from pg. 1Chiozza was named to the All-SEC First Team this season
The Associated Press
Florida point guard Chris Chiozza ends his career in Gainesville ﬁ  rst on Florida’s all-time assists list. “We’re going to miss 
him dearly, of course, ” UF coach Mike White said.
Jake Dreilinger
Twitter: @DreilingerJake
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
BASEBALL
SOFTBALL LACROSSEBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
The ball rocketed off of Jacob Ol-
son’s bat like a satellite designed for 
orbit. 
UF left fielder Austin Langwor-
thy watched as it ceased its upward 
trajectory and plummeted toward 
the Earth. He tracked it back, back, back, and then he couldn’t track it anymore. He hit the wall, the ball hit the ground just beyond it and sud-denly, after an afternoon of domi-nant pitching from Florida starter Tyler Dyson, South Carolina (13-7, 1-2 SEC) was one hit away from ty-
ing the game in the bottom of the 
sixth inning. 
When Dyson plunked the next 
hitter on a breaking ball that never broke, coach Kevin O’Sullivan had seen enough. He called on freshman lefty Jordan Butler to bail out Dyson and his team. Over the next four innings, Butler and closer Michael 
Byrne did just that, earning No. 2 
Florida (18-4, 2-1 SEC) a 3-2 win on Sunday in Columbia to clinch its first SEC series of the season. 
“To win a series on the road, it’s 
not easy to do,” O’Sullivan said in a release. “We needed to play our best baseball today.”
O’Sullivan is lucky his conven-
tional wisdom was wrong, because if his team really needed to play its best baseball to win Sunday’s game, it would have lost. Sunday was not Florida’s best day.
The Gators managed just four 
hits all afternoon to South Carolina’s six. They also committed an error that didn’t end up hurting them in the third inning. While Dyson struck out five en route to his fourth win 
of the year, he labored through the 
Gamecocks’ lineup with 115 pitches through five innings. 
If there was perfection — or any-
thing close to it — to be found on Sunday, though, it was in Florida’s bullpen. 
Butler struck out two of the five 
batters he faced and allowed no 
hits and one walk. He vacated the 
mound for junior closer Michael By-rne with two outs in the seventh in-ning. 
Byrne was just as effective. He 
walked one and didn’t allow a hit in 2.1 innings to keep the Gamecocks behind. He finished them with three straight fly outs to pick up his fifth 
save of the season and keep his ERA 
perfect through 16.2 innings.
O’Sullivan, however, focused on 
South Carolina’s ability to get to But-ler and Byrne. 
“We know how good our pitch-
ing is, but they were able to get both our starters yesterday and today out after five complete,” he said. “Credit 
them. I thought they played really 
well this weekend.”
Outfielder Wil Dalton led Flor-
ida’s offense by smacking a home run on the fourth pitch of the game. It marked Dalton’s third home run in his last four at-bats. 
Senior catcher JJ Schwarz also 
blasted a solo homer in the fourth inning, and shortstop Deacon Liput drove in Florida’s final run with a sacrifice fly following Schwarz’s 
shot. 
Third baseman Jonathan India 
was the only other Florida player to 
record a hit. His two knocks — a sin-gle and a triple — swelled his team-leading batting average to .400. 
But perhaps the most interest-
ing moment of the game came in the top of the eighth inning when 
Florida third base coach Craig Bell 
was ejected for reasons that were unclear.
“Nobody else in the ballpark 
knew that anything was going on,” the ESPNU announcer said. “That felt way excessive.” 
After exchanging a few words 
with the umpire following his ejec-
tion, Bell trudged down the dugout 
steps, grabbed his backpack and walked out of the stadium down the third base line in clear view of a raucous crowd of 7,113, which ser-enaded him with a mixture of cheers and boos.
He had trouble opening the door 
to leave Founders Park, but with an 
assist from South Carolina’s bullpen 
catcher, he went on his way. 
Bell will presumably be back 
coaching third base on Tuesday when the Gators host Jacksonville for a midweek game. Then the Gators will focus on preparing for a 
weekend series against Arkansas in 
Gainesville. 
The Razorbacks have won six 
straight, including a three-game sweep of Kentucky this weekend in which they outscored the Wildcats 
39-15.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The sun shined brightly in Athens, Geor-
gia, on Sunday afternoon as Florida’s softball 
team came up to bat in the top of the first inning at Jack Turner Stadium.
With two outs and 
teammate Kayli Kvistad on first, freshman outfielder Jordan Matthews ham-
mered a towering pop fly to right field, which off first glance appeared it would be the final out of the opening frame. How-ever, Georgia right fielder 
Kendall Burton lost the neon yellow ball in the glaring sun.
It eventually plopped right next to her, 
giving Kvistad time to round third and head home as UF jumped out to an early 1-0 lead.
The one-run cushion propelled pitcher 
Aleshia Ocasio and the No. 2 Gators (23-3, 4-2 SEC) to a 5-1 victory over the No. 10 Bull-dogs (26-2, 5-1 SEC).
UF avoided the weekend sweep in front 
of a stadium-record crowd of 2,457 as Ocasio pitched a complete game, striking out nine and giving up four hits. 
“Aleshia really did an outstanding job go-
ing out and limiting them,” UF coach Tim Walton said in a release.
UGA pitcher Kylie Bass threw a complete 
game as well. The left-hander gave up six 
hits, four earned runs and hit two Florida bat-ters. 
Bass didn’t give up a hit in the top of the 
fifth, but the Gators grabbed an unearned run. 
Center fielder Alex Voss ran for the in-
ning’s leadoff batter Jordan Roberts, who was 
hit by a pitch. 
After shortstop Sophia Reynoso advanced 
Voss on a sacrifice bunt, left fielder Amanda Lorenz chopped a ground ball to first base. Voss scampered to third as Georgia first base-man Alysen Febrey fielded the ball and outed Lorenz with a step on the bag. With Voss standing on third base, Febrey inexplicably 
fired the ball across the diamond. Third base-
man Jordan Doggett couldn’t field the throw, and Voss scored on the throwing error and doubled UF’s lead. 
Florida carried the 2-0 advantage into the 
seventh, where first baseman Hannah Adams led off with a bunt single. 
Adams advanced to second on a sacrifice 
bunt by Ocasio, and Reynoso drove her home on a two-out RBI-single to right field. 
Lorenz followed by putting the game out 
of reach. The junior pumped her fifth home run of the season to dead center field, extend-ing her streak of reaching base safely in all 26 of UF’s games this season.
“You’re going to have to bring it every 
weekend in the SEC,” Walton said. “Nobody feels sorry for you whenever you lose a game, 
so for us to come back and really keep the 
spirits right was good to see.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgBy Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
Florida’s lacrosse team hadn’t lost a regular 
season conference game since falling to Con-necticut 11-10 on April 18, 2015.
For those counting at home, that marks 16 
consecutive Big East victories for UF. Howev-er, late in the second half on Sunday against Vanderbilt, that streak appeared to be in jeop-ardy.
The Commodores fought back from an ear-
ly four-goal deficit to get within one of the No. 6-ranked Gators with 3:53 left in the contest.
Vanderbilt took over possession with just 
over two minutes to play and the opportunity to tie it. However, UF’s defense held strong, and, after a turnover from Commodores at-
tacker Gabrielle Fornia, Gators midfielder 
Caroline Benitez recovered the ground ball. The Gators took over possession with under a minute to go, and they were able to drain the clock, coming away with an 11-10 victory Sunday afternoon at the Vanderbilt Soccer/La-crosse Complex in Nashville, Tennessee.
“This game was a fight,” Gators coach 
Amanda O’Leary said in a release. “I give all the credit to Vanderbilt for forcing us into some very uncomfortable situations on the field.”
It was Florida’s lowest offensive output this 
season. However, strong defensive play, espe-cially from junior goalie Haley Hicklen — who totaled 13 saves — led the Gators (6-2, 1-0 Big 
East) to victory.
Vanderbilt held UF’s scoring attack, which ranks fourth in the nation, largely in check. 
However, the Commodores (5-3, 0-1 Big East) couldn’t escape their own offensive deficien-cies. Their 10 goals scored on Sunday was tied for their lowest total this season.
UF jumped out to a 5-1 lead early in the 
first half, but after a Vanderbilt rally, the Gators only led 7-6 at the break. Florida began the second half well, leading 11-7 with 17:57 to play, but Vanderbilt cut that lead to one before eventually falling to the Gators. While it wasn’t the best day offensively for Florida, Pirreca shined, scoring four goals in the win. Additionally, Florida saw seven different play-
ers score Sunday.
The Gators entered the game shorthanded, 
missing a pair of stars in junior attacker Lind-
sey Ronbeck and senior defender Aniya Flana-gan due to injury.
Two Gators made their first career starts in 
response to the injuries. Sophomore attacker Madisyn Kittell, who has contributed off the bench this season, started in place of Ron-
beck. Meanwhile, junior Caroline May, who 
recently converted to defense, played in place of Flanagan.
Now, UF will have a brief break from con-
ference action with a matchup against No. 13 Towson at home on Wednesday.
“Our energy level across the board still 
needs to improve,” O’Leary said, “but I am proud that this team has not given up when faced with adversity.”
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgBehind strong pitching, Florida squeaks by South Carolina
Gators avoid sweep with 
four-run win over BulldogsUF survives close call on the road against VanderbiltAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida starting pitcher Tyler Dyson struck out five and allowed two 
runs on Sunday in the Gators’ 3-2 win over South Carolina.
Matthews
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2018
UF MEN’S BASKETBALL TEAM’S 2017-18 YEAR IN REVIEW
Florida’s T eam Statistics
Record: 21-13 (11-7 SEC)
PPG: 75.8 (117th in NCAA)RPG: 35.2 (183rd in NCAA)APG: 13.1 (210th in NCAA)BPG: 4.8 (28th in NCAA)
FG%: 43.2% (253rd in NCAA)
3FG%: 37.0% (81st in NCAA)FT%: 71.8% (153rd in NCAA)
Florida’s Individual 
Statistical Leaders
PPG: Jalen Hudson (15.5)RPG: Egor Koulechov (6.4)APG: Chris Chiozza (6.1)BPG: Kevarrius Hayes (2.0)FG%: Gorjok Gak (63.4%)
3FG%: Keith Stone (42.4%)
FT%: KeVaughn Allen (90.6%)
Regular Season Schedule
Nov. 13 vs. Gardner Webb — W 116-74Nov. 16 vs. North Florida — W 108-68Nov. 19 vs. New Hampshire — W 70-63*Nov. 23 vs. Stanford — W 108-87*Nov. 24 vs. Gonzaga — W 111-105
*Nov. 26 vs. Duke — L 87-84
Dec. 4 vs. Florida State — L 83-66Dec. 6 vs. Loyola Chicago — L 65-59*Dec. 9 vs. Cincinnati — W 66-60*Dec. 16 vs. Clemson — L 71-69Dec. 20 vs. James Madison — W 72-63Dec. 22 vs. Incarnate Word — W 75-60Dec. 30 vs. Vanderbilt — W 81-74Jan. 2 @ T exas A&M — W 83-66Jan. 6 @ Missouri — W 77-75
Jan. 10 vs. Mississippi State — W 71-54
Jan. 13 @ Ole Miss — L 78-72Jan. 17 vs. Arkansas — W 88-73Jan. 20 @ Kentucky — W 66-64Jan. 24 vs. South Carolina — L 77-72Jan. 27 vs. Baylor — W 81-60Jan. 30 @ Georgia — L 72-60Feb. 3 vs. Alabama — L 68-50Feb. 7 vs. LSU — W 73-64
Feb. 10 @ South Carolina — W 65-41
Feb. 14 vs. Georgia — L 72-69Feb. 17 @ Vanderbilt — L 71-68Feb. 21 @ T ennessee — L 62-57Feb. 24 vs. Auburn — W 72-66Feb. 27 @ Alabama — W 73-52March 3 vs. Kentucky — W 80-67
SEC T ournament
*March 9 vs. Arkansas — L 80-72
NCAA T ournament
*March 15 vs. St. Bonaventure — W 77-62*March 17 vs. T exas T ech — L 69-66
*Denotes Neutral Site Game
Mike White-Head Coach 14-Mak Krause-G (Jr.) 22-Andrew Fava-G (Fr.) 2-Isaiah Stokes-F (Fr.) 15-John Egbunu-C (R-Sr.)12-Gorjok Gak-C (So.) 24-Deaundrae Ballard-G (Fr.) 21-Dontay Bassett-F (R-Fr.) 0-Mike Okauru-G (Fr.) 1-Chase Johnson-F (Fr.)
In his third season at Flor-
ida, White led the Gators to 21 wins and its second consecutive NCAA T our-nament appearance.Johnson only played in four games this year be-fore suffering a concus-sion in November that ended his season.Ballard struggled with his shot this season, connect-ing on only 15.6 percent of his three-point attempts. He scored 110 points in 315 minutes of action.Bassett saw his role in-crease as the season went on, ﬁ  nishing the year with 43 total points in 178 min-utes of play.Okauru served as Chi-ozza’ backup point guard, shooting an efﬁ  cient 40.4 percent from the three-point line in 377 total min-utes of action.In limited action, Gak scored 2.2 points per game and shot 63.4 per-cent from the ﬂ  oor.
Krause, another former manager who walked on in the fall, scored four points in 16 minutes of play.A former manager, Fava walked onto the team this fall and scored six points in 14 minutes of action.Stokes missed the entire season due to a torn ACL he suffered his senior year of high school.Egbunu, who was expect-ed to be Florida’s starting center this season, missed the entire year due to a torn ACL he suffered in February 2017.In his ﬁ  rst and only season at Florida, Kou-lechov started every game and was second on the team in points, averaging 13.8 per contest. The graduate transfer also led the Gators in rebounding and shot 39.5 percent from the three-point line.The All-SEC point guard capped off his career in Gainesville by breaking Erving Walker’s all-time assists record on March 3 against Kentucky. Chiozza played more minutes (1088) than any other player on the Gators’ roster and was third in points, averaging 11.1 per game.Like Koulechov, Hudson had a successful ﬁ  rst season at Florida after transferring from Virginia T ech. He led the Gators in scoring with 15.5 points per game and also hit a team-best 78 three-pointers and 92 free throws.4-Egor Koulechov-G (Gr.)
5-KeVaughn Allen-G (Jr.) 25-Keith Stone-F (So.) 13-Kevarrius Hayes-F/C (Jr.)11-Chris Chiozza-G (Sr.) 3-Jalen Hudson-G (R-Jr.)
After leading Florida in scoring last season, Allen struggled to maintain his offensive production with the emergence of newcom-ers Koulechov and Hudson. He had career lows in points per game (11.0) and ﬁ  eld-goal percentage (.361), but did shoot a team-best 90.6 percent from the charity stripe.Stone was arguably Florida’s most improved player in 2017-18, increasing his points per game average by ﬁ  ve and and three-point shooting percentage by nearly 10 percent. He started 26 games in the absence of in-jured big men John Egbunu, Chase Johnson and Isaiah Stokes.Hayes anchored Florida’s defense as its top rim protector, recording a team-high two blocks per game. He also shot 56.9 percent from the ﬂ  oor and led the Gators with 77 offensive rebounds.