We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
FRANKS LOOKING TO MOVE ON
After a difﬁ  cult 2017 campaign, Florida quarterback Feleipe 
Franks is excited for a fresh start under new head coach Dan Mullen, pg. 14Stephen Hawking has died, family member said
His children released a statement early Wednesday  pg. 3.
First female NFL coach visits UF
Read what shespoke about, pg. 9VOLUME 112 ISSUE 67
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
RTS Route Changes
1
9
101219202934353840
117
12512612 to 15 minutes
Reduced Hours
Reduced Hours
15 to 30 minutes*
Discontinued
12 to 15 minutes
Discontinued
20 to 30 minutes10 to 13 minutes12 to 15 minutes30 to 65 minutes
16 to 32 minutes
15 to 30 minutes10 to 20 minutesRoute #
Route #Frequency Change
Frequency Change
 *in the afternoon and evening
Campus Route Changes
300 Wednesday
300 Thurs. - Sat.301 Thurs. - Sat.302 Thurs. - Sat.Discontinued
13 to 26 minutes20 to 30 minutes25 to 38 minutesRoute # Frequency ChangeLater Gator Route Changes
AMONG THE CHANGES: 
PERMANENT EXPANSION OF 
BRIGHT FUTURES.
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Legislation approved by Gov. Rick Scott 
will make the increases to Bright Futures in the 
2017-2018 school year permanent.
Scott signed two sweeping education bills 
into law on Sunday. One will permanently 
expand Bright Futures for the top two tiers of 
award recipients and prevent public univer-sities and colleges from restricting speech to “free-speech zones.” The other is an expansive bill that will provide scholarship funding for bullied students to transfer to an eligible pri-vate school and threatens to decertify teacher unions if their membership falls below 50 per-cent of the employees they represent. 
“This is an election year promise to the stu-
dents of this state that we will provide every single one of you, to the best of our ability, a world-class education — the one that you de-
serve,” said House Speaker Richard Corcoran 
in a press conference.
The top tier of Bright Futures, “Academic 
Scholar,” will have 100 percent of tuition and fees covered, as well as a $300 stipend for text-books. In the 2016-2017 school year, about 15,700 UF students received the top award, according to a UF Student Financial Affairs ﬁ  scal summary. Recipients can also use their 
scholarship for summer enrollment beginning 
this summer. 
During the 2016-2017 school year, about 
7,500 UF students received the second-tier “Medallion Scholar” award, according to the By Sabrina Conza
Alligator Contributing Writer
Laura Botero is already planning to 
take her girlfriend to Gainesville’s Miami 
Grill when it opens in April.
Miami Grill, a South Florida-based 
restaurant chain, is joining the growing community of businesses at The Standard 
apartment complex in mid-April, said 
Jackie Maceda, a Miami Grill spokesper-
son. The location, at 50 NW 13th St., will 
be in a spot between Chick-Fil-A and Tar-get. 
The 2,500-square foot location will 
serve breakfast, lunch and dinner, but 
ofﬁ  cial hours have not yet been decided, 
Maceda said. It will also offer delivery to 
people living in The Standard and possi-
bly other nearby locations.“We’ll deﬁ  nitely be catering to the 
community,” Maceda said.
Maceda said the restaurant will hold 
a soft opening with discounts. A grand opening is scheduled for the Fall. 
She said the restaurant will serve sig-
nature items like Philly cheesesteaks, chicken wings and pitas. It will also serve 
beer and wine. 
Pricing for the location isn’t ﬁ  nal-
ized, but menu items range from $2.99 to 
$8.99, she said.
Botero, an 18-year-old UF manage-
ment freshman from Margate, a city about 45 minutes north of Miami, said she’s 
had wings and shrimp at a Miami Grill in 
South Florida.
“It’s actually pretty good, and the serv-
ing size is awesome,” she said. “I’d go to 
Miami Grill again any day.”Gov. Rick Scott approves 
sweeping education bills Miami Grill to open at 
The Standard in April 
SEE BILL,  PAGE 5Victoria Salomon / Alligator
ON OPPOSITE SIDES
Alfredo Patiño, 22, a UF political science and sociology senior, and Joe Trammel, 22,  a law student from Ohio State University and 
member of the Created Equal organization, shake hands. Patiño, who is pro-choice, and Trammel, who is pro-life, spoke about the images the Created Equal organization placed on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. See the story, pg. 3.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
HIGH  66° LOW  33°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Student Government Spring 
Housing Fair 
Student Government’s Spring Housing Fair is 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Friday on the Reitz Union North 
Lawn. As the largest housing 
event at UF, students can engage with a wide variety of Gainesville community representatives and gain a better understanding of what off-campus housing com-munities have to offer. This is a way to get familiar with off-cam-pus living options. UF resources 
such as Off Campus Life and 
Student Legal Services will also be on hand to help answer ques-tions.
Digital Resources Showcase
George A. Smathers Libraries will hold a Libraries’ Digital Resources Showcase from 1 to 
3 p.m. Friday on the colonnade 
outside Library West. The show-case will bring librarians and stu-dents together to highlight steps for finding the best research on-line and organizing your work quickly. The event will also fea-ture the One Button Studio, 3-D printing, video streaming access, 
digital newspapers and mapping 
tools.
GatorNights Classic Movies
The Reitz Union will hold a GatorNights Classic Movies on Friday. The event will feature James Bond and Indiana Jones escape rooms, a Jaws mechani-
cal shark and Jurassic Park ter-
rariums. "The Shape of Water" will play at 8 and 10:45 p.m. The Club Creole’s Fashion Show and Concert will take place in the Rion Ballroom starting at 8 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday, al-ways free for UF students with a Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Can You 
Dig It?’ on March 17Dig into geology at a free, open-for-all-ages geology event 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday at the Florida Museum of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull Road. Attendees will watch demonstra-
tions of volcanic eruptions as 
well as experience an augmented reality sandbox and fossil dig. The event is presented in part by the UF Department of Geological Sciences in collaboration with the Gainesville Gem and Mineral Society. For more information, visit floridamuseum.ufl.edu/
canyoudigit or call 352-273-2062.
‘Law in the Library: Restoration 
of Civil Rights Workshops’
The Alachua County Library District is partnering with the Eighth Judicial Circuit Bar Association to present “Law in the Library: Restoration of Civil 
Rights Workshops” from 4:30 
to 5:45 p.m. March 22 at Cone Park Library Branch, located at 2801 E. University Ave. and 5:30 to 7 p.m. April 5 at Tower Road Library Branch, located at 3020 SW 75th St. Attorneys will pro-vide one-on-one assistance to people who have been convicted 
of a felony and are interested in 
applying to have their civil rights restored. These presentations are free and open to the public. For more information, visit aclib.us/law or call 352-334-3900.
Fulbright Awareness Month
The UF International Center will 
hold Fulbright Awareness Month 
until April 12. Multiple infor-mational sessions for students, scholars, faculty and staff will provide opportunities to learn about the Fulbright application process and to hear about the experiences of past scholars and 
students. Additionally this year, 
information sessions will be led by Peter VanDerwater, the direc-tor of outreach at the Council for International Exchange for Scholars in Washington, D.C. To schedule an individual consulta-tion with VanDerwater, email canumba@ufic.ufl.edu. For 
more information, visit interna-
tionalcenter.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. To re-quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction:
A story published Monday under the title "RTS to reduce bus ser-vice for the rest of the semester" incorrectly stated a background check for an RTS bus driver took two to three months. Instead, the entire hiring process after the 
initial interview can take two to 
three months, after which a driv-er can start.
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 67
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Carly McCullough, Grace Kenny,  Jill   
  Chabot, Katie Marshall, Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hannah Smith became so dis-
turbed by the “gruesome” abortion 
pictures she saw on the way to class Tuesday that she pushed over four signs. 
The 20-year-old shook with rage 
and disgust thinking about the im-ages during class.
“You go on campus, and you 
aren’t expecting to see pictures of dis-membered bodies and blood,” Smith, a UF political science junior, said. “They are not conducive to a learning environment.” The signs she saw were put up by 
Created Equal, an anti-abortion train-ing program for younger generations to debate abortion on college cam-puses around America, said Mark Harrington, president of the organiza-tion. The program facilitates Justice Rides, which are week-long events where activists can speak and edu-cate about abortion. 
Tuesday and today about 50 stu-
dent activists with Created Equal displayed large abortion and prenatal images on Turlington Plaza and the North Lawn from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The activists spoke with students passing by and handed out flyers.
“Some people believe it is con-troversial because it is hard to deny 
what you are seeing,” Harrington 
said. “Once you come to the conclu-sion that it is killing the child, a lot of folks that believe abortion is okay don’t like that we are showing peo-ple.”
The Alligator spoke to the Presi-
dent Mark Harrington and spokesper-son Lauren Metz.
Here are five things about Created 
Equal:
1. Some of the photos displayed 
on campus were found in a dumpster and photographed years ago. Others were from a doctor who performs abortions who was paid to let a pho-tographer take photos of an aborted fetus. Created Equal did not pay for 
the photographing of the photos on 
campus. The organization did not  disclose how it obtained the pictures due to security reasons. Created Equal has possession of signed affi-davits from a person who performed abortions and the photographer for its authenticity.
2. Created Equal has made stops 
at UF at least three times in the past five years. Harrington said Florida is a regular stopping place for Created Equal because it is a key state when it comes abortion politics. Additionally, there are many large public universi-ties. 
3. Created Equal partakes in two Justice Rides a year, in the spring and 
summer. Justice Ride comes to Flor-
ida every spring. The summer loca-tions vary and have included Wash-ington, D.C., Ohio and Alabama. The name Justice Ride was inspired by 1960s Freedom Rides. 
4. Both high school and college 
students from any state can par-ticipate in a Justice Ride. Students 
have to submit an application and 
go through an interview process. Stu-dents are then trained to make cases against abortion.
5. The staff members and chaper-
ones wear GoPros to record, mainly for safety or for notable conversa-tions. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Remi Storch
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Smaller than a postage note, rusty in color 
and with metallic scales on the wings, a new butterfly species has been named at the Florida Museum of Natural History — after a Youtu-ber. 
The museum officially announced the dis-
covery of the new species, Wahydra graslieae, March 8, said Andrew Warren, the senior col-lections manager of the McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity at the Florida Museum of Natural History. The butterfly is named after Emily Graslie, Chicago’s Field Mu-seum of Natural History’s chief curiosity cor-respondent and Youtuber. 
In 2013, Graslie started an educational You-
Tube channel called “The Brain Scoop,” she said.  The channel gives viewers a behind-the-scenes look at natural history museums across 
the country. 
“I am really proud and honored for this sort 
of recognition,” she said. “It’s pretty exciting as 
someone who has spent the last five years of their life trying to advocate for the importance of natural history research and taxonomy.”
Graslie, who lives in Chicago, has never seen the butterfly in person, but she said she hopes to make a visit to the museum soon. 
Warren said the species, Wahydra graslieae, 
was first collected by Warren’s collaborator Harold Greeney in Ecuador in 2004. But War-ren and the team of researchers did not begin studying the butterfly until 2016, he said. The 
butterfly was officially announced through a 
scientific paper March 8. 
Warren said there have been no other sight-
ing reports of the butterfly in the wild or in any natural history museum collections. 
Warren saw Graslie’s YouTube channel 
during the first year it was active and liked it so much he showed three other researchers, he said. About four years later, Warren still keeps up with Graslie’s videos. He said they met in 2014 at the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences while skinning squirrels. 
When Warren and his team had to decide 
on a name for the new species, they thought 
of Graslie to recognize the effort she’s put into 
promoting natural history collections, Warren said. 
“Our goal was to honor Emily in a profes-
sional manner in recognition of her tireless ef-forts to promote natural history collections,” he said.
Florida Museum researchers name butterfly after YoutuberBy the Associated Press
Stephen Hawking, whose brilliant mind 
ranged across time and space though his body 
was paralyzed by disease, has died, a family 
spokesman said early Wednesday.
“He was a great scientist and an extraordi-
nary man whose work and legacy will live on for many years,” his children Lucy, Robert and 
Tim said in a statement.
The best-known theoretical physicist of his 
time, Hawking wrote so lucidly of the mysteries 
of space, time and black holes that his book, “A 
Brief History of Time,” became an international best seller, making him one of science’s biggest 
celebrities since Albert Einstein.
Even though his body was attacked by 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, when Hawking was 21, he stunned doctors by living 
with the normally fatal illness for more than 50 years. A severe attack of pneumonia in 1985 left 
him breathing through a tube, forcing him to communicate through an electronic voice syn-
thesizer that gave him his distinctive robotic 
monotone.
As one of Isaac Newton’s successors as Lu-
casian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge 
University, Hawking was involved in the search 
for the great goal of physics — a “unified the-
ory.”
Such a theory would resolve the contradic-
tions between Einstein’s General Theory of Rel-
ativity, which describes the laws of gravity that 
govern the motion of large objects like planets, 
and the Theory of Quantum Mechanics, which 
deals with the world of subatomic particles. 
His early life was chronicled in the 2014 film 
“The Theory of Everything,” with Eddie Red-mayne winning the best actor Academy Award 
for his portrayal of the scientist. 
His achievements, and his longevity, also 
helped prove to many that even the most severe 
disabilities need not stop patients from living.Family says Stephen Hawking has died
Anti-abortion group returns to Turlington, North Lawn
THE NEW ADDITION 
WILL SERVE AS A 
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Tynesha Owens-Vurse said the 
staff at the PACE Center for Girls, 
Alachua, used to call her a butter-fly. 
“They said before we were in 
PACE, we were in cocoons, and when we came to PACE, we grew up and became a butterfly,” the 17-year-old said.  The facility currently provides 
education and counseling to 56 girls with troubled histories, such as incarceration, homelessness or family histories of drug abuse. It  is now looking for funding to ex-
pand, said Becker Holland, the de-
velopment manager for the center. 
A new 3,400-square-foot ad-
dition will be named the Butter-fly Center. Holland said they’re working to incorporate the symbol into the design and are speaking to groups about adding a butterfly garden around the center.
“That’s kind of the concept about PACE,” Holland said. “We want our girls to spread their wings and fly away and be fabu-lously successful in life.”
Holland said the number of 
girls enrolled at the center had 
doubled over the last four years 
and the center outgrew their large communal space about two years ago. The new center will serve as a multipurpose room with a kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, shower, a large space for programming like drama or musical shows, speak-ers, a yoga and meditation space 
and more. Currently, the center has only 
one bathroom with four stalls that 
is shared with 55 to 60 girls and a microwave they use to heat up breakfast and lunch from Lincoln Middle School that they provide 
for the girls. New showers, a laun-
dry room and a kitchen would help students who need them.
A health and wellness clinic 
will also be added to help with easily treatable health issues like sinus infections, colds or flus and gynecological issues and screen-ings that may arise. 
“The possibilities are endless,” Holland said. 
It will cost the center about 
$500,000 to build the new facility, and it is just short about $100,000 from the goal. Holland said money was raised through donations and 
grants.
“We’re grateful for every 
dime,” Holland said. “I don’t care 
if it’s $10 or $10,000. We’re grate-ful for every cent the community is willing to invest in our mission.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.org
PACE Center For Girls raising money for new center Nate Bustamante / Alligator Staff
Inter-Residence Hall Association Eco-Reps and UF environmental engineering 
students Gabby Armin, 20, and Marlee Wasserman, 21, plant echinacea seeds as a part of the IRHA Bloom into Spring campaign on Tuesday. 4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
GUIDE TO 
DINING 
OUT
BREAKFAST
Bagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 
6:30 am - 3:00 pm. Serving Vietnamese  
cuisine Pho noodle soup and more. 
11 am - 9 pm. 1222 W. University Ave.  
WORLD
Civilization
Ride the rail trail to its Northern end and discover 
lots of vegetarian dishes, espresso drinks, house-
made desserts, craft beer and sustainable wine. Dine inside the historic Gulf Oil building or outside 
under the modern portico. 1511 NW 2nd Street. 
Open for lunch 11-2, Tues-Fri & for dinner 5:30-9 
Tues-Sat.  welcometocivilization.com
ORGANIC
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices and smoothies.
Vegan/gluten free options. Like us on 
Facebook.  436 SE 2nd St.  w-sat 11-7,  
sun brunch 10-3 dailygreendowntown.orgITALIAN
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for 
dinner any day of the week. Come in and 
check out one of the best wine lists in town. 
Ask questions and learn while you wait for 
the chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local 
ingredients. Ask about our Monday Wine 
Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. 
Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 6 
South Main St.  (352) 375-7372
SOUTHERN
The Yearling Restaurant
Since 1952 Gators have been coming to 
The Yearling Restaurant. If your parents, 
grandparents, or greatgrandparents went to UF they most likely ate here. We serve gator, 
frog legs, duck, quail + venison + a wide 
variety of seafood + steaks. Top it off with our 
famous sour orange pie. Now that is a meal 
any FL Gator can enjoy. So come on out to the 
creek + take a step back in time. Only here 
can you see the legendary bluesman Willie “The Real Deal” Green, playing nightly.
Contact Alligator Advertising to feature your business here • 352-376-4482
DINING 
ITALIAN
 COFFEE
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee and a wide 
array of desserts and treats made daily. Bring 
your own cup for a buck off! Free Wireless, lot 
parking. Indoor and Outdoor seating. Next to 
the Hippodrome. 336-9649 . Introducing the Side 
Car Our Gourmet operations has expanded to 
include a swanky next door bar! Rotating taps, 
excellent wine selection. Open Late
FROZEN TREATS
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic 
ice cream in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, baked goods, sandwiches, fair trade coffee, tea, 
organic beer and free WI-FI. Mon-Fri 8am-11pm  
Sat&Sun 10am-11pmABOUT 50 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE TALK.
By Rachel Porter
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jen Welter never imagined 
she’d be the ﬁ  rst female coach 
in the National Football League.
Welter, who spoke to a 
crowd of about 50 for the Col-
lege of Health and Human Per-
formance’s D.K. Stanley Lec-
ture Series, said she never saw 
someone like her in a coaching 
position. 
On Tuesday, Welter gave 
tips for success and being a 
woman in sports. Michael 
Spear, the director of commu-
nications, said Welter was paid about $1,000.
Welter became the ﬁ  rst fe-
male coach in the NFL in 2015 
when she began coaching the Arizona Cardinals.
Beth Barton, an applied 
physiology and kinesiology professor, said the department thought Welter would appeal to students even though she wasn’t a standard academic.
“I think the main message is 
to hear someone that’s maybe 
not the traditional academic 
succeeding in the world and 
show that success can come in 
different ﬂ  avors,” Barton said.
Welter spoke about being 
doubted by coaches when she 
went to play tennis and rugby 
and how she made her own op-portunities. She told her coach-
es she wanted to go “hit for hit” with men.
“Everything I couldn’t, 
shouldn’t, wouldn’t do, I did,” Welter said.
Tori Burstein, 21-year-old 
UF psychology and sports management senior, said she attended the lecture because she is interested in pioneering women in sports.
“I’m really big on female 
empowerment and women 
in all ﬁ  elds breaking the glass 
ceiling and paving the way for 
other women,” Burstein said. 
Contributing Writer Amy 
Weber contributed to this re-
port.First female NFL coach speaks at UF about career, success
Rachel Porter / Alligator 
Jen Welter was the ﬁ  rst NFL female coach with the Arizona Cardinals in 2015. 
She spoke to about 50 people Tuesday morning about her story. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Arizaga paused outside of 
the Hub on Monday night and stood 
beside a pair of trash and recycling cans. 
The UF nuclear engineering se-
nior studied the two white signs framed by PVC pipe ﬁ  xtures. One sign had an image of a landﬁ  ll piled high with trash with two sentences above it. 
“Your cans and bottles will be 
sitting in a landﬁ  ll 5 times longer than your life expectancy,” it read. “Think before you throw.”
Arizaga said he wondered about 
the sign’s message and what it aimed to convey. 
“The question is why,” the 
22-year-old said after reading the 
sign. “I guess trying to go more 
green… more than UF already is.”
Arizaga was not alone in his cu-
riosity. Across campus Monday, the pair of signs hovered over 10 trash and recycling cans, impossible to ignore. Those intrigued enough to glance at the small sticker on the poster’s other side learned that the set-ups are for a student research project led by UF/IFAS ﬁ  rst-year PhD student Amanda Brinton in the School of Natural Resources and Environment. 
The 31-year-old, along with two 
research assistants, placed the signs around campus 1 a.m. Monday be-cause they are interested in people’s consumption and waste-disposal habits, she said. 
Brinton said she expects people 
throwing trash away will at least pause and reconsider what it is they’re tossing.
“You’re giving that trash can 
your attention for roughly ﬁ  ve to 10 seconds,” Brinton said. “Why not actually make it educational and in-formative?”
The second sign, in big, bold let-
ters, declared “Not Recyclable at UF.” Under it, a row of several plas-tic containers were tightly strung — a plastic Starbucks cup next to a plastic top, a Styrofoam cup next to a plastic straw.
Brinton said she received ap-
proval from the facilities services department before she put up the signs. A UF spokesperson could not conﬁ  rm if UF knew about the study before she began it. Brinton said she wanted to keep the details of the study, like data and research meth-ods, secret until she reveals the re-
sults at the end of the semester. 
Until then, the red plastic straws 
and clear cups will face the wonder-
ing eyes of passersby until April 20. 
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
UF student places signs around trash cans for study 
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
New device can capture airborne flu to help 
identify stains
UF researchers created a device capable of capturing 
airborne strains of the ﬂ  u virus to help prevent outbreaks 
for next ﬂ  u season, which runs October to February.
Chang-Yu Wu, a UF environmental engineering pro-
fessor, said he decided to work on the project about 10 years ago because the only available devices, called sam-plers, could only capture between 5 and 10 percent of 
the virus in the air. Wu wanted to create a device that 
could capture more and isolate humans’ and animals’ 
virus strains.
The team of ﬁ  ve UF researchers, with help from UF 
undergraduate and graduate students, built a device in their engineering school laboratory to capture 90 percent of the airborne ﬂ  u virus. 
The sampler collects more samples by using water 
vapor to increase the size of the viruses so they stay in the device.
The project received $418,598 from the National Insti-
tute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, a governmental 
agency that funds research on diseases.
Wu said they have tested the sampler in the lab and 
UF’s Student Health Care Center. 
“I hope we have a product that can be available to 
anyone who wants to use it whether that be public loca-tions like airports, homeland security or chicken farms,” 
Wu said.
- Adam Turner
Alligator Contributing WriterUF researchers investigate antibiotic combi-
nations for deadly pathogen
UF Health researchers are developing antibiotic drug 
combinations that will prevent the spread of the world’s 
deadliest superbug, Acinetobacter baumannii, or A. bau-
mannii. Superbugs are bacterial pathogens resistant to 
antibiotics.
Juergen Bulitta, associate professor of pharmaceu-
tics in the UF College of Pharmacy, said the pathogen is 
commonly found in hospitals, nursing homes and other 
health care facilities, and it causes high rates of disease 
and death in patients. A. baumannii is among the most 
challenging hospital-acquired pathogens in the world 
and on the top of the World Health Organization’s list of priority pathogens in 2017 that “pose the greatest threat to human health.”
He said the researchers have been working since 2012 
to ﬁ  nd new therapies by using dosage regimens that are already available and optimizing them based on molecu-lar data researchers ﬁ  nd. 
Bulitta and the research team, which is made up of 
experts from different disciplines, are working to combat a serious human health problem.
“By performing research at UF, our students and post-
docs can make a signiﬁ  cant and tangible contribution to novel antibiotic dosing strategies,” he said. “This can 
save the lives of patients who have serious, life-threat-
ening infections.”
- Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing WriterUF researchers use an infrared camera to map 
magnetic fields in space 
UF researchers started using a camera to detect mag-
netic ﬁ  elds in space in 2012 and will publish more results 
in May.
Astronomers used the UF-built infrared CanariCam to 
photograph an invisible magnetic ﬁ  eld in the Milky Way’s center, said Charles Telesco, the UF department chair of astronomy, who helped build the CanariCam. The map-
pings of these magnetic ﬁ  elds will appear in the peer-re-
viewed astronomy journal Monthly Notices of the Royal 
Astronomical Society in May, Telesco said. The research 
leads to a better understanding of how Earth, the solar 
system and the galaxy formed.
“The more we know about (what the camera shows), it 
gives us a better appreciation of the world,” Telesco said.
The researchers received two grants — for $275,000 in 
2009 and $127,000 in 2015 — from the National Science Foundation, Telesco said.
The camera is attached to the Gran Telescopio Canarias 
telescope on the La Palma island, which is part of Spain’s 
Canary Islands off the coast of West Africa, he said. 
The 1.6-foot-tall and 3.3-foot-across hexagonal camera 
detects how light travels, and that can answer questions 
about space and humanity’s place in the universe, Telesco said.
“We want to control our environment; we want it so 
serve us, and at the same time we also want to preserve it,” Telesco said.
- Christine Skofronick
Alligator Contributing Writer
ﬁ  scal summary. Following this legisla-
tion, “Medallion Scholars” will have 75 percent of their tuition and fees covered, including during summer term. 
The bill will help boost the perfor-
mance of the university as well as its stu-
dents, UF spokesperson Margot Winick 
wrote in an email. 
“UF is grateful for the Florida Legis-
latures’ commitment to this important investment in state funding for higher education,” she said.
Winick said funding to UF would not 
only directly beneﬁ  t students but also could be used to hire faculty, enhance 
graduate and professional degree pro-
grams.
The bill also creates the “Hope Schol-
arship,” which will provide vouchers for public school students who are bullied and wish to transfer to a private school. The scholarship will be funded by mo-
torists who opt to contribute their sales 
taxes on purchased vehicles to the orga-nization. 
Kailey Hart, a UF zoology sophomore, 
said receiving the “Academic Scholar” award from Bright Futures lifts a big ﬁ  -nancial burden off of herself and her family. 
“It’s been really nice because I’ve had 
more time to dedicate toward school,” the 19-year-old said. 
In the past, Hart felt that the state gov-
ernment didn’t invest enough money in its education system. Now with the per-manent expansion of Bright Futures, she feels that her hard work in high school is ﬁ  nally paying off. 
“It makes it feel very much worth it,” 
she said. 
@jessica_giles_ 
jgiles@alligator.orgBILL,  from pg. 1Funding will cover Summer
FOUR IMPACT BUDGET CHAIRMEN 
WERE ALSO ELECTED.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Impact Party senators will chair all UF Sen-
ate’s committees, including the budget commit-tee, which allocates about $20 million to student organizations. 
Emily Dunson was elected to the budget com-
mittee chair, Trevor Pope was elected to alloca-tions committee chair, Nick Adams for judiciary committee chair, and Audra Weeks was elected for the information and communication commit-tee chair during Tuesday night’s Senate meeting. Amanda Holloway was re-elected as the rules and ethics committee chair.
Adams said as judiciary chairman, he wants to 
better communicate with the authors of constitu-
tions and create a code book for them.  
“If we detail that process, students will be 
more encouraged,” Adams said. For the budget committee, Impact senators 
Sarah Abraham (Business Administration), Coo-
per Brown (Freshman), Tyson Dunn (Springs) and Will Sandifer (Sophomore) were voted into the committee. Inspire senators opposed these nominations for seats on the budget committee. 
The committee will start hearings student organi-
zations’ request for funding Friday. 
“They’re qualiﬁ  ed, knowledgeable of the 800 
codes and have experience in their time at UF and outside of their time at UF,” Dunson said.  
During a pro and con debate before the mem-
bers were elected, the party had concerns with the members’ knowledge of the 800 codes, the codes that govern the ﬁ  nance law of the budget com-mittee. 
“I would be less upset if there weren’t more 
qualiﬁ  ed candidates who applied,” Minority Party Leader Nathan Morse said. “We must be able to come together and make unbiased decisions as a group.” 
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgSG Senate committee chairs chosenThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
ColumnWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Trump’s presidency has become reality TV 
One of the main points of criticisms I 
hear of President Donald Trump is 
his unseemly and unpresidential be-
havior. He is not a smooth talker. He tweets more than a teenager does, 
gives disparaging nicknames to his political op-ponents and is drowning in scandal. The list 
could go on for miles. Trump, a reality TV star 
who once made an appearance on World Wres-tling Entertainment, does not ﬁ  t the position of president of any country, let alone the United 
States, people often say. And I agree with them.
But we must understand that for those very reasons, 
Trump is our president. Because he is unpresidential, he 
is our president. 
Those who voted for him appreciated that he was not 
a lifelong politician, slick and spineless and always smil-ing for the camera, but that he was brutally honest, mean, deﬁ  ant and himself. He ran against the establishment and won because large chunks of America want that swamp drained.
There are problems with this sort of logic: whether it is 
possible for one person in one branch of the government to burn everything to the ground and truly start fresh is a glaring one. The problem I want to discuss, though, is 
the inevitable dysfunction electing an outsider like Trump 
brings. The White House has become reality TV: dramatic, scandalized, performative and thus mindlessly entertain-ing. If it’s not the Russian scandal, it’s Stormy Daniels, an aide resigning, or an infamous Trump tweet, etc. He 
called Kim Jong Un “little rocket man.” According to The 
Washington Post, he refused to ﬁ  re Sean Spicer because “that guy gets great ratings.”
Why should any of this surprise us? Trump, at his core, 
is an entertainer. That’s one of the reasons he was elected, 
because his name-calling and insults and tell-it-like-it-is 
demeanor made people snicker and conﬁ  rmed in them their cynical view of government. He has existed in the public eye for decades; he has cultivated a brash, crude 
and orange persona for the sake of increased ratings. Yet we are shocked at what the presidency has be-
come.
We shouldn’t be, and I wonder how Trump 
would respond if we reﬁ  ned our expectations of him. Trump has simply brought his tabloid be-havior to the White House. People often scape-goat Trump’s voters for this, blaming them for 
what has happened to America. That is where I 
break from those people, for the picture is more intricate and interconnected than that.
“Never Trumpers” need to understand their 
role in the rise of Trump, which is rooted in our enter-tainment-starved era. Conservatives are not the only ones who watch TV or use social media. In fact, every main-stream late-night comedian — John Oliver, Samantha Bee, Stephen Colbert, Trevor Noah, etc. — lean, if not are, po-
litically leftist in their criticisms and opinions. Late-night 
comedy, or any comedy, is where many people receive their news today. Why then are these same people bafﬂ  ed at Trump?
Trump is the clearest expression of what these late-
night comedians, or the worst of Fox News and CNN, are doing. He blends fact and ﬁ  ction, comedy and diplomacy, entertainment with maturity, persona with credentials, and slogans with policy. Trump can only exist in a country 
where the news is shared alongside punchlines. We are 
like kids who can’t eat their vegetables without also eating mac and cheese; we can’t absorb news unless it’s funny.
Entertainment is the cultural incubator that gave 
Trump life. Conservatives are not the only ones who feast 
on tabloids and the E! channel. It is too reductionistic and 
simple, then, to make conservatives shoulder the blame for Trump’s election. Would he have been elected if The New York Times and CNN hadn’t obsessively covered his every insult and mistake? I’m not sure. My point, how-
ever, is this: Trump’s presidency thus far is eerily similar 
to a reality TV show, and for that, we are all to blame. 
Scott Stinson is a UF English junior. His column fo-
cuses on popular culture.Let them know 
you’re watching.
Whether you realize it or not, you beneﬁ  t from and want 
there to be open information laws.
When Richard Spencer came to UF, you wanted 
to know how much the university spent on security. When student fees increase, you want to know why. 
When the legislature is in session, you want to know what they’re voting on, why and how it will affect you.
Anyone can ﬁ  le a public records request. But it’s the job of 
reporters to ﬁ  ght for this information and make it public. And the reason we’re able to do this is because of the state’s open-records laws, called Sunshine Laws. 
But these laws are increasingly being restricted. For example, 
Florida law exempts the names, addresses and telephone num-bers of certain government employees. It has expanded over the 
years, exempting the same information plus date of birth for peo-
ple who hold or used to hold any of now more than 50 job titles.   
This week is Sunshine Week, a national initiative launched in 
2005 by the American Society of News Editors, which celebrates open government laws by promoting conversation on the impor-tance of it. 
Even in places with open public records laws, many govern-
ment ofﬁ  ces make it extremely difﬁ  cult for people to get the infor-mation they seek. Some hinder the process by citing privacy acts 
and other laws — even in cases that might not apply. In other 
cases, they provide the records with large sections blacked out, making it impossible to read. 
It’s not just Florida. Washington state’s legislature recently 
tried to end public access to information from the legislature, seeking to exempt elected representatives’ emails, calendars, receipts and all other government communication from public knowledge. 
According to an article by The Seattle Times, Washington 
Gov. Jay Inslee received about 20,000 calls and emails from con-stituents asking him to veto the bill, which he did earlier this month. Thankfully, he vetoed it. But would the constituents have known of the bill if the newspaper hadn’t published a story about it in the ﬁ  rst place?
While we’re glad to see access to information prevail, the fact 
that an entire elected state legislature got as far as the governor’s desk to keep the public ignorant is horriﬁ  c. 
Florida enjoys more access to public information than most 
states, and as students at a public university, we have access to more information than private school students. It lets us hold people accountable. It’s why we ask how much people are paid to speak; it’s why we send reporters to every Student Govern-ment meeting. You have a right to know what is happening in your university, city, county and state.
But it is not always simple. Last Spring, The Alligator reported 
on what some sources called a “toxic environment” at UF’s Mul-ticultural and Diversity Affairs; we received nearly all blacked-out 
pages after requesting public records. 
Government ofﬁ  ces can also charge thousands for requests 
and take months, even years to fulﬁ  ll them. If a person of low 
income seeks information, but gets roadblocked with a large bill, is the information really accessible to the public? 
This is why it’s important to oppose laws that restrict access 
to this information while keeping a watchful eye on those who should be complying with them. 
Support local newspapers and state organizations like the First 
Amendment Foundation, which advocate for open records laws. And show up to a government meeting on occasion. 
Let them know you’re watching. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 03/16/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
Charlotte Bronte, Henrietta Lacks and 
Ida B. Wells: You’ve probably heard these names because of the notable contributions they gave the world during their lives. However, they were 
forgotten after they died. At least by one of the country’s most widely circulated newspapers. 
Until less than a week ago, The New York 
Times never published obituaries for these three important women — and many others. In an effort to make up for overlooking these women when they died, the editors have creat-ed a new series: “Overlooked.” Beginning with a special section in Sunday’s print edition, the 
Times will publish obituaries for women (and 
in the future, men of color and deserving oth-ers) whose deaths were not documented in a timely manner.Other inﬂ  uential women 
weren’t completely forgotten by the Times, but instead were laugh-ably skimped. Frida Kahlo was ﬁ  rst referred to as the wife of Diego Ri-
vera in hers. Susan B. Anthony was 
described by her “ﬁ  rm but pleasing face,” according to the Times. Har-riet Tubman’s was published, too, but at just about 100 words. 
The Times continues to forget 
women. In the last two years, just one in ﬁ  ve obituaries were written about women, accord-ing to the Times. 
William McDonald, the Times' obituaries 
editor for the last decade, wrote a story ex-plaining why most of their obituaries' subjects are white men. He said it's because obituar-ies cover the past, rather than the present, and they largely represent the world of the 1950s, 60s and 70s, when gender and racial dynamics were several steps behind where 
they are now.
Scanning the pages of Sunday’s 
“Overlooked” special edition and 
reading the obituaries of the 15 featured women, it’s almost unbe-lievable that these women were by-
passed by editors at the times of their deaths. How could transgender pioneer and activist Marsha P. Johnson, who at 23 was a key ﬁ  gure 
in the rebellion after the Stonewall police raid, 
have been left out of the obituaries? Or Emily Warren Roebling, who directed the construc-tion of the Brooklyn Bridge in the late 19th century? Or Madhubala, who became a Bol-lywood superstar despite a hole in her heart? 
We can’t go back in time, but we can all 
follow the Times’ lead and do our best to right the wrongs of our past. This month — Wom-
en’s History Month — we can learn about the 
wrongfully neglected women in our history. Perhaps more importantly, we can make sure to amplify the voices of women who are be-ginning to make history now. We can all take steps to become better, more intersectional feminists. Let’s become people who ﬁ  ght for all women to be heard, believed, supported and when the time comes, remembered. 
Carly Breit is a UF journalism senior. Her 
column focuses on feminism. 
In a culture that worships people who “have it together,” it seems as though to-day’s millennials and Gen Zers have been conditioned to fear uncertainty as if it were the plague.
Today’s college students are multitaskers, 
go-getters and just about every other hyphen-ated phrase in the book. But even with so many opportunities on our plates, we tend to veer away from situations with unknown out-comes. Today’s young people are still too eas-ily shut down by the fear of unpredictability.
Why?Uncertainty is a pervasive emotion that 
roots from different social and psychological factors.
In a society that values the busy, it’s not 
unusual for people to go to great lengths to ensure their daily schedules are meticulous blueprints laced with set plans rath-er than blank boxes of opportunity.
Interestingly enough, many 
people fall back on the comforting and the familiar, especially when it 
comes to products that help us or-
ganize our lives.
For example, although we have 
seemingly endless options of digital calendar apps and ways to set re-minders on our phones, paper plan-ner sales in the U.S. increased by more than $50 million in the past two years, according to market research organization NPD Group.
Psychologists believe a fear of uncertainty 
has the power to either threaten or challenge. This means that while some people see uncer-tainty as a threat to their stability, well-being and goals, others view it as a positive chal-lenge that motivates them to perse-vere through the fogginess.
It’s the same reason why some 
students dread open-ended essay questions or projects that lack a 
right or wrong answer, and why 
other students love assignments that go against the grain of step-by-step instructions or rigid rubrics.
But many situations and stag-
es in the life are inherently more 
threatening than the fear that comes with do-ing a creative project in the classroom.
For example, feeling unsure of where to 
be in two months or two years, while some people have expertly crafted ﬁ  ve-year plans, is a recipe for self-doubt that constantly haunts college students.
Whether it’s feeling anxious about post-graduate life or worrying things won’t work out how you envision them, the reality is that everyone battles with uncertainty. And as we go through life, we're bound to encounter more of it. 
This is why instead of dreading the (mostly 
imaginary) ways uncertain situations could turn our lives upside down, I think as college students, we owe it to ourselves to embrace uncertainty and the possibilities it brings.
Let’s remember we have the power to turn 
uncertainty into a challenge that can push us closer to our dreams. Let’s not be paralyzed by the unknown but rather inspired.
Darcy Schild is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column focuses on sociology and human 
behavior.Let's ﬁ  ght for women to be heard — and when the time comes, remembered
Don't be paralyzed by the unknown, but rather inspired by possibilitiesColumn
Column
Carly Breit
opinions@alligator.org
Darcy Schild
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Self-care fair
UF Women’s Student Association to host free event 
(pg. 10)Baby Goat Yoga: 
The viral sensation comes to Gainesville (pg. 9)WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Gainesville’s Destination 
Okeechobee victors kicked Spring 
Break off right with performances at Okeechobee Music and Arts Fes-tival.
Okeechobee Music and Arts Fes-
tival is an annual gathering of art-ists and music lovers from across the country. Over the course of four days, nearly 300 artists performed for the throngs of eccentrically dressed festival-goers.These performances, taking 
place across 12 stages around the festival grounds, included perfor-
mances from major names like Tra-
vis Scott, Halsey, Bassnectar and many others.
Among the many talented art-
ists performing at Okeechobee were Gainesville locals ﬂ  ipturn, The Savants of Soul, and Pearl & the Oysters. Flipturn and The Savants of Soul were the ﬁ  rst and second 
round winners of Gainesville’s Des-
tination Okeechobee competition, respectively.Flipturn’s set was Friday, March 
2, the second day of the festival. The group seemed to have big shoes to 
ﬁ  ll as they stepped onto the “Be” 
Stage, one of the festival’s main stages which would also see perfor-mances from Slightly Stoopid, Kha-lid, Snoop Dogg, Arcade Fire and more throughout the weekend.
The response of the ever-grow-
ing crowd showed that ﬂ  ipturn’s performance was a major success. 
Each member of the ﬁ  ve-piece band 
was on for the afternoon show, exe-cuting their seven studio songs with high energy and the type of on-stage conﬁ  dence that one would expect from a much more seasoned band.
“The bigger the stage, the more 
conﬁ  dent we actually get and the better we play, I think,” lead singer Dillon Basse said.
“It’s just that energy that’s there; 
we can kind of foster it, I think,” synth player Taylor Allen said.
That conﬁ  dence showed through 
to more than the crowd, as drum-mer Adrian Walker recalled a staff member’s shock at the realization that such a talented band was per-forming as a contest winner. Adrian 
also hoped that this performance 
allowed ﬂ  ipturn to expand its fan base, especially as the group re-vealed it is preparing for the release of their second EP.
The Savants of Soul performed 
later that Friday afternoon at the “Pyramid Palace” stage. The breezy, open-air stage allowed audiences to 
view the performance from all sides and get up close and personal with 
the band.
In the South Florida mid-after-
noon heat, The Savants of Soul performed in their traditional style: suits and shades. The large-scale soul band had its audience in a 
constant state of motion, with an 
always lively 90-minute set led by The Savants of Soul frontman, Jus-tin McKenzie.
During the red-hot set, The Sa-
vants of Soul unveiled their newest unreleased track, “Dead Man Run-ning.” McKenzie revealed that the Puerto Rico-recorded single would 
be set for release in April and would 
include the release of an accompa-nying music video.
From ﬂ  ipturn to Arcade Fire 
and the smallest, most intimate stage to the largest and loudest, Okeechobee’s 2018 run was a suc-cess on all accounts. Keep an eye out for Avenue’s ﬁ  rst ever video re-
cap of the event this week.  
Okeechobee Music Festival Recap: Local performers impress  
Photo by Emma Witmer
The Savants of Soul won Round 2 of Destination 
Okeechobee to play at the festival.Photo by Emma Witmer
Flipturn, a local indie-rock band, played at Okeechobee’s main stage on Friday, March 2 for a consistently growing crowd. 
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Editor 
The biggest drinking holiday of the year, St. 
Patrick’s Day, is just around the corner. Falling 
on a Saturday for the ﬁ  rst time in nearly a de-cade, this year’s celebration of the Irish holiday is guaranteed to be one of the rowdiest to date. 
With no school or work to worry about, stu-
dents and locals alike will be out in full force. So break out all the green gear your wardrobe has to offer; here are the best places to spend the holiday in Gainesville. 
Swamppatrick’s Day 2018 @ The 
Swamp RestaurantThe Swamp Restaurant’s St. Patrick’s Day 
celebration may kick off the earliest of all: On 
Friday, March 16, the bar and restaurant will 
host their weekly Free Beer Friday with green beer and a green balloon drop at midnight. Along with Irish dancers at 5 p.m. and an an-nual bagpiper at 8 p.m. on St. Patty’s itself, there will be green beer pitchers, $5 Irish car bombs, $15 “lucky leprechaun liquor pitch-ers”, Jell-O shots, Irish food and much more.
St. Patrick’s Day @ First Magnitude 
Brewing Company
First Magnitude’s annual Clean Creek Re-
vival, which beneﬁ  ts cleaning local creeks and waterways, also falls on St. Patrick’s Day this year. Starting at noon patrons can enjoy beers such as Time Out Irish Dry Stout, Irish Red Ale, Green Kiwi Sour, Mint Chocolate Stout 
and many more for a good cause. Irish bands 
Scuttured The Bruce and The Resonant Rogues will play from 4 to 7 p.m. and 8 to 11 p.m., respectively.
Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally 
@ High Dive
If you’re still going strong by 5 p.m., the 
Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally also falls on St. Patrick’s Day this month. Enjoy food 
trucks, live music, a silent disco and more, 
with the event raising money for Habitat for Humanity.
SOJA @ Heartwood Soundstage
Trade in Irish jigs for soulful roots reggae with SOJA, a Grammy-nominated, eight-piece band that’s made waves all around the world 
with smooth releases packed with passion. 
The show kicks off at 7 p.m. with supporting acts RDGLDGRN and Propaganajah opening. Tickets are available from $28 to $62 at heart-woodsoundstage.com/events. 
The Disco Ball – St. Paddy’s Day @ The 
Backyard at Boca Fiesta & Palomino
If you’re somehow able to go through the 
night after a long day of partying, The Back-
yard is the place to be. Starting at 9 p.m., the 
bar will host The Disco Ball, a 70s and 80s themed event with funk, soul, disco and more from DJPFunk. Throwback outﬁ  ts are encour-aged. Entry is $5 at the door.
The best places to spend St. Patrick’s Day in GainesvilleWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Gabriella Paul
Avenue Writer
Fans of the viral YouTube sen-
sation Buttermilk Sky — a young 
Nigerian dwarf goat that frolics in 
the grass and leapfrogs over other 
goat kids — get excited.
Flow Space, a yoga studio 
downtown, will host its ﬁ  rst baby 
goat yoga session from 2 to 3 p.m. 
March 17.
In the studio’s grassy back-
yard, with people practicing 
downward dog with Flow Space co-owner and instructor Maggie Rucker, 10 to 12 baby goats from Whiteacre’s Dairy Goats will prac-
tice their parkour on and around 
all the yogis attending.
Catherine Whiteacre, owner of 
Whiteacre’s and family friend of 
the Ruckers, said she will trans-
port a mix of 12 Nigerian dwarfs and young Nubian goats in big dog crates by pickup truck for the event.
She believes this is the ﬁ  rst 
time Gainesville has seen an event like this. But with it being the ﬁ  rst time, she said managing 
the goats will be interesting.
“If anybody is not behaving, 
I’m just going to put them in time-
out,” she said.
Whiteacre said she is trimming 
all of their hooves and brushing them out before the event.
“So they’re nice and clean for 
the ladies,” she said.
Among the goats bounding 
around the event, Whiteacre said she is most excited for the yogis 
to meet Pomoji, a ﬁ  ve-month-old, 
solid brown Nigerian dwarf; the four whethers, Salt, Pepper, Olive 
and Pumpkin; and two Nubians, Tapioca and Chimichurri.
Nigerian dwarf goats remain 
miniature their whole lives but 
still grow to the size of a small dog, while Nubian goats can 
grow up to around 200 pounds, 
she said.
For this reason, Whiteacre 
said it might be difﬁ  cult to keep around enough baby goats to do 
yoga events year round.
Although Whiteacre does not 
practice yoga herself, she said 
she ﬁ  nds her own kind of medita-
tion in the early and long hours of 
tending to her goats on the farm.
“You won’t ﬁ  nd me taking a 
yoga class and likewise, I’m kind of thinking that these ladies in the 
class aren’t going to be there pick-
ing up afterwards and helping de-liver kids,” she said.         
Whiteacre believes, in a sense, 
it is the best of the yoga and the goat world joining together, bringing a little piece of farm life to the yoga mat.
“The (goats) are always up-
beat. They’re always happy,” she said. “The fact that these yoga women are going to be sharing in 
that much is wonderful.”
Rucker, a co-owner of Flow 
Space and yoga instructor for the event, said she is excited as well.
She assumes the event will be 
very similar to the kitten yoga 
that Flow Space hosted in the past.
“Very distracting, but very 
fun, you know,” she said. “For me as an instructor, very distract-ing because I’m there watching 
all of the mayhem and laughing 
so hard.”
She said she can’t wait to 
watch yogis try to hold child’s 
pose or downward dog with baby 
goats jumping all around them.
“It’s just healthy, you know,” 
she said, “to just laugh and enjoy nature.”
Rucker said her daily motiva-
tion is to provide an environment for wellness in the community she is so in love with. 
The 24-year-old Gainesville 
native said her dream was born two years ago.
While working as an instruc-
tor at My Yoga Connection, the 
building that is now her yoga 
studio, Flow Space, the business closed down.
Seeing ﬁ  rsthand a loyal yogi 
community lose the beautiful stu-dio where they loved to meditate, 
Rucker jumped into action to save 
the space.
“I needed help; I needed some-
body to help me, you know, with this dream,” she said.
Enter Hannah Hill, or “Humm”, 
a 21-year-old Gainesville native and daughter of the man who owned the property.
 After meeting, Humm and 
Rucker quickly became business partners and co-owners of Flow Space, opening the doors to the public June 6, 2016.
The space has heart pine ﬂ  oor, 
brick walls and high arched ceil-ings, perfect for facilitating medi-tation and balance, according to 
the website.
“The space provides an um-
brella for so much more than just 
yoga,” Rucker said.
Originally a railroad station 
identical to the sister building next door, she said the building holds so much history of what came before it.
“It just creates this background 
of beauty and good vibes,” she said. “There have been so many wonderful events that have hap-pened inside of that building even 
before it was Flow Space.”
With upcoming events like 
goat yoga Saturday, to all of the 
events in the years to come, Ruck-
er said the mission of Flow Space 
has evolved and will continue evolving forever.
“We’re trying to be, you know, 
original,” she said, “and be what-
ever we are and trying to continu-
ally tune to our own truths.”Flow Space to host Baby Goat Yoga event this weekend
Courtesy to The Alligator
T en to 12 baby goats will travel from Whiteacre’s Dairy Goats for Saturday’s event, the ﬁ  rst 
of its kind in Gainesville.
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
By T aylor McLamb
Avenue Writer
With the semester over half-
way over, students of all majors 
could use some much-needed 
self-care in their lives. In this 
spirit, the UF Women’s Student Association will host a self-care fair Friday on Plaza of the Ameri-
cas to commemorate Women’s 
History Month. 
The fair focuses on the impor-
tance of taking time to take care of oneself and how self-love and 
acceptance can drastically im-
prove both mental and physical health, something many forget during stressful semesters packed 
will class, internships, jobs and 
more. Participating organizations include UF’s 3rd Annual Out of the Darkness Walk, Strive UF, UF Counseling and Wellness Center, 
UF IRHA, Asian American Stu-
dent Union, Planned Parenthood Generation Action UF and many more.
Alexandra Woodard, a 
24-year-old Florida State Univer-sity alumna, said she was look-ing for things to do while visiting Gainesville and was drawn to the 
event’s promotion of self-love in 
a time when society warns wom-en that taking time to focus on oneself is “selﬁ  sh.”
“Society is always telling wom-
en their focus should be on men or ﬁ  nding a man or even taking care of their kids,” said Woodard. “Women are running everything, 
but it’s still never about us. That 
in itself makes life kind of stress-ful for women, so I think we need more time to just focus on our 
own needs.”
The fair will include a variety 
of activities, with each geared 
toward the overall goal of self-care.  There will be free yoga on the lawn at 11:30 a.m., DIY lip and body scrub, learning how to make the perfect sleep kit taught by GatorWell Health Promotion 
Services and the chance to grab 
free face masks, tote bags, can-dles and more.
Makayla Nicholas, an 18-year-
old UF business management 
freshman, said the fact that she 
was on a tight college budget and couldn’t normally splurge on skincare attracted her to the 
event. She also liked that it was 
more focused towards self-love and resting instead of just aiming to achieve nice skin and beauty 
standards.
“We can be so caught up in 
our day-to-day activities that we 
can forget how to take care of and truly love ourselves,” Nicho-
las said. “If we don’t love who 
we are, not just based on how we love or our material posses-sions, we can’t possibly be able 
to genuinely pour that love into 
our education, career, communi-ties, families, friends, pets and 
others we interact with.”
Nicholas stresses how, espe-
cially with the pressure of classes and grades, taking just 15 min-utes a day to set aside as “me 
time” can positively beneﬁ  t our mental health and self-image.
“If we aren’t healthy, we 
won’t be able to actively live and 
enjoy the lives we are trying to 
build,” Nicholas said.
Gainesville’s Pace Center for 
Girls, an organization that strives 
to provide young women the 
opportunity for a better future through education, counseling, 
training and advocacy, will be 
in attendance collecting hygiene products. For every hygiene product package you bring, you will be entered to win a rafﬂ  e.
Nicholas said she’s interested 
in helping out and applauds the 
organization for the work they 
do.
“It’s important that they are 
doing this because we need to help our young girls, take care of 
them, love them, educate them, 
mentor them and support them,” Nicholas said.
The free Women’s History 
Month Self-Care Fair will be Fri-day from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.Women’s Student Association to host self-care fair Friday
Courtesy to The Alligator
After a long Spring Break, the self-care fair encourages both taking care of and loving oneself. 
The fair encourages self-love during Women’s History MonthBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-25-18-43-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
★★ DEE'S HOUSE ★★
Quality & well-maintained home. WALK OR 
BIKE TO UF www.abpacker1@gmail.com  
352-256-8370,352-246-8645
3-12-18-3-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     3-30-18-32-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
MATH/PHYSICS TUTORINGPhD in mathematical physics. Subjects: al-gebra, trig, pre-calc, calc or general physics. Rate: $20/hr. youtube channel: tutelar tutor-ing. email: tutelar@instruction.com    3-21-25-15
● PREVENTIVE CARE● DISABILITY EVALUATIONS● AND PROGRAM FOR AUTISM.Call 352-275-8171             3-30-12-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatestSwim Instructors wanted. Fun and rewarding position with a great company. Lifeguard cert preferred. Experience with children, swim preferred. Apply today suncountrysports.com/jobs     3-23-18-10-14
Photographer making underwater
Youtube videos at Blue Springs seeks
female models. Gig pays $25 for 90 minutes
plus pictures and park reimbursement.
Call for more info  352-286-4579
3-19-18-5-14
part time help 3 to 4 days a week to help main-tain Horses and the barn. Must have equine Knowledge Contact Ken at 4077219711 or Najorkaperformancehorses@gmail.com     3-16-18-3-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – September. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr. plus bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online for requisition #: 159404 or 160560 at www.gatordining.com     3-23-18-6-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Flow back
4 “Get outta here!”
10 Column in a
pugilist’s record
14 Congressional
auditing org.
15 Rhine wine
region
16 Stable parent17 Door-to-door
seller’s form
19 Very smart
20 Gosling of “Blade
Runner 2049”
21 Tupperware
sound
23 Jeans label24 Nightly TV staple
25 Do some
bargain-hunting
28 Where 
K-I-S-S-I-N-Ggoes on
30 Hold the floor31 Fabled beast32 Brad Paisley
venue
34 Copycat35 Text with maps
and timelines
39 Org. in Dan
Brown’s “Digital
Fortress”
40 Temps41 “There’s an __
for that”
44 Figures on a
sports news
crawl
47 Input, as
accidentallyerased data
49 Residential 
get-together
53 Aviation prefix54 Pop __55 Mongolia locale56 Camp Lejeune
gp.
57 Losing
proposition
59 Game with
ringers
63 Burden64 Smart people?65 NBC skit show66 2016 #1 hit for
Rihanna, whichcan precede bothparts of 17-, 25-,35-, 49- and 59-Across
67 More sinewy68 Farm areaDOWN
1 Cause of star
wars?
2 Scrubby
wastelands
3 Fragrant shower
gel
4 Setting for most of
“Charlotte’s Web”
5 Overhead trains
6 Volcanic __7 Billy Blanks’
workout system
8 Become frozen9 Aquarium fish
10 SHO sister
channel
11 Liqueur in an
espresso martini
12 Point in the right
direction
13 Formally withdraw18 Point in the right
direction?
22 Ask for a hand?24 “Empire” actress
Long
25 Nasal dividers26 Deli option27 Cookie with a
Peeps variety
29 Antarctic waters33 Many mos.34 “__ Road”:
Beatles album36 QB’s mistakes37 Mongolian tent38 London-born
supermodel
42 Word of interest?43 Quid __ quo44 Omen on
February 2nd
45 “Starsky &
Hutch” Fordmodel
46 Highbrow
filmmaker48 The “N” of 
CSNY
50 “Get outta here!”51 Garlic
mayonnaise
52 Worth more to
collectors
56 KGB country58 “Naughty,
naughty!”
60 __-fi61 Squeeze (by)62 Plotting
By Robin Stears
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/14/1803/14/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 14, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Kind of guitar
5 Foul-smelling
10 Bouillabaisse,
e.g.
14 Where the Jazz
play
15 Dodge16 Weighty book17 Signed up, as to
vote
19 Military group
20 113-gram
sandwich, more
or less
22 Sleeping woe23 Like Oberlin
College since itopened in 1833
24 About 1.8 meters
deep
31 Watch pocket
34 Approaches35 Mall unit36 Word after New
or teen
38 Hidden drug
supply
40 Big gulp41 Insurance case43 TV ex-military
group led byHannibal Smith
45 Mario Bros.
console
46 37.9-liter topper,
roughly
49 Fatty liver spread50 Hybrid pack
animals
54 Proceed another
1.6 kilometers orso
59 Christmas tree
topper’s topper
60 Double-checked
before cutting
61 Congregation’s
“I agree!”
62 Geometry
calculations
63 Track
assignment
64 Arnaz with two
stars on theHollywood Walkof Fame
65 Toy truck brand66 Old Russian
leader
DOWN
1 Traditional
Islamic garment2 Thoroughly
delighted in
3 Cosmologist 
Carl
4 Counties across
the pond
5 Lavish party
6 At any time7 Firewood
protector
8 Logical
beginning?
9 Subtract
10 They often have
class
11 Softened, as
rhetoric
12 Kuwaiti leader
13 Rainy
18 Wood finish
21 We, to one who
says “oui”
25 Ballot markings
26 Deadly27 Muse for Shelley28 German
industrial city
29 Cleveland’s lake30 Govt. agency
rules
31 Something
known to be true
32 Eye rudely
33 Tall, skinny sorts37 Tubular pasta
39 “So there!”
42 Course with
squares andcubes
44 What babies
create, and viceversa?
47 Eye rudely
48 Ruckus
51 Turkish coins
52 Kagan of the
Supreme Court53 Meal where the
10 Plagues ofEgypt are recalled
54 Mario Bros., for
one
55 Architect Saarinen
56 Magneto’s
enemies
57 Hardwood prized
for outdoor
furniture
58 Tabula __
59 Owned
By Rich Proulx©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/13/1803/13/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, March 13, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  ____ line
1.  Fish eggs5.  ____ cords
2.  Dirty6.  Live
3.  Revealing 7.  Tightly 
4.  Expensive CNUYTO
VRACIACLOAV
XESTI
ACENNLU
ILGNTELNGSLYU
LSCTYOANSWERS: 1A-County  5A-Vocal  6A-Exist  7A-Snugly
1D-Caviar  2D-Unclean  3D-Telling  4D-Costly  B-Nova Scotia3-14-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: ____ ____ has the fourth-largest film industry 
in Canada hosting over 100 productions yearly. 
BONUS
Eyes Up. 
Phone 
Off.
DON’T 
TEXT  
& 
DRIVE.16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesTrack coach Mike Holloway 
was named the USTFCCCA Men's Indoor Coach of the Year on Tuesday, three days after the Gators won a national championship.Gators kick off NCAA Championships today
The No. 17 Florida women's swimming and diving team is sending nine of 
its athletes to compete in the 2018 Division I Women's Swimming & Diving Championships starting today at the McCorkle Aquatic Pavilion in Colum-bus, Ohio. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
BASEBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Nick Horvath stood tall on sec-
ond base with his hand on his belt 
buckle. After the Gators center ﬁ  elder sent a double to left center ﬁ  eld that scored two Gator run-
ners, he whipped out some famil-
iar dance moves.
“I’ve got two wins (in Fort-
nite),” Horvath said. “It’s in the 
past week, so I’m hot lately.”
Horvath, who came into Tues-
day’s game hitting .315 and play-
ing some of the hottest baseball on the team, went 3-for-4, scoring twice in addition to his two-RBI double. 
His ﬁ  nal hit of the night was 
part of a seven run ﬁ  fth inning that helped No. 2 Florida (16-3) secure a 12-6 win at McKethan 
Stadium against the No. 7 Florida 
State Seminoles (14-3). Tuesday night’s victory over the ‘Noles was UF’s 11th win in the past 12 meetings against its in-state rival as the Gators handed FSU its third straight loss.
“I don’t really know about (that 
streak),” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “We’ve just had some really good teams that have played some really clean games.”
Freshman Jordan Butler got the 
nod from O’Sullivan following his heroics on Saturday. Butler pro-
vided the game-ending RBI single 
to complete UF’s sweep of Rhode Island over the weekend.
His start Tuesday night came up short of his actions on Satur-day. The young southpaw gave up four runs on ﬁ  ve hits in fewer than three innings of work.
The Seminoles started the scor-
ing early in the bottom of the ﬁ  rst. Back-to-back solo shots from ﬁ  rst 
baseman Rhett Aplin and catcher 
Cal Raleigh gave FSU an early 2-0 lead.
Aplin would touch ‘em all again 
in the fourth inning on a two-run blast into the right ﬁ  eld netting, doubling the ‘Noles lead, 4-2.
After Aplin’s second home run, 
O’Sullivan pulled the plug on But-
ler’s start.
“All in all, we threw three 
freshmen again tonight. It’s a 
learning experience,” O’Sullivan said. “It’s just a matter of making a couple pitches here and there to get out of an inning.”
But the offense pulled some 
strings and saved Butler from his 
second loss of the season.
Third baseman Jonathan India 
joined the home run bandwagon 
in the bottom of the second. Flori-da’s third baseman sent a lofty ﬂ  y ball to the student section in left ﬁ  eld that just escaped the conﬁ  nes of Perry Field, giving UF its ﬁ  rst run of the ballgame.
UF got another run back in 
the bottom of the third on an RBI groundout from JJ Schwarz. 
After a few scoreless frames, 
Schwarz came back to the plate in the ﬁ  fth inning with the bases loaded. The senior sent a deep ﬂ  y  Gators' oﬀ  ense explodes, blows past No. 7 Florida State
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida center ﬁ  elder Nick Horvath went 3-for-4, notched two RBIs and scored two runs on Tuesday 
against Florida State in a 12-6 win for the Gators.
FOOTBALL
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
For Feleipe Franks, the start of 
spring football practice this week brings one thing to the forefront of his mind.
Relief.Franks, the lanky 6-foot-5, 
227-pound quarterback who played in all 11 games for UF last season — starting eight of them — had as disappointing a cam-paign in 2017 as any player on the Gators’ roster.
He completed just 54.6 percent 
of his passes, the second-worst mark in the SEC among qualiﬁ  ed players, and was frequently the target of criticism and blame from frustrated fans.
But with the Gators’ disastrous 
4-7 season last fall behind him and ﬁ  rst-year coach Dan Mul-len providing a new opportunity, Franks is ready for a fresh start.
“It’s a sigh of relief, new air 
in the building,” he said. “I don’t spend too much time going back dwelling on what I should have did or what I could have did.”
Instead, Franks is focused on 
winning the battle for Florida’s starting quarterback job, a compe-tition that begins this Friday when the team kicks off its four-week-long spring practice schedule.
Luke Del Rio and Malik Zaire, 
UF’s other two players to receive time under center last season, left the program this summer, leav-ing the inexperienced group of freshman Emory Jones, redshirt freshman Jake Allen and redshirt sophomore Kyle Trask as the only other candidates for the role.
Jones, an early enrollee and 
the No. 5 dual-threat quarterback recruit in the country, accord-ing to 247Sports, appears to be Franks’ biggest threat.
He threw for 1,197 yards and 
10 touchdowns through the ﬁ  rst eight games of his senior year at Heard County High School in La-Grange, Georgia, and also rushed for 494 yards and six touchdowns over those eight games.
Despite Jones’ upside and 
 Franks ready for a fresh start in 2018
Long after the Florida bas-ketball team’s lifeblood had trickled from its 
veins on Friday in St. Louis, the Arkansas Razorbacks continued to pound a beaten UF team that just wouldn’t stop trying. That was much to the frustration of one broadcaster on press row, who slammed a table with his open palm and mouthed something under his breath. 
The man appeared to be in-
volved with the Arkansas radio broadcast, although his exact role was unclear. Regard-less, his outburst vio-lated one of the cardi-nal rules of covering sports: No — abso-lutely no — cheering 
in the press box. Espe-cially when your team has an insurmountable lead. 
Casual fans might wonder why 
this is such an all-important rule. When I started working at the Alli-gator in 2015, I too wondered why fandom is such a sin in sports jour-nalism, or more speciﬁ  cally why I couldn’t wear my Florida hats 
An honest assessment of bias 
in today's sports reportingSweet and Bauer / Opinion
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Ethan Bauer
Twitter: @ebaueriWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
MEN’S TENNIS
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
After a weekend road trip, 
the No. 12  Florida men’s tennis 
team returns to its home court to play No. 32 TCU on Wednesday. 
The midweek matchup is set to 
begin at 6 p.m. at the Ring Ten-nis Complex.
The Gators (8-5, 3-1 SEC) 
have won three of their last four matches largely because of their doubles play.
Florida has won the doubles 
point in four consecutive match-
es, and the No. 1-ranked duo of 
junior Alfredo Perez and sopho-more Johannes Ingildsen has led the way.
“We are just feeling more 
comfortable together, and it’s showing,” Perez said.
Perez and Ingildsen have 
won all three doubles matches 
they have ﬁ  nished during the 
streak.
Florida will look to continue 
its solid showings in doubles against a tough TCU (7-3) team led by the No. 20 tandem of 
sophomore Alastair Gray and 
freshman Alex Rybakov.
The Horned Frogs also have 
a strong singles squad that in-cludes No. 30 Gray, No. 32 Ry-bakov and No. 72 Trevor John-son. Rybakov has won his last ﬁ  ve singles matches dating back to Feb. 6.
The Gators’ singles play has 
been unpredictable.
Florida opened its SEC sched-ule with wins against Georgia and Tennessee, only losing three combined  singles matches against the two teams.
However, UF faltered on 
March 9 and lost all but one 
point against Mississippi State.
No. 7 Perez was the central 
focus after he lost in straight sets 
in back-to-back singles matches before he rallied on March 11 against Auburn to get back into the win column.
“(Perez) got back to the ba-
sics,” coach Bryan Shelton said. 
“He was able to stay calm, con-
trol his emotions and it resulted in solid play.”
Against Auburn, Shelton also 
restructured the singles lineup. He placed junior McClain Kessler into the lineup for the ﬁ  rst time since Feb. 17 and senior Jordan Belga for the ﬁ  rst time all season.
Belga made the most of his 
opportunity and won his match in straight sets 6-2, 6-2.
“You never know what could 
happen,” Belga said. “You have to always be ready to play.”
To prepare for TCU, Florida 
has worked on its situational play. Shelton has expressed frus-
tration in the team’s ability to 
close out matches.
“We need to make sure we’re 
at our best in those big-point mo-ments,” Shelton said. “I know we will be.”
 @dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org Florida returns 
home for midweek matchup against TCULACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
Despite being tied at 16 with the 
No. 10 team in the country with just 
over six minutes to play, freshman midﬁ  elder Shannon Kavanagh kept her cool.
With the Gators’ abysmal ﬁ  rst-half 
effort that saw the team trailing 10-2 nearly 20 minutes into the game, it seemed unlikely that Florida would 
ever be in position to win.
But that didn’t matter to Kavanagh.
She had been held scoreless for the 
ﬁ  rst 49:04 of the game, but when UF 
was down by one late in the second half, she stepped up and scored the game-tying goal. All of the sudden, the Gators had a chance to take the lead for the ﬁ  rst time all day.
With possession of the ball, Kava-
nagh juked Navy’s Jenna Collins. She 
cut to the right and ﬁ  red a side-armed shot in the direction of Midshipmen 
goalie Ingrid Boyum. Kavanagh’s shot snuck past Boyum’s left shoulder and found the back of the net.
“Once I started shooting, I thought 
my stick was hot, and I knew I had to put the ball in the back of the net,” Ka-
vanagh said.
The improbable comeback was 
complete. Kavanagh scored Florida’s 
ﬁ  nal four goals as the No. 6 Gators es-caped sure defeat against Navy, earn-ing a 19-16 victory.
“(Kavanagh) came in clutch,” 
Gators coach Amanda O’Leary said. “She stepped up when we needed her.”
Florida (5-2) narrowly avoided los-
ing back-to-back games for the ﬁ  rst time this season, overcoming its poor start to the game.
“They could have quit,” O’Leary 
said. “They could have put their heads down, but they gutted it out.”
Florida had no answer for Navy in the ﬁ  rst half. The Midshipmen (5-2) opened the game with ﬁ  ve straight goals. With 11 minutes remaining in the half, UF trailed 10-2, the team’s largest deﬁ  cit of the season.
Things went from bad to worse for 
the Gators, as star junior attacker Lind-
sey Ronbeck appeared to have injured 
her knee. She was helped off the ﬁ  eld and the severity of her injury is cur-rently unknown.
But Florida then went on a run of its  
own, outscoring the Midshipmen 6-1 to end the half and cutting the Navy lead to 10-7.
Florida’s defense took charge of 
the game after the ﬁ  rst half despite not having its anchor in senior defender Aniya Flanagan, who missed the game with to an injury.
UF caused 10 turnovers as opposed 
to Navy’s two. Defender Cara Trom-betta caused ﬁ  ve of those turnovers, a new career high for her.
“We kept chipping away on of-
fense,” she said. “As a defensive unit, we had to back them up and make statements.”
Once Kavanagh started scoring, 
Navy couldn’t stop the Gators’ offense. Florida ﬁ  nished the game on yet anoth-er 6-1 run, sealing the victory.
The team will now prepare for 
Big East play on Sunday in Nashville 
when it takes on the Vanderbilt Com-
modores.
Trombetta said that while the team 
is trying not to look past its difﬁ  cult conference opponents, it still has its sights set beyond the regular season.
“We’re thinking about right now,” 
she said. “But at the same time, we have playoffs in the back of our head.”
 
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.org
  Gators avoid second consecutive loss 
with comeback victory against Navy
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Midﬁ  elder Shannon Kavanagh matched her career high of four goals Tuesday 
against Navy. “She came in clutch, ” Gators coach Amanda O’Leary said. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
Franks’ inconsistencies, team-
mates haven’t backed away from voicing support for last season’s starter.
“Even though (Franks) had his 
ups and downs, he never showed that he was down,” junior receiver Josh Hammond said. “That was big for us just as a team moving forward knowing that he would never give up.”
And Franks has shown flashes 
of potential.
He completed 19-of-28 passes 
against Tennessee on Sept. 16, in-cluding a game-winning 63-yard touchdown to receiver Tyrie Cleve-land as time expired. He also re-corded a 79-yard run against Texas A&M on Oct. 14, breaking the re-cord for longest rush by a quarter-back in school history.
“I’ve always wanted to lead the 
team and be that guy that can bring us to a championship,” he said. “I know it doesn’t seem that way, the way last year went. But like I said, we closed that book.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Franks: W e closed the book on last year
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks is looking to move on from a disappointing 2017 campaign.
ball to left that was caught at the 
warning track. The shot was deep enough for Austin Langworthy to score from third and tie the game at four. He finished the game 
1-for-3 with two RBIs and a walk 
in his last AB. 
In the fifth, an RBI groundout 
off the bat of Deacon Liput, kick-started UF’s seven-run inning, put-ting Florida on top for the first — and last — time in the ballgame.
In addition to Horvath’s dou-
ble, first baseman Keenan Bell 
came through with a two-run dou-
ble of his own. And in his second at bat of the inning, Langworthy sent a single through the left side to score Horvath in the process.   
Florida scored its final two 
runs thanks to India's bat. He hit a sacrifice fly in the sixth, and launched a home run that nearly 
reached the doors of Gate 2 at the 
O’Connell Center. 
The junior finished 2-for-2, 
scoring three times and driving in three runs. He collected his fifth and sixth home runs of the sea-son, but said he doesn’t consider himself a power hitter.“If I put a good swing on the 
ball and square it up, it’ll go pretty far,” India said.
With the offense in a groove, 
the Gators' bullpen took control after Butler was pulled, guiding the Gators through 6.2 near-flaw-less innings. Butler’s relief gave up only one hit prior to the eighth in-ning, when FSU picked up its final two runs of the game.
Tommy Mace hurled 3.1 score-
less innings, striking out four and walking only two batters, as An-drew Baker, Jack Leftwich and Michael Byrne finished the game for Florida.
The Gators will hit the road to 
start conference play. South Caro-lina will host UF this weekend, with Florida expected to throw its 
usual weekend starters. O’Sullivan 
said the trip to Columbia won’t be easy.
“Any time you go on the road 
for the first time in the league, it’s just a totally different atmo-sphere,” O’Sullivan said. “We’re gonna have to handle that as well.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14Bullpen tossed 6.2 near-
scoreless innings vs. 'Noles
and T-Shirts anymore. But while 
The Alligator and other tradition-al media outlets draw a hard line between journalism and fandom, that line is constantly blurred in the ever-evolving sports media landscape, which has its pros and cons. 
The pro side of merging the two 
is that it allows reporters — and I think fans, to some extent — to have more fun. The most excit-ing part of sports is fandom, and asking someone who likes sports enough to write about them for a living to give that up seems akin to forcing priests to be celibate. It’s arguable that it’s necessary, but it’s certainly not ideal. 
A growing number of voices 
argue that bias doesn’t matter be-cause everyone is biased, so what really matters is transparency. If you’re a Florida fan writing about the Gators, the theory goes, then just say so. People will trust you just as much for being honest. 
Plus, if the era of “fake news” 
has revealed one principle above all, it’s that people are drawn to writing that promotes their view-points and biases. It might not be ideal ethically, but fandom-fueled writing can be lucrative, hence the rise of SBNation sites like Alligator Army or Tomahawk Nation. 
But embracing fandom as a 
sports writer obviously has its pitfalls. If you’re open about sup-porting the Gators as a Florida beat writer, you won’t be trusted to provide fair coverage of, for ex-ample, the credit card scandal that infected UF’s football program in 2017. Or about sexual assault al-legations against players, arrests, etc. 
That isn’t to say it’s impossible 
to be an objective fan, but let’s be honest — it’s a practical require-ment of fandom to abandon nu-ance and objectivity and root for whatever outcome is best for your team. 
The debate over objectivity in 
sports reporting has reached some of the industry’s more prominent figures. 
“I’m an old man. An old, old, 
old man,” sports writer Jeff Pearl-man wrote on Twitter back in Feb-ruary. “But when I was coming up in journalism, there was no “my coach” or “my team” or “my guy.” You were handed a laptop, a cre-dential, a pad and a pen and you covered sans bias, leanings, favor-ites. You just wrote and reported.”
He was responding to a tweet 
from Master Tesfatsion, a Bleacher Report writer who used to cover the Redskins for the Washington Post, calling Arizona State football coach Herm Edwards “my coach.” Tesfatsion is, as you may have guessed, an Arizona State alum-nus. 
A tame debate between the 
two ensued, and neither gave any ground. That result pretty much il-lustrates the point I’m getting at. 
The answer isn’t really yes, it’s 
OK to be a sports reporter and a fan, or no, you can’t combine the two. Depending on your goals as a reporter or sports media personal-ity, you can go either way. 
Ethan Bauer is a sports writer 
at The Alligator. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org.
COLUMN,  from pg. 14
Wednesday, March 14
Women's Swimming & Diving  @ NCAA Championships, All Day
Men's Tennis  vs. TCU, 6 p.m.
Thursday, March 15
Women's Swimming & Diving  @ NCAA Championships, All Day
Men's Basketball  vs. St. Bonaventure, 9:57 p.m., TruTV
Friday, March 16
Men's Golf  @ Schenkel Invitational, All Day
Women's Swimming & Diving  @ NCAA Championships, All Day
Men's Tennis  vs. Kentucky, 5 p.m., 
Women's Tennis  @ Georgia, 5 p.m.
Softball  @ Georgia, 6 p.m., SEC Network +
Baseball  @ South Carolina, 7 p.m.,  SEC Network +
Saturday, March 17
*Men's Basketball  vs. Texas Tech/Stephen F. Austin, TBD
Men's Golf  @ Schenkel Invitational, All Day
Women's Swimming & Diving  @ NCAA Championships, All Day
Softball @ Georgia, 2 p.m., SEC Network +
Baseball  @ South Carolina, 4 p.m.,  SEC Network +
Sunday, March 18
Men's Golf  @ Schenkel Invitational, All Day
Women's Golf  @ Evans Derby Invitational, All Day
Women's Tennis  @ Tennessee, Noon
Baseball @ South Carolina, 1 p.m.,  ESPNU
Men's Tennis @ Vanderbilt, 1 p.m.
Lacrosse  @ Vanderbilt, 2 p.m.,  Facebook Live
Softball  @ Georgia, 2 p.m.,  SEC Network +
* = If NecessaryTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS20   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2018
Inside
fl i
Inside
Wednesday, March 14, 2018
   To keep up on all things UF, get social:      To keep up on all things UF,  get social: Facebook 
ufloridaInstagram 
ufloridaSnapchat 
uf1853Twitter 
@insideufYour campus connection for all things UF
Brought to you bimonthly by  
UF COMMUNICATIONSONE.UF continues to evolve as UF’s self-service 
mechanism. The Office for Student Financial 
Affairs has begun packaging financial aid for stu -
dents for the 2018-19 award year, and students 
will soon be able to view their aid packages and 
report additional aid in ONE.UF . Students will 
also be able to complete registration prep tasks, 
view the schedule of courses, and view action 
items (service indicators and notifications) in 
ONE.UF . Read more about ONE.UF in the lat -
est issue of the COMPASS Update newsletter at: 
http://compass.ufl.edu.One.UF  
Continues  
to Grow2011 Gator Bowl. Mullen has the second-most 
career wins of any Mississippi State head coach 
ever with a 69-46 record. In 2014, he earned the 
SEC Coach of the Year award and the George 
Munger Award. 
Before becoming the head coach at UF , Mullen 
was the offensive coordinator at UF from 2005 
to 2008. Here, he coached two quarterbacks that 
each led the Gators team to Heisman consider -
ation. These quarterbacks include Tim Tebow 
and Chris Leak. During his time coaching at 
UF , the Gators averaged more than 42 points per 
game each year. This has only been accomplished 
one other time in school history. In his final year 
as the offensive coordinator, the Gators won their 
second national title in three years.ACCENT Speakers Bureau presents Gators 
football coach Dan Mullen T uesday, Mar. 20 at 
the University Auditorium. Doors will open at 
6 p.m. and the speaking engagement will begin 
at 7 p.m. Students with a valid UFID may pick 
up a maximum of two tickets free of charge 
from the ACCENT office on the third floor of 
the J. Wayne Reitz Union on Mar. 19 between 
the hours of noon and 5 p.m. If any tickets 
remain, they will be made available to the gen -
eral public at the University Auditorium Box 
Office at noon the following day.
Dan Mullen’s career as a head coach began in 
2009 when he coached the Mississippi State 
Bulldogs. He coached Mississippi State to an 
impressive 52-14 victory over Michigan in the ACCENT Presents: Dan Mullen
UF College of Veterinary Medicine is hold -
ing its annual open house and community 
outreach event on Apr. 21 from 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. The college and UF veterinary students 
host this fun and educational event for the 
community to showcase the innovative and 
exciting work taking place at UF in Veteri -
nary Medicine. It’s free and open to the pub -
lic. For a schedule of events and more details 
visit: vetmed.ufl.edu/openhouse.UF Vet Med to  
Host Annual 
Open HouseIf you have a dependent covered under a State 
of Florida health insurance plan, you may have 
received a postcard in recent weeks alerting you 
to an upcoming audit to be conducted by Health 
Management Systems Inc. (HMS). UF employ -
ees with covered dependents should keep a close 
eye out for dependent verification requests from 
HMS beginning this March to ensure their de -
pendents do not lose coverage. Employees receiving requests for dependent doc-
umentation must respond promptly and submit 
appropriate documentation as noted in the re -
quest directly to HMS. Failure to submit legible 
copies of required documents can result in termi-
nation of insurance coverage for the dependents in question. For more information, please visit: 
hr.ufl.edu/benefits-rewards.State Audit of Insurance 
Dependents Coming This March
The Reitz Programming Board proudly presents 
the 5th Annual Big Orange Festival at the Reitz 
Union on Friday, Mar. 23 from 7 p.m. – 12 a.m.
The event will feature a concert, comedy show, 
entertainment, free food, t-shirt giveaway, live 
DJ, movie and more. Music and comedy artists 
to be announced soon!Early ticketing for the music and comedy acts 
will be held on T uesday, Mar. 20 and Thurs -
day, Mar. 22 from 11 a.m. – 2 p.m. at the Reitz 
Union North Lawn Tabling Area.
Free to UF Students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Big Orange Festival Brings  
Music, Comedy, More to Reitz
INSIDE
Keith Stone fell into a self-admitted “dark place” earlier this season after 
receiving backlash on social media for his poor play. Now, the forward is 
performing at a high level ahead of Florida’s NCAA T ournament opener.
ONLINE
Visit alligator.org/sports for coverage of UF’s March Madness run.
 TIP
REBOUNDING 
FROM
A DARK
PLACETIPOFF
Editor Dylan Dixon  Photos for Cover Illustration Dylan Dixon
Alligator, Wednesday, March 14, 2018
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Keith Stone glanced down at his 
phone as it started to buzz.
Another Twitter screenshot sent 
from his parents blinked into exis-
tence on his screen. 
The 2017-18 Florida men’s bas-
ketball season had just started and 
Stone — a 6-foot-8, 245-pound 
power forward — was poised to have a breakout year following a solid showing in his freshman campaign.
But other than a 14-point per-
formance against North Florida on Nov. 16, he wasn’t living up to those expectations early in the fall. 
He began this season averaging 
5.8 points per game and shot 36.9 percent from the ﬁ  eld through the 
team’s ﬁ  rst 13 contests.
Eventually, UF fans took notice 
and went to Twitter to voice their 
opinions, which prompted his par-ents to send him screenshots.
“Honest question: what are the 
reasons Keith Stone sees the court, much less starts?” Twitter user @RotoGrindersCam tweeted. “He 
makes poor decisions and lacks 
coordination and talent. -- Frus-trating to watch almost every game.”
Another user, @C_Austin_3, 
tweeted, “Keith stone aggravates me on the offensive end some-times.”
Stone’s parents sent him 
the screenshots hoping to motivate their son. However, the mes-sages only made the situation 
worse.
For the ﬁ  rst 
time, Stone was subjected 
to the nega-tives of Twit-ter. Back in 
high school 
at Zion Lu-theran, the Deerfield  Beach, Flori-
da, native re-
ceived noth-ing but praise as one of the 
top players in 
the state.
No one is 
going to tweet about how bad a 
high school kid is, after all.
But for Stone — who is near 
the end of a breakout year for the 
Gators as they head into the NCAA 
Tournament on Thursday with 
a ﬁ  rst round matchup against St. Bonaventure — tweets like those began to derail his conﬁ  dence.
He spiraled into a self-admitted 
“dark place,” one that he struggled to escape at the start of the season. 
Stone was down on himself and 
his level of play. He wasn’t as mo-
tivated in practice, and his produc-
tion suffered for it. He held back on shots and failed to crash the boards. On the defensive end, he was frequently in foul trouble by 
the end of the game. His minutes 
dipped as a result, and venomous tweets continued to be sent his way by fans.
“I was like ‘Dang, that’s how 
they really feel about me?’” Stone said about the social media back-lash. “So I was like ‘Alright,’ and I kinda lost conﬁ  dence in doing anything.”
The ﬁ  rst thing you need to 
know about Keith Stone to under-stand why he fell into a dark place is that he is shy. Like, really shy. Like toddler-meeting-a-stranger-
for-the-ﬁ  rst-time shy. He keeps to 
himself, minces his words and is very soft spoken.
That’s just who he is.
It’s easy to see that when he’s 
talking to the media. His answers 
to reporters’ questions are never more than three sentences long, and it’s obvious that he feels 
slightly overwhelmed in the pres-
ence of those he doesn’t know.
“It takes a while for him to 
warm up to people,” said John 
Guion, Stone’s high school coach. 
“He was never a vocal leader.”
The second thing you need to 
know about Stone is that he wasn’t naturally gifted at basketball. He 
had to work for it.
The future Gator was tall and 
had a nice-looking shot, but that 
was about it, something that 
didn’t help him in his ﬁ  rst year 
playing high school ball.
“He was not the clear-cut 
best player on our team his 
freshman year, that’s for sure,” 
Guion said with a chuckle.
While he wasn’t Zion Lu-
theran’s star athlete, he devel-
oped the drive to become one. 
Stone was at the gym almost 
every day and spent most of his 
time building muscle.
When he wasn’t at the 
gym, he was at the park 
practicing his game 
with Guion.
His hard work 
eventually paid off.
Stone eclipsed 
2,000 career 
points and was 
the FABC Class 
2A Player of the 
Year his senior 
season at Zion 
Lutheran. He was 
also First-Team All-Broward  
County his ju-
nior and senior 
years.
“He made 
me a better 
coach,” Guion said. “He made players around 
him better.”
With his bashful personality 
and accustomization to being the 
star player after years of hard work 
in high school, the social media vitriol he experienced in Fall 2017 was too much for him to handle.
For Stone to work so hard to 
rise to the apex of high school basketball, only to make it to the next stage and fail, was not only a bruise to his ego but also person-
ally haunting. 
Compounding this effect, when 
Stone had a bad game at the col-
lege level, he was met with virtual ire from thousands of Gators fans. 
And as shy of a person as he is, 
having to face those criticisms was overwhelming. 
Seeing so much of it through 
Twitter pushed him further and further into a dark place, where he didn’t want to deal with judge-ments any more.
“I’m just a 19-, 20-year-old 
kid,” Stone said. 
So here was Keith Stone, just 
going through the motions early in the season. Rather than ignore 
what he saw on social media, he 
started to believe it.
“I had no conﬁ  dence,” Stone 
said. “I was worried about what everybody was saying.”
He second guessed himself and 
became limited in his shot selec-tion. He struggled on the boards and averaged 3.2 rebounds per 
game through the ﬁ  rst 13 games of 
the 2017-18 season. Stone was also turning the ball over. He gave it up 20 times in that 13-game span.
His trust in himself slowly 
dwindled with every lackluster performance, and the tweets be-came more frequent. 
“People that are die-hard Gators 
were expecting more of him,” Gui-on said. “They don’t see what’s going on. They don’t know him.”
Something needed to change. 
Just like he did with Guion in high 
school, Stone decided to start us-
ing UF coach Mike White as a re-source.
“I just needed to have a meet-
ing with him just to talk to him be-cause we really didn’t talk a lot,” Stone said.
The thing about White’s talks 
is they tend to work wonders on 
his players. Case in point, current 
starting guard Chris Chiozza.Chiozza was in a similar situ-
ation as Stone: not playing up to his potential. But after having a one-on-one meeting with White 
last season, Chiozza’s conﬁ  dence 
became rejuvenated.
Stone hoped a meeting with 
White would do the same for him.
He remembers the meeting 
well. It occurred early in the sea-son, where White reassured the redshirt sophomore and reminded him about the type of player he is.
He told Stone that he needed 
to focus on the little things, like boxing out on rebounds and lim-iting his turnovers. But the point that really made an impact was a 
simple one: go out there, have fun 
and play.
That was when everything 
clicked. Stone let go. During Flori-
da’s game against Incarnate Word 
on Dec. 22, that new nirvana be-came obvious.
“I just played and just didn’t 
think about anything,” Stone said. 
“Even though I didn’t play hot, the 
way people expected me to play, I just went out and played.”
He only scored six points that 
game, recorded three offensive rebounds and reached the char-ity stripe ﬁ  ve times. But there was something different about Stone.
“He felt really good coming out 
of that meeting and having things cleared up in his mind,” Guion said. “He came out of that feeling a lot better about himself.”
Now that Stone’s conﬁ  dence 
was back, it was time for that strong work ethic from high school to return as well. 
He started shooting better and 
taking more shots. He also started playing stingier defense, grabbing more rebounds and recording ei-ther a block or a steal in almost 
every game after the meeting with 
White.
Stone knew he was playing 
better, but the fans didn’t real-ize it until the Gators’ 83-66 win 
over Texas A&M on Jan. 2. Stone 
ﬁ  nished second on the team with 18 points — a then-season high — and shot 50 percent from the ﬂ  oor.
“For about a month now he’s 
just been consistently very good in practice,” White said following Florida’s matchup with the Aggies. “We’re seeing it more and more in 
games.”
Remember those tweets from 
Rebounding  from a Dark Place:  
the beginning? The ones that ques-
tioned why Stone was out on the court or how Stone’s offense can 
be aggravating?
He saw them. He heard the crit-
ics. He understands why the fans 
felt that way.
He just learned to not care.Before making the decision to 
just stay off Twitter during the season, Stone used to reply to the negative messages.
“Appreciate it!!” he responded 
to @C_Austin_3, the user who tweeted that he became aggravated when watching Stone on offense.
Stone did that two more times 
to tweets that have since been de-leted. This was in November.
Stone hasn’t done anything like 
that since.
“Twitter is kind of bad, because 
people who have my @ name could tell me anything, so I just stay away from it,” Stone said.
As both Guion and White like 
to say, it’s part of Florida’s players trying to “eliminate the noise.”
“I encourage him never to re-
spond,” Guion said. “Stay above 
that.”
As Stone has continued to play 
better this spring, those nega-
tive tweets soon transformed into 
praise.
Following Stone’s team-leading 
22-point performance in an SEC 
Tournament loss against Arkan-sas on Friday, new messages came 
ﬂ  ooding at his Twitter handle like 
water gushing through a broken dam.
“Keith Stone is the only thing 
that matters tonight,” @RealMBB wrote.
“Gators playing like garbage 
but don’t let that distract you from Keith Stone having an amazing 
night,” @AviaGridi wrote.
He’s developing into an impor-
tant player for the Gators and for-
getting about his time in the “dark 
place” ahead of the NCAA Tourna-
ment.
“It’s pretty great knowing that 
I can help the team contribute in many ways,” Stone said. “Getting 
rebounds or playing solid defense 
on the best post player, anything that’ll help the team win.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org  
power forward — was poised to 
have a breakout year following 
a solid showing in his freshman 
But other than a 14-point per-
formance against North Florida 
on Nov. 16, he wasn’t living up to 
those expectations early in the fall. 
He began this season averaging 
5.8 points per game and shot 36.9 
percent from the ﬁ  eld through the 
team’s ﬁ  rst 13 contests.
Eventually, UF fans took notice 
and went to Twitter to voice their 
opinions, which prompted his par-
ents to send him screenshots.
“Honest question: what are the 
reasons Keith Stone sees the court, 
much less starts?” Twitter user @
RotoGrindersCam tweeted. “He 
makes poor decisions and lacks 
coordination and talent. -- Frus-
trating to watch almost every 
Another user, @C_Austin_3, 
tweeted, “Keith stone aggravates 
me on the offensive end some-
Stone’s parents sent him 
the screenshots hoping 
to motivate their son. 
However, the mes-
sages only made 
the situation 
For the ﬁ  rst 
time, Stone 
was subjected 
to the nega-
tives of Twit-
ter. Back in 
high school 
at Zion Lu-
theran, the 
Deerfield  
Beach, Flori-
da, native re-
ceived noth-
ing but praise 
as one of the 
top players in 
No one is 
going to tweet 
about how bad a 
high school kid 
Stone was down on himself and 
his level of play. He wasn’t as mo-
tivated in practice, and his produc-
tion suffered for it. He held back 
on shots and failed to crash the 
boards. On the defensive end, he 
was frequently in foul trouble by 
the end of the game. His minutes 
dipped as a result, and venomous 
tweets continued to be sent his 
way by fans.
“I was like ‘Dang, that’s how 
they really feel about me?’” Stone 
himself, minces his words and is 
very soft spoken.
That’s just who he is.
It’s easy to see that when he’s 
talking to the media. His answers 
to reporters’ questions are never 
more than three sentences long, 
and it’s obvious that he feels 
slightly overwhelmed in the pres-
ence of those he doesn’t know.
“It takes a while for him to 
warm up to people,” said John 
Guion, Stone’s high school coach. 
“He was never a vocal leader.”
The second thing you need to 
know about Stone is that he wasn’t 
naturally gifted at basketball. He 
had to work for it.
The future Gator was tall and 
had a nice-looking shot, but that 
was about it, something that 
didn’t help him in his ﬁ  rst year 
playing high school ball.
“He was not the clear-cut 
best player on our team his 
freshman year, that’s for sure,” 
Guion said with a chuckle.
While he wasn’t Zion Lu-
theran’s star athlete, he devel-
oped the drive to become one. 
Stone was at the gym almost 
every day and spent most of his 
time building muscle.
When he wasn’t at the 
gym, he was at the park 
practicing his game 
with Guion.
His hard work 
eventually paid off.
Stone eclipsed 
2,000 career 
points and was 
the FABC Class 
2A Player of the 
Year his senior 
season at Zion 
Lutheran. He was 
also First-Team 
All-Broward  
County his ju-
nior and senior 
years.
“He made 
me a better 
coach,” Guion 
next stage and fail, was not only a 
bruise to his ego but also person-
ally haunting. 
Compounding this effect, when 
Stone had a bad game at the col-
lege level, he was met with virtual 
ire from thousands of Gators fans. 
And as shy of a person as he is, 
having to face those criticisms was 
overwhelming. 
Seeing so much of it through 
Twitter pushed him further and 
further into a dark place, where 
he didn’t want to deal with judge-
ments any more.
“I’m just a 19-, 20-year-old 
kid,” Stone said. 
So here was Keith Stone, just 
going through the motions early 
in the season. Rather than ignore 
what he saw on social media, he 
started to believe it.
“I had no conﬁ  dence,” Stone 
said. “I was worried about what 
everybody was saying.”
He second guessed himself and 
became limited in his shot selec-
tion. He struggled on the boards 
and averaged 3.2 rebounds per 
game through the ﬁ  rst 13 games of 
the 2017-18 season. Stone was also 
turning the ball over. He gave it up 
20 times in that 13-game span.
His trust in himself slowly 
dwindled with every lackluster 
performance, and the tweets be-
came more frequent. 
“People that are die-hard Gators 
were expecting more of him,” Gui-
on said. “They don’t see what’s 
going on. They don’t know him.”
Something needed to change. 
Just like he did with Guion in high 
school, Stone decided to start us-
ing UF coach Mike White as a re-
source.
“I just needed to have a meet-
ing with him just to talk to him be-
cause we really didn’t talk a lot,” 
Stone said.
The thing about White’s talks 
is they tend to work wonders on 
his players. Case in point, current 
starting guard Chris Chiozza.
Keith Stone has bounced back this season after receiving criticism from fansThe Madness Begins
Who:
TV:What:
When: Where:Florida (20-12) vs. St. Bonaventure 
(25-7)First Round of 2018 NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball T ournament
Thursday at 9:57 p.m.American Airlines Center in Dallas, T exasTruTV
Jaylen
Adams
Idris T aqqee
Matt
Mobley
Amadi 
Ikpeze
Courtney 
Stockard
Kevarrius 
Hayes
Chris 
Chiozza
Jalen 
Hudson
KeVaughn 
Allen
Egor
KoulechovSt. Bonaventure’s Projected Starting Lineup
Florida’s Projected Starting Lineup•   •   •
•   •   •
•   •   •