We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Gainesville ranked No. 10 in trick-or-treat list
It was ranked one of the least safe metro areas for trick-or-treat-
ers, pg. 5
Racking up ribs
The winner of a rib eating contest ate 21 ribs, pg. 8UF soccer survives, advances on PK shootout
Goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese made a pair of saves 
and scored a goal in a penalty shootout against Au-
burn. The senior blocked ﬁ  ve shots in regulation 
during the Gators’ win in the ﬁ  rst round of the SEC 
T ournament. Find out how Florida moved on, pg. 14 MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 29
GEORGIA 36 FLORIDA 17
By Alanis Thames
Sports Writer
A ﬁ  red-up Dan Mullen had to be dragged 
from the ﬁ  eld by the rim of his khaki pants. 
Cornerback C.J. McWilliams had been 
called on a questionable pass-interference 
penalty on a Georgia third and goal at the 
1-yard line, and the Gators coach went 
charging at the ofﬁ  cial with a vengeance.The third-quarter outburst was one of 
many moments that stood out in the Gators’ 
eventful 36-17 loss to Georgia on Saturday. 
Here are three more quirky happenings 
from the World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail 
Party:
IMPORTANT: Keep knees covered
McWilliams lined up awaiting the snap as 
the play clock approached zero.The high-pitched ring of a whistle halted 
play as the ofﬁ  cial ran onto the ﬁ  eld to assess 
McWilliams a delay-of-game penalty.
The ﬂ  ag was met with a chorus of groans 
from the orange and blue half of TIAA 
Bank Field’s bleachers. But stadium-wide 
confusion ensued after the explanation for 
the call was announced. 
McWilliams was ﬂ  agged a uniform 
violation. According to the NCAA’s new uniform 
guidelines, it is now mandatory that a 
player’s pants have pads that cover the 
entire knee. 
And McWilliams violated the rule by tak-
ing the ﬁ  eld with his white uniform pants 
curled just below his thighs, leaving his 
knees exposed.The weirdness of Florida-Georgia was front and center
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
ABOUT 30 PROTESTERS 
WERE ALSO PRESENT.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Holding two Andrew Gillum 
posters and a portable fan, Rachel 
Godskind came out to rally even 
though she already voted.
“I’m excited for our state to 
become more progressive,” the 20-year-old UF sociology junior 
said. 
Godskind was one of more than 
200 people who attended a March 
to the Polls event in support of Flor-
ida Democratic gubernatorial can-
didate Andrew Gillum Friday after-
noon. Democrats Gainesville Mayor 
Lauren Poe; Dr. Kayser Enneking, a 
candidate for Florida Senate District 
8; and City Commissioner David 
Arreola also gave speeches to pump up the crowd on Turlington Plaza 
before they all marched to the Reitz 
Union to hear Gillum speak.  
The group marched to the early 
voting location in the Reitz Union, 
which became an early voting pre-
cinct Oct. 22. As of Sunday, both of 
Miami Dade College’s early voting 
precincts are slightly ahead of UF, 
but both UF’s precinct and Miami 
Dade College’s two combined pre-
cincts have more than 3,000 ballots cast each, according to early voting 
precinct reports.
For Gillum, the Reitz was a place 
where he said he hung out with 
friends and bowled as a high school 
student.
On Friday, the Reitz voting loca-
tion had its busiest day so far with 
more than 700 people who voted, 
said TJ Pyche, the Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections spokesper-
son.“This is an incredibly inspiring 
moment, personally, but I also hope 
it inspires other young people,” Gil-
lum said. “All you need is a heart to 
care with and a willingness to make 
a difference, and you can engage in 
the process in a meaningful way to 
help create long-term change.”
During the rally, Gillum told the 
crowd that this midterm election 
was one of the most important elec-More than 200 people attend march at UF for Andrew GillumAaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Lay down your arms
Sixteen-year-old Feliquan Charlemagne lies down Saturday during a die-in protest in front of 
Gainesville City Hall. Charlemagne is the co-founder of the Ocala chapter of March for Our Lives. 
Go to page 8 to read more. 
SEE GILLUM,  PAGE 4UF STUDENTS WILL 
ORGANIZE A VIGIL ON 
TURLINGTON PLAZA.
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
Hannah Terzi doesn’t feel safe as 
a Jewish Gator.
In the wake of the Pittsburgh 
shooting, she remembered white na-
tionalist Richard Spencer’s visit and 
the neo-Nazi on Turlington Plaza 
last year, both things that unsettled 
the 20-year-old UF psychology ju-
nior.
That’s why security has always 
been a necessity, she said. 
“Even though I’m in Florida, I 
feel like I’m connected to it,” Terzi 
said. “It’s so upsetting because anti-
Semitism hasn’t gone anywhere.” 
Her phone was ﬂ  ooded with noti-
ﬁ  cations about the shooting the day after she went to service. 
Local Jewish groups have orga-
nized vigils and fundraisers to pay 
tribute after a gunman killed 11 peo-
ple and injured six at the Tree of Life 
synagogue in Pittsburgh Saturday 
morning.
Most victims of the shooting were 
older, with the eldest being 97. Ter-
zi thought of her grandparents and 
called them. They didn’t talk about 
the shooting — she just wanted to 
know they were OK. 
“The Jewish community is so 
close, so it affects everyone,” Terzi 
said. “It’s heartbreaking because 
America is supposed to be this place 
of religious freedom.”
Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Center, 
the UF Jewish Student Union and UF 
Hillel are hosting a Stand Together 
Against Hate solidarity vigil 12:30 
p.m. today on Turlington Plaza.Jewish communities, 
organizations unite after 
Pittsburgh shooting  
SEE PITTSBURGH,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Gators for Underrepresented 
Voters
Gators for Underrepresented 
Voters and several sponsors 
are screening a showing of 
the short film “Let My People 
Vote” from 6-8 p.m. Tuesday 
in the Reitz Union Senate 
Chamber. The presentation of 
the film will be followed by 
a discussion with civil rights 
experts and formerly incar-
cerated activists who are dis-
enfranchised under current 
Florida policy. Follow Gators 
for Underrepresented Voters 
on Facebook for more infor-
mation.
First Magnitude beer launch 
Thursday supports butterfly 
conservation
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History and First Magnitude 
Brewing Co. will host a fund-
raiser to help support butterfly 
conservation from 5-8 p.m. 
Thursday. First Magnitude will 
release a new beer made with 
blueberries and pomegranates 
called “Atala Pale Ale,” high-
lighting the rare Atala butter-
fly. The suggested donation of 
$10 includes $1 off all beers. A 
$15 donation includes a signa-
ture glass and $1 off all beers. 
T-shirts, pins and six-packs 
will also be available for pur-
chase. All proceeds will direct-
ly support imperiled butterfly 
recovery efforts in Florida. For 
more information, visit florida-
museum.ufl.edu/event/atala-
ale or call 352-273-2022.
Florida Museum to host ‘The 
Lost Bird Project’ beginning 
Thursday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History will display “The Lost 
Bird Project,” which includes 
five bronze-casted sculptures 
of the extinct Carolina para-
keet, great auk, heath hen, 
Labrador duck and passenger 
pigeon, starting Thursday. 
Artist Todd McGrain created 
the statues as a tribute to en-
dangered and extinct species. 
Ranging from 4 to 6 feet in 
height, the sculptures were 
permanently placed where 
each bird was last seen in 
the wild, ranging from Fogo 
Island, Newfoundland, to 
Okeechobee, Florida, with 
traveling exhibits of the same 
figures touring nationally. For more information visit flori-
damuseum.ufl.edu/event/lost-
bird or call 352-846-2000.
Arts and Crafts Bazaar at Ocala 
Palms 
An arts and crafts bazaar will 
be held at Ocala Palms Golf & 
Country Club, on U.S. Highway 
27, 1 mile west of Interstate 
75, exit 354, from 9 a.m. to 
2 p.m. Saturday. Guests can 
shop from a variety of crafters 
and artists. A hot dog lunch 
will be available for purchase 
as will desserts at a bake sale.
Eating Disorders Anonymous
Eating Disorders Anonymous 
is a fellowship of individuals 
who desire to recover from eat-
ing disorders. If you feel guilty 
about eating, are at times un-
able to start or stop eating even 
when you want to or if you feel 
disgusted or powerless over 
your eating, this group may be 
for you. Everyone is welcome 
regardless of age. For times, 
locations or more information, 
please email GainesvilleEDA@
gmail.com or text/call 954-
319-6365. You can also visit 
www.4EDA.org for more infor-
mation. 
Apply now for 2019-20 finan-
cial aid
To apply for financial aid, 
complete the Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid at faf-
sa.ed.gov. Students can now 
file a 2019-20 FAFSA. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of students’ 2019-
20 FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is Dec. 15. Apply before 
Dec. 15 to ensure that the fed-
eral processor has time to ana-
lyze and send the results of the 
FAFSA to UF Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is award-
ed on a first-come, first-served 
basis, so it is recommended to 
apply as early as possible to be 
considered for the most aid. 
The 2019-20 FAFSA will be 
available on a new phone app 
called myStudentAid.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
 
Feds seeking approval to pur-
sue death penalty
PITTSBURGH (AP) — U.S. 
Attorney Scott Brady says fed-
eral prosecutors are seeking 
approval to pursue the death 
penalty against Pittsburgh 
synagogue shooting suspect 
Robert Bowers.
Brady says he has begun 
the process to get Attorney 
General Jeff Sessions' approval 
as required by law to pursue 
a capital case against Bowers.
Brady says multiple search 
warrants have been issued in 
the investigation of Bowers, a 
long-haul trucker who worked 
as an independent contractor.
Hurricane Michael killed at 
least 35 in Florida, 45 total
 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Florida authorities have linked 
six more deaths to Hurricane 
Michael, raising the state's 
death toll to 35.
 The storm's overall death toll 
now stands at 45, with 10 
deaths in other states.
 Florida Emergency Management 
Division spokesperson Alberto 
Moscoso wrote in an email 
Saturday that two more deaths 
were confirmed in hard-hit 
coastal Bay County, raising the 
total there to 21.
 Florida's latest update also rais-
es the toll in Jackson County to 
three deaths, and it adds three 
deaths in Washington County.
CORRECTIONS
 
In an article published in 
Friday's issue titled "Middle 
school students use ro-
bots at science fair," Chloe 
Winant's age was incorrect. 
Winant is 38.HIGH  84° LOW  53°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 29
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingMONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
Feline Packages starting at $50
Canine Packages starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter 
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
‘All my friends in 
one place’: Fest 17 
brings in 2,600
Lindsey Breneman / Alligator Staff
Dikembe, a popular local punk band, performed at The Wooly Saturday night during the only sold-out Fest show.
THE PUNK-ROCK 
FESTIVAL IS 
GAINESVILLE’S LARGEST 
ANNUAL MUSIC FESTIVAL.
By Lindsey Breneman
Alligator Staff Writer
Adam Gecking made a 670-
mile trip from his hometown to 
Gainesville despite his mom’s death 
just weeks ago.
Gecking, the 37-year-old owner 
of SAY-10 Records & Skateboards, 
an independent record label, made 
his 11th trip to the city to celebrate 
Fest 17, one of the largest punk rock 
festivals. 
“Originally, I wasn’t going to 
come down, but this is the one time 
of year I just need,” Gecking, of 
Richmond, Virginia,  said. “I need to 
be here.”
More than 2,600 passes were 
sold for the three-day music festival that took place across downtown 
Gainesville, said Sarasvati Seixas, 
a Fest employee. The festival was 
ﬁ  lled with 318 bands, 28 comedians 
and more than 60 wrestlers.
In a living room with his friends 
in 2002 and nothing more than a 
$1,000 loan from his parents, the 
now-42-year-old Fest creator Tony 
Weinbender created the music fes-
tival. Only 500 people attended the 
ﬁ  rst Fest. Every year, the music festi-
val has slightly grown, but ﬁ  ve years 
ago was when the festival had its last 
large surge in attendance. He said he 
has no plans to keep expanding. 
Only 20 percent of Fest attendees 
are from Florida, Weinbender said.
“Fest is this size,” he said. “As 
long as we can keep doing it and ev-
eryone is happy, we will.”
The Fest creator said that he was 
most excited about the four-hour 
wrestling championship Sunday. He 
said it’s different than most profes-
sional competitions because it strives to be inclusive. 
This year a woman, Shotzi Black-
heart, won the intergender title in 
the co-ed wrestling competition. Last 
year’s champion was Effy, an openly 
gay male competitor from Tallahas-
see, Weinbender said.
With a $5 donation to We Are 
Neutral, a local nonproﬁ  t that helps 
to reduce people’s carbon footprint, 
donors were entered to win two tick-
ets to next year’s Fest, said Grace 
Ebner, a 22-year-old employee at We 
Are Neutral. 
This is the third year the organi-
zation has worked with Fest. In ad-
dition to negating individual travel 
emissions, they calculate the foot-
print of each venue. Fest chooses to 
offset its carbon footprint by plant-
ing trees with the organization every 
year and supporting energy upgrades 
for low-income houses.
“Our slogan is ‘Unf--- the En-
vironment,’”  Ebner said.  “Some 
people might ﬁ  nd it offensive, but we say what we do to the planet is 
offensive.”
Philanthropy is an important as-
pect of Fest, Weinbender said. Every 
December he hosts a Christmas par-
ty for his nearly 50 employees and 
asks them to pitch charities to him. 
Last year, he worked with a local 
animal rescue shelter, Civic Media 
Center and We Are Neutral, both of 
which they now work with annually.
“We have to give back,” he said. 
“Greed is like the No. 1 virus in the 
world. I feel like Fest is the least 
greedy. We have to sustain, but we 
try to give back as much as we can 
and keep it as affordable as pos-
sible.”
Sandra Lauzon, 29, came from 
Montreal, Canada with friends for 
her fourth Fest.
This year was particularly special 
for Lauzon because she got to see 
one of her favorite bands, Spanish 
Love Songs, perform their new al-
bum, “Schmaltz,” at the High Dive.“I actually cried,” Lauzon said. 
“It was beautiful. The entire crowd 
already knew every word.”
At his fourth time at Fest, 30-year-
old Cory Castro from Nashville, Ten-
nessee, played a show with his band, 
Free Throw, at The Wooly. 
“The best thing about Fest is you 
get to see people from all around the 
country and the world,” Castro said. 
“I get to see all my friends in one 
place.”
@LindseyBreneman
lbreneman@alligator.org
MOST ANTICIPATED BANDS:
The Menzingers
The Get Up Kids 
The Flatliners 
Lagwagon
Metz 
Mom Jeans
Dikembe 
Masked Intruder
The Lawrence Arms4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
FACT CHECKING ANDREW GILLUM’S SPEECH AT UF
The average salary for teachers in Florida is the 45th lowest in all 50 
states.
Almost accurate — Florida sits low at No. 42 on the list of average 
teacher salaries as of May 2018, according to USA T oday. 
Florida is ranked 40 out of 50 for its quality of education.
Accurate — Florida came in just below Alabama for the quality of 
Pre-K-12 education, according to the U.S. News and World Report.
If Gillum is elected, this would be the ﬁ  rst time 20 years that Florida’s 
governor is a Democrat.
Accurate — Lawton Chiles was elected in 1990 as the last Demo-
cratic Florida governor. Upon Chiles’ death in 1998, Lt. Gov. Buddy 
MacKay was sworn in to ﬁ  nish Chile’s ﬁ  nal term, according to a 
South Florida ABC News afﬁ  liate. 
The new governor will appoint three new Florida Supreme Court 
justices.
Accurate — This was handed down in a ruling from the Supreme 
Court of Florida that stated current Florida Governor Rick Scott 
could not appoint justices to ﬁ  ll the seats, according to the ruling.
In Florida, local elected ofﬁ  cials can’t pass any legislation that impact 
gun laws. If the elected ofﬁ  cials do, they can be sued or held liable for 
reimbursing the attorney fees of the opposing party up to $100,000. 
The Florida governor could also remove them from ofﬁ  ce. 
Accurate — The Florida Legislature has the sole authority to regu-
late ﬁ  rearms in the state, according to Florida state statute 790.33.
tions of our time.
“This is not an ordinary elec-
tion,” Gillum said. “We can’t give 
ordinary effort.”
Enneking said it was important 
for her to come out to support Gil-
lum and voting students. She said 
students who hadn’t voted yet were 
missing out on an opportunity.
“This is an election you don’t 
want to miss out being a part of,” 
Enneking said. “You want to feel 
like you made a difference. Part of 
the reason why I’m running is be-
cause I wanted to change the direc-
tion that we were going in Ameri-
ca.”
Carol Church, a 46-year-old vol-
unteer for Moms Demand Action 
for Gun Sense in America, an anti-
gun violence organization, marched 
to support Gillum. She has texted 
more than 3,000 people to encour-
age them to vote, she said.
“I think he’s a true progressive,” 
Church said. “He’s really getting 
people here excited in Florida and 
nationwide.”
Not everyone at the march was 
there to support Gillum like Church.Though there were protesters 
present holding signs and yelling for 
candidates, Gillum said he wants to 
make Florida a state they can be 
proud of as well.
“Everyone is entitled, obviously, 
to their candidate of choice,” Gillum 
said. “I hope as many UF students 
as possible choose me, but for those 
who don’t choose me, I plan to be 
their governor too.”
Dylan Finucan, a 19-year-old UF 
political science sophomore, waved 
a yellow “Don’t Tread On Me” ﬂ  ag 
as he attempted to discuss his view-
points with Gillum supporters.
Finucan, who is registered as a 
Republican but identiﬁ  es as a mod-
erate, said he agreed with some of 
Gillum’s campaign points, such as 
drug reform, but disagrees with oth-
ers, such as Gillum’s stance on im-
migration.
“I don’t think we’re all divided 
by tribal lines — we don’t need to 
do that,” Finucan said. “We can dis-
agree and talk about it. You’re an 
American citizen, and I’m an Amer-
ican citizen.”
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgGILLUM,  from pg 1More than 200 people attend march at UF for Andrew Gillum.
Colin Silverman, the president 
of the UF Jewish Student Union, 
offered support to students and 
shared a national campaign to raise 
money for the Tree of Life Congre-
gation. The campaign has raised 
more than $520,000 as of Sunday 
night. Silverman said one UF stu-
dent had personal ties to the con-
gregation. 
The 22-year-old UF accounting 
junior teaches Jewish culture to 
children from kindergarten to sev-enth grade. Police were present at 
his synagogue Sunday morning, he 
said. Teachers were taught active 
shooter drills. 
“It’s one of those things — it’s 
the reality of the world that we live 
in,” Silverman said. 
UF is home to one of the largest 
populations of Jewish undergradu-
ates in the United States. Eighteen 
percent of its undergraduate popu-
lation is Jewish, according to Hillel 
International.
The group will continue its pro-
gramming and provide a safe ha-
ven for the Jewish community on campus, Silverman said. 
“It’s time to make changes in 
our country,” Silverman said. “We 
need to see real change, and it all 
starts with all types of people com-
ing together and really just loving 
each other as neighbors.”
Other synagogues and Jewish 
community leaders have also taken 
precautions to increase security in 
places of worship. Rabbi Berl Gold-
man, the director of chabad, said 
the Jewish center has been work-
ing with local and state police to 
work on security measures since 
Saturday.  “Every single Jew around the 
world is not only grieving but are 
shocked, upset and outraged by 
this senseless hatred and act of ter-
rorism against the Jewish commu-
nity,” he said. 
Goldman called for a display of 
goodness, kindness and education 
to dispel hate.
“Somebody doesn’t wake up 
in the morning with hate or anti-
Semitism or evil. This is taught, 
nurtured,” Goldman said.
Members of BBYO, a Jewish 
youth group, have banded to-
gether to show their support in the 
Gainesville community. 
Noga Brauner, a 15-year-old 
Eastside High School freshman and leader of the local chapter, said 
the organization cultivates posi-
tive change and community. High 
school students are wearing blue 
on Monday in honor of the victims.
After the shooting, she reached 
out to her classmates and friends 
in the Jewish community to show 
solidarity together. 
“It’s just a small thing to show 
that we are reacting,” Brauner said. 
“I think it’s important that even 
though we are teenagers, we still 
have power to make change.”
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org PITTSBURGH,  from pg. 1Chabad discussed more security.Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Mayor of T allahassee and gubernatorial candidate Andrew Gillum laughs while speaking at a rally on 
UF’s campus Friday afternoon. During the event, hosted by his campaign, Gillum met students who 
walked to the Reitz Union polls from Turlington Plaza.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Students and Gainesville residents gather on UF’s campus to listen to T allahassee Mayor and gubernatorial 
candidate Andrew Gillum speak during his rally on Friday. Gillum spoke to an assembled crowd outside of the 
Reitz Union about his campaign platform and pressed everyone in attendance to vote.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government Judicia-
ry Committee failed half the legislation 
members debated Sunday. 
The committee deliberated over four 
resolutions — nonbinding written state-
ments — before failing two at its morn-
ing meeting in the Reitz Union. Of the 
resolutions that failed, one was written 
to support students with young children, 
and the other asked for support in op-
tional class attendance on Election Day 
on Nov. 6, according to the resolutions. 
Not all resolutions failed. One ac-
knowledging the ﬁ  nancial needs of sur-
vivors from Hurricane Maria passed and 
will likely be heard at the Student Senate 
Tuesday. Another supporting sexual as-
sault victims will likely be revisited.
One failed resolution asked UF to 
subsidize the cost of Baby Gator, a UF-associated day care service.
Subsidies refer to money used to re-
duce the cost a consumer pays for goods 
or services, Sen. Graham Boone (Impact, 
Business Administration) said. The reso-
lution didn’t indicate where UF should 
ﬁ  nd this funding. 
“There’s still the issue of where this 
funding’s gonna come from,” Boone 
said. “I don’t know that there is neces-
sarily a quick answer.”
Another attempt to pass a resolu-
tion to make class attendance optional 
on Election Day failed. Students should 
have time to vote with early voting in the 
Reitz Union, Senate Judiciary Committee 
Chairman Will Sandifer (Impact, Sopho-
more) said. 
“I think that it’s on the voter to want 
to go vote, and it’s not on us to make 
them go vote,” Sandifer said. 
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgUF Student Judiciary 
Committee fails resolutions1. The Villages, Florida
2. Punta Gorda, Florida
3. Homosassa Springs, 
Florida
4. St. Louis, Missouri
5. Sebring, Florida
6. Santa Fe, New Mexico7. Farmington, New 
Mexico
8. Sebastian-Vero 
Beach, Florida
9. Pine Bluff, Arkansas
10. Gainesville, Florida
By Nicole Bowen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Shelley Gabay came to a psychic fair dressed in 
her ‘70s rock star fan Halloween costume looking 
for guidance. 
The 20-year-old Santa Fe criminology freshman 
sat with psychics and spiritual healers dressed as 
witches and butterﬂ  ies during the Halloween Psy-
chic Fair on Saturday at The Sacred Earth Ministry, 
at 2606 NW 6th St. 
About 100 Gainesville residents, students, psy-
chics and healers gathered to read tarot cards, eat 
Halloween-themed cookies and bond over spiritu-
ality. The center sold supplies like bundles of sage 
in red twine, clusters of crystals and beaded wands.
Gabay said she turns to psychics during transi-
tions in her life, whether it be traveling to a differ-
ent country or starting college.
“I know it was kind of a random event for me 
to go to, but I grew up believing in the supernatural and the powers that we don’t see but I know are 
there,” she said.
Sunemaura O’Brien, a 59-year-old psychic 
counselor and spiritual teacher, dressed as the “fall 
witch” with an orange dress and a blue third eye 
drawn on her forehead. 
Clients could sign up to wait in line to meet any 
of the four readers and three healers at the fair, 
O’Brien said. 
She has been a psychic for the past 10 years and 
was happy to connect with people, she said. 
The center’s staff is looking to host the fair more 
often, O’Brien said. The next psychic fair is sched-
uled for Nov. 3 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in Melrose.
O’Brien said she doesn’t predict the future but 
does guide her clients toward the right path for 
them. She hopes skeptics who came to the fair 
learned more about the community. 
“Don’t knock it until you try it,” O’Brien said. 
“Worst case scenario, it completely changes your 
life.”Sage, crystals and cookies: Psychics 
offer readings at Halloween fair
By Sabrina Conza
Alligator Staff Writer
Megan Zahnle’s photograph has 
smiled at students as they walk past the 
Career Connections Center at the Reitz 
Union since last Spring semester. 
Now, the 19-year-old UF biology 
sophomore is excited for another chance 
to pose today, she said. 
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Admissions is re-
cruiting students to model for brochures 
and its website from 8:30 to 10:30 a.m. 
on the Plaza of the Americas, said Addie 
Burchell, the event organizer and a UF 
Admissions website writer. 
The ofﬁ  ce is looking for ﬁ  ve to 10 stu-
dents to pose with their backpacks, pre-
tend to talk to friends, walk to class and 
study, Burchell said.
Zahnle, who is half Filipina, is ready 
to model again and enjoys promoting the 
university’s diversity, she said.
“It’s just another way of doing my 
part in making UF great,” she said.
The open call is not a formal mod-
eling audition, and anyone who wants 
to participate can be photographed, 
Burchell said. The Ofﬁ  ce of Admissions 
will decide which photographs to keep 
in a folder to use later as stock photo-graphs.
“It’s not supposed to be super Vogue 
or anything,” Burchell said. “It’s just 
showing what it’s like to really go to UF.”
Burchell, a 20-year-old UF advertis-
ing junior, said her boss, Allison Wicker, 
UF’s marketing and communications 
specialist, wanted updated pictures of 
students to publish online and in print. 
Burchell came up with the idea for the 
open call and created a Facebook event 
on Friday.
The original plan was to photograph 
Burchell and her friends, she said. But 
the event gained more traction than she 
anticipated after 70 students listed them-
selves as interested or attending on the 
Facebook event.
Caleb Deckert, an 18-year-old UF ex-
ploring science and engineering fresh-
man, is not a seasoned student model 
like Zahnle but decided to go when 
Burchell invited him on Facebook.
Deckert said he had nothing better 
to do so he ﬁ  gured he might as well be 
photographed while hanging out with 
friends, he said. He has never modeled 
before and has no plan. 
“I’m just winging it and seeing how 
things go,” he said.
sconza@alligator.orgStrike a pose: UF Office of 
Admissions  looking for modelsBy Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A security company is warning trick-or-
treaters to keep an eye out while scouring 
for candy in Gainesville.
Your Local Security, an ADT-authorized 
security system company, released a report 
Wednesday on the safest and most danger-
ous metro areas in America for trick-or-
treating. It said Gainesville is the 10th most 
dangerous metro area for trick-or-treaters.
The company determined the safest and 
most dangerous areas by analyzing the 
number of trick-or-treaters, number of pe-
destrian car deaths, violent crime rates and ratio of sex offenders, spokesperson Mor-
gan Bell wrote in an email.
Gainesville Police spokesperson Capt. 
Jorge Campos hadn’t heard of the report 
but said families should still take precau-
tions on Halloween night. He recom-
mended parents stay close to their kids and 
keep an eye on whoever is interacting with 
them.
Parents should also stick to neighbor-
hoods they’re familiar with, Campos said.
City Commissioner David Arreola used 
to trick-or-treat in Gainesville when he 
was a kid. He and his friends would plan 
months in advance and go together with large pillowcases, Arreola said.
“I was always able to enjoy Halloween 
as a kid,” he said. “It never concerned me.”
Arreola also hadn’t heard of the report 
but said he hopes kids will be able to enjoy 
Halloween like he did.
“If you’re concerned for your safety, go 
before it’s dark,” he said. “No one’s going 
to shame you for trick-or-treating during 
the day.”
Arreola said regardless of the time of 
day, he’ll have a bowl of candy ready to 
hand out on Halloween.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgGainesville rated top 10 most dangerous trick-or-treating city
10 MOST DANGEROUS 
METRO AREAS
ADVANCE 
REGISTRATION FOR 
SPRING CLASSES 
BEGINS TODAY.
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
Ahead of advance Spring reg-
istration opening today, The Al-
ligator interviewed six professors 
about their new classes. 
IDS2334: Chemistry in the 
Cocina Latina
Gillian Lord didn’t think her 
Facebook post would turn into 
a real class. But when Lord, 
the chair of the UF Spanish and 
Portuguese Studies department, 
posted about a Latin cookbook, 
Valeria Kleiman, an Argentin-
ean UF chemistry professor, re-
sponded with enthusiasm.
Their interdisciplinary class 
takes students on a chemical, 
historical and linguistic journey 
through experiments, vocabu-
lary lessons and cooking.
 “The sciences haven’t done 
as great a job of international-
izing as the humanities have,” 
Lord said. 
WST4930: Transgender 
Studies
The ﬁ  rst class on transgender 
studies will be taught this Spring by Billy Huff, the director of LG-
BTQ Affairs at UF. 
“Sex and gender are some of 
the most fundamental ways we 
identify ourselves and ways we 
structure our society,” Huff said. 
The class will talk about 
violence and anti-transgender 
speech. Huff said he hopes 
even non-trans students will see 
themselves reﬂ  ected in the texts. 
IDH2930: (Un)common 
read - Addiction & Society
American drug addiction will 
be explored in Oliver Grund-
mann’s online course through 
the books “A Beautiful Boy” and 
“Methland.”
College is the ﬁ  rst time peo-
ple may become dependent, the 
pharmacy professor said.
“It affects people of all social 
classes,” Grundmann said. 
ADV4930: Social Labs
After two pilot semesters, Bi-
envenido “Benny” Torres, a UF 
alumnus, and his students have 
created a College of Journalism 
and Communications capstone 
that lets students send an ad-
vertising pitch directly to brand-
name companies. 
Students will have access to 
the brand’s equipment to devel-
op on-campus ambassadors for 
the selected company. 
“I want to empower young people to learn creative process-
es,” Torres said.
LAS3930: Drug Wars 
The complicated relationship 
between Latin America and the 
United States will be explored 
through two commodities — le-
gal oil and illegal drugs. 
Joel Correia, an assistant pro-
fessor of Latin American studies, 
said he will use different mediums 
to analyze the topics through a po-
litical and ecological framework. 
“Even the personal consump-
tion choices of different students 
affect some of these seemingly 
different policies and processes,” 
Correia said. 
SYD3410: Urban Sociology
Brenden Beck, an assistant 
professor of UF’s Sociology and 
Criminology & Law Department, 
wants students to see how their 
space changes based on eco-
nomics, race and gender. 
Gainesville, Miami and New 
York will be case studies ex-
plored through lectures, pod-
casts and ﬁ  lms. Beck said he 
hopes the material inspires an 
awareness of local governments.
“You might not be interested 
in politics, but politics is inter-
ested in you,” Beck said.
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgWant an interesting class to take?The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORColumnWhy did the gunman 
who killed 11 Jewish 
people in a Pennsylva-
nian synagogue choose 
to attack that speciﬁ  c 
congregation? The gunman made 
several social media postings be-
fore opening ﬁ  re on the crowd 
with an AR-15 assault weapon and 
three Glock .357 pistols. Identiﬁ  ed 
by law enforcement as Robert D. 
Bowers, his posts attacked the He-
brew Immigrant Aid Society, an 
organization that provides assis-
tance to Jewish refugees.
Looking at those social media 
postings, it is not hard to conclude 
that the shooter was motivated by 
both anti-Semitism and anti-immi-
grant hatred.
After his arrest, Bowers told 
a SWAT ofﬁ  cer that he wanted 
all Jews to die and, according to 
the police criminal complaint, 
that “the (Jews) were committing 
genocide to (his) people.” Given 
the nature of those comments, it 
comes as no surprise that he had 
previously taken to social media to 
spout more ethnic hatred.
Bowers used Gab.com, a far-
right social networking site, to 
make multiple posts blaming Jew-
ish people for helping transport 
Central American migrants in 
caravans moving through south-
ern Mexico toward the U.S. Just 
before he entered the synagogue 
and began shooting, he posted: 
“HIAS likes to bring invaders in 
that kill our people. I can’t sit by 
and watch my people get slaugh-
tered. Screw your optics, I’m going 
in.” Another time he posted “Why 
hello there HIAS! You like to bring 
in hostile invaders to dwell among 
us?” Another post likely referenc-
ing the society read: “Open your 
(sic) eyes! It’s the ﬁ  lthy EVIL jews 
Bringing the Filthy EVIL Muslims 
into the Country!!”
 He posted still more times to 
tell Jewish people to get out or 
leave, according to CNN. Just a 
few weeks before the attack, Bow-
ers posted a webpage from the He-
brew Immigrant Aid Society that 
listed the addresses of Shabbat ser-
vices being held on behalf of refu-
gees, one of which was less than 
a mile away from the Tree of Life 
synagogue, where Bowers opened 
ﬁ  re. Given what the group does, it 
is difﬁ  cult to rationalize Bowers’ hatred for its supporters.
The group is committed to 
helping people from all over the 
world: those who are displaced, 
forgotten or in search of a better 
life and economic opportunity. 
The nonproﬁ  t has been at the fore-
front of human rights issues since 
it was founded in 1881. HIAS was 
the ﬁ  rst non-queer group to advo-
cate for a simpler method for LG-
BTQ+ Russians to gain U.S. visas. 
Today, it processes paperwork for 
those individuals seeking asylum 
throughout the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees. 
It is a helping hand that spans bor-
ders and cultures.
If Bowers had done even an 
ounce of open-minded searching, 
he would have found that neither 
HIAS, nor immigrants nor Jewish 
people are the cause of America’s 
problems. Hate blinded him to that 
obvious conclusion.
In light of the tragedy in Squir-
rel Hill, we must reconsider how 
we can ﬁ  ght hate and how we can 
prevent more of these tragedies. 
The problem is compounded by 
the normalization of hateful rheto-
ric. Vitriol and toxicity are part and 
parcel of public discourse. Politi-
cians fuel the ﬁ  re rather than extin-
guish it — the tug-of-war between 
left and right has made a chasm 
that stretches far down into the 
depths of hatred and frames the 
choice on immigration as one be-
tween welcoming lawless invaders 
and abolishing U.S. Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement. One 
can understand how the hateful 
and misguided like Bowers would 
draw the wrong conclusion.
Politics aside, the only way to 
ﬁ  ght hatred is with empathy and 
generosity. On a Muslim crowd-
sourcing site, two Muslim groups 
Celebrate Mercy and MPower 
Change have already raised 
$80,000 for victims of the shoot-
ing. These acts can inoculate our 
culture against hatred. Bowers had 
likely never been exposed to such 
an open-hearted display of gener-
osity from one religious group to 
the next. He was convinced that 
these groups hated him as much 
as he hated them. To help heal the 
break between political extremes, 
we must learn from HIAS’ initia-
tive and lend a helping hand to 
everyone in need.
The case for an Election Day national holiday
Election Day is right around the corner, 
and people from all over the country 
will be going to their polling places to 
cast their ballots. For those who have 
to work or go to school, however, they 
may struggle to ﬁ  t voting into their schedule. 
That’s not a good thing, and more impor-
tantly, it’s completely avoidable. We need to 
make Election Day a national holiday.
According to Democracy Chronicles, many 
developed nations like France and Germany 
either have Election Day as a national holiday or hold 
elections on weekends. Many of the countries that do 
this have higher voter turnout than the United States; 
in the 2016 presidential election, U.S. voter turnout was 
55.7 percent, and a survey by the International Institute 
for Democracy and Electoral Assistance found that the 
U.S. ranked 139 out of 172 countries in voter turnout 
with many of the countries ahead of us being developed 
ones. For a country that prizes democracy and represen-
tative government as much as we do, such a ranking 
should be unacceptable.
However, before we analyze the solution, we should 
step back and take a look at the cause of low turnout. 
Why don’t more Americans vote? As I mentioned before, 
work and school obligations are one reason. As Business 
Insider explained, prospective voters who have to work 
face a difﬁ  cult position if they want to vote on Election 
Day: wake up extra early in the morning to vote before 
work, use a vacation day, take unpaid time off of work 
(if possible) or wait in a long line to vote after work. 
With an Election Day holiday, workers wouldn’t have to 
make that choice and could vote without worry. There 
are other factors surrounding America’s comparatively 
low voter turnout of course, but that’s a story for another 
column. The larger point is that hurdles to voting, includ-
ing the lack of an ofﬁ  cial Election Day holiday, limit who 
can vote and call into question whether everyone truly 
has the right to vote like we’ve been taught in our civics 
classes.
The premise of making Election Day a national holi-
day is simple: Election Day would join the ranks of feder-
ally recognized holidays like Christmas, Martin Luther 
King, Jr. Day and Columbus Day, giving employees of the federal government the day off with regular 
pay. While few people are directly employed 
by the federal government (about 2 percent of 
the total workforce as of 2015, according to 
The Washington Post), most employers give 
their employees the day off on many federal 
holidays, like Christmas. However, many em-
ployees work on other federal holidays, such 
as Columbus Day, so considering the civic im-
portance of a holiday like Election Day, a law 
mandating a paid day off for certain employ-
ees may prove necessary.
To be fair, there are other solutions to the problem 
of low turnout. Vote-by-mail ballots are also a useful so-
lution and one that I think more people should know 
about; in fact, three states (Washington, Oregon and Col-
orado) do their elections entirely by mail. Early voting is 
also a good option; early voting on the weekend means 
those who have to work or go to classes can go to the 
polls then, although the lines may be long due to how 
many other people are doing the same. Finally, 30 states 
have enacted legislation mandating that employers give 
their employees at least a one hour break (paid or un-
paid) to go vote. Sadly, Florida is not one of those states. 
Making Election Day a national holiday would go a 
long way toward increasing voter turnout, and as recent-
ly as 2015, Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-Vermont) proposed a 
bill to make Election Day a national holiday (called ‘De-
mocracy Day’); sadly, no further action was taken on the 
bill. However, there are other steps we can take in the 
meantime. That would include increasing promotion of 
vote-by-mail ballots and additional assistance in request-
ing them, more polling places for early voting, pushing 
private companies to offer time off on Election Day and 
Florida joining 30 other states to offer leave during the 
workday for voting. These changes may be more achiev-
able in the short-term, and voters should push for such 
changes and gradually build up to an Election Day holi-
day. With time, the United States could become a more 
perfect union.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgEmpathy can combat hatredMONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Letters to the Editor
When I told my family 
just over a year ago that 
I wanted to become a 
more observant Jew and 
observe Shabbat, the day 
of rest, there were a lot of difﬁ  cult 
conversations. It is traditional for a 
Jew not to use technology, to carry 
anything or to drive on this day. No 
phone, no wallet, no ID and no car.
“Why don’t you just carry your phone 
and wallet for safety reasons?” they would 
ask. “You don’t have to use them, but what if 
there’s an emergency?”
Saturday, the worst fears for any observant 
Jew were realized as a gunman opened ﬁ  re on 
the Tree of Life synagogue in Squirrel Hill, just 
outside of Pittsburgh. 
Eleven people were conﬁ  rmed dead. Ac-
cording to the Anti-Defamation League, which 
monitors anti-Semitic activity in the nation, 
Saturday’s shooting marks the deadliest attack 
on Jews in the history of the U.S.
This is not a political issue. 
This is not a discussion of guns or of Israel. 
This brings to light the fact that Jews in 
the U.S. — and the world — have been see-
ing an uptick in vandalism and open hatred: 
synagogues spray-painted with swastikas, 
Jewish cemeteries desecrated and headstones 
toppled.
If you talk to Jewish students at UF, many 
can recall incidents of being bullied or worse  
just for being Jewish. Some have grandpar-
ents and great-grandparents who witnessed 
the horrors of the Holocaust and passed down 
the stories.
I spoke with Rabbi Aaron Notik of the 
Lubavitch Chabad Jewish Student Center on 
Sunday afternoon about the tragedy, and he 
offered a perspective that some may forget in 
this time of hurt.
“As Jewish people trying to observe our faith,” he said, “we are in the great-
est country in history to practice Ju-
daism outside of Israel.” 
Notik cited freedom of religion 
being woven into the fabric of Amer-
ica that has continued to be upheld. 
He agreed, though, that there has 
been a disturbing increase in anti-
Semitic incidents.
“The best way to respond to this 
is to be a light in the dark; go and do a good 
deed with (Saturday’s victims’) memories in 
mind,” he said. 
He gave examples of anti-Semitism 
throughout the ages and said that although it 
has existed as long as Judaism has — thou-
sands of years — Jews have still persevered.
To my fellow Jewish Gators, I offer this: 
Push back against these hateful actions with 
love and with embracing your identity and 
that of others. Make the world a better place.
This coming Shabbat, consider lighting 
Shabbat candles for those who are no lon-
ger here and keep them in your thoughts as 
you do so. Put a mezuzah on your doorpost 
to show that you take pride in who you are, 
and do a mitzvah, a good deed, with those 
who are gone in mind. Little things like this 
can make the biggest difference to those who 
need it.
As the Notik and Goldman families have 
taught me time and time again at Chabad, 
as has Rabbi Berl Grossman at UF Hillel, all 
Jewish Gators have a home here. You are not 
alone, and you have a place to turn to.
To all fellow Gators: Stand with your 
friends, Jews and non-Jews alike, to show that 
we are one cohesive Gator Nation who will 
not tolerate bigotry against any group. We all 
have a place in this world, and we all have the 
bond of humanity that enables us to coexist.
Jacob Kovach is a UF public relations senior.Times are changing, but they just seem 
to be going backward.
It is unbelievable to me that so much 
is being done in the political world to 
prevent change, and no one seems to 
notice. Maybe I’m naive, or maybe I’m one of 
the few who can look past the division between 
parties and see that there is injustice coming 
from both sides. Voters continue to make de-
cisions based directly on their party’s platform 
simply because of some eternal, unspoken 
grudge between Republicans and Democrats that creates nothing but stagnation and hatred. 
Isn’t the whole point of voting to work togeth-
er to make a difference for the greater good? 
Aren’t we all better than this? 
Climate change and women’s rights are 
two major issues that exemplify the divide in 
society caused by strict party beliefs. Scientiﬁ  c 
research shows that the environment doesn’t 
have many years left until the damage that has 
been done to it will become irreversible. De-
spite the evidence, there are still people who 
believe that the abusive relationship we have with our planet does not pose a threat simply 
because their party thinks it doesn’t. Addition-
ally, and this issue hits close to home for me, 
women still don’t have the rights to bodily au-
tonomy that we deserve. The predominantly 
male, predominantly religious population that 
is involved in governmental decisions is tell-
ing women what we can and can’t do with our 
bodies. Considering there are millions of un-
wanted children in the U.S., why force some-
one to bring another one into the world? 
With midterm elections rapidly approaching, please, please make informed decisions based 
on what you think, not necessarily what your 
party does. You won’t be a traitor for thinking 
differently. Think of what you would do in the 
situations of those whom these decisions will 
impact. Think about the environment and the 
change that your vote could help accomplish. 
Think for yourself! Do your research! And, 
most importantly, vote!
Michelle Manfrey is a UF environmental 
engineering sophomore.
Growing up, my fam-
ily had a ﬁ  xed weekday 
routine — come home 
from work or school, 
eat dinner and watch 
our shows. “M*A*S*H”, “Ev-
erybody Loves Raymond” and 
“NCIS” were some favorites. We 
also have a shortlist of movies 
that, when on, are assumed to 
be what everyone wants to watch. I could, 
scene by scene, describe to you “Happy 
Gilmore,” “Ghostbusters” or “Dumb and 
Dumber,” though I’m not sure this is worth 
bragging about.
I’ve always been ambivalent about watch-
ing the same things over and over again. I’ve 
worked hard to distance myself from my 
family’s habit. But it is both interesting and 
ironic how deeply our families inﬂ  uence us.
Over the course of this semester, I have 
watched “The Ofﬁ  ce” three times over, and I 
am going back through it again. My family’s 
old routine now parallels my own: school, 
homework, come home and watch my show. 
This bafﬂ  es my roommate and even my girl-
friend. They don’t understand how watching 
Dwight Schrute throw a watermelon from 
the roof onto Stanley’s car for the tenth time 
can delight me as much as it did the ﬁ  rst. 
And quite frankly, I’m not sure I understand 
it either.
Yet I am not alone in this. Americans love 
their reruns. We struggle to let go of child-
hood loves — look at the pantheon of re-
made Disney movies or the expanded “Star 
Wars” universe. Look at the popularity of the 
new “Harry Potter” books. I’m not the only 
one who prefers the road well-traveled.
Perhaps it’s a defect, an inability to move 
on from old, tired affections. From the out-
side I imagine it looks strange, me on the 
couch, absorbed in the same storyline I was absorbed in a month ago. Did I 
forget that Jim and Pam end up to-
gether? Am I afraid to love another 
TV show?
Perhaps it is a sort of fear. In life, 
we often love the safe comforts of 
what we know more than the dark 
prospects of the unknown. We of-
ten waste too much of our lives 
clinging to old passions and loves, 
demanding from them the impossible burden 
of becoming new again; if we let them go, 
we might be able to experience newer and 
better ones. 
It is important to recognize that it is love 
that keeps us interested in our favorite shows, 
books and movies. Devotion to rewatching 
and rereading is a mark of love; you expe-
rience love when you want to be with that 
someone or something as often as possible. 
At some point, we feel like the characters and 
the world are ours. We feel as if they belong 
to us, and we to them.
This is a strange thing to feel for a TV 
show, yet I think it’s one of the best explana-
tions for why I will watch “The Ofﬁ  ce” hap-
pily for the rest of my life. I’ve watched it so 
many times I feel like a part of the gang or 
at least have come to love the gang so much 
that their lives become mine.
I can’t tell you how often I randomly 
chuckle at something Michael Scott or Kevin 
said or did as if they were friends of mine 
whom I had hung out with just the other day. 
It’s a strange feeling to confess, giving real 
love to ﬁ  ctional characters. I’m not embar-
rassed though. On the contrary, the routine 
my family instilled in me will most likely 
continue in a permanent rerun, and I’m OK 
with that.
Scott Stinson is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Why watching reruns is always OK 
Over the past two weekends I have at-
tended two pride parades — one in 
Atlanta and one locally on Bo Did-
dley Community Plaza — in solidarity 
with friends and family members who 
identify as members of the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity. In response to my travels, I was asked 
why pride parades continue to be heavily cel-
ebrated, despite the fact that this community 
now has the right to marriage and most dis-
criminatory practices are now outlawed. I will 
try to answer this based on my own observa-
tions and ideas. 
We march for the joy of the members of 
the community whose family and friends were 
accepting of their identity. In this case, pride is 
a celebratory occasion. The primary purpose 
of a pride parade is to acknowledge everyone’s 
right to exist no matter how they identify. 
We march for those whose family and 
friends are not as accepting, who feel as 
though they cannot be themselves without 
fear of being ridiculed or hurt. In severe cases, some members of the LGBTQ+ 
community are victims of terrible 
hate crimes. 
We march because 20 years ago, 
almost to the day, Matthew Shepa-
rd, whose ashes were interred at 
Washington National Cathedral in 
D.C. on Friday, was murdered in 
an anti-gay hate crime. We march 
because he never could, because 
he was killed for being himself and 
was never able to experience life as 
an adult. The opposition that this community 
has overcome in the past half-century is monu-
mental. It is crucial to remember that until the 
mid-20th century, it was almost unheard of to 
identify as gay, and once people began to come 
out, they received serious backlash, sometimes 
costing them their lives. Due to the countless 
innocent lives lost for the sake of gaining ac-
ceptance, pride is to remember those who 
have come before. 
We march to spread awareness of the trans-gender community. Murder rates of 
transgender people are astronomi-
cally high. Existing as a transgender 
woman of color is one of the most 
dangerous things you can do in the 
21st century. Earlier this year, three 
black transgender women were fa-
tally shot, possibly the work of a 
serial killer. Marsha P. Johnson, of-
ten considered to be one of the ﬁ  rst 
prominent advocates for the trans-
gender community, was suspected 
to have been murdered.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services recently proposed a new deﬁ  nition of 
gender that would essentially erase the legiti-
macy of transgender people, deﬁ  ning gender 
as being strictly biological, assigned at birth 
and absolutely immutable. We march because 
we hear you. We see you. You are loved, and 
we will ensure that your identity will never be 
erased. 
We march because people who suffered from AIDS were treated unfairly, presumed to 
be dirty, unclean, sinful. Proper research and 
medical care were not devoted to AIDS victims 
by the presidential administrations of the ‘80s. 
It was wrongly believed to be exclusive to the 
gay community, giving the administrations a 
scapegoat on which to blame their fears, jok-
ingly referring to AIDS as the “gay plague.” 
Had proper, intensive research been done, 
thousands of deaths could have been prevent-
ed. We march because silence equals death, 
and we will be silent no longer. 
Pride is a time to celebrate identity, ac-
ceptance and the accomplishments of the 
LGBTQ+ community. It is also a time of re-
membrance, to honor those who have paved 
the way for gay rights, such as Harvey Milk, 
Marsha P. Johnson, Matthew Shepard and per-
sonal friends and family members whom we 
keep in our hearts as we march onward into a 
new and more accepting world. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.When LGBTQ+ equality is achieved, we will still be called to celebrate prideNeighborly love after Squirrel Hill
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.orgJacob Kovach
opinions@alligator.org
By Aaron Ritter
Alligator Staff Writer
Vincent Hampton came up with a strat-
egy before he ripped into 14 ribs in six 
minutes.
First, eat a big meal between 18 to 24 
hours before. Then, eat eight to 10 smaller 
meals the day of. But most importantly, 
don’t eat an hour before.
“I’ve been YouTubing all morning to 
prepare for this,” Hampton said.
Hampton, a board member of the Boys 
& Girls Club of Alachua County, competed 
Sunday in the Adam’s Rib Co.’s Charity 
Rib Eating Contest at the First Magnitude 
Brewing Co., at 1220 SE Veitch St.
For an unlimited supply of slow-cooked 
St. Louis-style ribs and a glass of beer, 
about 30 visitors paid a $10 entry fee to 
raise money for the Boys & Girls Club of 
Alachua County. The only rule was the 
racks of ribs had to be consumed in three 
minutes, said Adam Brewer, the owner of 
Adam’s.
Beginning with two elimination rounds, 
each contestant had only a black plate, a 
bottle of water and an empty stomach to 
make it to the final round. Brewer filled their plates with hearty helpings of meat 
before the match began, dipping into the 
prepared supply of more than 300 pounds 
of sauceless ribs. 
After the first two rounds weaned out 
the small of stomach, the final contestants 
were called to the table one last time for 
the final round. There was about $350 in 
prizes in store for the top three eaters, 
Brewer said.
Winner Zach Lewis had won the contest 
before but still said he felt nervous.
Suffering from meat sweats before the 
final round, David Rountree, the director of 
development and communications at Me-
ridian Behavioral Healthcare, soldiered on 
into the three-minute final.
Although Rountree made a valiant effort 
and consumed 18 ribs, he ended up taking 
home third place and about $50 worth of 
prizes. His win, however, came at a cost, 
Rountree said.
“I’m still a little sweaty,” Rountree said. 
“This one will last for a couple days.”
@AaronRitter18
aritter@alligator.org
ABOUT 20 STUDENTS 
PRETENDED TO DIE 
DURING THE 
17-MINUTE PROTEST.
By Aaron Ritter
Alligator Staff Writer
Lauren Cohen remembers see-
ing police officers stationed out-
side of her temple since she was 
young.
In the wake of Saturday’s shoot-
ing at the Tree of Life synagogue, 
she now fears her synagogue is no 
longer safe, Cohen said.
“The fact that people in my 
community were taken due to 
gun violence is sickening,” Cohen 
said. “I’m at a loss of words.” 
To protest gun violence, like 
what occurred at a Pittsburgh syn-
agogue Saturday and at Marjory 
Stoneman Douglas High School on 
Feb. 14, the Gainesville chapter 
of Students Demand Action orga-
nized a die-in — a form of pro-
test where participants lie on the 
ground — Saturday afternoon in 
front of Gainesville City Hall.
About 20 protestors wore or-
ange tape on their clothes with 
phrases such as “Enough” and 
“We are dying” and lay down on 
the cement ground for 17 minutes. 
Although it wasn’t meant to honor 
a specific event, Saturday’s syna-
gogue shooting imparted a somber reminder for everyone impacted 
by gun violence, said Jovanna Li-
uzzo, the 17-year-old founder of 
the Gainesville chapter of Students 
Demand Action.
The student organization is de-
termined to unite the community against further gun violence and 
stressed the importance of locals 
working together, Liuzzo said. 
Before the die-in, protesters 
also heard from guest speakers 
John Etienne from the UF College 
Democrats and the American Civil Liberties Union; Jyoti Parmar from 
Indivisible Gainesville; Anton Ker-
nohan from Students Stand Up; 
Lauren Cohen from Students De-
mand Action; Cate Allen from Em-
power the People and Melanie Ha-
gen from Moms Demand Action.Before Liuzzo founded the lo-
cal chapter of Students Demand 
Action, she said there was no 
Gainesville organization to com-
bat gun violence at a community 
level.
“The only way we are going to 
reach a viable, effective conclu-
sion is to make sure that every-
one’s voice is being heard,” she 
said.
As a survivor of a mass shoot-
ing that killed her high school 
peers, 17-year-old Marjory Stone-
man Douglas senior Cate Allen 
said she continues to suffer from 
the emotional trauma that came 
with the tragedy. Educating vot-
ers on how to stop future gun vio-
lence helps her heal.  
“I realized if I would have done 
something, I would still have the 
people I care about,” Allen said.
Although young people are 
leading the charge against gun 
violence, adults still have a ma-
jor role to play in reminding the 
community that everyone’s voice 
matters, especially moms support-
ing their kids, said Margaret Ham-
er, the spokesperson for Alachua 
County Moms Demand Action for 
Gun Violence Prevention.
“Young people have an abso-
lute opportunity to make change,” 
Hamer said.
@AaronRitter18
aritter@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
T en-year-old T aylor Brewer competes in the annual Adam’s Rib Co. Charity Rib Eating 
Contest Sunday at the First Magnitude Brewing Co. “He’s fired up and has been talking 
about it all day, ” said his mother and co-owner of Adam’s Rib Co., Michele Brewer.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Mae Shields, a 51-year-old volunteer, lies on the ground in front of Gainesville City Hall during a pro-
test organized by the Gainesville chapter of Students Demand Action. “I put my body here so these 
students have solidarity with the mom generation, ” Shields said.
Competitors try to down 300 pounds of ribs in charity contest
Students protest gun violence with die-in at Gainesville City HallThe winner ate 21 ribs. 
FIRST PLACE 
Zach Lewis: 21 ribsSECOND PLACE 
Brad Stumpff: 20 ribsTHIRD PLACE 
David Rountree: 18 ribsWHO WON?MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
DOWNTOWN WINE AND 
CHEESE HOSTS SPOOKY 
HAUNTED HOUSE
Photos By Chris Houston / Alligator Staff  
LEFT: Jen Hoben, 46, gets into 
character as a sinister-looking 
clown to give customers the fright 
of their life at Downtown Wine 
and Cheese’s annual haunted 
house, at 113 N. Main St.
RIGHT: Portraying a ghostly 
apparition, 5-year-old Roona 
Brown scares visitors at 
Downtown Wine and Cheese’s 
annual haunted house. Tickets 
are $10 per person and $5 for 
children under 12. The house  will 
be open from 7-11 p.m. through 
Halloween.WHODUNNIT
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff 
Andreas Enqvist, a 37-year-
old UF nuclear engineering 
assistant professor, talks with 
actor Kara Goldberg Saturday 
during the Masquerade Murder 
Mystery event at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History. 
Playing the character “Jessica 
Flesher, ” Goldberg said she loves 
interacting with guests during 
performances.THE STORY WILL BE READ ON 
PLAZA OF THE AMERICAS ON 
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can sit under a tent and listen 
to Mary Shelley’s “Frankenstein” read out 
loud from dusk to dawn Wednesday on 
the Plaza of the Americas.
The 10-hour long “Frankenread” is one 
of three events celebrating the 200th an-
niversary of “Frankenstein” from Tuesday 
to Wednesday, said UF English professor 
Terry Harpold.
Harpold organized the two-day event, 
sponsored by the George A. Smathers Li-
braries, the Harn Museum of Art and the 
UF Science Fiction Working Group, with 
his colleague Judith Page, a UF English 
professor. 
The book questions how to be human 
and deal with monsters, Harpold said. 
“The novel has tremendous rele-
vance,” he said. “It’s really a book about 
the certain struggle to be human, to be ac-
cepted.”
The celebration kicks off with a screen-
ing of “The Bride of Frankenstein” at 6 
p.m. Tuesday in the Harn Museum of Art Auditorium.
The “Frankenread” is from 9 a.m. to 7 
p.m. Wednesday. Thirty readers, includ-
ing Mayor Lauren Poe and Samuel Proc-
tor Oral History Program director Paul 
Ortiz, will take turns reading in 20-minute 
blocks, Harpold said. 
Meanwhile, author Lester Friedman 
will present vintage Frankenstein ﬁ  lms 
from noon to 1 p.m. in Smathers Library 
Room 100. 
A “Frankenstein” book exhibit will re-
main on on display on the third ﬂ  oor of 
Marston Science Library until Nov. 25, 
Harpold said. 
Poe said he volunteered to read at the 
event to promote literacy and pay tribute 
to Mary Shelley, a great female novelist 
and the inventor of the science ﬁ  ction 
genre.
“I love the book,” he said. “It’s been 
since high school since I read it, but it’s an 
amazing world that Shelley creates.”
The event brings awareness to literacy 
and encourages creativity, he said. 
“It is a timeless story about alienation, 
fear and people turning against the un-
known,” he said. “I think the theme is 
relevant to what’s going on in our world 
today.”
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.org10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Folk in fall
David Norden, 61, performs using an acoustic guitar and a face-mounted harmonica with 
his band, Shade Tree, during the annual Micanopy Fall Festival Sunday. Norden has been 
performing for 16 years.
UF celebrates 200th 
anniversary of ‘Frankenstein’
HIS BOND IS SET AT $760,000.
An Alachua County Jail inmate arrested 
for credit card fraud was caught commit-
ting the same crime behind bars Wednes-
day, deputies said. 
Justin Lee Williams, 28, of Joelton, Ten-
nessee, is accused of stealing about $2,800 
to add to his commissary and phone ac-
count in late August, according to an Ala-chua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest report. 
Several people called Williams to give 
him credit card numbers, expiration dates, 
security codes and billing address zip codes 
during the last week of August, the report 
said.
On Aug. 23, a woman called Williams 
twice to give him credit card information, 
deputies said. Williams used one card to 
add $300 to his commissary and $50 to his phone account and another to add $1,350 
to his phone account.
Williams called another woman mul-
tiple times over the next couple days to talk 
about ﬁ  nding card numbers to use, depu-
ties said. At one point, Williams told the 
woman, “Don’t do anything to kill the card, 
or I’ll kill you.”
He also attempted to bond out two other 
inmates with the stolen information, the report said.
Williams was charged with 20 counts 
of identity theft, nine counts of committing 
fraud under $300, three counts of commit-
ting fraud of $300 or more and one count 
each of providing false information, pos-
sessing ﬁ  ve or more identities and possess-
ing multiple counterfeit credit cards, the 
report said. He remains in jail in lieu of a 
$760,000 bond.Man accused of stealing thousands of dollars while in jail
Police arrested a man suspected of 
drug trafﬁ  cking after ﬁ  nding him with 
large amounts of money, guns and 
drugs Thursday night, police said.
John Joseph Graczyk III, 26, of 
Greenacres, Florida, was pulled over 
for driving too closely to another car 
but was accused of keeping cash, pills 
and a riﬂ  e in his SUV, according to a 
Gainesville Police arrest report.
A drug task force ofﬁ  cer stopped 
Graczyk on Interstate 75 at the exit 
for Southwest Archer Road, the report 
said. 
While talking to Graczyk, the ofﬁ  -
cer noticed he was nervous and told 
him to get out of the car, police said.
A police dog sniffed the outside of 
the car and smelled drugs inside, the 
report said.Ofﬁ  cers found 17.9 grams of opioid 
pills, 33.6 grams of marijuana in heat-
sealed bags and less than 20 grams of 
THC vape oil. Police also found two 
handguns, one of which was loaded, 
and an AR-15 riﬂ  e, police said.
Police found an unknown amount 
of money bundled in rubber bands in 
more heat-sealed bags, the report said. 
Ofﬁ  cers believed the amount of drugs 
and money were a sign of trafﬁ  cking.
Graczyk is charged with drug traf-
ﬁ  cking and possession of a ﬁ  rearm by 
a convicted felon, drugs and parapher-
nalia. He is being held in the Alachua 
County Jail in lieu of a $145,000 bond.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgMan arrested is suspected 
of drug trafficking
Police said a woman 
ended her night at the club 
by pulling a ﬁ  re alarm and 
throwing punches.
But Jaquandra Meona 
Rowe, 24, of Gainesville, 
said she pulled the ﬁ  re alarm 
at the nightclub Saga, at 109 
S. Main St., Saturday to get 
an ambulance for her uncon-
scious cousin.
“I felt like everyone in 
there was intoxicated,” 
Rowe told The Alligator. “I 
wasn’t getting the help that 
I needed.”
Rowe walked into the 
bathroom at about 12:30 
a.m. and found her cousin drunk and passed out, she 
said. In a panic, she tried to 
help her cousin by calling 
the police and pulling the 
alarm.
Gainesville Police said it 
received reports of a ﬁ  ght 
and found Rowe throwing 
punches and pushing by-
standers outside. A manager 
of the club told police that 
they kicked her out for at-
tacking people and pulling 
the alarm, the report said.
One woman told ofﬁ  cers 
Rowe punched her on the 
left side of her neck. The 
manager said Rowe punched 
another woman several times. No one else wanted to 
press charges against Rowe, 
the report said.
Rowe said that if she hit 
anyone, it was by accident.
Outside of Saga, Rowe ig-
nored ofﬁ  cers telling her to 
stop until one arrested her, 
an arrest report said. She 
continued to pull away and 
curse at people nearby.
Police charged Rowe with 
simple battery. She was re-
leased from the Alachua 
County Jail on Saturday.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgWoman kicked out of Saga 
nightclub accused of fighting All Stories By Jessica Curbelo   |   Alligator Staff WriterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifiedsMONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Designated drivers are the greatestPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     10-31-18-30-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 8 Electronics 12 Autos 13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
10-31-18-41-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day. Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYSocial Media Jobs Available Now
Companies hiring social media managers now! 
F/PT. $10 - $30/hr
No experience required. CashForCollege.club        
11-14-30-14
Looking for a fun job with kids?
Gymnastics, dance, ninja, rock climbing,
afterschool, day camps and much more.
Apply right now! suncountrysports.com/jobs    
11-14-18-14-14
SERVERS NEEDED!!!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
11-2-10-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    11-2-18-10-14
REAL ESTATE JOB
Show properties for sale & rent
25-35 hrs/week, hourly + bonuses
Email: contact@UniversityRealtyFL.com         
11-7-18-10-14
Take surveys and get paid!
You can make $800/week
completing surveys online!
Free to join!
Go to: www.OnlineOpportunity.club     10-29-
18-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Part-time position at horse boarding farm, won-
derful atmosphere, perfect for someone look-
ing to work around horses a few afternoons a 
week. Must have experience and reference. 
Please contact khcherokee@aol.com      10-
31-18-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services
MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Make an extra $400 or more per week
in the comfort of your dorm.
Go to: www.collegeopportunities.net       10-
29-18-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Paul Coulter
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/29/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/29/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, October 29, 2018
ACROSS
1 Autos
5 Cutlass 
automaker
9 Stick-on design
14 Fever with chills
15 Hide, as a bone
16 100 bucks
17 Breadbasket 
item
18 Read bar codes 
on
19 “Wizard of __ 
Park”: Edison
20 Protective net 
above a cradle
23 __ Paulo, Brazil
24 Some tech sch. 
grads
25 Type of energy 
or reactor
29 ’60s-’70s 
quarterback 
Tarkenton
31 Content cat 
sound
33 Spanish gold
34 Government 
prosecutor
37 Philip of “Kung 
Fu”
38 Live and breathe
39 “Ich bin __ 
Berliner”: JFK
40 Reduced 
responsiveness 
to medication
45 “Casablanca” 
pianist
46 She sheep
47 Blues singer 
James
48 At first, second 
or third
50 Long __ of the 
law
51 Airline to 
Stockholm
54 Unexpected 
classroom 
announcement 
... and, initially, 
one hiding in 
each set of 
puzzle circles
58 Gorge
61 Aesop’s  
also-ran
62 “East of Eden” 
director Kazan
63 Blender button
64 Barely makes, 
with “out”
65 A short distance 
away
66 Accumulate67 “Wild” frontier 
place
68 IRS form IDs
DOWN
1 King and queen
2 Greek 
marketplace
3 Hitchhiker’s 
principle?
4 Actress Ward
5 Lewd
6 “Star Wars” 
mastermind
7 “Dang!”
8 Lip-__: mouth the 
words
9 U.S. capital 
transit system
10 First month of 
el año
11 Pro’s opposite
12 Braves, on 
scoreboards
13 DiCaprio, in fan 
mags
21 Potatoes partner
22 “B.C.” cartoonist 
Johnny
26 Tennis great 
with nine Grand 
Slam singles 
titles
27 Goodnight 
woman of song
28 Coquettish30 Tolled like Big 
Ben
31 Romeo’s rival
32 Salt Lake City 
team
34 Leftovers wrap
35 Postage-paid 
enc.
36 Cost of living?
40 Brit. military 
award
41 Job applicants’ 
preparations
42 Pretty pitcher43 Most concise
44 “Don’t look __ like 
that!”
49 Beasts of burden
50 Buenos __
52 From China, say
53 Popular 
performers
55 “That was close!”
56 Leaves gatherer
57 Addition column
58 Auditing pro
59 Run smoothly
60 Altar in the sky
By Michael Ashley
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/27/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/27/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Saturday, October 27, 2018
ACROSS
1 “Grab that guy!”
9 Indonesian dyed 
fabrics
15 Speaking to a TV 
audience, say
16 Name attached 
to 14 Grand Slam 
tennis titles
17 Ultimate degree
18 Pick up
19 Urgent event
21 Agitated states
22 Only driver to win 
Indy and Le Mans 
in the same year
25 2017 NLDS 
player
27 Gaelic tongue
28 School closing?
29 Link with
31 Music with 
expressive lyrics
32 Offering from 
your server
34 Corn containers
36 Malamute pair?
38 Principal 
aluminum ore
40 Habitual surfer
42 Red Cross 
provision
43 California’s __ 
Beach
45 Mississippi river 
to the Mississippi 
River
46 Green target
48 Besmirch
50 Single-channel
51 Stock trader’s 
option
52 Cop to
53 Put down
55 Real estate 
basics
57 Title for Versace
59 Pressured, in a 
way
61 Defies all logic
65 Ran the show
66 Service 
companies
67 Fly to flee
68 Ashley’s twin
DOWN
1 Family business 
partner2 Fangorn Forest 
dweller
3 Goethe’s “I”
4 1960s pioneer in 
countercultural 
strips
5 Atlanta university
6 “60 Minutes” 
creator Don
7 Angers
8 Venus probe 
craft
9 Rock’s Harper or 
Folds
10 Forum greetings
11 Just right
12 Brahms piano 
pieces
13 Had an in
14 Intuit
20 Attended casually
22 Microscopic 
specimen
23 Island spirits
24 Deceit
26 Hamlet’s first 
choice
30 Sharp winter 
tools
33 Rim
35 Home near a 
cote, perhaps37 Hair net
39 Former Yugoslav 
leader
41 Final cut on 
the “Sounds of 
Silence” album
44 A luge driver 
might wear one
47 Revolver?
49 1977 Australian 
Open winner 
Roscoe51 VMI student
54 Like a pretty lass
56 Matches in  
Hold ’em
58 Lady of song
60 ’50s ticket  
initials
62 __ Maria
63 One might be 
made on the 
nose
64 Canton ending
1.  Cowboy
1.  Reign over5.  Stop by
2.  Brash one6.  Loathe
3.  Small axe7.  Cross-____
4.  Mars or AprilCHAUOG
RENOGVTIVIS
HBROA
TRAPTSU
ECHHTTATTHCSI
RUHFOTANSWERS: 1A-Gaucho  5A-Visit  6A-Abhor  7A-Stitch
1D-Govern  2D-Upstart  3D-Hatchet  4D-Fourth  B-Victor Hugo10-29-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: After his death, ____ ____’s coffin was placed
beneath the Arc de Triomphe for an all-night vigil.
BONUS1. In 2017, Cincinnati’s Scooter 
Gennett became the second player 
since 1901 with four home runs and 
at least 10 RBIs in a game. Who was 
the other?
2. In the 1960s, three San Francisco 
Giants combined to win the National 
League home run title in seven sea-
sons. Name the three.
3. When was the last time before 
2014-16 that the University of Ten-
nessee’s football team won three con-
secutive bowl games?
4. Name the last NBA team before 
the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2016 and 
2017 to win their first seven playoff 
games in consecutive seasons.
5. Patrick Kane set a record for the 
U.S. men’s hockey team at the Ice 
Hockey World Championships in 
2018 by tallying a total of 20 points. 
Who had held the record?
6. Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson 
set a women’s hockey record at the 
2018 Winter Games for fastest back-
to-back goals in Olympic history (six 
seconds). Who had held the mark?
7. Who was the last men’s golf major 
championship winner before Frances-
co Molinari in 2018 (British Open) 
to play the final two rounds without 
going over par on a hole?
Answers
1. St. Louis’ Mark Whiten, who had 
four home runs and 12 RBIs in a game 
in 1993.
2. Orlando Cepeda (1961), Wil-
lie Mays (‘62, ‘64, ‘65) and Willie 
McCovey (‘63, ‘68, ‘69).
3. It was the 1994-96 seasons. 
4. The Minneapolis Lakers in 1949 
and 1950.
5. Richard Roberge, with 16 points 
in 1962.
6. Canada’s Caroline Ouellette 
scored goals 16 seconds apart in 2006.
7. Steve Elkington, at the 1995 PGA 
Championship.
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
October 29, 2018King Features Weekly Service20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 16 Health ServicesLakeland High School alumnus 
and Red Sox first baseman 
Steve Pearce homered twice 
in Game 5 of the World Series 
against Los Angeles. Boston 
won the series 4-1.UF falls in latest AP poll
Florida dropped to No. 13 in the latest Associated Press T op 25 Poll released 
Sunday afternoon. They fell four spots from their previous position at No. 9.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
The bizarre penalty turned a 
third and three for Georgia into a 
first and goal. 
The Gators forced the Bulldogs 
to settle for a field goal, but it 
increased Florida’s first-quarter 
deficit to 10. 
The skycam incident
Punter Tommy Townsend 
entered the game on fourth-and-
eight to punt.
His booming kick sent the ball 
cruising so high into the air it went 
careened off the wire of the CBS 
floating skycam on its way back to 
the ground. 
It took several minutes for 
the referees to figure out what 
happened, and when they did, 
Townsend was forced to redo the 
punt.
The peculiarity of the second-
quarter fiasco increased as it 
only ended up making a yard’s 
difference after Townsend’s retry. 
The redshirt junior’s first kick 
had gone 51 yards and was downed 
at the UGA 21-yard line. His second 
punt went 71 yards and sent the 
ball bouncing into the endzone 
for a touchback thus moving the 
Bulldogs to their own 20.
Emory Jones in at QB
Mullen’s decision to play fresh-
man quarterback Emory Jones was 
perhaps the most egregious use of irony of the game.
The Gators had spent the 
entire week preparing to face two 
quarterbacks in starting sophomore 
Jake Fromm and freshman Justin 
Fields.
Fields has taken the field in 
every game this season, and the 
assumption heading into Saturday’s 
game was that it’d be no different 
against the Gators.
But Fields didn’t take one snap 
in Georgia’s win on Saturday, likely 
because Fromm played so well. He 
finished 17-for-24 passing with 240 
yards, three touchdowns and no 
interceptions.
The 6-foot-2, 199-pound Jones 
did see the field a couple times 
in place of the struggling Feleipe 
Franks.
Jones was primarily used as a 
runner and managed 12 yards on 
four attempts. 
He had a fumble during the 
second quarter but jumped on 
top of the ball. Jones was trying 
to pitch the ball to running back 
Jordan Scarlett in the backfield, 
and UGA defensive end Malik 
Herring knocked the ball out of 
Jones’ hand while his arm was still 
stretched out.
The freshman from LaGrange, 
Georgia, showed some confidence 
as well. During the fourth quarter, 
he saw Van Jefferson make a break 
down the field and delivered the 
ball right on target. It looked like 
it’d be a touchdown catch for Jefferson had UGA defensive back 
Tyson Campbell not committed 
pass interference.
Jones didn’t put up huge num-
bers on Saturday, but he provided 
a sneak peek at what can be expect-ed in the future and took the spot-
light away from Georgia freshman 
quarterback Justin Fields, who had 
gotten the attention heading in.
“I guess the talk all week was 
one of the freshman quarterbacks was going to be in the game a lot,” 
Mullen said. “That was true, it was 
just ours.” 
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1Freshman QB Emory Jones gets his first SEC experience
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Emory Jones (right) played in his first game since the season opener against Charleston 
Southern. He carried the ball four times for 12 yards and threw one pass Saturda y against Georgia.
Morgan Meets the Eye / Column
Maybe it was the nerves of 
being on a big stage. Maybe it 
was a lack of in-game experi-
ence.
Freshman quarterback Emo-
ry Jones took a shotgun snap 
in the second quarter against 
Georgia and ran right. Running 
back Jordan Scarlett trailed be-
hind, his hands raised in antici-
pation of a late toss. 
It’s a staple in the Dan Mullen offense, 
the pitch option. Dak Prescott, Nick 
Fitzgerald and Tim Tebow can probably 
run that play in their sleep. Even Feleipe 
Franks, who runs like a giraffe trying to 
catch the elevator, consistently executes 
that play.
Jones took several steps toward the 
right hash marks until he was met by defensive lineman Malik 
Herring. Then, near disaster. 
Jones tried to pitch it out to 
Scarlett but was hit in the 
process of the exchange, 
forcing the ball to the TIAA 
Bank Field turf. Jones 
recovered the fumble, but 
the damage was evident. 
Florida punted on the next 
play and nixed the momentum it had from 
a first-down run earlier in the drive. 
It marked the end of the half for the 
Gators’ offense. It didn’t mark the end of 
Jones’ day. He entered again in the fourth 
quarter and, after an 8-yard run off the 
left tackle, heaved a deep ball to receiver 
Van Jefferson. It was a well-placed ball 
on which Jefferson earned a pass interfer-Emory Jones isn’t the answer... yet
Morgan McMullen
twitter: @MorganMcMuffinSOCCER
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
Florida goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese 
looked Auburn forward Rocio Sanders 
in the eye like a boxer staring down her 
opponent at the weigh in. Sanders had to 
convert this shot to keep Auburn’s hopes in 
the SEC Tournament alive.
She took a short run to the ball and 
hammered it with her right foot. Marckese, 
however, went the right direction and 
emphatically blocked the ball while falling 
to her left. 
Ball game. 
Sunday’s 1-1 (2-1) victory in Orange 
Beach, Alabama, gets Florida (7-9-3, 4-5-1 
SEC) a date with No. 1-seed Vanderbilt on Tuesday.
For 56 minutes on Sunday, it looked 
like UF would cruise to the next round. 
The Gators were in control throughout the 
first half and took a 1-0 lead to the second. 
The offense generated chances at a solid 
pace, and the defense looked comfortable 
defending against the Auburn (12-6-1, 4-5-1 
SEC) attack. Then, in the 57th minute, the 
entire complexion of the game changed.
Senior midfielder Sarah Troccoli, UF’s 
captain, went up for a header with Auburn 
midfielder Bri Folds. The two players came 
down together. While getting up, Troccoli 
gave Folds a shove, pushing her back down. 
The infraction was severe enough in the 
referee’s opinion to warrant an immediate Gators survive red card, penalty 
kicks to advance in SEC Tourney
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
BASKETBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
The Gators didn’t make the cut for the AP 
preseason top 25 poll. But that isn’t a reason 
for the team to not have hope for the season.
Inconsistency marred last season, but 
the squad returns every single member of 
the team save for flashy point guard Chris 
Chiozza, sharpshooter Egor Koulechov 
and the injured John Egbunu. The latter 
of the three sat out all of last season while 
rehabbing a knee injury.
The Gators replaced those three with 
three new recruits: five-star point guard 
Andrew Nembhard, four-star shooting guard 
Noah Locke and four-star forward Keyontae 
Johnson.
Nembhard hails from Montverde Acade-
my just outside of Orlando and played on the 
U-18 Canadian National Team. The 6-foot-
3 guard averaged 15.7 points, 8.8 assists, 
4.3 rebounds and 2.7 steals during the U18 
Americas Championship back in June.
Whether it’s Nembhard or last year’s 
backup point guard Mike Okauru who trots 
it out with the starting five remains to be 
seen. Coach Mike White doesn’t appear he’ll 
release a decision prior to Tuesday night’s 
exhibition with Florida Southern.
“Not really. Both of them are playing 
well. They’re both very different,” White 
said when asked if either guy had stuck 
out thus far. “KeVaughn (Allen) and Jalen 
Hudson have both gotten reps at the point 
as well in practice, so we can play different 
ways there.”
One main storyline for UF this year will be the consistency of forward Keith Stone. Or 
perhaps, the lack thereof.
When alligatorSports reporter Tyler 
Nettuno asked White, “Has Keith Stone been 
consistent?” the third-year coach responded 
with a smile.
“At times. That kind of answers your 
consistency question.”
When Stone is clicking, the offense is as 
well. Last season against No.11 Texas A&M, 
Stone erupted for 18 points on 4 for 6 three-
point shooting. He had three games with 
over 20 points but also had games where he 
pulled a Houdini act and simply disappeared 
(see: 77-72 loss against South Carolina 
where he only notched three points on 1 for 
3 shooting).
A big point for White this year has been 
trying to find a vocal leader in the locker room, 
something that was a consistent problem last 
year. It appears White has finally found his 
guy in senior center Kevarrius Hayes.
“Kevarrius Hayes has made a big jump. 
He’s the guy right now,” White said. “I don’t 
know how many minutes he plays, I don’t 
know how many points he averages, but he 
is the guy that has become very vocal, very 
demanding.”
In addition to Nembhard, Locke and 
Johnson figure to see some minutes in a 
crowded rotation.
Locke was a deadeye shooter this pre-
vious summer on the Nike EYBL summer 
circuit. The guard with a 6-foot-8 wingspan 
shot 46 percent from three. A high school 
three-point line, that is.
But Locke doesn’t care.
“I mean, I usually shoot further back any-way, so I mean there isn’t much of a differ-
ence for me,” he said.
Johnson is an athletic specimen and does 
a really good job infiltrating the paint.
“Keyontae, he’s got a lot of God-given 
ability,” White said. “Explosive athlete, great 
length, good basketball IQ, sees the game.”
The Gators face off against Florida South-ern in an exhibition Tuesday night at 7 p.m. 
at the O’Connell Center. White said his team 
is eager to face off with a team in another 
jersey.
“We’re just anxious to play somebody 
else here pretty soon.”
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.orgOptimism surrounds Florida as the season opener nears
VOLLEYBALL
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
 
Sophomore outside hitter Paige 
Hammons stood waiting on a 
serve from Mississippi State’s side 
of the court at match point.
She transitioned quickly behind 
the 10-foot line and out toward the coaches on the bench and glared 
at the ball as it was passed out of 
the back row.
Hammons started her approach 
toward the net, looking as if she 
was about to send another swing 
down the line. She opted instead 
for a dainty tip just behind the 
block and one that landed in the belly of the court.
The tip sealed Florida’s second 
win of the season — and their sec-
ond three-match sweep — against 
the Bulldogs in Starkville, Missis-
sippi (25-18, 25-21, 25-20).
The No. 13 Gators (19-4, 10-1 
SEC) had a new look Sunday af-
ternoon when the starters took the 
court at Mississippi State.
Freshman outside hitter Thayer 
Hall remained on the sidelines for 
the duration of the match donning 
a blue warm-up jacket. Hall logged 
a start in every contest leading up 
to Sunday’s match, including a 10-
kill performance last week against 
Missouri. She didn’t appear to be 
visibly injured on the sideline. 
Instead, Florida decided to try 
out a new lineup, which included 
sophomore right-side attacker and 
setter Holly Carlton playing in all 
six rotations.
Sister setters Allie and Marlie 
Monserez split time around the 
court. Marlie took position at the 
net for three rotations and Allie 
subbed in at the service line and 
commanded the back half of the 
court.
Redshirt sophomore Mia So-
kolowski also contributed to the 
win, switching from a traditional 
right-side attacker position to the left-side for today’s contest.
Sokolowski played on the left-
side pin last season but has since 
transitioned to a more prominent 
right-side attacker look with the 
addition of Hall.
The Gators started off fairly 
slow in all three sets against the 
Bulldogs (5-19, 1-10 SEC), never 
winning the first point.
The different look for the 
Gators proved its worth when 
Florida went on an eight-point run 
and stole the lead from Mississippi 
State after trailing the Bulldogs 4-1 
in the first set.
Having a setter front row in 
Marlie Monserez opened up op-
tions for a slide attack for the mid-
dle blockers and running another 
attack option for Carlton out of the 
back row.
The freshman setter is also 
taller than her sister, providing a 
more dominant block defense on 
the net.
Mississippi State adjusted by 
moving sophomore libero Kendall 
Murr to the right-back position in-
stead of keeping her in the tradi-
tional left-back defensive spot.
But the new position gave the 
Gators an advantage as she hesi-
tated to make the pass on some 
plays. However, the adjustment also gave the Bulldogs a better de-
fensive opportunity because most 
of Florida’s hits were toward the 
right-back area, no matter who 
was hitting on the front line.
“Holly Carlton and Paige Ham-
mons really carried us from an 
offensive standpoint, and we had 
solid back row play today – es-
pecially out of Allie Gregory and 
Paula Cerame,” coach Mary Wise 
said in a release.
There was a noticeable differ-
ence in the third set as Mississippi 
State cut down on Florida’s point 
runs and came close to tying up 
the score at 20-all.
A kill from Carlton, however, 
gave Florida an edge as they sailed 
into the last points of the contest 
with a four-point run.
Carlton logged 11 kills on the 
match with Hammons right ahead 
at 12 kills on a combined 58 
swings. Marlie Monserez logged 
three block assists at the net with 
Rachael Kramer leading both ros-
ters with six blocks of her own.
The Gators will continue their 
road trip to take on the Kentucky 
Wildcats in Lexington, Kentucky, 
on Wednesday. 
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.orgGators sweep Mississippi State with a different lineupAlligator File Photo
Florida coach Mike White said center Kevarrius Hayes has made a big improvement 
in the offseason as a leader. “He’s the guy right now, ” White said.
Lexie Miller / Alligator Staff
Sophomore outside hitter Paige Hammons notched 12 kills in 
Florida’s sweep of Mississippi State on Sunday.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2018
BASEBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Austin Langworthy’s eyes 
never left the ball. They stayed 
glued to the pitch as it traveled 
from the mound, off his alumi-
num bat and as it sailed over the 
right-center field wall.
He finally looked away after 
the ball left the confines of the 
park and resumed his grand-
slam trot. 
Langworthy’s dinger helped 
the Florida baseball team take 
the first part of its exhibition 
split game against USF on Satur-
day in Lakeland, Florida.
The Gators and the Bulls 
played with special rules which 
featured two six-inning games 
and a plethora of stipulations 
to run-scoring. Right-handed ju-
nior pitcher Tyler Dyson got the 
start for the first game, while 
sophomore righty Jack Leftwich 
got the nod for the second.
Nine UF pitchers reached 92 miles per hour or better on the 
day, and freshmen Nick Pogue, 
David Luethje and Christian 
Scott saw action on the mound.
Florida’s bats came alive 
in the first game. Sophomore 
catcher Brady Smith notched 
an RBI single to bring in fresh-
man third baseman Cory Acton 
from third, the Gators’ first run 
of the day. Langworthy’s grand 
slam gave Florida the 5-3 win in 
Game 1.
Game 2 went a little different.
USF put up four runs, and 
held UF to just one due to some 
solid pitching, taking the sec-
ond game in the process. Bulls 
righty Nelson Alvarez produced 
a scoreless final inning.
The Gators will play another 
exhibition game against Jack-
sonville on Sunday, this time at 
McKethan Stadium.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators split exhibition matchup in Lakeland against USF
Alligator File Photo
Junior right fielder Austin Langworthy hammered a grand slam in Sunday’s games against USF. 
red card, putting Florida one player 
down for the rest of the match.
Without their captain, the momen-
tum shifted away from the Gators. In 
the 74th minute, Taylor Troutman’s 
header from 16 yards out off a corner 
leveled the score at 1 apiece. From 
there, Florida’s defense was stout 
and withstood the pressure for the 
remainder of regulation and in both 
10-minute overtime periods. Florida 
put up a valiant defensive effort and 
held the Tigers to just the one goal 
in 53 minutes with just 10 players on the field.
Florida’s opening goal came cour-
tesy of a penalty kick in the 20th min-
ute. Auburn defender Sarah Houchin 
made an ill-advised tackle in her own 
box, which brought UF forward Mad-
ison Alexander to ground. The Gators 
were awarded the penalty, but it 
wasn’t without controversy. Auburn 
coach Karen Hoppa was awarded a 
yellow card for arguing that Houchin 
the call.
Alexander took the penalty, and 
her finish was clinical. She had the 
goalkeeper dive the wrong way and 
calmly placed the ball into the corner 
of the net.The MVP of the match, though, 
was probably Marckese. In addition 
to making a big save early in the 
match, Marckese saved three shots in 
the penalty shootout. She also took 
and made Florida’s first penalty kick 
of the round.
“I’m not done playing with this 
team,” Marckese said in an SEC 
Network interview after the game. 
“These girls, they mean everything 
to me.” 
 @samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 14Marckese, Sapone make only shots in penalty shootout
ence call and eventually led to a UF field goal. 
Jones wasn’t terrible. He just wasn’t that good, either. 
His other three carries netted four yards and struggled for a 
semblance of consistency. Granted, nobody outside of the 
Florida locker room expected him to play. But he knew. He 
prepared for two weeks for an opportunity against the No. 
7 team in the country.
He didn’t embarrass himself on national TV, but he 
didn’t make the case for playing time for now.
Mullen teased the media — and Gators fans — somewhat 
in his postgame press conference regarding the future of 
his youngest quarterback.
“I think our plan moving forward will probably (be) 
to redshirt him still, so we will see how the rest of the 
season plays out,” Mullen said. Then he added a line to 
feed internet conspiracy theorists enough fodder for the 
remainder of the year. 
“You never know.”
I think I do, Dan. You’ll probably play him in two of 
the remaining games in some capacity. You’ll probably get 
some good looks from him against Idaho and either Mis-
souri, South Carolina, FSU or a bowl game. You’ll probably 
get to use that redshirt on him and get him on the roster for 
four more years. Franks and backup Kyle Trask have two 
more years of eligibility at UF. 
It’s clear that, at the very least, Mullen would like a 
couple of years with a more experienced and comfortable 
Jones behind center. I’m sure he wouldn’t mind an always-
improving Franks in the interim. 
Besides, Florida is likely going 10-2, barring any major 
upsets from the previously mentioned teams. Fans and 
journalists alike would’ve been incredulous at that result if 
you’d claimed it before the season. That’s also with every 
player adjusting to a new offense and a new defense. It’s 
remarkable we’re still having this discussion with a 6-2 
(4-2 SEC) team whose only two losses were against two 
teams competing for top spot in the SEC East .
The Gators are a work in progress. The quarterback 
position is doubly so. Let Jones marinate a little longer, 
UF faithful. You’ve waited this long for a quarterback with 
promise and natural talent. You can wait a bit longer.
Morgan McMullen is the sports editor at The Alligator. 
Follow him on Twitter @MorganMcMuffin and contact him 
at mmcmullen@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg 14
Alligator File Photo
Senior goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese made five saves in regulation and overtime against Auburn in the Gators’ 
first-round matchup with the Tigers. She made three additional sa ves in the penalty shootout. 
