We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaFRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
Dinesh D’Souza visits UF
About 300 attended the conservative commentator’s event, pg. 5
UF human resources employee arrested
Deputies say he touched a girl, pg. 3LANGWORTHY BREAKING OUT
UF outﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy is hitting .304 
heading into this weekend’s three-game series with Missouri. pg. 14VOLUME 112 ISSUE 80
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
THE COMMUNITY 
OPENED IN FALL TO MAKE 
BLACK STUDENTS MORE 
COMFORTABLE ON CAMPUS.
By Amanda Rosa
Alligator Staff Writer
After a 2015 The Washington Post article 
reported the plunging numbers of UF’s black 
students, the former vice president for Stu-
dent Affairs commissioned the Black Student Affairs Taskforce — a group of staff, faculty 
and students — to research how to improve 
the campus experience for black students.
A residential space for black students was 
one of the key suggestions.
In Fall 2017, UF opened the Black Cultur-
al Living Learning Community in Graham 
Hall. 
In its inaugural year, 52 of Graham Hall’s 
203 residents are in the Living Learning Community. About half of Graham residents 
are in AIM, an academic support program with a majority black population. Although 
many AIM students didn’t sign up to be in 
the Living Learning Community, they live 
alongside it.
One year into the program, The Alligator asked students about their experiences. Most residents said they’re excited to have a space 
dedicated to their culture. However, some said more can be done to promote the com-
munity.
•   •   •
Growing up, Vanessa Nevy said she nev-
er felt like a minority.
Surrounded by other black and Hispanic 
residents in Kissimmee, she felt at home in 
the neighborhood she lovingly nicknamed 
“Little Puerto Rico.” 
But when she walked into a lecture hall 
during her ﬁ  rst Fall semester at UF, she felt isolated. 
Nevy was the only black student there. 
The 18-year-old UF advertising freshman 
noticed every time she was the only black person in the room — which was often. She was one of two black female students in her 
Fall criminology class when a white student 
argued against the Black Lives Matter move-ment. Nevy said she couldn’t speak up.
“I got too frustrated,” she said. “I couldn’t 
put my words together or else I would sound too passionate or I would come across as the angry black girl.” 
But she found a space free from judge-Students enjoy black cultural community but want more
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Chenetrice Simpson, 19, and Orchid Thomas, 20, talk and study in the second ﬂ  oor lounge 
of Graham Hall, where the Black Cultural Living Learning Community is located.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man will face the death 
penalty for shooting and killing two peo-ple and abducting another from Summer Place Apartments in February.
Cedric Tremaine Plummer, 24, walked 
into the leasing ofﬁ  ce of Summer Place Villas apartment complex, located at 3316 
SW 41st Place, in silence and shot two employees dead and kidnapped an-
other at about 1:30 p.m. Feb. 13, according to court records. The state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce said it would pursue the death penalty April 3 for the 
ﬁ  rst time in Alachua County in about three years.
Plummer had argued with the apart-
ment complex’s management since Feb. 2 for damaging the inside of his apartment, and police had been called at least three times because of his aggressive behavior, according to court records.
He scheduled an appointment Feb. 13 
with 28-year-old Jude Onyegbulam Osuji Jr. and 61-year-old Robert Earl Brumbaugh in the leasing ofﬁ  ce. Ofﬁ  ce manager Hailey Roberts, 19, joined her two coworkers for the meeting, according to court records.
Police allege Plummer opened the door 
and shot both men dead without saying a word. Then he took Roberts to her car at gunpoint and forced her to drive to Geor-gia, according to court records.
He put the gun to her head as she drove 
and said to stop crying, telling her to re-member what he did to Osuji and Brum-baugh, she later told police.
Police were able to trace Roberts’ car 
and attempted to pull it over.
“Don’t stop unless you wanna (sic) see 
brains in your lap,” Plummer said, accord-ing to court records.
Roberts was freed in Lowndes County, 
Georgia, according to Alligator archives. State attorney’s oﬃ   ce to 
seek death penalty 
SEE PENALTY,  PAGE 9Plummer
HE WAS PAID $125,000.
By Jessica Giles 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Jim Jefferies looked out at the 
crowd of about 950 at the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts, it looked a little 
different than he expected. 
“I thought it’d be more diverse,” he said. 
“I’m looking out at the crowd, and this is 
fairly close to a Klan rally.”
The Australian comedian performed 
at an American university for the ﬁ  rst time Thursday night in front of what he heralded as the most sober audience he’s ever seen. During his hourlong routine, 
Jefferies touched on everything from 
President Donald Trump’s election to single parenting. Jefferies was paid a total of $125,000, according to Alligator archives. 
Jefferies promised to remedy the 
audience’s sobriety after the show. 
“We’ll go drinking afterwards as a 
group,” he said. “I’ll try to sleep with one of you, but I’ll do it fully consensually.”
Jefferies, known for his stand-up routine 
about gun control, commented on Florida’s 
“Stand your Ground” law and proposed a 
solution for two of America’s problems. 
“If there should be one piece of gun 
control, it should be that only women can have guns,” he said. “That would ﬁ  x the 
gun problem and the ‘Me Too’ movement.”
Despite the laughter in the Phillips 
Center, Jefferies shared that not all of his 
performances have been well-received. The 
comedian recalled one show where he had 
bottles thrown at him for telling a joke about dead babies and another uncomfortable surprise performance at Mariah Carey’s 
50th birthday. 
During the Q&A portion, instead of 
slinging punch lines at Trump and other 
celebrities, Jefferies shifted his aim toward 
the audience. 
When one student approached the mike 
with the intent to heckle the comedian, 
Jefferies shut it down. Jim Jeﬀ  eries jokes about gun 
control, shuts down hecklerSEE FEATURE,  PAGE 9
SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 5FEATURE FRIDAY
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
HIGH  84° LOW  63°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Mystery GatorNights
GatorNights will be mystery-
themed today at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a “Nancy Drew” escape room, a “Sherlock 
Holmes” scavenger hunt, a 
Theatre Strike Force performance, a viewing of “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” and a puzzle competition. 
GatorNights is always Friday, al-
ways free for UF students.
Earth Day 
In celebration of Earth Day on April 22, Alachua County Library District is holding special pro-grams. The month will kick off with the “Plant a Seed Project,” where kids aged 5 and up will be able to design a planter, fill it and 
plant a seed with materials pro-
vided from 3 to 4 p.m. Saturday at Newberry Branch, located at 110 S. Seaboard Drive.
From Colored to Black: The 
Stories of North Central FloridaNine dramatic vignettes created by students and performed by members of the local theater com-munity in the exhibition “History, Labor, Life: The Prints of Jacob 
Lawrence” will be presented from 
3 to 4 p.m. Sunday at the Harn Museum of Art. Composed from the oral histories of North Central Florida residents from the 1920s to present day, the vignettes fo-cus on black history.
Florida Museum hosts ‘Museum 
for Me’ The Florida Museum of Natural History will hold an event for adults and children on the au-tism spectrum, including their friends, families and caregivers, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday. Participants will be able to ex-plore at their own pace in a 
peaceful and less-crowded envi-
ronment. A separate quiet space will also be available to decom-press or desensitize. For more in-formation, call 352-273-2064.
Florida Museum offers home-
school day The Florida Museum of Natural 
History invites home-schooled 
students to participate in guided programs from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Tuesday. Students will be able to explore the butter-fly rainforest exhibit, investigate specimens up close and tour ex-hibits. For more information, call 352-273-2036.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club will hold a Spring Formal at 8 p.m. April 20 with lessons at the Thelma Bolton Center. There will be a beginner lesson, food and dance games. Interested people do not need to bring a partner. 
Dancing will start at 9 p.m. and 
last until 11 p.m.
Midnight Fun Run 
UF RecSports is calling all super-heroes for a Midnight Fun Run on April 25. The event is open to faculty, staff, students and guests. Each participant will receive an 
event T-shirt and breakfast fol-
lowing the race. Register today on RS Connect.‘What Were You Wearing? Art 
Exhibit’The “What Were You Wearing? Art Exhibit” is being displayed until April 30 on the third floor of the Ustler Hall Library. STRIVE 
at GatorWell and the American 
Student Medical Association have collaborated with anonymous UF student survivors to show the outfits they wore during the at-tacks. For more information, call 352-273-4450.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters, which helps people get more comfortable speaking in public, meets at 5:45 p.m. every Tuesday in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to all. For more infor-mation, visit talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jtavel@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. 
VOLUME 112 ISSUE 80
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Melissa Gomez, editor@alligator.org
Managing Editor, Online  Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org 
Managing Editor, Print  Jimena T avel,  jtavel@alligator.org
 Beats Editor Meryl    Kornfield, mkornfield@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.org
Investigations Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Dylan Dixon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Morgan McMullen, 
mmcmullen@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Melissa Gomez, 
  Caitlin Ostroff, Jimena T avel
Photo Editor Alan Alvarez, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs Nealy Kehres, Gabby Valenti, 
  Dan Basalone
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Alexia Schmidt, Alain  Harb
  Grace Kenny,  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall,   
  Sabrina Conza
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Alaina DiGiacomo, Natalia Martinez
  Parra, Bismarie Plasencia, Ben Sherry
  John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam Turner
Cannot be combined with price matching, food or cosmetics 
purchases. One coupon per customer. Discount only valid at 
Butler Plaza GNC location. Daily specials. Expires 04/27/18.3914 SW Archer Rd
$5 OFF
ANY $25 PURCHASE
352-377-6020
FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
April 14th
10am - 3pm
Experience:
Big cat feeding, Warthog 
Races, 28 rare & 
endangered species!
PDQ, Cilantro Taco, Taste
Tickets at door
$10 - 12 & over 
$5 - under 12
100% of proceeds go to 
animal care
8528 E Country Rd 225
more info at:
CarsonSpringsWildlife.org
@CarsonSpringsWildlife
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Contributing Writer
The forwarded email from 
UF President Kent Fuchs came 
with a request.
“Beth, I have an urgent mat-
ter I need you to help me with,” Beth Boone recalled. As execu-tive assistant for Fuchs, she was 
used to ﬁ  elding his requests.
But this time was different.
The original email had come 
from Joseph Cacioppo, a UF student who had hoped to ask 
his girlfriend of a year and sev-
en months to marry him. 
So he emailed Fuchs, hoping 
for some help. Boone, at the re-
quest of her boss, got to work 
with getting in touch with Ca-cioppo, a UF computer science senior. She gathered reinforce-ments from the other women in 
the ofﬁ  ce. They searched for the 
perfect campus proposal setting in just a few hours.
The story surfaced Wednes-
day when Fuchs tweeted out part of Cacioppo’s email, along with a posed photo of the now-engaged couple and a selﬁ  e he took with them.
“CONGRATULATIONS Jo-
seph & Caitlyn!” he wrote.Cacioppo had originally 
planned to propose to Simp-son at a sunset photoshoot at Paynes Prairie, but the thun-
derstorms forced him to ﬁ  nd an 
alternative.
One of Cacioppo’s friends 
jokingly suggested during lunch Friday at Chipotle Mexican 
Grill to contact Fuchs for help. 
Cacioppo said he didn’t expect anything to come out of his email to Fuchs, but within half 
an hour, he heard back from 
Boone.
“He got the email in between 
meetings,” Boone said. So she took charge.
She contacted Robin 
Schrieber, assistant to the dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and got a key 
to the Keene Faculty Center 
in Dauer Hall as a last-minute plan.
At about 7 p.m. Saturday, 
Cacioppo brought Simpson to 
the room. Its large windows al-
lowed for the sunset to reﬂ  ect off the dark brown wood ﬂ  oors and antique furniture.
Cacioppo’s friend Michael 
Chan-Pong pretended he need-ed the couple to pose for his photography portfolio, which explained why they needed to be clothed in a suit and a knee-length ﬂ  oral white dress.
Simpson, a UF applied phys-
iology and kinesiology senior, said she had mentioned engage-ment earlier this year to Caciop-po but did not expect it until af-ter their graduation in May.
“I thought we were just go-
ing to do this photoshoot for our friend, so I was completely caught off guard when he start-
ed proposing,” Simpson said. 
“It was a good surprise.”
On Wednesday, the couple 
stopped by Tigert Hall to deliver cookies to Boone as thanks for 
helping arrange the proposal. 
As they left the building, Simp-son said she spotted Fuchs get-ting out of his car. So Cacioppo 
introduced themselves.
“Hey President Fuchs, we’re 
that couple who you helped get 
engaged,” Cacioppo said.
Cacioppo said he hasn’t 
thought about inviting the pres-ident to their wedding, but he may plan to now.
Boone’s advice: “Send an 
invite because you never know. He is very passionate about the students.” UF President Fuchs helps student with marriage proposal 
Michael Chan-Pong / Courtesy to The Alligator
Caitlyn Simpson, 22, and Joseph Cacioppo, 21, got engaged Saturday at the 
Keene Faculty Center with the help of UF President Kent Fuchs.
DEPUTIES SAID HE 
TOUCHED A GIRL.
By Robert Lewis
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities arrested the associate direc-
tor of human resources for UF’s College of 
Veterinary Medicine last Friday on charges of lewd and lascivious behavior.
Daniel Joseph Sanetz, 46, inappropri-
ately touched a girl between the ages of 12 and 16 about four months ago, according to an arrest report. Sanetz has worked at UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine for 21 years, UF spokesperson Margot Winick wrote in an email.
During a Feb. 1 inter-
view with the Child Pro-
tection Team, the girl said 
Sanetz rubbed her hip and later rested his hand on her knee, according to the report. He then got up and left the tent the two were laying in and returned about 15 or 30 minutes later, according to the report.
He touched her hip again and then be-
gan to rub the small of her back, according to the report. Then Sanetz slipped his hands into her pants, according to the report. 
“She did not move because she was ter-
riﬁ  ed,” the report stated. 
Sanetz then put his hand into her under-
wear and touched her intimate areas, ac-
cording to the report. The girl turned away, 
forcing his hands out of her pants, accord-ing to the report.
During a call set up by the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce with the girl last Friday, Sanetz said he put his hands in the girl’s pants and touched her inappropriate-ly, according to the report. Deputies said he apologized multiple times.When deputies tried to interview Sanetz, 
he asked for a lawyer, according to the re-port.
He was arrested and taken to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $250,000 bond.
A trespass warning was issued against 
Sanetz a day after his arrest by University Police, according to its website. 
Winick said Sanetz’s salary is $85,730. 
UF is aware of Sanetz’s arrest, she said, but had no comment on his employment status.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.orgUF College of Veterinary Medicine employee arrested  
Santez
By Daniel Calderon
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF wants to increase its number of energy-
efficient buildings. 
The university currently has 77 buildings 
that meet the minimum energy-rating stan-
dards of the Leadership in Energy and Envi-
ronmental Design rating system. By 2019, 
it plans to bring that number to 82, Dustin Stephany, UF’s LEED building coordinator, wrote in an email. 
“The goal is that students learn the impor-
tance of sustainability and what their role is in addressing it while they are here at UF,” 
he said.
The LEED system is the most commonly 
used green-building rating system in the world, according to its website. It has four 
levels of certification to measure a building’s 
green features — Platinum, Gold, Silver and Certified. 
The LEED has a list of standards buildings 
must meet. The level of certification depends on how many standards the building meets.
Some of the requirements to become a cer-
tified building include that it complies with federal, state and local building-related envi-
ronmental laws and regulations, according to 
the U.S. Green Building Council.
The university’s next project is the Career 
Resource Center, which is being renovated and is supposed to be completed by June. It will be UF’s 78th LEED-certified building. All new and renovated buildings on campus must meet the minimum LEED standards, Stephany said. 
After renovations, Norman Hall will re-
ceive certification upon its completion in July 2019, Stephany said. 
UF is also constructing three buildings that 
will go through certification: Wertheim Hall, the Institute of Black Culture and the Insti-tute of Hispanic and Latino Culture. These are scheduled to be completed by the end of 2019.
The buildings help UF reach sustainabil-
ity goals, such as carbon neutrality and zero waste, and help directly slow down the im-
pacts of climate change, Stephany said.
Beth McGee, 40, a UF fourth-year interior 
design doctoral candidate, said she passed the 
LEED-certification exam, which tests knowl-edge of green-building practices, and hopes to see UF do more to promote sustainability.“Sustainability is integral to our future,” 
she said. “I think that more campus-wide knowledge of initiatives that we have is im-portant for students to understand the moral imperative of sustainable action.”4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
THE MEN WERE 
FOLLOWING WOMEN ON 
CAMPUS, POLICE SAID.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Gainesville men seen follow-
ing women on campus were arrested for possession of methamphetamine early Thursday, University Police said.Fredrick Joseph Augustus, 37, 
and Keith Thomas, 39, were sitting on a brick wall outside of Matherly Hall after midnight with an alco-holic beverage between them when a police officer approached them and told them to drink elsewhere, 
according to an arrest report. 
The officer said Augustus and 
Thomas were following women 
walking on campus. Police told the men to stop harassing women, ac-cording to the report.
Another officer noticed Augustus 
was holding white, rolled tobacco cigarettes in his hand, according to 
the report. “Man, is that yours?” Augus-
tus asked, pointing at the cigarettes 
and a white powdery substance 
in a small, clear plastic bag on the 
ground, according to the report.
The substance tested positive for 
meth, police said. Police did not say how much meth was in the bag.
Thomas said the cigarettes were 
his but didn’t know where the meth came from, according to the report. He later told police the meth was Au-
gustus’. Augustus said it wasn’t.Both men were arrested on a fel-
ony charge of possessing meth. They 
were taken to the Alachua County 
Jail.
Augustus was released Thursday 
afternoon on his own recognizance. 
Thomas remains in jail in lieu of a $10,000 bond, as of press time. 
Augustus could not be reached 
for comment. 
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgUPD: Men arrested outside Matherly for meth possession
Augustus
 Thomas
UF looking to increase number of energy-efficient buildings
Some LEED-certified 
buildings at UF:
- Reitz Union
- Library West
- Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
- Heavener Football Complex 
- Rinker Hall 
- Newell HallFRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
Plummer was eventually arrested on charg-
es of kidnapping and two counts of pre-meditated first degree murder, according to court records. He was indicted on two counts of first 
degree murder and a count of kidnapping by a grand jury March 2.
State Attorney Bill Cervone made the 
decision to pursue the death penalty after about 45 days. He said the decision could be changed if new information is present-ed, like detailed information on Plummer’s 
current mental health and mental health 
history.
“I had to make a decision based on 
what we know now, which is the deliber-ate execution-style killing of two people,” Cervone said.He awaits a hearing at 9 a.m. April 25 
in room 3B of the Alachua County Criminal Justice Center on whether his DNA can be collected by the prosecution, according to 
court records.
Plummer’s attorney could not be 
reached for comment.
@Lewis__Robert
rlewis@alligator.org
PENALTY,  from pg 1He was indicted by a grand jury in MarchDavio Rodriguez / Alligator 
Jim Jefferies performs a comedy routine at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts during an event hosted by 
Accent Speakers Bureau on Thursday.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Cracking sounds pierced the air in an 
otherwise calm Carleton Auditorium on 
Thursday night.
A series of bangs and pings coming 
from a bathroom door put the crowd 
of about 300 on edge, as conservative 
political commentator Dinesh D’Souza wrapped up his speech about what he believed to be the untold origins of fas-cism and racism in America.
“What’s going on?” some people 
asked, turning and looking around.
Two students, who were making the 
sounds by trying to flush or clog a toilet 
to disrupt the event, were escorted out by 
University Police, said Lt. Matt Davis.
Aside from the sounds and one heck-
ler, the event ran smoothly, with the au-dience nodding in agreement or chuck-ling occasionally.
D’Souza was invited by UF’s chap-
ter of Young Americans for Freedom, a conservative student activist group, to 
talk about his newest book “The Big Lie: 
Exposing the Nazi Roots of the American Left.” In his book, D’Souza argues the Democratic left has an ideology virtually identical with fascism and uses intimida-tion tactics.
“I’m going to talk about fake history 
and fake scholarship,” D’Souza said. 
Sharon Purser, a small business 
owner, drove from Jacksonville to see D’Souza, who she considers a rising star in conservative rhetoric, she said.“He appreciates the core values of 
what America stands for,” Purser said. 
UF Student Government Senate passed 
a resolution Jan. 23, allotting $5,100 of its 
funding to cover D’Souza’s visit,  accord-
ing to Alligator archives. The event cost about $15,000, and the rest was paid for by Young Americans for Freedom, said Victor Santos, the vice president-elect of UF’s chapter.
Sophia Ahmed, a UF psychology and 
materials science and engineering sopho-more, tried to lead students in protest of 
D’Souza’s visit with her Facebook group, 
“The Resistance UF.” She said her efforts had caused the event’s location and time to be changed. 
The event’s time was moved an hour 
earlier and the location was changed from McCarty Hall to Carleton Audito-rium, Santos said.
Ahmed said she respected D’Souza’s 
right to speak freely but his inflammatory tweets in February about the Parkland shooting had pinched a nerve, prompting her to organize the protest. 
“You shouldn’t use somebody’s fatal 
tragedy for your own ulterior motives to benefit your own image,” the 20-year-old said.
Ahmed’s plan was for people to meet 
on Turlington Plaza at 4:30 p.m., but af-ter an hour of waiting, no more than a handful of curious students had showed. Ahmed and others attended the speech and observed.
“They wanted a show, but we didn’t 
give them a show.” she said.  
Steph Strickland / Alligator Staff
Dinesh D’Souza primarily talked about the differences between the Democratic Party and 
the Republican Party that have dominated American politics. 
Conservative speaker visits UF, faces handful of protesters 
“You’re acting like a 
moron and now you’re 
trying to write it off like 
you’re the cool guy,” he 
said. “This will always haunt you.”
Emma Berkenblit, a UF 
exploratory freshman, said Jefferies was one of the first comics she ever watched 
with her dad. Although 
she knew other people were upset John Mulaney’s performance was canceled, she was ecstatic to see who 
his replacement was. 
“I was totally, like, 
happy about it,” the 
19-year-old said. “They’re definitely of equal caliber.”Although this wasn’t the 
first time Ashley Kassay saw Jefferies live, it didn’t 
stop her from being first 
in line outside the Phillips Center.
The UF political science 
freshman arrived at 6 p.m. sporting Jefferies’ name on her shirt and clutching her 
ticket. 
“He does not care 
what anyone thinks,” the 
18-year-old said. “It’s kind of vulgar, but it’s really 
funny to me.”
@jessica_giles_
jgiles@alligator.orgACCENT,  from pg 1The Australian 
comedian replaced 
John MulaneyThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Column
What makes someone smart? The an-
swer to this deﬁ  nes what we value 
in society. 
For decades, our discussion on ra-
cial differences has been guided by a 
book titled “The Bell Curve,” written by Charles 
Murray and Richard Herrnstein in 1994. The 
book claims to empirically research the racial differences in IQ. Most notably, the book ﬁ  nds 
that black people have lower IQ scores than 
white people in the U.S. According to an arti-
cle by Eric Siegel in Scientiﬁ  c American, the book “spurs 
readers to prejudge by race” and never actually come up 
with policy prescriptions that address the gap. It describes 
a difference between the races but might not account for 
how that happened. 
True testing of intelligence between races is difﬁ  cult 
because there is no educational equity. Assuming the U.S. 
has achieved perfect equality is required in order for the conclusions of “The Bell Curve” to mean anything. 
To take the ideas at face value and not consider their 
underlying implications is irresponsible. First, the re-
search behind “The Bell Curve” assumes there is only one 
kind of valuable intelligence, and it is measured by an IQ 
score. The other assumption is, because there’s a differ-
ence in IQ scores between races, the group with a lower IQ 
score should receive no help because they are inherently 
inferior. This misses the point because there’s always one group that decides what’s valuable: the one with the insti-
tutional power.
Our ideas about what’s valuable are skewed by how 
we’re socialized. For example, there’s a reason why tra-
ditionally male jobs like engineers and doctors are paid 
better than traditionally female jobs like teachers and 
nurses. The fact that the kinds of careers chosen by men 
and women are different doesn’t change the fact a pay 
gap exists. In fact, it should raise questions: Why did they 
choose those careers in the ﬁ  rst place, and why is one 
valued more than another?Similarly, intelligence and success are deter-
mined by the group with institutional power. It’s important to question where research comes from and what the background of it is. What 
we value does not happen in a vacuum. Murray 
does not just have empirically researched ideas 
on race, but he also has views about policy and 
his writing comes with political context. 
To allege that Murray has been somehow 
iced out of policy discussion is just wrong — he recently published a successful book, “Coming 
Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010.” 
Many people think his research and policy conclusions 
are legitimate. 
“The Bell Curve” is still discussed today, often with-
out context about Murray’s true political goals — to have people with lower IQs have fewer children. Matthew Ygle-
sias writes in Vox that Murray is a policy writer rather 
than a scientist who has had a substantial inﬂ  uence on American immigration policy. Murray believes there are 
fundamental differences between people, and people 
should be judged as individuals, not members of a group. 
This disregards a lot of the reasons why one group might 
do worse than another, like the legacy of slavery, or “ste-
reotype threat,” which is the idea that once a person is 
told a member of their group won’t succeed at a task, it 
negatively affects their performance. 
Ultimately, we can’t take information about race out of 
context. An uninformed approach might say that any doc-umented differences between races are completely war-
ranted — that each race has equal opportunity to succeed 
— but this is not the case.  Research about the differences 
between races has to consider the institutional inequities 
between groups and consider how those might be ﬁ  xed, 
rather than just documenting those differences.
Nicole Dan is a UF journalism and political science 
senior. Her column focuses on race and culture.Differences between races exist. So what?Editorial
You’ve been refreshing your email inbox every ﬁ  ve min-
utes since you woke up at 8 a.m., patiently (or not so pa-
tiently) waiting to hear back from the company you hope to intern for this summer. You’ve gotten other offers, but this one is really it — the one you’ve wanted since freshman year 
that you’re ﬁ  nally qualiﬁ  ed enough for.
Around lunchtime, you ﬁ  nally see the company’s name 
show up in a subject line of your inbox. 
“Internship applicant decision,” the headline reads. 
Too scared to read the verdict yourself, you hand your 
phone to your best friend and ask they break the news to you.
Looking at your friend’s expression, though, confuses 
you. You take your phone back to read the email, and you 
see, instead of  a “congratulations” or a “we regret to inform 
you,” the email starts with … 
Darts & Laurels
Last weekend, dozens lost their lives in a suspected chemical 
attack in Syria. On Monday, an attack on a Syrian air base killed 14 more, including some Iranian ﬁ  ghters. These tragedies aren’t a surprise, nor are they any different from what has become run-of-the-mill occurrences in Syria. Mass deaths and deadly attacks 
are something Syrians have come to expect in their everyday 
lives.
Over the course of the country’s seven-year civil war, hun-
dreds of thousands of people have been killed. Over this time, the U.S. has neglected to offer a clear plan of action. President Donald Trump recently said we need to get out of Syria but has yet to take action.
We’ve been back and forth on our stance, and it has both 
Syrians and Americans in confusion and disillusionment. The stakes are too high to continue to toe the line. Whatever our stance may be, we need to choose one. To the U.S., we award a 
dart for our nation’s apparent fear of commitment.
State ofﬁ  cials in Michigan said Friday the state will no lon-
ger provide free water bottles to Flint, Michigan, residents. Since 2014, the city has been in a water crisis after ofﬁ  cials decided to 
switch the city’s water source to save money. Because the water 
was not treated properly, residents were exposed to dangerously high levels of lead in their water, and pipelines were damaged.
According to Reuters, Michigan Gov. Rick Sydney’s ofﬁ  ce 
said that for nearly two years, tests have shown that Flint’s wa-ter is the same or better than similar cities across the state. As a result, the state decided to end the handout of free water bottles.
However, residents remain hesitant to believe the validity be-
hind this statement, especially since not all the pipes have been 
replaced. To Sydney and the rest of the Michigan ofﬁ  cials  
who reached this decision, we award a dart. Until each and 
every pipe is replaced, Flint residents deserve water they can be certain is safe to drink.
On Tuesday, Sens. John Kerry and John McCain proposed 
legislation to create a “privacy bill of rights” to protect people 
from the commercial data-collection industry. This comes after 
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testiﬁ  ed about the policies that led to Cambridge Analytica gaining access to nearly 90 million Facebook users’ data.
According to The Wall Street Journal, the bill would impose 
new rules on companies that gather personal data. This would include offering people access to data about them or the ability to block the information from being used or distributed. Compa-nies would also need to seek permission before collecting and 
sharing sensitive religious, medical and ﬁ  nancial data with out-
side entities.
The bipartisan proposal would be the ﬁ  rst bill of its kind to 
comprehensively outline privacy law. As such, we award a lau-
rel to Kerry and McCain for doing their part in protecting our privacy and freedom.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Melissa Gomez
EDITORAbby  Miller
OPINIONS 
EDITORCaitlin Ostroff
MANAGING 
EDITOR, 
ONLINEJimena T avel
MANAGING 
EDITOR, PRINT
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Three years ago, Sony introduced the 
PlayStation Vue, an innovative new take on television and entertainment consumption. Breaking free from out-dated technology like cable lines and 
messy cords, PlayStation Vue is a television service that requires only an internet con-nection to enjoy. Through the use of internet streaming, Vue takes the on-demand ele-ments of Netﬂ  ix and Hulu and introduces live TV into the mix.
The result is a dynamic hybrid that will 
change the television game forever. Internet television is the future. The problem is we might have to wait a few years before it takes over.
The idea behind Vue is brilliant. With four 
comprehensive packages to choose from, you can pick and choose what you watch. Sports fans can buy the sports package and get ev-ery sports channel available and not have to pay for the channels they never watch. It’s efﬁ  cient. People pay for what they want and nothing more.
Is this a viable business in the world of 
Netﬂ  ix? If you hang around enough yuppies, you’ll hear of people who have ditched television completely and only pay for streaming services. While it’s a novel idea, a world of only Netﬂ  ix subscriptions will nev-er be the mainstream practice. Too many people also watch sports and news, not to mention any content not on your preferred streaming service.
Vue and Netﬂ  ix occupy two sep-
arate segments of the market and can coexist peacefully for the foreseeable future.
Vue is pursuing the consumer who’s cur-
rently threatening the existence of traditional TV. As Vue director of business Amir Nag told The Wall Street Journal, this is “the PlaySta-tion user who is today not watching TV and driving a large ratings decline” and who is “at high risk” for choosing the Netﬂ  ix/Hulu-only route over cable TV.
Like print newspapers, the only thing keep-
ing cable alive is the baby boomer generation. Everett Rogers and his theory of the “diffusion of innovation” categorizes all consumers into one of ﬁ  ve segments. The life cycle of a new product or service (such as Vue) goes through an S-shaped growth curve, dictated by the preferences of these ﬁ  ve groups and where they lie on the curve.
In the beginning (“embryonic”) 
stage, growth is slow. The two groups of consumers in this stage are the innovators (high risk tol-erance, technologically savvy and love being the ﬁ  rst to have the new-
est thing) and the early adopters (comfortable with technology and able to see future utility from new products).
Demand here is slow but starts to pick 
up and proliferate once the mass market be-comes more interested in the product. Here, the early and late majority segments adopt the new product once they see its usefulness and when the beneﬁ  ts outweigh the costs.
A product lives and dies by what is known 
as the “competitive chasm” between the early embryonic stage and the mass market. Simply put, the needs of the innovators/early adopt-ers and mass market are vastly different, and if a company does not have a product that can satisfy the majority, it fails.
Vue is already crossing into the growth 
stage as the mass market starts to adopt it. With about 670,000 subscribers as of Decem-ber 2017, growth is starting to pick up as Vue moves out of the embryonic stage and into growth.
So is it only a matter of time before Vue 
takes over? My gut says yes. However, that time might be longer than we think. The ﬁ  nal segment of consumer is the “laggard,” who is the last to adopt a new product. They re-fuse to change and adapt their way of life and rarely do so unless forced to.
Will this be the baby boomer generation? 
Will the boomers be willing to cut the cable cord for good? If so, then PlayStation Vue’s emergence as the dominant television service will be rapid. If not, then it might be a few more years. Regardless, Vue is appearing to be the superior option and will likely be the future of television.
Andrew Hall is a UF management senior. 
His column focuses on entertainment.
Last week, I wrote about how I had set 
up meetings with the Disability Re-
source Center and Counseling & Well-ness Center to better understand their 
mission and needs. On Tuesday, I met 
with the head of the DRC, Gerardo Altamira-
no, for a brief talk about disability, inclusion 
and the needs of the center.
We talked brieﬂ  y about the budget. The 
health fee makes up a small portion of the budget while the rest of the money comes 
from the state. Altamirano also told me dur-
ing our meeting that the ofﬁ  ce of the vice 
president would be working with the DRC 
to explore other options. By virtue of our en-
counter Wednesday, I was able to hear Vice 
President David Parrott voice his commitment 
to collaboration as well. On Thursday, UF an-
nounced they would increase resources for 
the DRC by outﬁ  tting four rooms in Cypress 
Hall to better support personal care assistants and adding an additional learning specialist 
and graduate assistant to the DRC’s staff.
That being said, the goal of this column is principally to talk about a trap 
we have fallen into with regards 
to funding. Altamirano helped ex-plain this to me. The recursive line 
of thinking we fall into when we talk about funding for groups such 
as the DRC is there are these sad, 
struggling entities that just need a little more dough in the oven; give 
them more money and the prob-
lem is solved. We need to shift the 
way we think about the DRC.
Let’s talk about the DRC. First, 
let’s look at their mission statement:
“The Disability Resource Center celebrates 
disability identity as a valued aspect of diver-
sity. We champion a universally-accessible 
campus community that supports the holistic 
advancement of individuals with disabilities.”
The DRC is more than just accommoda-
tions. Accommodations, to my current under-standing, are more like a bandage on the ﬂ  esh 
wound. Sure, getting extended testing time 
can be vital to an individual, but let it not dis-tract from the issue of how much we overuse tests to measure aca-
demic success. Having an Ameri-can with a Disabilities Act (ADA) 
sanctioned desk is better than nothing, but why do we even need 
to have stairs in our classrooms in 
the ﬁ  rst place?
While I can’t (legally) take a 
pickaxe to the stairs in the Little Hall classrooms, there’s much that 
we, as students, can do to improve 
the way things are to make them 
accessible to all types of people by design. One example from my own experience has to 
do with closed captioning and transcripts.
Once upon a time, a student commented 
on a Facebook video that Student Govern-
ment had uploaded, pointing out SG had gone 
from providing captions to videos to not do-
ing so. The SG Facebook page responded by saying a “Facebook message to our page is all 
we need to provide a full manuscript to any 
student” to which the student responded af-ﬁ  rmatively, but also pointing out that perhaps the Facebook page could post the transcript as 
part of standard practice. I saw the exchange and thought to do something about it. 
The process of getting closed caption-
ing and providing transcripts codiﬁ  ed in SG law took almost a year, but it was something 
within my power as a senator to help change the system which we work in.
Those of you who read this column have 
or will have the power to make for a more 
accessible world, not one by accommoda-
tion, but instead by design. Given the sheer 
amount of programming and services SG pro-
vides, I know I will do my best to change the 
system for the better.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email 
me at zchou@uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science 
sophomore and Murphree Area senator. His 
column focuses on Student Government.PlayStation Vue will probably replace cable and take over television
Creating a culture of care: what you can do for the Disability Resource CenterColumn
Column
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Chenetrice Simpson, 19, laughs while sitting in Graham Hall. Simpson did not sign up for the Black 
Cultural Living Learning Community, but has become close with her roommate, Orchid Thomas, who did sign up for the community.
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
UF opened the Black Cultural Living Learning Community in Fall 2017. A bulletin board pictured greets students in the Graham Hall lobby.
ment in Graham Hall at the Black Cultural Liv-
ing Learning Community.
One night around Winter Break, Nevy and 
two of her friends talked in the hall’s lobby. Soon the group of three grew to 10 friends 
laughing and debating rap music, sparked by 
one of the residents saying “Young Thug is the best rapper out.” 
Half the crowd jeered, saying it wasn’t true, 
while the others argued in Young Thug’s de-fense. 
Nevy said they agreed to disagree — but 
she still thinks Kendrick Lamar is the best.
“I don’t think that would happen anywhere 
else,” Nevy said. “In Graham, people actually stop and talk to you.” 
UF has 17 Living Learning Communities, 
which are residence halls that bring together students with similar interests. The Black Cul-tural Living Learning Community holds oc-
casional events, family dinners and decorates 
bulletins to promote black culture and history. 
By November, Nevy thought of the resi-
dence hall as home. 
As she ate a family dinner of bolognese pas-
ta, breadsticks and salad with a dozen of her 
peers, her resident assistants and graduate hall 
director talked about building a family. Still, Nevy’s favorite memories are the spontaneous 
laughs over black Twitter memes with friends 
in the hall.
Nevy is one of the 13 community residents 
who is also in the AIM program. But other AIM students who live in the area didn’t opt-in to the community.
AIM requires its students to live together 
during Summer B, but many stay in the same 
residence hall in Fall and Spring. This year, the 
program placed 159 students in the Graham Area. Ninety-two AIM students were placed 
in Graham Hall, the same building that houses 
the Black Cultural Living Learning Communi-ty, said Mary Jordan, Housing and Residence 
Education assistant director. 
Although the black cultural community 
only consists of the 52 residents who registered 
for it, any student who lives in the hall can participate in events, she said.
Chenetrice Simpson, a UF African Ameri-
can studies and criminology and law fresh-man, said she didn’t want to feel like a test run 
to see if the community would be successful. 
Simpson, an AIM student, did not sign up for the black cultural community. “I don’t wanna feel like I’m some kind of 
experiment,” the 19-year-old said.
Housing and Residence Education suggests 
residential areas for AIM students depending on the area’s resources and the amount of stu-
dents, Jordan said. For the previous two aca-
demic years, AIM students stayed in the Yulee Area. Next year, they’ll be in the Murphree 
Area. 
Ofﬁ  ce of Academic Support director Ange-
leah Browdy said she was concerned AIM stu-dents would feel obligated to be a part of the 
Black Cultural Living Learning Community. She said she thinks Housing Residence and Ed-
ucation considered AIM’s large minority popu-
lation when it decided where to put students. 
“I do think that it wasn’t a coincidence that 
Housing suggested Graham,” Browdy said. 
Orchid Thomas, a UF advertising fresh-
man and Simpson’s roommate, said the hall’s 
sense of community comes from the relation-
ships students made with each other, mainly through AIM. 
Growing up in an Afro-Caribbean house-
hold, Thomas didn’t always feel connected to African American culture. The 20-year-old 
signed up for the Black Cultural Living Learn-
ing Community to bridge that gap. 
She said she expected a space where people 
can celebrate black culture, but the community wasn’t effective. 
The Black Cultural Living Learning Com-
munity was a step in the right direction, but upholding diversity takes more effort than la-belling a residential space as “black,” Thomas 
said. She said the community and its events, 
like seminars on natural hair in the workplace, are promoted to residents, but black culture 
itself should be showcased to the rest of the 
university. Still, she said she has faith in the community. 
“It don’t seem like it’s a part of UF, almost,” 
Thomas said. “It’s like some little project in the background.”
Jada Cameron, a 19-year-old UF architec-
ture freshman and Nevy’s roommate, didn’t realize she lived in the Black Cultural Living 
Learning Community when she moved into 
Graham in Fall. Cameron, who is black, knew the community existed but didn’t sign herself 
up, she said.
When Cameron found out she was living 
in the community, she was surprised — she thought the community would be more notice-
able, especially as the only Living Learning Community dedicated to racial identity.
“We live in a predominately white school, so I thought there’d be more of an effort to ex-pand black culture,” she said. 
Mackintosh Joachim, an 18-year-old psy-
chology and women’s studies freshman and Student Government senator, said he initially 
wasn’t sure where he belonged on campus. 
After ﬁ  nishing his Summer term as an AIM student, Joachim decided to opt into the com-
munity. 
Joachim and some of his ﬂ  oormates started 
an unofﬁ  cial open-door policy for friends to come and go. After class, they meet in one of 
their residence hall rooms to catch up and do homework, but they mainly play video games 
like Injustice and Fortnite. 
“We trust each other, and we created this 
wonderful friendship that I think no one else on campus has,” Joachim said. 
When Joachim visited a friend at the Pre-
Health Living Learning Community in North Hall, the silence was deafening. Around 6 
p.m., the halls were quiet, and students pass-ing each other in the hallway rarely stopped to 
say hello. The energy is different at Graham, 
he said. Even Trusler, another residence hall in the Graham Area, is quiet in comparison.
The number of students who decide to 
room in the community next year is unknown until May, but Joachim hopes more black stu-
dents take advantage of it — not because they 
feel forced to, but because they willingly sign up. 
Joachim said he ﬁ  nds solace in the Liv-
ing Learning Community when he feels UF’s promise of diversity and inclusion only goes 
skin deep. 
He said the family he’s gained from the 
community inspired him to be vocal about black students’ concerns, like whether Gra-
ham’s residents would be safe when white na-tionalist Richard Spencer came to speak at UF 
in October. 
“Here at UF, they have a culture of you mat-
ter, we care,” he said. “To be honest, I don’t see it.” 
Nevy hesitated before answering whether 
she feels safe at UF. Although she feels pro-tected as a student, she cannot say the same 
as an African American. For students of color, safety is relative. 
“I always have to have a guard up because 
I know that there are forces against me, there are stereotypes against me,” she said.
When Spencer came to UF, most of the 
community’s residents left campus. The few who stayed on Joachim’s ﬂ  oor locked their 
doors that day.But Nevy and her roommate, who couldn’t 
get a ride home, were forced to stay in Gra-ham. After shutting the blinds and turning off 
the lights, they sat down to study, straining to see under lamp light. They bunkered down 
like they were waiting for a hurricane. They 
didn’t even talk to each other.
As Cameron studied for “What Is The 
Good Life” and Nevy watched the Facebook livestream of protesters, they wondered if white nationalists would come barreling down 
to the black cultural area.
“We didn’t really want to see what was 
going on outside. We didn’t want to see if it would come closer to us on campus,” Nevy 
said.
But there is comfort in people who know  
her fears and feel them too, she said. Students like Cameron and Nevy want to live some-where with people in their corner, with people 
who always have their back. 
The community holds a special place in 
Nevy’s heart. But she doesn’t want UF to sim-ply slap a label on the community and use it 
for advertising without putting in work. She wants the university to do more than hold the 
occasional seminar. 
She wants UF to add meaning behind the 
name.
“If someone is willing to put in the work 
towards it, it can be what we dream of it to 
be,” she said. 
@AmandaNicRosa
arosa@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482Summer Sizzlin’
Worried that your business might take a summer break with the students? Our Local 
Living Edition is the perfect place to position your advertisements for the local market.
All ads receive a 10% discountDeadline: Wednesday, April 18
Run Date: Wednesday, April 25
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
advertising@alligator.org  •  352-376-4482
This paper prints on the last day of classes when students 
are getting ready to leave town for the break. Maximize your exposure by advertising in the last paper of the Spring semester and reach students and Gainesville locals.
352.373.5855
alachuahumane .org/spa y-neut er
4205 NW 6th St. 
Gainesville, FL 32609
Operation P etSnip
Have you heard 
about our low-cost 
spay/neuter clinic?
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
FEATURE,  from pg 1UF currently maintains 17 Living Learning Communities 
GRAHAM HALL BY 
THE NUMBERS
Students who live 
in Graham Hall:
AIM students who live 
in Graham Hall:
AIM students who live 
in Graham Area:
Students who signed 
up for BCLLC:
AIM students who signed 
up for BCLLC:-    203
-    92
-   159
-   52
-   1310   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
By Rachel Chang
Alligator Contributing Writer
Within seconds, a spinning log 
sent Drew Hendry plunging into the 
water beneath him — ruining his chances at completing the “Ameri-can Ninja Warrior” obstacle course. 
The “Broken Pipes” obstacle, 
made up of two spinning logs and a platform in between, ended his run on the ninth season of the show. 
But the UF alumnus has spent 
the last year training for a third run. Tonight, he’ll try to prove his ninja skills for the third time as he com-petes for the Miami city qualifiers 
of the NBC show’s 10th season, 
which will premiere at 9 p.m. May 30. If he makes the cut, he could ultimately compete against athletes nationwide and win a $1 million prize.
“You have one shot, and you 
make one mistake and you’re done,” he said. “Preparing for that 
and not letting it get you down is 
probably one of the biggest things that I’ve learned.”
Hendry, a Miami resident who 
graduated with a bachelor’s degree in business administration in 2005 and a master’s degree in 2011, first tried out for the show’s seventh season in 2015. He wasn’t picked, 
but he helped out as an “obstacle 
tester,” meaning he tried the ob-stacle course before the actual com-petitors. 
His first televised run was in 
2016 on a qualifying round for the eighth season of the show. He almost finished the course until he lost his grip halfway on a tele-
phone-pole-sized cylinder called 
the “Pipefitter.”
To prepare, Hendry said he 
trains four to five hours a week in Cutler Bay, Florida, at Ninja Lounge and at DNA Fitness in Miami.
Adam Robbins, owner of DNA 
Fitness, said Hendry has been working on “functional training,” 
which is similar to CrossFit, since 
January. 
Robbins said Hendry partici-pates in group fitness classes three times a week and then has one-on-one personal sessions two times a week.
“This is the first ninja warrior 
I’ve trained,” he said. 
In addition to training for 
“American Ninja Warrior,” Hendry works as an inventory replenish-ment director in a tree nursery and takes care of his 1-year-old daugh-ter with his wife.
His daughter, Violet, was born 
six weeks early, last year. As Hen-dry’s pregnant wife watched from the sidelines during the 2017 quali-
fiers, she began having contrac-
tions. Within two days, they flew home and became parents.
“We joke that she was born pre-
mature because she heard all the noise and excitement going on and wanted to come out,” he said.
With his daughter in attendance 
for the first time, Hendry said his 
goal for season 10 is to make it to 
the national final round in Las Ve-gas.
UF alumnus to compete on ‘American Ninja Warrior’ tonight
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF alumnus Drew Hendry swings through the “Floating Steps” 
obstacle in the Kansas City, Missouri, finals round of “American Ninja Warrior” season nine.
By Elliott Nasby
Alligator Staff Writer
Jarrod Rodriguez wanted to know 
why hecklers drowning out Richard 
Spencer’s speech at the Phillips Cen-ter for the Performing Arts weren’t asked to leave.
“Wouldn’t they have been kicked 
out?” he asked David Parrott, UF’s vice president for student affairs. Ro-driguez wanted to understand how chants from counter-protesters in the audience didn’t infringe on Spen-cer’s First Amendment right to speak freely in October.
The 18-year-old UF business man-
agement freshman was one of about 30 students who came to Pugh Hall on Wednesday night for UF’s first 
“Campus Conversations,” an event 
that aimed to get students debating their stances on mental health, free speech zones and gun control. Par-rott fielded questions after students had a chance to discuss the topics in small groups.
Parrott said police officers’ deci-
sions of whether to ask people to leave or not are subjective. Because Spencer continued speaking, he was never totally silenced.
Student fellows for the Bob Gra-
ham Center for Public Service decid-ed to model the conversation after 
a conference at Harvard University, 
where more than 60 student am-bassadors from 30 universities met to talk about issues affecting their college campuses and how to effec-tively engage with people who have different opinions, said Brett Stein-feld, a fellow who helped organize the event.“One of the things I’m really in-
terested in is why the campus seems so divided,” the UF political science sophomore said.
During the event, participants got 
sample opinions as starting points 
for discussion. They read things 
like, “Free Speech Zones are too disruptive.” or “Teachers should be armed.”
However, rather than sparking 
heated debate, the crowd generally agreed on most issues. More often, students asked questions of Parrott than they did challenge one another.Bob Graham fellow Sara Henley 
said she was satisfied with how the night unfolded but would try to im-prove the event next time by inviting organizations that clearly do have different opinions.
“As a pilot program you never 
know how it’s going to go,” the 20-year-old UF public health and business management sophomore said.
@_ElohEl
enasby@alligator.org
Graham Center hosts conversation on controversial topics By Wyatt Schreiber
Alligator Contributing Writer
At just 18 years old, Briana Berger has 
founded an international nonprofit organiza-tion and coded an Android app. 
Her goal is to change the world through 
computer code. 
The F.W. Buchholz High School senior’s 
impressive resume has led her to be named one of 150 Coca-Cola Scholars nationwide out of more than 90,000 applicants, according to the company’s website. She learned she made the list and got a $20,000 scholarship Feb. 27. 
“Anything is possible as long as you set 
your mind to it, and people are more than willing to help you get there,” she said. 
In October, Berger applied for the Coca-
Cola Scholars Foundation, which is in its 30th year.  She filled out an extensive application listing her activities inside and outside of school, athletics and community service. 
After writing four essays, she went to At-
lanta, where she was interviewed by a panel of three judges. On April 18, the scholars will be flown back to the city for the 2018 Scholars 
Weekend, where they will be honored. 
She plans to study computer science when 
she attends Stanford University this fall. She 
wants to become the CEO of her own com-pany and publish a couple books after she graduates college.
So far, she has used her coding skills to 
create a free Android app, “SleepBeep,” that helps stop drivers from falling asleep by taking logic tests to measure their level of tiredness.
Berger is also the president of the Buchholz 
High School Robotics Team and president of the Math Honors Society. 
Since she transferred from Florida Virtual 
School to Buchholz as a sophomore in 2016, she has founded two organizations. 
She’s the CEO of coderGirls, an interna-
tional, nonprofit organization with more than 40 chapters in 10 countries that reaches out to 
empower and educate girls in computer sci-
ence. 
She also created a local organization called 
“SeniorTechNet” which helps educate senior citizens about technology. 
Kathleen Albritton, Berger’s sophomore 
chemistry honors teacher, said Berger excelled in class, winning Albritton’s chemistry award in 2016. Despite being a quiet student, when-
ever Berger asked a question, it was carefully 
thought out. It kept Albritton on her toes, she said. 
“I’m just so proud of her as a student and 
as a young lady,” Albritton said. “She’s just driven. She keeps at it until she figures it out.”The Associated Press
MENLO PARK, Calif. — Over two days 
of questioning in Congress, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg revealed he didn’t know key details of a 2011 consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission that requires 
Facebook to protect user privacy.
With congressional hearings over and 
no immediate momentum behind calls for 
regulation, the biggest hammer still hang-ing over Facebook in the U.S. is a fresh FTC investigation. The probe follows revelations that pro-Trump data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica acquired data from the profiles of millions of Facebook users. Facebook also 
faces inquiries in Europe.
The 2011 agreement bound Facebook to a 
20-year privacy commitment, and any viola-
tions of that pact could cost Facebook a ton of money, even by its flush-with-cash stan-dards. If Zuckerberg’s testimony before Con-gress is any indication, the company might have something to worry about.
Zuckerberg repeatedly assured lawmak-
ers Tuesday and Wednesday that he be-lieves Facebook is in compliance with that 2011 agreement. But he also flubbed simple factual questions about the consent decree.
“Congresswoman, I don’t remember if we had a financial penalty,” Zuckerberg said under questioning by Colorado Rep. Diana DeGette on Wednesday.
“You’re the CEO of the company, you en-
tered into a consent decree and you don’t remember if you had a financial penalty?” she asked. She then pointed out that the FTC 
doesn’t have the authority to issue fines for 
first-time violations.
In response to questioning by Rep. Mike 
Doyle of Pennsylvania, Zuckerberg acknowl-edged: “I’m not familiar with all of the things the FTC said.”
Zuckerberg also faced several questions 
from lawmakers about how long it takes for Facebook to delete user data from its sys-
tems. He didn’t know.
The 2011 consent decree capped years of 
Facebook privacy mishaps, many of which 
revolved around its early attempts to follow users and their friends around the web. Any violations of the 2011 agreement could sub-ject Facebook to fines of $41,484 per viola-tion per user per day. To put that in context, Facebook could theoretically owe $8 billion 
for one single day of a violation affecting all 
of its American users.
The current FTC investigation will look at 
whether Facebook engaged in “unfair acts” that cause “substantial injury” to consumers.Gainesville highschooler 
named Coca-Cola ScholarZuckerberg flubs details of 
Facebook privacy commitmentsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDFRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-43-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
3-12-43-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-25-18-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-25-43-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE &amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N     4-13-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-25-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    4-25-43-12Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                 4-25-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     4-25-43-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-25-43-1
2 male Grad students seek amale roommate who is clean &studious. Windsor Park - 3/3,own bed/bath, on bus stopclose to UF. Pool, hot tub,tennis, gym $425/mo + 1/3util. Joshua 407-342-0617      5-29-18-11-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
6-21-18-55-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-5-18-111-2
★★★HOUSE 4BR/2BA★★★
Available 8/1, lawn care, nice yard, W/D, tile 
flr, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. See flier $1450/mo. 352-256-83705-15-18-21-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800    4-13-18-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  6-21-18-55-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"FAST TYPISTS NEEDED- Create your own schedule- Close to campus- Earn raises quicklyApply at www.ctscribes.com     5-17-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     4-25-
17-86-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-25-17-
43-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.     4-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall, Cleaning. Apply: suncoun -
trysports.com/jobs      4-16-18-14-14
Hiring Telephone Interviewers for UF!Seeking telephone interviewers to collect in-formation on a variety of subjects including, but not limited to, academic and business research, health care, and transportation.  Pay ranges from $9.75 - $10.25 per hour + performance incentive + Paid Training.Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs! http://jobs.ufl.edu    4-23-18-16-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp program. For a complete listing of posi-tions visit www.oakhall.org/employment. Interview process begins April 14th.   
4-13-18-11-14
Total Home looking for a floor associatein downtown Gainesville. Duties include: working sales floor, assembling cabinetry, loading materials and general upkeep.$10/hour. Email resume tototalhome@totalhomefla.com      5-15-18-10-14
Engineering & Arts Day CampHiring Now! Build and play with kids this summer. Need education, engineering, arts majors to help us run this incredibly special camp experience. (FT/PT avail)www.masterbuildercamp.com to apply.    4-20-18-7-14
Paralegal, part-time, forImmigration Law firm. Willtrain. Must be fluent inSpanish and English. Mustmake a one year commitment.Resume to:robert.jacobs@rjjimmigration.com.      4-25-18-8-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
$2,500
Healthier Future Essay Scholarship
Learn more at:
FastSlimBody.com/Scholarship
4-25-20-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 4/16- 4/19 from 5-7 p.m. Math sessions are M & W; Verbal sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.       4-16-18-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 
ACROSS
1 Grooming tool
5 Put two and two
together
8 Attentive to the
schedule
14 Pentagon
measure
15 Basic substance
16 Rum
accompaniment?
17 Staff symbol
19 Handled vessel
20 Ease, as thirst
21 Cry of one whose
thirst is eased
23 Artist Magritte24 State of mind
induced bymonotonousmusic?
28 Sphere31 Bring into
harmony
32 BBQ item with a
char?
35 Left-hand page40 Croatia neighbor41 Toe problem42 The Beatles’ “All
My Loving,” e.g.
43 Object of trout-
fishingveneration?
46 Where some
nursery rhymebaking occurs
48 Deceive49 Aversion to rodeo
performers?
55 Multicolored gem56 Kvbrick opvs?57 Takes a nap, say61 Make over63 Post-WWII fear
of infiltrationapparentlyconfirmed by fourpuzzle answers
66 Get all wet67 Rower68 Was aware of69 Big Apple
Theater Districtrestaurant
70 Cook, in a way71 Recognizes
DOWN
1 Wine choices2 Spoken3 Tableland
4 Revels (in), as
praise
5 The lot (of)
6 Henna, e.g.7 In actuality8 Big name in
British comedy
9 Beluga yield
10 United hub
11 Island vacation
ride
12 Amplifier switch
13 Tribal symbol
18 Board boss
22 “Snug as __ ... ”25 Uno menos uno,
to Unamuno
26 “__ be a
pleasure”
27 Variety show28 __ buco
29 Rod attachment
30 Homer, e.g.33 Batter’s stat34 Three-note
refrain
36 Close37 Jazz phrase38 Concerto
cadenza, e.g.
39 Banded stone41 Uncle Remus title43 Doug of the Sir
Douglas Quintet
with the hit“She’s About aMover”
44 Two45 Op. __47 Mythological
maidens
49 Electrical
connections
50 Monteverdi work51 Go back and forth52 Flavorless53 Med. treatment
areas
54 Card groups58 Sound59 Shoe insert60 Follows a
pattern, perhaps
62 2006 Verizon
acquisition
64 Listener65 Arid
By David Alfred Bywaters©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/13/1804/13/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, April 13, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Jay-Z output
6 Reach great
heights
10 Attempt14 White house?
15 Fair16 Bear in the
heavens
17 Carnivores19 Invite abbr.20 Job application
fig.
21 Hang around22 “National Velvet”
sister
24 Appliance
needed for a hot
bath
26 Got the ball
rolling?
30 Smooth-talking
31 “60 Minutes”
regular
32 Improvised jazz
part
34 Element
Prometheus stole
from Olympus
38 Latvia and
Lithuania, once
41 Harbinger of
spring
42 “Beetle Bailey”
dog
43 1990s-2000s
skating champSlutskaya
44 Davenport’s place46 1974 hit with
Spanish lyrics
47 2015 NFL
controversyinvolving airpressure
52 Italy’s __ Coast53 Like arf and
meow
54 Hallucinogenic
letters
57 “Pleeease?”58 It consists of a
couple ofcouples ... and,
when divided
differently, a hint
to somethinghidden in 17-,
24-, 38- and 
47-Across
61 Writer Shere
62 Avant-garde63 Font flourish64 “Regrettably ... ”65 Grasps
66 Like horror films
DOWN
1 What “nothin’ but
net” shots don’ttouch
2 Periods3 Not leave things
to chance
4 Foldable bed5 Succeeds6 Tuned to7 Daisy variety8 Car ad abbr.
9 Botanical source
of vitamin C
10 Commuter’s cost
11 “Have a taste”12 In harmony13 Kiddie lit elephant18 Somewhat23 __ Taco25 Lover of
Shakespeare?
26 Sibilant “Yo!”27 Its motto is
“Industry”
28 “Cheerio!”29 Jittery condition32 Curriculum __:
résumé
33 Brief writer,
briefly35 Words before
and after “what”
36 Dollars for
quarters
37 Biblical twin
39 Good times for
beachcombing
40 Indefatigable
45 Lummox
46 Lat. shortener47 Russian country
house
48 Online message49 Crush rival50 Overcharge but
good
51 Chain known for
roast beef
54 Actress __ Flynn
Boyle
55 Show signs of 
life
56 Stand up to59 Laudatory poem60 Usual Hanukkah
mo.
By Bruce Haight©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/12/1804/12/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, April 12, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Honorable
1.  Type of marsupial5.  ____ sign
2.  Revived6.  Entwine 
3.  2005 Bruce Willis movie7.  Strangest
4.  Although RHYTWO
BTMWAONIMSU
WVEEA
EEDWREN
OGEAHTSSDEODT
BITALEANSWERS: 1A-Worthy  5A-Minus  6A-Weave  7A-Oddest
1D-Wombat  2D-Renewed  3D-Hostage  4D-Albeit  B-Tom Sawyer4-13-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This character first appeared in 1876.
BONUS
16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
GOLF TEAMS KICK OFF TOURNAMENTS TODAY
Florida's men's golf team is competing at the Mason Rudolph Championship along 
with SEC teams Alabama, Georgia and Vanderbilt, while UF's women's golf team is at the Liz Murphy Collegiate Classic along with conference foes Alabama, Ar-kansas, Georgia and Ole Miss. Both tournaments begin today and end Sunday.Coach Bryan Shelton and 
the Florida men's tennis team have their ﬁ  nal regular season match of the season tonight at 5 against Alabama. Florida is 14-8 overall and 8-3 in the SEC.BASEBALL
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
At the beginning of the season, 
hits were harder to come by for 
Austin Langworthy than on-campus 
parking is for UF students.
After Florida’s second weekend 
series of the season against Miami 
in late February, nothing was going 
right for the Gators sophomore. He 
posted an abysmal .133 batting av-erage through the team’s ﬁ  rst eight games.
However, he wasn’t displeased 
with his plate appearances.
“I feel like I had a lot of quality 
at-bats early and just didn’t have a lot of luck,” Langworthy said on 
Thursday. 
But since that series, the UF out-
ﬁ  elder has seen a nice turnaround — 
hitting .400 since March 10 — as he and the Gators (29-6, 9-3 SEC) head 
into a weekend series against Mis-
souri (24-9, 6-6 SEC) beginning to-night at 6:30 at McKethan Stadium.
“I knew at some point the tides 
would turn, the hits would start fall-ing,” Langworthy said. “And that’s what has happened.”He’s right.Since Florida’s series against the 
Hurricanes, Langworthy has trended upward in the box.
The Gators outﬁ  elder has in-
creased his batting average from .192 on March 9 to .304 heading into this weekend. He’s also sporting a .418 on-base percentage and is one 
of only three Florida players who 
has a plus-.300 average with more than 10 at-bats.
Langworthy is also boasting a 
seven-game hitting streak and has ﬁ  ve hits over his last two games. But even with the accolades to this point of the season, he said there hasn’t been any change to how he 
approaches his trips to the box.
“This is a very hard game,” Lang-
worthy said. “Sometimes it’s not 
gonna go your way and that’s how it 
was early for me.”
And for his coach, the recent suc-
cess for Langworthy doesn’t come as 
a surprise.
“It was just a matter of time to get 
into a rhythm and see the ball a little bit better,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said of Langworthy. “But I’m cer- Langworthy breaking out of slump ahead of Missouri series
We at alligatorSports 
published an article 
on Monday about 
Florida defensive lineman Keivonnis 
Davis violating three terms of his pre-trial intervention 
agreement for his involvement 
in a credit card scandal during the summer of 2017.
Just to recap for those that 
missed it: Davis hasn’t done 
any community service hours, he still owes 
money for court costs and he was caught with — and later admitted to smoking — marijuana on March 12.
Despite all that, his probation ofﬁ  cer 
still requested he continue with the pro-gram, as if everything that had happened shouldn’t and doesn’t warrant any major consequences. 
But it seems like that small detail has 
been drowned out by the attention-grabbing idea that Davis committed a heinous crime and should no longer be allowed on the team. Cries on message boards called for the redshirt junior to 
be cut by coach Mullen. 
I’m here to say all of that 
is one big overreaction. Davis 
should receive punishment, but not as extreme as being kicked 
off UF’s roster.
It starts with looking at what 
exactly happened.
The marijuana incident was 
a major slip-up. Possessing it is 
a crime in the state of Florida, as is smok-
ing it. It also breaks NCAA regulations, not to mention team rules. Former players like Treon Harris and Mark Thompson were 
suspended in the past for various violations 
involving the drug.
While Davis is in a bind due to the pre-
trial intervention, let’s be honest: Is it really that bad? I know he is in a situation where 
he can’t afford to mess up as bad as he did, 
but the crime isn’t as terrible as what peo-ple want the punishment to permit.Davis deserves another opportunity 
to make up for recent violationsJake’s on a Plane / Opinion
Jake 
Dreilinger
twitter: @DreilingerJake
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 20MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Andrew Huang
Sports Writer
 
The following is a list of key bullet points 
from the UF men’s basketball team’s 2017-
18 resume: 
• A third straight 20-win season
• A third-place ﬁ  nish in the SEC — a league that broke its own record with eight 
teams qualifying for the NCAA Tourna-
ment this year
• An NCAA-best six wins over ranked op-ponentsBut Mike White is still hungry for more.
“As you look back on the season there’s 
a few regrets,” White said on Wednesday, 
reﬂ  ecting on his third year as the Gators' head coach. “But there was a lot of positiv-
ity, too.”
And there is plenty of uncertainty head-
ing into the 2018-19 season. All-SEC point 
guard Chris Chiozza, leading rebounder Egor Koulechov and former defensive cen-terpiece John Egbunu are all gone. Lead-ing scorer Jalen Hudson could join them as 
well. 
He declared for the NBA draft on March 
27 but did not sign with an agent, meaning 
he still has the option to return to UF.
White and Hudson still keep in regular 
contact as well.
“He’s here and going through workouts 
every day,” White said of the 6-foot-6 shoot-ing guard.
Regardless of what happens with Hud-
son, White feels good about the other back-court players he has to work with. White expects KeVaughn Allen and Mike Okauru 
to battle for the starting point guard spot.
“Mike Okauru and KeVaughn Allen will 
tell you it’s theirs to lose,” White said. “That 
should be their mentality.”
He didn’t rule out incoming freshman 
Andrew Nembhard either.
“I think Andrew’s thinking (it’s his to  Mike White looking ahead to 
2018-19: 'It’s an exciting time'
SEE MEN'S B-BALL,  PAGE 20Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida outﬁ  elder Austin Langworthy, after struggling at the beginning of the season, has been one 
of UF's  most consistent offensive players over the past month.
 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 20FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
SOFTBALL
By Mark Stine 
Sports Writer
After playing five straight road games 
over the past nine days, Florida’s softball 
team is preparing for a weekend homestand 
with some of its players under the weather. 
Though coach Tim Walton wouldn’t spec-ify exactly which players were sick, he did say roughly half the team was feeling ill. 
“I think it’s just one of those stomach 
bugs,” coach Tim Walton said. “I don’t think it’s anything major.”
However, No. 6 Florida can’t afford to 
lose a game, especially after sliding two 
spots back in the national top 25 rankings. 
Finishing in the top eight usually means a 
team gets to host a super regional in the NCAA tournament.
Despite going to Tuscaloosa and defeat-
ing No. 15 Alabama in two of three games 
last weekend, the Gators (34-7, 9-3 SEC) 
have lost three of their previous five con-tests, including a 4-1 loss to Florida State on Wednesday night. 
Before playing the Seminoles, UF’s last 
practice was on April 4, a possible reason for its recent offensive slump.
In its last five games, the team’s batting 
average has been a measly .176. 
Over that stretch, Florida produced two 
or fewer hits in three contests and no more than three runs in four of those. 
Now it plays host to another confer-ence foe, No. 11 South Carolina, beginning 
tonight at 6 at Katie Seashole Pressly Sta-
dium. The Gamecocks (34-7, 8-4) were vic-tors in four of their previous five contests. 
“(South Carolina) was the premier soft-
ball program in the SEC when the SEC opened up, and they’re back,” Walton said. “Very similar to what we look like. You take the names off the page… very similar statistics.”
South Carolina boasts a pitching staff 
that features three players who have each made at least 10 starts, registered nine wins and pitched at least six complete games. 
Each pitcher is especially stingy in al-
lowing the long ball and extra base hits. As a staff, it has only allowed 12 home runs, 31 doubles and two triples, all while hold-ing opponents to a .201 batting average.
The Gators will combat the Gamecocks’ 
pitching by reorganizing their struggling of-fense. 
In an effort to produce a spark, Walton 
has been switching around the batting or-der. Against FSU, he batted first baseman Kayli Kvistad, the team leader in walks and normal three-hole hitter, in the leadoff spot.
“We’re moving them around just to see 
what the best formula is,” Walton said. “Every series, we’ll have a different line-up.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFlorida looking to rebound against Gamecocks after recent losses
LACROSSE
By Tyler Nettuno
Sports Writer
 
As Towson exited Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium on March 
21 following its 14-11 upset 
over Florida’s lacrosse team, 
the Gators knew they had to go back to the drawing board.
Literally.
The team wrote down all 
of its goals, as well as areas it 
needed to improve upon. It still revisits that list on a daily basis 
as a reminder of the work that is 
yet to be done.
One area in which the team 
felt it needed to change was in each player finding a personal 
motivation. Junior midfielder 
Sydney Pirreca believes the team has now found that inspi-ration.
“I’m playing for my sister, 
who’s a senior,” she said. “We all have something that we’re playing for.”
In recent weeks, the team’s 
play has reflected the motiva-tion that Pirreca spoke of. Since the loss to Towson, Florida has 
outscored its four opponents by 
a 70-30 clip.
“We needed something to 
change, and it definitely has helped,” Pirreca said.Now the No. 9 Gators (10-3, 
5-0 Big East) will put their 27-game conference winning streak 
on the line against Marquette 
(9-4, 5-0 Big East) on Saturday.
“It’s another great team 
coming in,” UF coach Amanda O’Leary said. “They have a lot 
of offensive firepower.”
The Eagles are the only other 
undefeated team remaining in 
Big East play, so the winner of Saturday’s contest will have a 
marked advantage in the confer-
ence standings with only three games left in the regular season.
Marquette is coming off a 
13-11 victory against Vanderbilt on Sunday and defeated Butler 19-3 on the road the game be-fore that.
However, the Eagles have 
yet to earn a win over a ranked team this season. Marquette has struggled on the road, going 2-4 away from Milwaukee com-
pared to its 7-0 record at home.
The Eagles’ scoring attack 
— which ranks 15th in the na-
tion — is led by junior Grace Gabriel, who has scored 51 
goals this season, good enough  
for the fifth-best mark in the NCAA. Marquette could provide the toughest offensive challenge 
Florida will face in its confer-ence schedule.
However, Florida’s defense 
— led by recently crowned Big East Defensive Player of the 
Week Haley Hicklen — has performed remarkably well in conference play. Behind Hick-len’s 38 saves in Big East play, 
the Gators have held their op-
ponents to an average of eight goals per game.
“She has been having a great 
season so far,” O’Leary said. “I 
couldn’t be more pleased with 
(Hicklen’s) play.”
Freshman defender Sa-
brina Cristodero has also been 
a defensive force for Florida 
thus far. The Glen Head, New York, native leads the team in draw controls with 64, and has scooped up 20 ground balls 
while causing 13 turnovers this 
season.
Hicklen had high praise for 
Cristodero’s rookie campaign.
“She’s one of the best de-
fenders in the country as a freshman,” Hicklen said.
Florida will host Marquette 
on Saturday at noon at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium with first 
place in the Big East at stake.
@TylerNettuno
tnettuno@alligator.orgUF plans for possible conference-
deciding bout with MarquetteWOMEN’S TENNIS
By River Wells
Sports Writer
When the ball popped into the 
air, senior Anna Danilina began a 
backwards gallop. She raised her 
racket as high as her arm would al-
low and spiked the ball across the center of the court. Her opponent, Kentucky’s Emily Fanning, could 
only watch helplessly.
“(Fanning) came up with a lot of 
really good shots,” Danilina said af-
ter the match. “I thought I handled them pretty well.”
Danilina’s 6-2, 6-0 victory helped 
give Florida a 4-0 win over Ken-tucky. With UF’s win over the Wild-cats and Vanderbilt’s victory over 
South Carolina on Thursday, the 
regular season SEC championship will be decided on Saturday when UF faces off against the Commo-dores in Gainesville at noon for the 
last match of the season.
Doubles play started off fairly 
evenly. Kentucky won the first game 
on all three courts.
UF began to take control late, 
however. Near the end of doubles play, it boasted a 5-3 lead on all three courts. Freshman McCartney Kessler and senior Josie Kuhlman won their match on Court 3 first, 
6-3. Just seconds later, senior Peggy 
Porter and freshman Katie Kubicz got the job done on their end by the same score.
With the Gators up 1-0 to begin 
singles play, Danilina’s convinc-ing victory doubled Florida’s lead. Kuhlman followed suit, winning her match against opponent Justina 
Mikulskyte 6-3, 6-2. Kessler, who 
at one point in the second set was down 3-1, finished the job with a 6-3, 6-3 win in her match against 
Kentucky’s Mami Adachi.
The Gators now look ahead to 
the season’s final game on Saturday. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist asserted that the team will be ready when the 
regular season SEC Championship 
goes on the line.
“Saturday is gonna be fun,” 
Thornqvist said. “(Vanderbilt) has 
all the talent in the world. We’re just 
going to give them hell.”
@riverhwells
rwells@alligator.orgGators sweep Kentucky 
in Gainesville as SEC 
race winds downAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida softball coach Tim Walton and the rest of the Gators have lost three of their 
last five games heading into this weekend’s three-game series against South Carolina. 
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
all over the place
20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 2018
TH
restau rant & roo ftop barE
SUNDAY
GO GATORS
Join us for the  
Orange & Blue Game
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY 
FUN DAY
$3 Premium Wells 
$3 Pork Rinds$4 STOLI Mules
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - Close NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYFRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Then we look at the other two 
violations. The ﬁ  rst is a lack of com-
munity service, which can easily be explained. 
About a month after the credit 
card scandal was revealed, Davis was involved in a scooter accident that left him hospitalized. To this day, he has still not fully recovered 
and hasn’t participated in drills dur-
ing spring practices with the Gators. 
For someone who has gone 
through that serious of an injury, going out and completing 50 hours 
of community service while rehab-
bing is as hard as winning a race on Rainbow Road in Mario Kart without being able to drift. It’s not going to happen unless you have all the nec-
essary tools to succeed.
And the ﬁ  nal violation is he failed 
to pay off court costs. According to 
a letter ﬁ  led to The Florida Depart-ment of Corrections, Davis still owed 
$139.62 as of March 19.
I’m going to go out on a limb and 
say that wasn’t the total amount he 
owed from the beginning. He prob-
ably had some sort of payment plan 
and was slowly working his way through it. But for a student-athlete who has no steady source of income, it becomes increasingly difﬁ  cult for 
Davis to continue paying those costs. He can’t work for the money because 
his attention is turned toward both football and rehabbing his injury.
The point I am trying to make is 
simple. There is a reason the proba-tion ofﬁ  cer recommended he stay in the program. If he was in any actual legal trouble because he violated 
these terms, he would have been 
kicked from the pre-trial intervention program, and that probably would have been the last we would hear of 
him.
Jake Dreilinger is the Alligator’s 
assistant sports editor. Contact him 
at jdreilinger@alligator.org. COLUMN,  from pg. 14lose as well),” White said. “Andrew 
will come in and be hands down the best passer in the program.”
There are also questions regarding 
the team’s big men.
Junior forward Keith Stone and 
senior center Kevarrius Hayes are ex-pected to lead an inexperienced front-court that lacked depth last season 
due to injuries. Egbunu missed the en-
tire year recovering from a torn ACL and decided not to petition for a medi-cal redshirt, instead opting to pursue 
a professional career. Forwards Isaiah 
Stokes (missed every game in 2017-18 due to a torn ACL) and Chase John-son (missed 28 games in 2017-18 due to concussions) will both compete for 
minutes in the fall as redshirt fresh-
men.
Stone battled inconsistency as a 
sophomore, something White hopes to eliminate during his junior campaign.
“We’ve got to ﬁ  nd a role for (Stone) 
earlier in the season,” White said. “It took awhile for him to really get going 
this year.”
White also expects new associate 
head coach Armon Gates to provide 
a boost to the team. Gates — who was hired on Sunday — helped guide 
Northwestern to its ﬁ  rst NCAA tourna-
ment appearance in school history in 2016-17 as an assistant.
“I look to bring tons of energy,” 
Gates said. “My nickname is the Ener-gizer Bunny.”
In all, White thinks he has the piec-
es — returning and on the way — to put together a successful fourth-year 
campaign.
“It’s an exciting time,” he said. “I 
wish practice started tomorrow.”
 
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.orgMEN'S B-BALL,  from pg. 14Egbunu missed the entire 
season due to a torn ACL
Dylan Dixon / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Keith Stone averaged 8.8 points per game this past season.
tainly not surprised.”
O’Sullivan also said Lang-
worthy has been able to see 
lefties really well this spring, 
which has helped his game over the middle stretch of the season.
Now, Langworthy will look 
to continue his hitting streak, as the Gators host the Tigers.For him, the sophomore has 
always thought pretty highly of himself as a hitter.
“(That’s what) any good 
player does,” Langworthy said. “Having a mindset to know 
that you can hit and hit at a 
high level is really beneﬁ  cial to doing well.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg. 14Langworthy has a seven-
game hitting streakINSIDE
C’yontai Lewis overcame hardships — including his mother getting run 
over by two trucks — to earn a starting role on UF’s football team.
ONLINE
Visit alligator.org/sports for complete coverage of Florida’s Orange and 
Blue Game on Saturday.
AGAINST 
ALL ODDSonce again for UF’s annual Orange and Blue 
Game.
It’s a big year for the Gators under ﬁ  rst-year 
coach Dan Mullen. C’yontai, a redshirt senior, is expected to be the team’s No. 1 option at tight end following the departure of fellow position-mate DeAndre Goolsby, giving him an 
opportunity he hasn’t had so far at Florida.
“I’m just excited. (The new coaches) use 
the tight end,” C’yontai said. “We get the ball 
a lot now.”
Coming off a disappointing 2017 campaign 
that saw him register only seven catches for 42 yards and one touchdown, it’s hard for C’yontai to not be excited about a new regime coming to Gainesville.
But in order to fully appreciate what’s ex-
pected of him this season, it needs to be ex-plained what C’yontai has overcome, a journey that began in his hometown of Eutaw, Ala-bama.
 
•   •   •
 To this day, C’yontai’s mother, Lametrius 
Lewis, isn’t exactly sure how the ﬁ  rst truck managed to hit her. It’s all a blur in her mind.
The only thing she remembers is jogging on 
the right side of a road near her house. Then, it all goes black.
It was the morning of Oct. 1, 2008, in Eu-
taw, a town located in western Alabama.
Lametrius had just dropped off C’yontai, 
then a seventh grader, and his sister C’yonna, then a third grader, at their bus stop.
Lametrius enjoyed working out in the early 
hours of the day and decided to go jogging on a back road nearby. Cars rarely traveled on this particular pathway, making it an ideal spot for people to exercise.
Ten minutes into her run, however, her life 
was turned upside down.
As she trotted up the two-way street, a truck 
driving in the opposite lane swerved to its left and plowed into her without warning, leaving 
her unconscious in the middle of the gravel. 
The driver didn’t stop to see if she was OK, leaving Lametrius behind as the vehicle sped away.
“I was left for dead,” she said. “I don’t re-
member anything after I got hit.”
As Lametrius’ body lay sprawled out on the 
ground for several minutes, another truck ap-proached her. The driver, a 72-year-old man, 
didn’t see her in front of him.
He drove straight over her, breaking her 
shoulder and hips, crushing both of her ankles 
and fracturing her face.
Lametrius snapped back to consciousness, 
unsure of what had taken place. She felt no pain in her splintered body but knew some-thing was wrong. She could feel ﬂ  esh splat-tered all over her cheeks.
The 72-year-old man, who identiﬁ  ed him-
self to her only as Mr. Fowler, called 911 and requested an ambulance. Paramedics rushed her to the DCH Regional Medical Center in 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where she underwent 
emergency surgery for the next 12 hours.
C’yontai and C’yonna were devastated. “It was just hard,” C’yontai said. “I really 
just thought that my mom was going to die.”
But after successfully undergoing the sur-
gery, Lametrius was stabilized and placed in the hospital’s intensive care unit over the next week. She then moved to a regular room for another month but was told by her physician, 
Dr. William Standeffer, that she may never 
walk again.
C’yontai and C’yonna, meanwhile, were 
staying with their grandmother, Bessie Lewis. 
They went several weeks without seeing Lame-
trius due to a fear of hospitals. As days went by without visiting her, the two siblings had nightmares about their mother and struggled to sleep.
“They had questions of ‘why did someone 
hit my mom?’” Lametrius said. “‘Why was my mom left out there?’”
Once three weeks passed by, C’yontai and 
C’yonna ﬁ  nally entered their mother’s room to greet her for the ﬁ  rst time since the accident.
Lametrius had a tube going down her nose, a cast on her left leg and IVs in both of her arms. Bandages on her face had recently been removed, revealing her wounds to her two young children.
C’yontai and C’yonna jumped into bed with 
her, remaining silent as they looked over their recovering mother. They eventually lay down next to her, taking comfort in the fact they were reunited with her once again.
“I was just worried about her,” C’yontai 
said. “Not sure if she was going to be OK or not.”
After spending another week in the hospi-
tal, Lametrius was ﬁ  nally discharged and sent home. She was in a wheelchair, but Dr. Stand-effer still wasn’t sure if she’d ever be able to walk again.
 
Read the rest of the story online at alligator.
org/sports.
 @dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium has ﬁ  nally qui-
eted down.
Florida’s marching band — once 
blaring the tunes of “Gator Maximus” 
and “Hey! Baby” — has packed up its 
instruments and vacated the bleachers.
UF fans — once screaming at the top of 
their lungs as burly, sweaty men collided into each other for three-and-a-half hours — have 
trudged out of the exits and stomped onto Gale Lemerand Drive.
Public address announcer Jack O’Brien — 
once bellowing his voice through the facility’s 
loudspeakers — has turned off his microphone and disappeared out of the press box.
It’s a ﬁ  tting end to the 2017 Gators football 
season, one that started with an emphatic, booming roar and ended with a faint, barely au-
dible whimper. Almost everyone in attendance at Florida’s ﬁ  nal game, a 38-22 shellacking at the hands of Florida State, has left the premises 
of The Swamp and vanished from the north 
side of UF’s campus.
It’s Nov. 25 in Gainesville. The Gators’ 
16-point loss to the Seminoles has just come to 
a conclusion 20 minutes ago, knocking Flori-
da’s record down to 4-7 — its worst mark since 2013.
Although only a few people remain in the 
conﬁ  nes of the stadium, several UF players are 
still standing on the sidelines. They haven’t re-treated to the locker room yet, wanting one last 
view of the venue their team calls home.
One player in particular, donning the num-
ber 80 on his orange and white uniform, takes in the scene around him. His body is rigid and his helmet, still perched atop his head, glistens in the sunlight. His eyes swivel from the stu-
dent section to the scoreboard as his gloved 
hands and sleeved arms hang at his sides.
He gives one ﬁ  nal glance at the mostly emp-
ty seats and starts to stroll toward the Gators’ 
tunnel.
His name is C’yontai Lewis.
C’yontai, like many of his teammates, didn’t 
have an easy journey on his way to becoming a Division I football player. No one works their 
way up to one of the top programs in the coun-try without overcoming some form of adversity.
But not many athletes have experienced 
what C’yontai has. And that’s a grave under-statement.
Whether it was his mother getting run over 
by two trucks, his father being sentenced to 
life in prison, him being ruled ineligible to play 
high school football or him having to live with 
a surrogate family, nothing about C’yontai’s life has been ordinary.
Every time he steps onto a football ﬁ  eld, he 
is reminded that he beat the odds. He wasn’t supposed to make it this far.
But he did, and this Saturday — exactly 140 
days since Florida’s season-ending loss to FSU — C’yontai and his teammates will play in front 
of their home fans at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium KICK OFF
Editor: Dylan Dixon   Assistant Editor: Jake Dreilinger  Online Editor: Morgan McMullen
Alligator, Friday, April 13, 2018
AGAINST ALL ODDS
C’yontai Lewis overcame hardships — including his mother being involved 
in a gruesome hit and run — to become a starting tight end at UFCourtesy of Lametrius Lewis
Florida tight end C’yontai Lewis stands with his sister, C’yonna (left), and mother, Lametrius 
(right).Gators Scholarship Players – 
2018 Orange and Blue Game
Offense
11-Kyle Trask-QB (R-So.)
12-Jake Allen-QB (R-Fr.)
13-Feleipe Franks-QB (R-So.)
14-Emory Jones-QB (Fr.)
*20-Malik Davis-RB (So.)
22-Lamical Perine-RB (Jr.)
24-Iverson Clement-RB (Fr.)
25-Jordan Scarlett-RB (R-Jr.)
29-Dameon Pierce-RB (Fr.)
32-Adarius Lemons-RB (So.)
45-R.J. Raymond-FB (R-Sr.)
9-Dre Massey-WR (R-Sr.)
10-Josh Hammond-WR (Jr.)
16-Freddie Swain-WR (Jr.)
17-Kadarius T oney-WR (So.)
18-Daquon Green-WR (So.)
81-Trevon Grimes-WR (So.)
83-Rick Wells-WR (R-So.)
87-Van Jefferson-WR (R-Jr.)
89-Tyrie Cleveland-WR (Jr.)
80-C’yontai Lewis-TE (R-Sr.)
82-Moral Stephens-TE (R-Sr.)
88-Kemore Gamble-TE (R-Fr.)
53-Kavaris Harkless-OL (R-Sr.)
55-Noah Banks-OL (R-Jr.)
59-T.J. McCoy-OL (R-Jr.)
*61-Brett Heggie-OL (R-So.)
64-Tyler Jordan-OL (Sr.)
65-Jawaan T aylor-OL (Jr.)
66-Nick Buchanan-OL (R-Jr.)
67-Christopher Bleich-OL (Fr.)
72-Stone Forsythe-OL (R-So.)
73-Martez Ivey-OL (Sr.)
74-Fred Johnson-OL (Sr.)
75-T.J. Moore-OL (R-Fr.)
77-Andrew Mike-OL (R-Sr.)
79-Jean DeLance-OL (R-So.)
Defense
54-Khairi Clark-DL (R-Sr.)
*55-Kyree Campbell-DL (So.)
56-T edarrell Slaton-DL (So.)
57-Elijah Conliffe-DL (So.)
90-Antonneous Clayton-DL (Jr.)
91-Marlon Dunlap Jr.-DL (Jr.)
92-Jabari Zuniga-DL (R-Jr.)
94-Zachary Carter-DL (R-Fr.)
*95-Keivonnis Davis-DL (R-Jr.)
96-CeCe Jefferson-DL (Sr.)
98-Luke Ancrum-DL (R-Jr.)
99-Jachai Polite-DL (Jr.)
11-Vosean Joseph-LB (Jr.)
28-Kylan Johnson-LB (R-Jr.)
33-David Reese-LB (Jr.)
34-Lacedrick Brunson-LB (R-Fr.)
40-Nick Smith-LB (R-Fr.)
41-James Houston IV-LB (R-Fr.)
44-Rayshad Jackson-LB (R-Jr.)
50-Jeremiah Moon-LB (R-So.)
51-Ventrell Miller-LB (R-Fr.)
2-Brad Stewart-DB (So.)
3-Marco Wilson-DB (So.)
5-CJ Henderson-DB (So.)
6-Brian Edwards-DB (So.)
12-C.J. McWilliams-DB (R-So.)
13-Donovan Stiner-DB (So.)
21-McArthur Burnett-DB (R-So.)
23-Chauncey Gardner-Johnson-DB (Jr.)
27-Quincy Lenton-DB (R-So.)
29-Jeawon T aylor-DB (Jr.)
30-Amari Burney-DB (Fr.)
31-Shawn Davis-DB (So.)
35-Trey Dean III-DB (Fr.)
* = Injured/Not PlayingORANGE & BLUE GAME
TV:
Radio:What:
Where:Florida’s Football T eam
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n StadiumWhen: Saturday at 3 p.m.
SEC Network
Gator IMG Sports Network