We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaTHURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 97
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Beat the h eat, Sign and Save !
Come CheCk out our preview speC ials while they last!
Over sized kitchens  
with granite counter 
tops and stainless 
steel appliances!3,100 square foot  
tOwn hO mes complete 
with a garage and half 
bathroom!come float with us  
at the O nLY Laz Y river  
in gainesville! 
3718 sw 24th a ve., Gainesville, Fl  32607  / theridG eFl.Com / (352) 792-0102By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Newly discovered fossil evidence 
has overridden the previous assump-
tion that ancient primates only had 
nails on their ﬁ  ngers and toes.
The ﬁ  ndings, which were pub-
lished in the Journal of Human Evo-
lution on Wednesday, suggest the 
lineage of primates leading up to 
mammals, such as monkeys, apes 
and humans, had a specialized claw. 
The claw, called a “groom-
ing claw,” functions as a personal 
primping tool. It has been found in 
a separate lineage of primates that 
evolved into animals like lemurs, ga-
lagos and tarsiers.
Curator at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History and coauthor on 
the study Jonathan Bloch said apes, 
monkeys and humans don’t have 
grooming claws because they devel-
oped complex social structures and 
can rely on others for grooming.
“Monkeys, apes and humans are 
all united by having that one feature, 
which is nails,” said Bloch.
Learning how nails evolved in 
primates helps us understand why 
humans have “that very special type 
of characteristic,” Bloch said.
The research team found the fos-
sils across Wyoming, including an 
area by Yellowstone National Park. 
They ranged from 46 to 56 mil-
lion years old, which Bloch said is 
around the same age as the oldest-
known primates in the modern era.They discovered bones similar 
to distal phalanges, the bones at the 
ends of ﬁ  ngers and toes in mam-
mals, which have either claws or 
nails, Bloch said.
He immediately realized the 
bones were not ﬂ  at and wide to sup-
port nails. In fact, the distal phalan-
ges were tapered and clawlike, re-
sembling a grooming claw.
“We knew we had something 
special because before that, we had 
thought that the ﬁ  rst primates of 
(the) modern aspect would (have) 
had nails on all their ﬁ  ngers and 
toes,” Bloch said. “To see a claw on 
one of the digits really went against 
that sort of thinking.”
Bloch said having a nail instead 
of a claw is a hallmark characteristic 
of primates. The lack of claws allows 
for better precision grasping — ideal 
for tree-dwellers like monkeys and 
apes.
“(The fossilized evidence) helps 
give us a better picture of what the 
common ancestor of all living pri-
mates look like,” said UF graduate 
student in the Department of An-
thropology and member of the study 
Paul Morse. “We ran across unex-
pected but important evidence for 
this trait in early primates.”
Bloch and Morse hope the study’s 
ﬁ  ndings will result in new fossil col-
lections and future ﬁ  eld work to un-
cover information about our ances-
tors.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgNew fossil evidence shows primates had specialized nails
Courtesy of Kristen Grace / Florida Museum of Natural History
Lemurs, lorises and galagos have nails on most digits and grooming claws on their second toes, as seen 
on the feet of two greater slow lorises – Nycticebus coucang – in the Florida Museum. 
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Alyssa Nance, a junior at F.W. Buch-
holz High School, was in a dreamlike state 
when she ﬁ  rst stepped onto the grand stage 
of Carnegie Hall. 
Nance, 16, and the other choir members 
were nervous about performing at such an 
intimidating location but knew they had 
done everything in their power to prepare 
for this moment.
Their fears were quelled when they re-ceived a standing ovation.
Thirty-six members of the Buchholz 
High School Chorus, consisting of male 
and female high school students and a cou-
ple of alumni, performed at Carnegie Hall 
in New York City from Friday to Tuesday.
The performance was part of the Mas-
terwork Series, a series of performances re-
served for collegiate, professional and up-
per-level high school choirs. Buchholz was 
one of only two high schools nationally to 
gain admission into the program and was 
the largest choral group there.Buchholz choir director Rhea Skaggs 
said the group was accepted within two 
hours of submitting a recording.
“(The choir) literally screamed and 
jumped out of their seats when I told 
them,” Skaggs said.
After the initial acceptance in May 2017, 
Skaggs said the choir received their music, 
the “Missa Brevis in C major” by Mozart, 
in December 2017 and spent the next six 
months rehearsing every day.
The music was written in Latin, so the 
choir spent time learning the rhythms, vo-cabulary, notes and text within the compo-
sition, Skaggs said.
“The rehearsals were very tedious; we 
worked on a lot of small things,” Nance 
said. “We all knew we had a goal in mind, 
which made us work harder.”
The choir also had to raise about 
$100,000 for 53 people including students 
and chaperones to attend, Skaggs said.
Choir member and Buchholz junior 
Natalie Arlene Brooks, 16, said the chorus Buchholz High School choir takes its talents to Carnegie Hall
SEE CHORUS,  PAGE  3T oday’s Weather VOLUME 112 ISSUE 97
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
HIGH  92° LOW  74°
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar
CORRECTION:
The Alligator ran a story 
Tuesday titled “ACSO: 
Man stole from GPD.” 
After further clarifica-
tion from Gainesville 
Police, the car was not 
stolen from GPD. Jeffrey 
Morrison had last made 
contact with the owner of 
the car Sunday afternoon 
along West University 
Avenue at which time the 
car was reported stolen. It 
was then found Monday 
morning in Morrison’s 
possession.VOLUME 112 ISSUE 97
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Morgan McMullen, editor@alligator.org
 Engagement Managing Editor  Bailey LeFever, blefever@alligator.org 
 University Editor  Sarah Stanley,  sstanley@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Baylie Cainas, bcainas@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Chris O'Brien, cobrien@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Morgan McMullen, Bailey LeFever, 
  Sarah Stanley, Baylie Cainas
 Photo Editor T aylour Marks,  photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief Gabby Valenti
 Copy Editors Madison Hindo, Stefano Ferreyros, 
  Blake Trauschke
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
 Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D’Agostino, 
  Natalia Martinez Parra, 
  Bismarie Plasencia, Jamie Alexander,
  Ruben Riera, Charles Fenwick
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
Editorial Production Staff  Jordan BourneThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of
Editor
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors
Engagement Managing Editor
and
Digital Managing Editor
paid positions and unpaid members of the Board of Directors.
The applications for these positions are available at the Alligator office, 
located at 2700 SW 13th Street, each weekday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 10.  Look for the Alligator sign 
located in the lobby. Further written information is available at the 
time an application is picked up. No phone calls, please. Allow up to 
15 minutes at that time to read information regarding the application 
process. The application must be returned to The Alligator by 
Thursday, July 12 at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  
Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors will be held at 
the new Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public on Friday 
July 27 at 10 a.m.  Applicants must be present at that meeting to be 
considered. Applicants must be degree-seeking college or university 
students. Preference will be given to those who have experience with 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer
and
announces the opening of the following positions for the fall semester:GATORFeed New Spotify Playlist
Meme of the Week
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3 
participated in fundraisers sell-
ing items such as cheesecake and 
candy to raise as much money as 
possible.
Skaggs said Buchholz has nev-
er done something like this. She 
wanted to show students there’s 
a whole other world to discover 
outside of Alachua County.
“When you stand on stage and 
you look out at Carnegie Hall and 
hear the acoustics, it really can be life changing,” Skaggs said. 
“There’s so many opportunities 
and hard work and chaos that 
can get (the students) to amazing 
places.”
Skaggs plans to continue par-
ticipating in events like the Mas-
terwork Series and even organize 
a one- or two-week European 
Tour.
Students such as Brooks and 
Nance said they will stay in cho-
rus throughout high school and 
after. They both emphasized their 
love for choir and were thrilled to have performed at Carnegie Hall.
“This program that Ms. Skaggs 
has brought up is an amazing 
program, and we wouldn’t of 
been able to get here without 
her.” Nance said.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org
Right:  Members of the Buchholz 
High School choir pose near 
Carnegie Hall.BHS choir one of two groups invited
Courtesy of Karen Rhodenizer
CHORUS,  from pg 14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
By Jessica Curbelo
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was arrested by Gainesville 
Police on Tuesday and charged with rap-
ing a woman in May.
On May 16, Patrick 
Wilber called the vic-
tim while she was at a 
local department store, 
waiting for her car to 
be serviced at a deal-
ership, according to 
the report. Wilber, 53, 
asked where she was 
and showed up at the 
department store shortly after.
According to the GPD report, Wilber 
and the victim were friends and have 
known each other since October 2017.
After shopping, the victim got into 
Wilber’s car to get a ride back to the deal-
ership. Instead, Wilber allegedly talked 
her into getting lunch.
On the way to the restaurant, he told 
her he needed to stop somewhere on 
Northwest 34th Way to do some quick 
contract work for the owner of the resi-
dence, according to the report.
Wilber gave the victim a tour of the 
home. While inside one of the bedrooms, 
he allegedly grabbed the victim’s hand 
from behind and put it on his penis over his clothing.
He then attempted to kiss her while 
she repeatedly said, “No, I don’t want to 
do that,” according to the report.
Wilber told the victim to sit on a bed, 
and she did so out of fear, according to 
the report. Wilber reportedly pulled her 
pants and underwear off and performed 
oral sex on her without her consent.
The victim repeatedly told him to stop 
and said, “Don’t even do that.”
The victim said she froze. According 
to the report, she said “I don’t want this,” 
“Stop it,” “Please stop” and “Don’t do 
this,” but he would not stop.
Wilber then allegedly began raping the 
victim. During the assault, he reportedly 
attempted to bite her face and slapped 
her leg three times, leaving a bruise.
Video surveillance from the depart-
ment store showed the victim and Wilber 
together about an hour before the alleged 
sexual battery happened.
An ofﬁ  cer contacted and arrested Wil-
ber for sexual battery Tuesday. Wilber 
stated he would not say anything without 
his attorney present.
According to Alachua County Jail, 
Wilber was released on his own recogni-
zance Wednesday.
@jesscurbelo
jcurbelo@alligator.orgBy Dennis Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Fareed Johnson was selling hair extensions 
and beauty products from a van two years ago. 
The van eventually broke down and, with it, his 
business model. Despite the loss, he kept working 
toward the dream of owning his own business. 
Today, he has a store at 530 N. Main St. in 
Gainesville.
“It started out as a side hustle, and it grew into 
a business,” Johnson said. “Fortunately back in 
January, business began to skyrocket, and I was 
able to go brick-and-mortar in March.”
The 25-year-old owner of Blush Hair Exten-
sions was one of roughly a dozen local entrepre-
neurs attending a networking event hosted by 
the Gainesville Entrepreneurship and Adversity 
Program at the Gainesville Technology Entrepre-
neurship Center on Monday night.
The program was launched by the Entre-
preneurship and Innovation Center at the War-
rington College of Business Administration and 
the City of Gainesville in 2016. It helps disadvan-
taged people start businesses and grow existing 
ones. 
“We’ve done a very deliberate job of target-
ing people who might otherwise face adversity 
and not have the connections or knowledge that 
these sorts of resources and people exist,” said 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe.
The program offers opportunities such as a 
six-week entrepreneurship boot camp, mentoring and consulting. The boot camp costs $600, but 
many applicants receive scholarships to help pay 
for it, said the center’s director Jamie Kraft.
Poe said the program was designed to reach 
people that wouldn’t normally attend the War-
rington School of Business. 
“They trim the fat off of a business degree 
and give you the meat of what you really need to 
know to run your business,” Johnson said. 
After leaving the U.S. Air Force in 2013, he 
started working odd jobs around Gainesville. A 
friend suggested that he look into the hair exten-
sion business, and he started researching the in-
dustry.
Johnson started out by selling hair extensions 
by word-of-mouth and delivering them to cus-
tomers. Then, using the money he earned from 
his initial sales and his work as a truck driver, a 
job he still holds, he bought a van, which allowed 
him to expand into selling beauty products too.
When the van broke down, it was a major set-
back to Johnson’s dream. The program helped to 
change things for him.
Johnson said the program taught him “the 
(business) vocab, the nuts and bolts of the busi-
ness plan, do’s and don’ts of being in business 
and the process of starting a business.” 
Blush now has ﬁ  ve part-time employees and is 
open every day of the week. The store has made 
$13,000 in sales since it opened on March 25.
“Maybe one day we’ll go to franchise and lo-
cate ourselves in different cities and regions of 
the country,” Johnson said.GPD: Man charged with 
rape was friend of victimLocal business owner helped 
by UF entrepreneur program
Wilber
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5
4110 SW 34th Street Suite 3
Gainesville, Florida 32608(352) 872-5565
20% off
Smoke • Vape • Home  
Brew SupplyMention this ad.
By Ethan Hughes
Alligator Contributing Writer
One of Lucinda Lavelli’s favorite memories as a 
dean was made when her role allowed her to visit the 
Eisenhower Executive Ofﬁ  ce Building in Washington, 
D.C., where she was moved to the side of the hallway 
by security. 
“I thought, ‘Oh my god, the vice 
president’s going to come by,’” she 
said. “But it was even more thrill-
ing. President Obama walked by. 
He waved his hand at me, and I 
was like ‘Wow, what do I do?’”
Lavelli will retire July 31 after 
12 years as dean of UF’s College 
of the Arts. She said she is proud 
of what the college accomplished 
under her watch and is excited about its future. 
Lavelli, 68, who will be succeeded by Onye Ozu-
zu, said several improvements to the student experi-
ence are underway.  
A permanent marching band ﬁ  eld is expected 
to be completed by the end of this year, and a new 
School of Music building is in the fundraising and de-
velopmental stages. 
Kevin Orr, director of the School of Music, said the 
current building is too small, has no parking and it’s 
open-air, which allows sound to bleed through from 
one room to the next. 
The new music building will replace Leonardo’s 
By the Slice, located at 1245 W. University Ave. It will have a parking garage for concert attendees, Lavelli 
said. Construction on the $55 million project will be-
gin in the coming years.
She said the college is also working on creating 
more internship and interdisciplinary opportunities 
for students to foster collaboration between the col-
leges.
“The university is on a very exciting trajectory 
right now,” she said, “so it seemed the perfect time 
to transition my life and spend a little more time with 
my family.”
Orr, who has worked at the College of the Arts 
since 2000, said Lavelli’s greatest strengths are effec-
tive social skills and an ability to accommodate the di-
verse interests of UF’s students and faculty members. 
The college contains three schools, three centers and 
the Digital Worlds Institute.  
Her positive and forward-thinking leadership in-
ﬂ  uenced his decision to take the director position in 
2015 after working as a professor, he said.
Lavelli said she will miss her colleagues and stu-
dents the most. The college hosts a party for retired 
staff members every December, so she looks forward 
to attending it.
In the immediate future, she plans to work with 
Mark Law, director of the Honors Program, to cre-
ate a course centered around the 500th anniversary of 
Leonardo da Vinci’s death. 
Lavelli said she is uncertain what retirement 
holds, but she will stay open to opportunities to as-
sist the college or Gainesville community in whatever 
ways she can.By Samantha Leon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bailey Lawhon was 20 when 
he was diagnosed with stage 3 
melanoma. Lawhon underwent 
six months of treatment, and his 
condition has been in remission 
for two years.
“Right away, we didn’t know 
what stage it was,” Lawhon said. 
“We just knew that it was cancer.”
Lawhon’s case is all too famil-
iar in Florida. According to a Blue 
Cross Blue Shield study from May 
31, Florida has the highest num-
ber of skin cancer diagnoses in the country. The ﬁ  rst day of summer 
is June 21, and students should 
check for potential skin cancer 
symptoms by getting full-body 
skin checkups. 
Cecelia Luna, marketing and 
communications coordinator for 
the UF Student Health Care Cen-
ter, said it is uncommon for stu-
dents to ask for full-body skin 
checkups.
“If anything, we get students 
who come in and want us to look 
at a mole or a couple of moles … 
rather than having the full-body 
exam,” Luna said.
Several symptoms are easy to overlook, particularly for students 
who are not paying close attention 
to their skin, Luna said.
Lawhon, 22, said it is important 
to get yearly skin checkups.
“It takes a couple of hours out 
of your day, twice a year — even 
once a year — to get checked,” 
Lawhon said. “Melanoma spreads 
so fast.”
Lawhon was stationed in Bah-
rain while serving in the U.S. 
Navy when he noticed a bump on 
his back. 
“It looked like a wart on ste-
roids,” Lawhon said.
A doctor in Bahrain examined and biopsied the bump. A month 
later, the doctor contacted him 
saying the bump was cancerous. 
Lawhon was sent back to the U.S. 
to have it removed. 
When he went in for surgery, 
Lawhon’s doctor noticed swollen 
lymph nodes under his right arm-
pit area. Three lymph nodes were 
removed and tested positive for 
cancer, Lawhon said. 
Lawhon rarely wore sunscreen 
growing up, despite spending 
most of his summers in the sun, 
and he said it was probably a huge 
factor in how he got skin cancer.
The SHCC encourages students to wear sunscreen with SPF 15 or 
higher during summer, Luna said.
Tara Andrisin, a physician as-
sistant at Gainesville Dermatology 
& Skin Surgery, said theoretically, 
people can prevent skin cancer 
through sun protection.
Skin cancer often arises in 
moles that are on the body for a 
long time. She said a person might 
not notice a mole changing over 
time.
Andrisin, who has been in pri-
vate practice for 12 years, has seen 
more young people coming in for 
routine skin checks at her clinic, 
she said.
By Amanda Roland
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Harn Museum of Art is fea-
turing Gainesville’s newest brewery 
at its third Harn on Tap event. 
The event at Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Company will be held to-
night from 6 until 9. Its purpose is 
to celebrate art outside the museum 
and support local businesses, said 
Allison Hudson, assistant director 
of development at the museum. 
Hudson calls the events “friend-
raisers” because they give the com-
munity a chance to create relation-
ships that are fostered by the Harn, 
while raising money.
Cypress & Grove, located at 1001 
NW Fourth St., opened June 2017 in 
an old ice plant, said Anna Heine-
man, one of the brewery’s four 
owners.
“Because we are nestled right 
in the center of all these neighbor-
hoods, it was — back in the day 
— the place to go get ice for your 
party,” she said.
The brewery makes their six sea-
sonal beers by pulling water from the aquifer using the plant’s original 
well, Heineman said. 
No reservations are needed for 
the event. A donation of $20 is en-
couraged at the door, but it is not 
necessary, said Jess Berube, com-
munications specialist at the Harn. 
There will be rafﬂ  es and prizes ev-
ery half-hour.
“If you donate $20, you do get a 
free pint,” Berube said. “Cypress & 
Grove will donate $1 back (to the 
Harn) for every beer that they sell.”
The Humble Wood Fire pizza 
food truck will also be there. Hud-
son said not only is its pizza amaz-
ing, but it will be donating a per-
centage of its proﬁ  ts from the night 
to the Harn.
Heineman said acoustic guitar-
ist Barbara Paul will be perform-
ing. There will also be games like 
foosball, pool, Jenga and cornhole, 
making it a family-friendly night.
“We are still a gathering place 
for people to seek solace from the 
heat and to come with your family 
to enjoy a cold brew,” Heineman 
said, “but we are now much more 
than just an ice plant.”Retiring dean reﬂ  ects on past, 
discusses college’s futureStudy shows Florida has highest skin cancer diagnosis rates  
Cypress and Grove to 
host Harn on Tap event
Lavelli
Editorial
ColumnLook, readers. You’re gonna have to level with us.
We’re a bunch of starving college journalists. If it seems as 
if all we talk about is food and the weather, it’s because we’ve 
been dealt terrible situations with both, and we’re using The 
Alligator as an outlet for our frustrations with each.
That’s not to say Gainesville is riddled with terrible restau-
rants or food culture. It’s to say we’re dead broke and yearning 
for a decent meal.
We would pay the chefs, waiters and bartenders what we 
owe, but again, the life of a starving journalist isn’t one of glitz 
or glam or gobs of spending money. 
But if they’re cool with it, we have plenty of an uncommon 
currency with which to pay our service industry workers. We 
don’t have U.S. dollars, yen or even those funny Canadian 
bills. No, we only offer something much less valuable and in-
ﬁ  nitely more disappointing. We can pay you in…
A tale of a few streetlights and persistence 
I can’t say I knew a lot of things when I started 
my ﬁ  rst term as senator for Inﬁ  nity Hall. Not 
only does our Senate lack any sort of tran-
sitioning between past positions, but I also 
happened to be the ﬁ  rst ever senator for In-
ﬁ  nity Hall — so it’s not like anyone could tell me 
what my predecessors were up to.
Inﬁ  nity Hall opened in August 2015, and it 
took a bit for the gears to get turning in terms 
of representation. The majority party at the time 
claimed that the senators for District A, the ZIP 
code east of campus, which includes Inﬁ  nity, 
would be able to take care of the residents, but the residents 
felt strongly the opposite. Residents showed up to public de-
bate, not too unlike the multiple protests we saw this past 
year. The Senate Judiciary Committee still didn’t include a 
seat for Inﬁ  nity Hall in their reapportionment of Senate seats. 
Then, the Student Body president at the time vetoed their 
reapportionment to force the creation of the seat.
Many months later, I won my seat with a decent 75 per-
cent of the vote in Fall 2016. From then, I set off on what, in 
hindsight, seems like a wild goose chase in terms of potential 
improvements for my hall. Real talk: It’s incredibly difﬁ  cult 
to get things done. That’s why, for the most part, you don’t 
often see your senators doing much in relation to who they 
are supposed to represent. SG simply doesn’t have much 
power over the different colleges, residence halls or local ZIP 
codes. People come into the role thinking they have lots of 
power, but that’s not really the case. It’s actually advocacy 
disguised as a position of power, which is why senators often 
don’t have lasting impacts in their areas.
There’s been no shortage of failures on my part. Despite 
working with my roommate to gather a petition with over 
half of my hall’s residents for support, we’re still lacking a 
fully-furnished kitchen at the moment (it’s still on the table 
for the UF Housing and Residence Education department, so 
there is still hope).
I once thought it’d be really neat for us to get those water 
fountains with water bottle reﬁ  ll stations, before the property manager pointed out to me that every ﬂ  oor has a 
water dispenser in its kitchen area which techni-
cally can do the same thing. 
I also tried (and failed) to get a bike rental 
station for Inﬁ  nity Hall; the cost of installing a 
station with ﬁ  ve bikes was estimated at $11,000 
(I’m broke).
However, in my email to the City of Gainesville 
asking about the bike station, I also mentioned a 
little bit about the lighting condition around Inﬁ  n-
ity. I attached photos of the areas of concern and 
they told me they would take up the case — that 
was in March 2017. After a call with a senior planner from 
the city in April 2017, the gears turned a bit further. Funding 
had been set aside as of July. Gainesville Regional Utilities 
was a little behind but planning on getting the job done in a 
couple weeks, as of August 2017. 
Oh, and then Hurricane Irma hit so… Yeah...
Understandably, GRU was a bit busy after Irma. It would 
only be after I moved out of Inﬁ  nity Hall and won my elec-
tion in Murphree that the streetlights actually went up in 
November. If you’re ever going by Inﬁ  nity Hall via South-
west First Avenue or Southwest 10th Street, take a look at 
the streetlights and you’ll realize that a couple of them are a 
completely different shade from the others in the area since 
they are new (and use LEDs).
So who gets the credit? Scott Wright, senior planner with-
in the City of Gainesville’s Public Works Department does. 
So does GRU. Thank you both. 
As for me, I guess I sort of helped? I just took photos of 
dark areas and was annoying with follow up emails for many 
months, but I’ll happily accept any thank-you checks made 
out to me.
Questions, comments or concerns? Email me at zchou@
uﬂ  .edu.
Zachariah Chou is a UF political science sophomore and 
Murphree Area Senator. His column focuses on Student 
Government.THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
DARTS AND LAURELS
Morgan
 McMullen
EDITORBailey LeFever 
MANAGING 
EDITORSarah Stanley
UNIVERSITY 
EDITOR Baylie Cainas
METRO EDITORHere’s an all-too-familiar scenario: You’ve rolled out 
of bed. You throw on gym clothes. You’re a mess. 
You need coffee, and it’s not like that ﬁ  rst-generation 
Keurig from your dorm days is any good. Then you 
make it to Dunkin’ Donuts or Starbucks and you have 
that glorious iced coffee in hand.
Then disaster strikes.
Not 10 feet outside the door, the ice begins to melt faster 
than the polar ice caps. The Florida sun is the devil, ruining 
your precious coffee.
Some coffee shops have begun to make their ice cubes out 
of coffee so that the melt damage is minimal, but this hasn’t 
caught on much here in Gainesville. Therefore, we award a dart  
to coffee chains in Gainesville for not supporting our caffeine 
addiction with more gusto.
Sorry to our vegan brethren, but this one is not for you. This 
one is for the connoisseurs of cheese and for our esteemed col-
leagues at Boca Fiesta. We award a glowing laurel to the Boca 
Fiesta queso.
This cheesy, melty dip and classic tortilla chip is a perfect 
polygamous marriage with the Boca house margarita. Boca, you 
never cease to amaze us.
We’ll also dole out a laurel to the wonderful pastry section  
of Whole Foods Market, without which we might have never 
experienced the magic that is almond lace cookies. The dessert 
is straight out of a Narnia-esque ﬁ  lm.
So fresh. So bold. Bolay, we need to talk. Every restaurant 
that has moved to Butler Plaza wants to be original. To stand 
out in the ever-growing eyesore that reminds you you’re in Flor-
ida. You missed the mark on that one with the bowl-concept 
restaurant, but we’ll give you a pass for bringing another gluten-
free menu to our gluten-free masses.
We regretfully realize that in your desperation to make your-
selves original, you named your bowls “bols.” Small “bol.” 
Large “bol.” Kids “bol” ($4.99). Sounds like “smol.” Looks like 
an underpaid marketing intern. It’s a tragedy, but what’s done 
is done. The signs have been printed and put over the cash 
registers. When you open next week, all who stumble in will 
see your shame. Out of the 41 acronyms for BOL, we’ll give you 
one: best of luck. 
Your menu that you so sweetly sent our staff looks promis-
ing, though we’d prefer not to pay $1.50 for avocado so that 
we can buy houses someday. It’s okay, we won’t be able to 
in Gainesville anyway with all the wonderful gentriﬁ  cation on 
Butler Plaza. Welcome to our tow. Here Bolay, take a dart and 
leave us alone.
Zachariah
Chou
opinions@alligator.org
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
Welcome Back Edition
Fall 2018Advertise in the
RUN DATE
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22
FINAL DEADLINE
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10
Save 5% on your advertisement
Contact your sales rep today and let 
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the Welcome Back Edition!
CALL TODAY 
352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
President Donald Trump, as you un-
doubtedly know, constantly reveals 
ﬁ  ssures in the American public. He 
has shown, time and again, where 
the faults and cracks run through our 
shared ideologies — where they break, at 
times being separated by wide chasms, and 
where they meet.
Your personal political position on the U.S. 
and how we should go forward in the age of 
Trump reveals one thing more important than 
most: whether you are a nationalist or a pa-
triot.
The distinction between the two is huge. 
When you hear about someone wearing 
American ﬂ  ag pants or praising the Constitu-
tion, you might conﬂ  ate the two and say that 
person is being patriotic, or synonymously to 
the uneducated mind, displaying nationalist 
sentiments.The glaring distinction lies in 
their connotation. If you look up 
each in the dictionary, you’ll ﬁ  nd 
they are, in fact, synonyms. The 
deﬁ  nition of nationalism even in-
cludes the word “patriotic.” How-
ever, whereas the example sen-
tence for patriotism touts a military 
ofﬁ  cer of unquestionable integrity, 
the example sentence for national-
ism invokes extremism and fear. 
Google reveals that use over time for the 
word nationalism soared throughout World 
War II. That was a time when countries prac-
ticing extremism (and I mean old school ex-
tremism, like world domination, Pearl Harbor 
extremism) were world powers.
There is a more concrete litmus test if 
you’re wondering whether you are a national-
ist or a patriot — whether you believe the U.S. is better than everyone else. Again, 
I’m not trying to say that you’re a 
nationalist because you think apple 
pie and baseball are the best pas-
times. 
I’m asking you to ask yourself: 
“Do I think American culture is 
better than other cultures?” Not 
whether you like it better, but 
whether the American way is the 
undisputed right way. I’m looking 
at you, Young Americans for Freedom.
Being patriotic, by contrast, is a lot more 
nuanced. As a patriot, you get to wear your 
ﬂ  ag pants and carry around a pocket-sized 
copy of the Constitution, but you can recog-
nize that the U.S. is imperfect and has a trou-
bled past. You can hear the screams at the 
border when we separate children from their 
parents, and you don’t write that suffering off just because the children are Mexican and not 
American. 
A patriot can recognize where we have 
failed as a country, where a nationalist can-
not. A patriot can use our gray history to tell 
us about a brilliant future, where a nationalist 
cannot. A patriot can explore diverse places in 
both empathy and time, where a nationalist is 
chained to their backyard. A patriot can see 
and ﬁ  x wounds, where a nationalist is blind 
and widens the sore.
As you, like the rest of us savvy know-it-all 
college students, participate fervently in the 
American democracy, ask yourself whether 
you’re voting for nationalists or patriots. The 
fate of our great country depends on it.
Stephan Chamberlin is a UF political sci-
ence junior. His column comes out Tuesday 
and Thursday.
New York City is a place of glimmer-
ing lights and shiny buildings that 
demand your attention.
These spectacles are a mere dis-
traction from what is buzzing be-
neath the surface. Literally. Underground 
in the metropolitan subway system, an-
other layer of the city exists. This layer is 
a more honest one, with no glittering mar-
quee. Here, there are no Gucci stores and 
no Broadway shows playing. But if you ob-
serve closely, you can see into the eyes of 
America herself.
Women wearing lavish skirts sit beside 
men in their construction uniforms. The 
stark contrast of dress is an ever-present 
reminder of the gap driven between the 
two sides of the economic spectrum. No 
matter their clothes, all riders have had a 
long day. Everyone has had someone to serve today: a customer, a boss, 
a partner. And now as they sit 
on the subway, they begin to un-
wind.
They log onto the free Wi-Fi 
and search for entertainment and 
alleviation. When they get home 
they’ll take off their heels or their 
steel-toe boots, but the relief will 
be the same. They’re all riding 
the same line, but they’ll all get off in dif-
ferent neighborhoods. In some, they fear 
parking tickets; in others, they fear police.
Signs posted on the car doors warn of 
the legal penalty for sexual assault on a 
subway. You can tell this crime is promi-
nent and that riders encounter it more than 
they should. People are obviously trying 
to do something about it, but the efforts 
fall short. Something about the signs feels like a victory, as if admitting that 
the crime occurs has taken some 
time to fess up to.
A homeless man wanders the 
cars with nowhere to go. He’s 
mentally ill and has made sure 
the whole station knows. Pas-
sengers seem unmoved by his 
pleas, but they probably have 
submitted to the fact they can’t 
do anything to help. The man is sick and 
needs compassion from the community. 
In this city and across the country, there 
is no policy for how to help these people. 
It’s been decided that it’s someone else’s 
problem.
It seems to be a rule that everyone rid-
ing the subway must be inherently angry. 
A mother cradles her child as the late night 
turns into early morning. The subway is a pretty miserable place to be, and New 
Yorkers don’t try to hide it. The angry, ex-
hausted facial expressions show that ev-
ery passenger would rather be somewhere 
else. But for every scowl, there is a smile.
In the dim lighting, a stranger still ex-
tends her MetroCard to me. An act of love 
from someone who has nothing to gain. 
When the dismal mood of the subway 
starts to get the best of me, there’s always 
someone to offer a beacon of light. 
The same goes for this country. We 
might all be on a miserable American sub-
way ride, but at least we’re all in it togeth-
er. Things might be bad in this moment, 
but we can get off at the next stop.
Layla Soboh is a UF advertising junior. 
Her column comes out Tuesday and Thurs-
day.The diﬀ  erence between patriotism and nationalism is a matter of awareness
The New York subway system is a microcosm of America, and it's encouragingColumn
Column
Stephan
Chamberlin
opinions@alligator.org
Layla Soboh
opinions@alligator.org
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheAlligator. 
Local Band Average Friend has new music
Check out page 10 for details on the upcoming 
album and a review of their unreleased single.Fourth of July Playlist: 
Flip to page 9 for The Avenue’s patriotic playlist, “My country 
‘tis of tunes. ”By Jackie De Freitas 
Avenue Contributor
Viewers have waited 14 years. 
For those of us in college, “The 
Incredibles” ﬁ  rst came into our 
life during an impressionable 
time. Some of us ﬁ  rst met the 
Incredibles when we were less 
than 10 years old. The movie has 
played on cable networks count-
less times. The Mr. Incredible and 
Elastigirl McDonald’s toys may 
even be burned into our brains. 
But if you think you are too old 
for “Incredibles 2,” you’re wrong. 
With giggle-inducing comedy and 
jaw-dropping animation, “Incred-
ibles 2” needs to be seen by all 
ages.
“Incredibles 2” picks up one or 
two minutes after the last movie 
ends. The Parr family has not 
aged, and they still must hide their 
powers and true identities. Unlike 
the ﬁ  rst movie, “Incredibles 2” fo-
cuses more on the Parr children 
(Violet, Dash and Jack-Jack) and 
Elastigirl (aka Helen Parr). Mr. 
Incredible takes on the role of 
stay-at-home dad while Elastigirl starts a new superhero-related 
job. With Elastigirl ﬁ  ghting off a 
new villain, the Screenslaver, Mr. 
Incredible struggles with his new-
found responsibility of parenting 
three kids with budding powers.
Audiences get to know Violet, 
Dash and Jack-Jack during a try-
ing time where superheroes are il-
legal, and their home life is being 
tested. While also being action-
ﬁ  lled, the movie’s plot allows 
viewers to witness more depth in 
each character. 
The seamless writing blends 
action, comedy and character 
development that is unrealized 
until after viewers have left the 
theater. Thanks to the movie’s di-
rector and writer, Brad Bird, the 
movie script never feels forced. 
When it comes to sequels, over-
kill is common. However, that is 
not the case with “Incredibles 2.” 
Although it is a children’s movie, 
this follow-up ﬁ  lm manages to 
hold the attention of viewers of 
any age.
The fear with most sequels 
is that they do no justice to the 
original. Sequels are almost never as good as their predecessor. “In-
credibles 2” succeeded the ﬁ  rst. 
Of course, the ﬁ  rst movie is awe-
some, but the second installment 
gives the viewers more of what 
they want while also adding new 
character interactions (i.e., Edna 
and Jack-Jack) and a more direct 
villain.
The plot and overall message 
allow room for interpretation. 
Seeing this movie with friends 
may lead to an after-screening 
discussion on politics or the phi-
losophy behind the ﬁ  lm. The se-
quel may follow the same formula 
as the original, but Bird strategi-
cally uses it so viewers moderate-
ly know what to expect.
Pixar sets the bar high with 
its visual standards. There is no 
debate whether Pixar movies are 
visually stunning. Even the archi-
tecture and interior design of the 
buildings in “Incredibles 2” are 
something to gawk at. These de-
tails might be something younger 
viewers miss, but adults will  ap-
preciate it. The artistic aspects of 
the movie add another element 
that entertains the audience. “In-credibles 2” succeeds by creating 
a movie both children and their 
parents equally enjoy.
The people at Pixar know how 
to captivate audiences. “Incredi-
bles 2” ﬂ  ows from the original in 
a way that satisﬁ  es what view-ers have been anticipating. The 
jokes, the animation, the char-
acters — they all mix together to 
create an enchanting experience 
that makes paying more than $11 
for a movie ticket and waiting 14 
years for a sequel worth it.By Mark Stine
Avenue Contributor
A grimace came across the face of Caro-
line Dike when she heard the name. 
The 20-year-old UF political science ma-
jor isn’t going to remember XXXTentacion 
in a positive light. The 20-year-old rapper, 
legally named Jahseh Dwayne Onfroy, was 
shot and killed in Deerﬁ  eld Beach, Florida, 
on Monday behind the wheel of his BMW i8 
by unknown gunmen. 
Onfroy has been a lightning rod of con-
troversy since his music career took off in 
2014, and his recent death resurfaced the is-
sue of how the public should remember con-
troversial celebrities. This is a problem the 
Gainesville student population is struggling 
with in particular. 
It’s difﬁ  cult ﬁ  guring out how to remem-
ber fallen celebrities like Onfroy, who had a 
track record of violence and mental health 
problems which he frequently referenced in 
his music. At the time his death, he was still 
facing domestic abuse charges ﬁ  led by his 
pregnant girlfriend, Geneva Ayala, according 
to a Miami New Times article. 
“I’m not necessarily saying his death was 
a good thing,” Dike said. “But I don’t think 
we should glorify people that are homopho-
bic and abusing their girlfriends.”
Despite his troublesome legal record, hundreds ﬂ  ocked to Northwest 37th Street 
on Tuesday, according to a report by the 
Sun-Sentinel, the same place the rapper was 
shot. 
Fans Randy Senti, 18, and Stevens Loui-
ma, 18, both UF students from Miami-Dade county, cited charitable contributions that 
Onfroy has made toward the greater Miami 
community as reasons to remember the rap 
star positively. 
“Even though he did all that stuff, I was 
able to look past that because he wanted to change as a person,” Louima said. “His ac-
tions were reﬂ  ecting the change he wanted.”
There are also rap fans that support On-
froy’s music but not his personal lifestyle, a 
contradictory stance since much of the rap-
per’s music directly reﬂ  ected his life of vio-
lence and aggression. UF student Andrew 
Merritt, 22, and his girlfriend Alejandra Za-
rate, 20, of Santa Fe College said they fall 
into this fence-sitting category.
“I liked his music because I saw him ran-
domly punch fans in the face and stuff at 
concerts,” Merritt said. 
With all of the different takes on Onfroy’s 
legacy, his public image seems to be still un-
der construction like a puzzle missing half of 
its pieces. Some of these spaces will be ﬁ  lled 
in by the determinations made in the unde-
cided domestic abuse case and murder that 
is currently under investigation.
Yet, if anyone can provide the ﬁ  ner details 
on how Onfroy should be remembered, it’s 
his loved ones. With the death so recent and 
funeral preparations ahead, it’ll take some 
time for the family, especially for Ayala, to 
speak about Onfroy in a detailed manner and 
in a public setting. 
Construct your opinion of the rapper 
however you want, but to know the person 
XXXTentacion really was, we’ll need to ﬁ  nd 
out ﬁ  rst-hand from Ayala and the rapper’s 
loved ones.XXXTentacion: martyr or menace?
Spoiler-free review of ‘Incredibles 2’ dancingastonaut.com
Rapper XXXT entacion was shot and killed by currently unknown gunmen 
while driving on Monday.
Pixar
After 14 years, Pixar’s favorite super-family has returned to 
the big screen.
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9
By Eman Elshahawy
Avenue Contributor
The Fourth of July marks the anniversary of 
American independence, and what better way 
to show your patriotism for this summer holi-
day than with a little music? Shufﬂ  e through a 
playlist that’ll get you feeling red, white and 
blue!
People all over the U.S. will be celebrating 
the national holiday next Wednesday, but that 
doesn’t mean you can’t get a headstart to the 
festivities by jamming along to some of your 
favorite America-centric songs.
Whether you’re watching ﬁ  reworks from the 
beach or your backyard, this playlist will keep 
the party going with patriotic tunes and songs 
that are on track to be summer hits.
“This Is America” by Childish Gambino
“American Girl” by Tom Petty & The Heart-
breakers
“Bleed American” by Jimmy Eat World
“Made In America” by Jay-Z and Kanye 
West
“Young Americans” by David Bowie 
“Courtesy of the Red, White and Blue” by 
Toby Keith 
“Made in the USA” by Demi Lovato 
“God Bless Amerika” by Lil Wayne
“American Woman” by Lenny Kravitz
“Kids In America” by Kim Wilde
“Surf Wax America” by Weezer
“American Saturday Night” by Brad Paisley
“American Boy” by Estelle featuring Kanye 
West
“Party in the U.S.A.” by Miley Cyrus
“American Pie” by Don McLeanMy country ‘tis 
of tunes: Hits 
for your Fourth 
of July playlist
MUSIC
 TELEVISION
By Tranelle Maner
Avenue Staff Writer
YouTube Premium is stepping up its 
game with “Impulse,” a dynamic and sus-
penseful drama that follows the journey of a 
teleporting teen.
It may have started as a free video shar-
ing service, but now YouTube’s premium 
subscription has created a great adult drama 
that may make you want to add the service 
to your monthly payments.
“Impulse” is the newest drama added to 
YouTube Premium’s original content. The 
entire 10-episode series was released June 
6 after the initial announcement and trailer 
dropped May 10.
The series is based on a book series called 
“Jumper” by Steven Gould, which follows 
the life of a teenager named David who uses 
his ability to teleport to escape an abusive 
home. The novel was developed into a ﬁ  lm 
in 2008, and two other books followed it in 
the series called “Reﬂ  ex” and “Impulse.”
“Impulse” was released in 2013, and 
it follows the life of David’s daughter and 
his entire family as they deal with escaping 
trouble and their daughter’s jumping ability.
Now, YouTube Premium has created 
their own TV-MA adaptation of the drama 
with almost hourlong episodes. The main 
story portrayed is the life of Henrietta 
“Henry” Cole who deals with a history of 
seizures, but during one of her episodes she 
somehow teleports back into her room.
Thus, Henry ﬁ  nds out she somehow has 
the ability to transport herself, but she has 
no control of when the episodes occur and 
how the travel happens.
As we follow the life of Henry, we also 
get glimpses into the life of a French man 
named Dominick who happens to have the 
same supernatural ability. However, this 
man is in control of his power and uses it 
to his advantage, as he seems to be running 
from some kind of danger.
We don’t know the details of the danger 
he appears to be in, nor who’s following 
him, but we do know that it has been hap-pening for quite some time.
The ﬁ  rst episode of the series reveals 
the plotline for the rest of the show. In that 
episode, Henry asks her high school’s star 
basketball player, Clay, to help her steal her 
car back from his dad’s car lot. 
After the two successfully retrieve the 
car, she and Clay sit in his truck where he 
begins to forcefully assault her. The stress 
and anxiety of the situation pushes Henry 
into another seizure, but this one is unlike 
any other. During this seizure, the glass 
of the windshield begins to break and the 
doors of the truck begin to cave.
Henry then teleports and ﬁ  nds herself in 
her room, but Clay was crushed in the car, 
leaving him a paraplegic.
The rest of the show follows Henry as 
she tries to deal with the consequences of 
her actions while coping with and learning 
more about this mysterious power that she 
has acquired.
While many may be hesitant to watch the program because it is part of YouTube 
Premium, the quality of this show exceeds 
any expectations. It is right up there with 
any Netﬂ  ix original series.
The characters are well-written with im-
pressive development and engaging drama. 
Unlike other original projects that can be 
a bit predictable or elementary in plotline, 
“Impulse” is a captivating series that more 
than deserves the $9.99 per month payment.
YouTube Premium is really expanding 
in its production value, and I highly rec-
ommend this series to anyone who enjoys 
suspenseful dramas with an interesting sto-
ryline. 
For anyone interested in this series or 
any other content that YouTube Premium 
has produced, you can sign up for the pre-
mium membership and receive a three-
month free trial, which is plenty of time to 
binge this series and the other great work 
the service provides.Series review of the week: YouTube 
Premium’s ‘Impulse’
YouTube
YouTube Premium’s new drama follows the life of teleporting teen 
Henry Cole, played by Maddie Hasson..
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Editor
Average Friend is turning local 
music into an outlet for millennial 
rage with their upcoming album, 
“The Never Has-Been.”
“The Never Has-Been” will be 
released in September, but the 
title single will be released Tues-
day. This release signals the birth 
of the second incarnation of Av-
erage Friend. Where the original 
Average Friend was traditionally 
punk, this new iteration meets 
band founder Scott Kauffmann’s 
punk-esque lyrics with a rock ‘n’ 
roll sound.
“I wasn’t really being true to 
myself as a songwriter, so it felt 
kind of forced,” Kauffmann said. 
“The past year gave me the chance 
to reevaluate what I want to do or 
say musically.”
After the original Average 
Friend split up last year, Kauff-
mann took a discouraged break 
from music. Kauffmann is a mil-
lennial and a musician, a com-
bination he said has made him 
angry in more ways than one in 
recent years.
Between the economic and po-litical prospects of the day, Kauff-
mann said his anger pushed him 
into a creative state. On his own, 
Kauffmann wrote and recorded a 
full album. “The Never Has-Been” 
was the result.
“There’s a disappointment be-
hind it, you know the name of the 
album is ‘The Never Has-Been.’ 
It’s pretty autobiographical,” 
Kauffman said. “It’s about addic-
tion, but not toward drugs or al-
cohol, well that too, but it’s more 
an addiction to a lifestyle and to 
naivete. It’s easy to be consumed 
in a simpler time. It’s reﬂ  ective, 
and it’s also angry.”
With the album fully recorded, 
Kauffmann brought in his friend 
Chris Hillman to master the tracks 
and start a band for live perfor-
mances.
“Right now,” Hillman said. 
“Average Friend is Scott.”
Hillman reiterated Kauffmann’s 
sentiment on the album. In line 
with many artists today, Kauff-
mann expresses the millennial 
artistic feeling of failed expecta-
tions. As a generation, millennials 
thought they understood where 
things were going both personally 
and politically, and it just didn’t happen.
“It’s that late 20s crisis feel-
ing,” Hillman said, “with the cur-
rent political and social situation 
of the country just slammed on 
top of it and how it makes us feel. 
… There’s so much art about that 
right now.”
In the title single, “The Never 
Has-Been,” there’s no question 
that the anger is there, but that’s 
not all. 
With lines like “You disgust 
me, but I need the money,” and 
“F--- you, who cares, you’re a no-
body putting on airs,” Kauffman’s 
poignant lyrics are deeply personal 
and resonate with the feelings of 
inauthenticity in modern society.
“There’s a lot of me in it, a lot 
of my insecurities,” Kauffmann 
said. “I think that’s one of the 
reasons I wrote that song about 
speciﬁ  c people because, it’s like, 
‘I’m disappointed in you, but I see 
myself in you.’ It’s really a disap-
pointment in myself.”
Apparently, disappointment is 
catchy. From the head-nodding 
beat of the drums to the groovy 
melody, Kauffman is able to com-
municate his emotions in an ex-
tremely digestible way.
By Emma McAvoy
Avenue Writer
For graphic novelist Andre Frattino, Flor-
ida’s history, arts and culture is everything. 
Frattino recently developed a graphic 
novel adaptation of “A Land Remembered,” 
celebrating the history of Florida that many 
have forgotten, reminding us of where we 
came from and where we are going. Frattino 
has put a twist on a historical treasure that 
will appeal to the next generation through a 
marriage of words and pictures.
Frattino said “A Land Remembered: A 
Graphic Novel” will stimulate not only nos-
talgia for Florida’s rich landscape, but also an 
appreciation for what we have left. Readers 
will be able to see the characters’ raw emo-
tions and thought processes, the landscape 
of the past and how the relationship between 
human and land has evolved over time. The 
book will spread a powerful message of fam-
ily, nostalgia and preservation that will speak 
to a new generation so that our history is not 
forgotten, but treasured, Frattino said. 
A Florida native himself, Frattino was born and raised in Gainesville until he moved 
to Savannah, Georgia, at age 21 to study 
comic illustration at the Savannah College of 
Art and Design. He later attended UF, where 
he earned his Master of Arts in Art Educa-
tion. While at UF, Frattino worked as a comic 
illustrator for The Alligator. There, he created 
his own comic strip called “Son of a Gator”— 
a comic about Albert the Alligator’s son and 
his merry misadventures through college. 
Frattino’s passion for the graphic arts has 
been a part of him for as long as he can re-
member. At age 5, he created his ﬁ  rst illustra-
tive story entitled “Honey Pot Bear and the 
Prize at the End of the Rainbow.” According 
to Frattino, his mother and father helped him 
create the story and made multiple copies to 
give out as Christmas presents. From then 
on, Frattino knew this was what he had to 
do.
“I was never without a pencil in my 
hand,” Frattino said. “I’d get in trouble in 
school for drawing in the margins of notes 
and homework assignments.” 
Frattino demonstrates a deep passion for 
communication through the visual arts. He has been writing and illustrating graphic nov-
els his entire life and continues to stay hun-
gry for new stories and new ways of commu-
nicating his ideas to the world. 
“If you really persist, you’re guaranteed to 
succeed in some form,” Frattino said.
Frattino’s passion inspired him to tell the 
story of “A Land Remembered” visually; the 
book tells a story of family, heritage, preser-
vation and nostalgia. Frattino’s emphasis on 
the importance of family stems from the love 
and support of his parents. 
“Family is a part of who I was; and who I 
am,” he said. 
The novels captures three generations of 
the MacIvey family and how they struggle to 
survive in rapidly changing environments, 
Frattino said. From the Civil War Era to the 
1960s, they move further and further away 
from their connection to nature and untamed 
land. 
The author of the original novel, Patrick 
Smith, intended for readers to pass the novel 
down from family member to family member 
to showcase the importance of the MacIveys’ 
unity. Frattino said Florida has developed in different ways — some good and some bad. 
He believes that “A Land Remembered” tells 
a history of Florida that many of us have for-
gotten or have not even experienced. 
“My mission in mind was to help Florida 
remember where it came from, what it used 
to be and how easy it is to forget,” Frattino 
said.
He tells stories that are fantastical yet 
based on reality: stories that inspire us to re-
member where we come from. Frattino tells 
the stories of the people we pass on the street 
whom we have no thought about. He wants 
to show us that everyone has a story — a sto-
ry that is unique, complicated and exciting. 
An advocate for history, Frattino also 
gives audiences the chance to peer into the 
lives of characters in history whose stories 
haven’t been told much. His upcoming novel, 
“Simon Says,” centers around a man named 
Simon Wiesenthal, a Jewish artist who sur-
vived the Holocaust by painting Swastikas on 
train cars for the Nazis. After the tragedy of 
the Holocaust, he spends the rest of his life 
hunting down Nazis, earning him the nick-
name “Jewish James Bond.”Average Friend is gearing up to release new music
‘A Land Remembered,’ a new graphic novel by a UF gradEmma Witmer
Scott Kauffmann (left) and Chris Hillman (right) hug it out 
while talking about the future of their growing local band.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
2 ROOMMATES NEEDED - Nonsmokers 
only. Adorable 3BR/1BA brick bungalow EZ 
walk to UF. $550 ea, 1st, last, sec + 1/3 utils. 
CAC/heat, W&D, Avail Aug 1. 1617 NW 7th PL 
352-215-4990,  tomdepot@gmail.com   7-3-
18-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ROOMMATE NEEDED for 1/1 in 3/3
New townhouse, 721 NW 10th St.
Male preferred. Move in Aug 6th.
$700/mo + 1/3 utils. Parking included.
Call or text 352-262-2873          7-10-18-5-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-13-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-13-18-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-13-25-10When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
10
Live & Online Public Auction
Thursday, June 28th at 11:00 AM
Lorion Beauty USA, LLC.
2665 South Park Lane, Pembroke Park, 
FL 33009
Sale will consist of: Lorion exclusive hair 
styling tools (flat irons &amp; curling irons), 
Lorion top of the line skincare creams, gels, 
serums, cleansers and face masks including 
24K gold infused products and nourishing 
hair care shampoos and conditioner prod -
ucts. Over $23 Million in retail inventory! All 
new high-end salon quality products!Catalog 
and photos available at www.moeckerauc -
tions.com Receivership Case No. 2017-
007251-CA-01
Preview: Day of sale 9AM-11AM. 15%-18% 
BP. To register: $100 refundable cash depos -
it and valid driver’s license. (800) 840-BIDS 
| info@moeckerauctions.com AB-1098 AU-
3219, Eric Rubin      6-21-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE 
&amp; SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock 
ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.
NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-567-0404 
Ext.300N    6-21-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-13-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                8-13-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     8-13-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-12
2000 BMW 528i silver 4 dr sedan, 1 owner, 
58K mi. manual 5 spd, 6 cyl, cruise, all pow -
er options, sunroof, premium leather int, cd/
cass/radio. Mint cond, no accidents/modi -
fications, reg serviced, garaged, excellent 
tires /spare.$6,000, Call/text 352-214-2512    
6-21-18-5-12
Used 2005 Honda Accord
LX Silver Auto 102K Mil Cruise control 
Cold A/C CD-player Wellmaintaned 31 mpg 
$4400 352-231-3321     7-5-18-3-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-13-25-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-13-18-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
Across from UF Law
2398 SW 2nd Ave, 4BR/2BA 1353 sq. ft. 
$2000/mo W/D included, fenced backyard, 
large closets, close to shopping, midtown, 
buses    Call 352-338-1000        7-3-18-5-2
DUPLEX, 2BR/1BA - 7 BLKS TO UF
New paint, W/D, front & back porches.  Call 
352-871-6413    6-14 18-10-2
**** 3 Bedroom Home ****
Wood Floors, Screen Porch, Central Heat 
& Air, Large Bonus Room. 1311 NW 8th St. 
$1295/mth. Call 352-870-2760.    7-24-18-
10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail: classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifieds3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-13-18-24-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  8-13-18-25-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/
hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868    
7-31-18-24-14
RETAIL SALES PERSON needed Part time.
Inquire within at
The Floor Store of Gainesville Inc.    
6-21-18-4-14Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-13-18-
25-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Learn how to make a 6 figure income easy! 
Gain the knowledge to financial freedom and 
a life of opportunity! Come join the club right 
here: http://sidemoneyonline.club     7-3-18-
5-14
College Students.  Learn how to make ex -
tra money daily by completing surveys go to 
www.legitimatextraincome.club      7-3-18-5-
14
Students can earn extra income
in spare time to
copy and paste on social media.
Go to >>>http://www.v102fm.com/     7-10-
18-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '18
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
7-5-18-4-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is 
the only bird that can fly backward 
with precision?
2. EXPLORERS: What was the 
name of the ship that explorer Henry 
Hudson sailed up a river that bears his 
name today?
3. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of Hermione’s pet cat in the 
“Harry Potter” book series?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What type 
of bread also is commonly known as 
“pocket bread”?
5. BIBLE: In which book does the 
phrase “the love of money is the root 
of all evil” appear?
6. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
famed Trevi Fountain located?
7. MUSIC: Which band was named 
after an 18th century agriculturalist 
who invented the seed drill?
8. GEOLOGY: What kind of black, 
glass-like rock forms when magma 
cools suddenly?
9. HISTORY: When did the great fire 
of London occur?
10. LANGUAGE: What is the mean-
ing of the Latin phrase “anno domini”?
Answers
1. Hummingbird
2. The Half Moon
3. Crookshanks
4. Pita
5. 1 Timothy 6:10
6. Rome, Italy
7. Jethro Tull
8. Obsidian
9. 1666
10. “in the year of the Lord”
© 2018 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 18, 2018King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Lung Cancer? And Age 60+? You And Your 
Family May Be Entitled To Significant Cash 
Award. Call 855-259-0557 for Information. 
No Risk. No Money Out Of Pocket.    6-21-
1-16Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
20
Do You need Real Residual income....
Month after Month? 
Earn $20 to $1,000 commissions. 
http://internetlifestyle4u.com/     7-5-18-5-20Florida Olive Council is selling excess re -
search stock. Trees are 5-7' 3 gallon con -
tainers ($20-$35) many varieties. Saturday, 
June 23. 23622 NW 52nd Terrace, Alachua, 
FL - north on SR 121(SW 34th st.) past 
LaCrosse (12 mi. from UF) michael@florid -
aolive.org    6-21-18-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems to high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     8-13-20-
21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Throw out a line
5 Marner of fiction
10 Santa Monica
attraction
14 Funny Bombeck
15 Letter-shaped
fastener
16 “Young
Frankenstein”
Fräulein
17 Meadows
18 Siamese fighting
fish
19 New Mexico
resort
20 Girl skipping
school?
23 Plate duster
24 Transparent
25 “The Prisoner of
__”: 1937
Fairbanks film
27 Reason your ears
are burning?
32 Collect over time
35 __ juice
36 Second-largest
bone in the body
37 Ticket word
38 Note from one
who’s shy
39 __ Cruces
40 Low joint
43 ID with two
hyphens
44 “Totally had you
going there!”
46 Farm sound after
sunset?
49 Backyard game
for two
50 Saudi money
53 Prefix with pass
54 Knight game
impact?
59 Early automaker
61 Trunk
62 Kitchen floor
covering, to a Brit
63 Singer’s syllables
64 Considering
everything
65 __ Eats: food
delivery app
66 African antelope
67 Propagated
68 Word on an Irish
stamp
DOWN
1 “Tainted Love”
band Soft __2 Measurements
made by
planimeters
3 Tennis shot
4 Loafer
adornments
5 Many a
commuter’s
community
6 Sarcastic
comment
7 Senate majority
leader after Dole
8 Some choristers
9 Poetry unit
10 Racetrack stop
11 Lower than low?
12 Swellhead
13 Speak harshly
21 Company VIPs
22 Fröbe who
played Goldfinger
26 Feature of a two-
ltr. monogram
28 Pennsylvania sect
29 Relaxed
30 Wired, with “up”
31 Big cut
32 Severely
damaged Asian
sea
33 Like a birder’s
field glass34 With very little
grace
41 Burning
42 Env. fattener
44 Puritan
45 Landscape
artist’s shade
47 To wit
48 California
governor after
Gray
51 Defensive line?52 Hermit
53 2018 Ron
Howard film
subtitled “A Star
Wars Story”
55 Faux pas
56 Bird crop
57 Cruise 
stopover
58 Became frayed,
say
60 Kenny G’s horn
By Clive Probert
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/21/1806/21/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 21, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
ACROSS
1 Not quite round
5 Gumbo vegetable
9 Ply
14 Like every U.S.
president
15 “Coulda been a
lot worse!”
16 Romantic text
17 Fidgety
19 Gymnast Simone
who won four
golds in Rio
20 Carefree
21 The “I” of “The
King and I”
22 Masters
23 Characteristic of
the villain in “The
Fugitive”
25 “Is that it?”
27 All-in-one printer
feature
29 Actor Wallach
30 Unconscious
31 “__ goes
nothing!”
32 Muse of poetry
34 Navig.
technology
35 T.S. Eliot poem,
with “The”
39 Sprite
42 Admonish
43 They’re on the
phone
47 Classical lead-in
48 Recycle bin item
49 Work on, as a
vintage auto
52 Behold in
amazement
55 Pluto’s largest
moon
56 Trip up
57 Use a wrecking
ball on
59 Ode title words
60 Metaphor in a
gambling
debacle
61 Employee hours
suggested by this
puzzle’s circles
63 Smell or taste
64 Ancient Dead
Sea region
65 Slurpee, basically
66 Tidied, as a lawn
67 TV warrior
princess68 Sci-fi escape
ships
DOWN
1 “Heavens!”
2 Window topper
3 Twelve-month
4 Thompson of
“Switched at
Birth”
5 Gift box direction
6 Genghis __
7 Watched again
8 Astound
9 Liquid poured in
honor of a deity
10 Animated
11 Holiday fireplace
item
12 Ties, as a score
13 Potatoes often
used for fries
18 Alpine lake
22 Island near Sicily
24 Yet again
26 Physician,
hopefully
28 Light-sensitive
eye part
33 Great American
Ball Park player
36 Like some
French vowels37 Commandment
verb
38 Spreadsheet
input
39 As a group
40 On a tether
41 Compelling
44 Colonnaded
entryway
45 Reviewed for
typos
46 State assemblies50 Skin malady
51 “__ So Unusual”:
Cyndi Lauper’s
debut studio
album
53 Poet’s creation
54 Word with secret
or school
58 Scads
61 Supervillain
Luthor
62 In the know
By Roger and Kathy Wienberg
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/20/1806/20/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, June 20, 2018
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
1.  Emerged
1.  Hazard5.  Aristocratic 
2.  Mesh6.  Angry
3.  Fashionable7.  ____ Christie 
4.  Movie theater EDNWDA
GREANDBLOEN
TREAI
WNIGBBE
LNEATEGHAGAAT
AMCENIANSWERS: 1A-Dawned  5A-Noble  6A-Irate  7A-Agatha
1D-Danger  2D-Webbing  3D-Elegant  4D-Cinema  B-New England6-21-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This is home to about 15 million people.
BONUS
16 Health Services 18 Personals 18 Personals
Eyes Up. Phone Off.
DON’T TEXT & DRIVE.19 Connections 20 Events/NoticesThree-star OL prospect Riley 
Simonds committed to UF 
Wednesday. He's the No. 
16-ranked guard in the country, 
according to  247Sports. UF BASKETBALL TO OPEN SEASON AT FSU
The Gators and Seminoles will face off on Nov. 6 as part of the Fresh from 
Florida Sunshine Showdown in T allahassee. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
AWARDS
By Alligator Sports Staff
As the Florida Gators athletics season winds 
down, we look back at some of the best athletes 
for the university. Our panel of Mark Stine, Chris 
O’Brien, Dylan Rudolph, Alanis Thames and An-
drew Huang selected its nominees for the alligator-
Sports Athlete of the Year award:
Mark: The SEC qualiﬁ  ed all 13 of its teams in 
the 2018 NCAA Tournament and is arguably the 
toughest conference in Division I softball. Despite 
playing in such a difﬁ  cult conference, UF left ﬁ  eld-
er Amanda Lorenz received SEC Player of the 
Year and First-Team All-America nods. 
Lorenz led Florida in virtu-
ally every offensive category, 
including batting average 
(.416), slugging percentage 
(.753) and RBIs (61). She also 
ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst in the SEC in on-
base percentage (.582), walks 
(70) and doubles (19). 
The junior from Moorpark, 
California, powered the Gators with her ability to 
reach base, which she did safely in all of Florida’s 67 games. She scored 75 runs and accumulated 
134 total bases, marks good for second and fourth 
in the SEC, respectively. 
The left ﬁ  elder also has a reliable glove. She 
committed only one error during the 2018 cam-
paign while displaying her ability to run down ﬂ  y 
balls and make improbable outs. In the second 
inning against Kentucky on March 11, Lorenz 
snagged a softball sailing over the wall in foul ter-
ritory. She stole an out for her pitcher and helped 
UF earn a sweep of the Wildcats. 
With her senior season remaining, it’ll be in-
teresting to see if Lorenz can possibly improve her 
statline in 2019.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.org
Chris: So many great athletes here this year, it 
was really difﬁ  cult picking just one.
But after joining the Florida Gators women’s 
golf team midseason and tearing up the course, 
my vote is Sierra Brooks.
Brooks, a sophomore transfer, burst on the 
scene at UF after a tough start to her collegiate golf 
career at Wake Forest.In her very ﬁ  rst tournament 
as a Gator, the Sorrento, Flori-
dam, took over the alpha spot 
on the team with a win at the 
Florida Challenge in Lecanto, 
Florida. 
That win wasn’t Brooks’ 
only top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nish though. 
On top of winning the Allstate 
Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, she closed in the top 
ﬁ  ve in four of the nine tournaments she played 
in. In the same nine events, only one of her team-
mates had more than one top-ﬁ  ve score (Marta 
Perez had 2).
Brooks led UF in several statistical catego-
ries, including stroke average (72.04) and subpar 
strokes per round (3.65).
She tied for the most top-10 ﬁ  nishes on the 
team despite playing in four fewer tournaments 
than her teammates.
Whether Brooks utilizes all four years of eligi-
bility or turns pro early remains to be seen, but she 
has previously stated that she has no intention of 
leaving school early.
The Florida women’s golf team has a bright fu-
ture with her at the helm.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org
Dylan: Big, strong, fast and agile: all the attri-
butes you want in an athlete. They're also all attri-
butes that Florida guard Jalen Hudson possesses.
At 6-foot-5 and 195 pounds, 
Hudson is big and powerful for 
his position. During the 2017-
2018 campaign, he used his 
strength to drive to the basket, 
as well as his ability to shoot 
from all over the ﬂ  oor. The 
shooting guard led his team in 
scoring (15.5 points per game) 
and hit a team-high 78 three-pointers in the 34 
games he played.
But athleticism isn’t shown just through a stat 
sheet. Hudson used his athleticism to put himself 
in position to make plays that few other players 
could. A prime example is when Hudson skied for 
a put-back dunk against St. Bonaventure in the 
ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA Tournament.
His incredible speed with the ball, combined 
with his remarkable agility to shake defenders on 
the wing made him the best athlete on the court at 
times and was a big reason why Hudson became 
the ﬁ  rst Gator to win SEC Player of the Week three 
times in a basketball season.
That’s why he is my pick for the Athlete of the 
Year at UF. When you picture an athlete, you pic-
ture Florida’s No. 3 from Richmond, Virginia.
The Gators’ basketball team will bask in anoth-
er year with Hudson, who has chosen to return for 
his senior season and make one last championship 
run with coach Mike White and his team. 
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.org ALLIGATOR AWARDS: Athlete of the Year
Alligator File Photo
UF left ﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz reached base safely in all 67 games for the 2018 season. 
She also recieved the SEC Player of the Year honor.
Last week I explained why the 
World Cup is the greatest event 
in sports.
So far, Russia 2018 has been 
a rousing installment in the 
tournament’s anthology, but some of 
the competition’s attendees have re-
vealed an uglier side to their fandom, 
and we need to talk about it. 
Being passionate and supporting 
your side is no issue, but when it 
leads to acts of hate, it’s time to in-
tervene. FIFA has issued warnings to 
both the Mexican and Serbian soccer 
federations for discriminatory demon-
strations at matches. It’s also using 
anti-discriminatory experts to monitor 
each of the games. 
However, responding to these in-
appropriate actions can’t be moni-
tored solely by issuing warnings and 
ﬁ  nes from FIFA, and each of the com-
peting countries’ soccer federations 
need to take matters regarding their 
fans into their own hands. The Eng-
lish Football Association is doing ex-
actly that. 
The FA responded Wednesday to a 
video of English fans making anti-se-
mitic chants and Nazi salutes at a bar 
in Volgograd, where England played 
its match with Tunisia Monday. The 
FA said it condemned these acts and 
is working with the UK Police inves-
tigation team to identify the individu-
als. 
These images are disturbing, and 
acts of hate like these from English 
fans are exactly why a limited number 
of them travelled to Russia. 
During the UEFA European Cham-
pionships in 2016, English fans en-
gaged in a brawl in Marseille with 
locals, and police had to use tear gas We need to 
talk about the 
World Cup’s 
inner demonsMark My Words
Mark Stine
Twitter: @mrstinejr
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE  16Lorenz
Brooks
Hudson
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15
NEW STUDENT Advertise in the
EDITION 2018
RUN DATE:
August 15th 2018
DEADLINES:
June 8th (save 10%)
July 7th (save 7%)
Aug 3rd (save 5%)
Contact your sales rep today and let  
incoming students know you’re ready for 
business in the New Student Edition!
CALL TODAY  352.376.4482
advertising@alligator.org
BASEBALL
By Chris O’Brien
Sports Writer
KKKKKKKKKKKKKowar.
It’s a joke that has continued 
to rise in popularity thanks to UF 
pitcher Jackson Kowar’s mastery of 
the Texas offense with 13 strikeouts 
Monday night.
He earned a win while giving 
up no runs on ﬁ  ve hits to go along 
with his 13 strikeouts - a UF College 
World Series record.
After eliminating the Longhorns  
with a 6-1 victory, the Gators ad-
vanced to the next round to play to-
night at 8 against Texas Tech after 
the Red Raiders lost to Arkansas 7-4 
Wednesday.
Catcher Jonah Girand noted that 
Kowar’s changeup was a reason be-
hind his success.
“That thing’s incredible,” Girand 
said in a release. “He can get that 
thing to sink and drop and go the 
other way. It’s just devastating to 
hitters.”
Unfortunately for UF, he won’t 
be available for tonight’s matchup.
Florida is familiar with TTU as it 
was defeated by the Red Raiders in 
the ﬁ  rst round of the CWS on Sun-
day.
The Texas Tech offense is as 
powerful as it gets in the remain-
ing ﬁ  eld. Seven of the nine batters 
in the normal starting lineup hit at 
least .298 heading into the game 
with Florida today.
The team as a whole is hitting 
.311 and possesses a ridiculous 
slugging percentage of .510.
For comparison, UF has a bat-
ting average of .276 and a slugging 
percentage of .474 (still pretty high, 
but a vast gap remains between the 
Gators and the Red Raiders).Florida will need to rely on its 
pitching staff and defense to pick up 
some of the slack if it is to mitigate 
the Texas Tech attack.
In the matchup four days ago, 
pitcher Brady Singer was dealing 
before the defense fell apart behind 
him. After the defense had its share 
of miscues, Singer’s production lev-
el dropped too, as he allowed three 
unearned runs while UF took the 
loss.
Either Tommy Mace or Jack Left-
wich is expected to get the start for 
Florida against TTU. The two fresh-
men performed well in their last 
contest, a win in the Gainesville Su-
per Regional against Auburn.
Gator fans should also expect 
closer Michael Byrne to come in to-
ward the end of the game. The All-
American stopper has seen action in 
each of Florida’s last eight contests.
It shouldn’t be a shock if reliev-
er Jordan Butler is brought out at 
some point as well. He has played 
in four of UF’s last ﬁ  ve.
One player to keep an eye on?
Tyler Dyson.
The ﬂ  amethrowing pitcher 
hasn’t seen the mound since May 8 
against the USF Bulls. After strug-
gling the ﬁ  rst half of the season in 
the weekend rotation, last year’s 
CWS hero was replaced by Leftwich 
and moved to the bullpen before 
being cut out entirely. Coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said before the Super Re-
gional that Dyson was available and 
looked sharp in practice, throwing 
96 mph.
If he does see action, Florida 
needs a revitalized Dyson to have 
success.
@THEChrisOB
cobrien@alligator.org  Florida gets ready to do battle with Texas Tech, once again
Marcelo Rondon / Alligator Staff
Freshman pitcher T ommy Mace is expected to see the mound at some point in the Gators’ College 
World Series rematch against the T exas T ech Red Raiders.
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2018
FRIDAY  LUNCH SPECIALS
$9.99 Buffalo Blue Chicken Sandwich Basket
 
FUN DAY
$3 Lemon Drops 
$3 Pork Rinds
$4 Double Wells
$4 Edamame
$4 First Mag PintsNIGHT SPECIALS
7 pm - 12 am
$3 Tequila Shots 
$4 Jager & Fireball Shots
$4 Swamphead Drafts
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseSATURDAY SUNDAY
 NIGHT  7pm-12 am
$3 Margaritas on Tap
$3 Lemon Drop Shots
$4 First Mag Pints
LIVE DJ 
9 pm - CloseFRIDAYrestaurant & rooftop barTHE
1718 West University Avenue 1728 West University AvenueBEAT-THE-CLOCK
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ
Wells & Drafts 
 start at 25¢
LIVE DJ18 & UP
) (
18 & UP
Alanis: I don’t know how many UF athletes 
broke a school record or a collegiate record this 
past year, but I know one who did both: Grant 
Holloway.
Holloway ran the fastest 
60-meter hurdles time (7.42) 
in the NCAA during the indoor 
season, which set a new UF 
school record. He did that at 
age 20, making him the second 
man to ever run 7.42 or faster 
before turning 21.
The sophomore is the ﬁ  rst 
man in the history of the NCAA Indoor Champion-
ships with top-two ﬁ  nishes in the 60-meter hurdles 
(champion) and the long jump (runner-up). 
He is also the only man in indoor track and ﬁ  eld 
history to run a sub-7.50-second and surpass 8.00 
meters jumping in the same season. And he did 
that in a 24-hour span at NCAA Indoors.
During the outdoor season, Holloway ran the 
second-fastest (13.15) and tied the third-fastest 
(13.16) 110-meter hurdles time in collegiate his-
tory.
He won SEC Outdoor titles in the 110-meter 
hurdles and long jump and defended his 110 hur-
dles national title at the NCAA Outdoor Champion-
ships.
The Chesapeake, Virginia, native is the only 
man in the last four seasons with multiple indoor 
and outdoor USTFCCCA National Athlete of the 
Week Honors in the same year.
His dominance helped the Gators to an NCAA 
Indoor title, SEC Outdoor title, and NCAA Outdoor 
runner up.
Holloway seems to get better with every race 
and could become one of the most accomplished 
athletes to come through Florida.
@alanisthames
athames@alligator.org
Andrew: Allow me to introduce you to the 2017-
18 UF Athlete of the Year: Rhamat Alhassan. 
She’s 6-foot-4, from Glenarden, Maryland, and was a four-year cornerstone of the 
UF volleyball team. She was 
efﬁ  cient and productive offen-
sively and an absolute monster 
on the defensive end. She was 
a 2017 First-Team All-Amer-
ican and the 2017 SEC Player 
of the Year. She also won the 
2017 Honda Sport Award – the 
rough equivalent of college football’s Heisman Tro-
phy – for volleyball.
Alhassan anchored one of the best defenses in 
school history as a senior, leading the country with 
1.70 blocks per set. If you’re more familiar with 
basketball stats than volleyball stats, this accom-
plishment is comparable to the Utah Jazz’s Rudy 
Gobert leading the NBA in blocks per game last 
season.
Thanks in large part to Alhassan, the Gators dominated opposing offenses all year, ranking in 
the NCAA’s top 10 in team blocks per set and oppo-
nents hitting percentage (imagine how opponents 
struggle to move the ball against, say, the Alabama 
football team if you need context for this terminol-
ogy).
Alhassan was an absolute force at the net and 
was instrumental in the Gators’ 30-2, national 
runner-up season that included the program's 23rd 
SEC title. A member of the 2017 SEC Fall Academic 
Honor Roll, she also handled business off the court. 
The choice is clear.
@AndrewJHuang
ahuang@alligator.org  
Who do you think is UF's Athlete of the Year?
You can vote on Twitter by following 
@alligatorSports or go to twitter.com/
alligatorSports.to subdue the crowd. In April, Rus-
sian hooligans remembered this 
brawl and threatened any English 
fans planning to travel to the World 
Cup with words such as “prepare to 
die.”
As for fans that actually attended 
World Cup matches, some Mexican 
and Serbian fans committed deplor-
able actions themselves. 
Mexican fans chanted “puto” at 
Germany goalkeeper Manuel Neuer. 
I understand this is a commonplace 
chant in some Spanish-speaking 
countries. But on a world stage, 
don’t make a chant that can be 
taken as a homophobic slur, espe-
cially since Mexican fans have been 
reprimanded for the same previ-
ously. Javier “Chicharito” Hernan-
dez, Mexico’s star striker, posted 
a message on Instagram Wednes-
day pleading fans to quit shouting 
“puto.” Hopefully Hernandez’s ini-
tiative will have more of an impact 
than a simple warning from FIFA. 
A distateful political banner was 
displayed during Serbia’s match 
with Costa Rica Sunday. Accord-
ing to an Associated Press report, it 
was a World War II-era banner rep-
resenting a far-right political view. 
Serbian fans exhibited similar 
materials during World Cup quali-
fying matches in 2017. Serbia was 
ﬁ  ned $160,000 for those demonstra-
tions.
Obviously, FIFA’s ﬁ  nes of Serbia 
weren’t enough to discourage the 
politically-charged banners. It will 
be interesting to see if the Serbian 
federation decides to take any fur-
ther action, especially if these ban-
ners pop up again. 
Mark Stine is a sports writer. You 
can follow him on Twitter @mstine-
jr or contact him mstine@alligator.
org. You can vote for Athlete of the Year on Twitter
AWARDS,  from pg 14COLUMN,  from pg 14
The Associated Press
Sophomore Grant Holloway collected titles in hurdle events at both the NCAA Indoor 
and Outdoor Championships in 2018.
Holloway
Alhassan
