We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
From the rap stage to the clothing rack
The pop-up shop was open for 17 days. See our video online at 
alligator.org, pg. 8
Post Amendment 13
Alachua County prepares for 8,000 displaced greyhounds, pg. 9Florida volleyball sweeps Georgia 
on the road
The Gators dominated the Bulldogs in Athens 
on Sunday. Find out who played well in the 
match, pg. 14MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018 VOLUME 113 ISSUE 37
IDAHO 10 FLORIDA 63
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
You don’t need to be an expert to know the Gators had a 
better football team than Idaho. The 63-10 ﬁ  nal score was 
like the tickets at Krishna lunch: more a formality than a 
necessity. 
But there were glimmers of what UF students and fans 
can expect this coming Saturday as Florida attempts to 
break several streaks. There’s the ﬁ  ve-game skid against 
FSU, the 36 consecutive bowl game appearances and 41 
straight winning seasons. 
The Seminoles have everything to lose. The Gators, 
meanwhile, have everything to gain. They can all but se-
cure a New Year’s Six bowl with a win. They can send 
their seniors and a select few juniors off with their ﬁ  rst 
win against FSU.
Florida can accomplish all of this based on what they 
showed against the Vandals. Most coaches would be con-
tent with running a base offense and defense against a sig-
niﬁ  cantly weaker opponent. 
Dan Mullen is anything but ordinary. He’s the Posh 
Spice of the coaching world, forgoing conventional wisdom 
and splitting off from the majority to pursue his own she-
nanigans. That’s why he showed FSU coach Willie Taggart 
exactly what he intends to do this Saturday. There were 
three speciﬁ  c moments Mullen showed his hand against 
Idaho this past weekend.
Mullen is self-aware
The play is a staple in this offense. The Gators ran a 
bubble screen — or a variation of it — during the ﬁ  rst drive With Idaho dispatched, Gators turn attention to FSU
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Christopher Houston / Alligator Staff
UF safety Chauncey Gardner-Johnson recorded a pick-six on the ﬁ  rst drive of Floirda’s 63-10 win over Idaho.
TWO RECOUNTS, INCLUDING 
THE FIRST STATEWIDE MANUAL 
RECOUNT, TOOK PLACE.
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
The seemingly endless saga of Florida’s 
midterm elections has reached its ﬁ  nal 
chapter.
On Sunday afternoon, Democratic U.S. 
Sen. Bill Nelson conceded to Republican 
Gov. Rick Scott in a video posted on his 
campaign’s Facebook page, after historic 
election recounts throughout the state. 
Last weekend’s manual recount sealed the 
deal for the U.S. Senate and Florida Com-
missioner of Agriculture elections. 
Nelson inched closer to Scott after the manual recount, but not enough to win 
reelection with Scott in the lead by 10,033 
votes out of more than 8 million ballots 
cast in Florida, according to the Miami 
Herald. 
Although he was defeated, Nelson said 
he remained proud of the work of his sup-
porters throughout his campaign. He’ll 
continue to ﬁ  ght to preserve the rights 
of voters, including health care and LG-
BTQ+ rights, he said. 
“I by no measure feel defeated, and 
that’s because I’ve had the privilege of 
serving the people of Florida and our 
country for most of my life,” Nelson said. 
The manual recount in Alachua Coun-
ty took six hours and 36 poll workers to 
ﬁ  nish, TJ Pyche, the spokesperson for Florida’s midterm elections 
have finally ended
SEE RECOUNT,  PAGE 4By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
The local police union accused the 
Gainesville Police Department of negligence 
after a man was shot at a rap concert last 
week.  
The Gainesville Fraternal Order of Po-
lice sent a letter to the city manager and the 
police department disapproving of how the 
department handled a concert at the Heart 
of the City Hookah Lounge, at 1221 E. Uni-
versity Ave. 
Jonathan Smith, a 46-year-old event co-ordinator also known as Jock Smooth, was 
accused of shooting another event coordi-
nator in the chest Nov. 4. Smith ran away 
before ofﬁ  cers could arrest him, according 
to a press release. 
Michael Maresca, the union president, 
said the department ignored safety concerns 
leading up to and during the rap concert, 
according to the letter. 
“This was a colossal failure,” Maresca 
said. “Failure to prepare, plan and keep the 
citizens and your ofﬁ  cers safe.”
The letter said Gainesville Police Chief Police union criticizes GPD in 
letter after rap concert shooting  
The letter said there were 
hundreds of noise complaints.
SEE GPD,  PAGE 4
T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefAMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY
Jazz Series
The Hippodrome Theatre, at 25 
SE Second Place, has partnered 
with UF’s School of Music to 
bring the Hippodrome Jazz 
Series. The Greg Snider Group 
will be performing. Doors 
open at 7 p.m. and the music 
is at 7:30-9:30 p.m. To get $2 
off your first drink at the bar, 
mark yourself as “going” and 
check in on Facebook.
Trans Week keynote
The Pride Student Union will 
have a keynote speaker from 
6-8 p.m. at the Rion Ballroom 
in Reitz Union to educate and 
empower our members to un-
derstand current trans issues 
and what PSU and the commu-
nity can do to further transgen-
der rights and liberation. The 
keynote speaker this year was 
featured on NBC’s Last Comic 
Standing. This event will have 
free dinner catered by Classic 
Fare and will be free and open 
to the public.
FRIDAY
Thanksgiving tours
Guests can celebrate a late 
Thanksgiving with Tuesday 
the baby cheetah and Doodle 
the baby clouded leopard at 
Carson Springs Wildlife, at 
8528 E County Road 225. Tours 
start at 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. 
Email contact@cswildlife.org 
to reserve a spot. Reservations 
are required to attend. It is $25 
for adults and $8 for those un-
der 12. 
Florida Gators Volleyball ver-
sus South Carolina
The game will take place at 7-9 
p.m. in the O’Connell Center. 
The match will be shown on 
the SEC Network+ and will be 
streamed at es.pn/2DuidRD. 
Tickets can be purchased on 
Ticketmaster. 
SATURDAY
Craft Festival 2018
The O’Connell Center is host-
ing the Craft Festival from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday and 
Sunday. The Craft Festival is 
an annual event that showcas-
es crafts that are authentically made by talented artisans and 
crafters. The festival provides 
an opportunity to shop for 
unique merchandise and gifts 
and features hundreds of dif-
ferent vendors. It will cost $5 
for the general public and $4 
for UF students. 
A Christmas Carol
The Hippodrome Theatre, at 
25 SE Second Place, will be 
showing Charles Dickens’ “A 
Christmas Carol” at 2 p.m. and 
4 p.m. More showings will be 
offered until Dec. 23. To re-
serve seats, call the box office 
at 352-375-4477 or visit tick-
ets.thehipp.org
MORE
Looking for artists and per-
formers
The local arts organization 
DreamQuilt is accepting art-
ists, artisans and performers 
for SoulMakes, an immersive 
art show and holiday market, 
at 1-6 p.m. Dec. 9 at Cypress 
and Grove. DreamQuilt will be 
accepting performers for the 
show up to Nov. 30. All types 
of artists are welcome, and pre-
senting artists are encouraged 
to do demonstrations, talk 
with guests and work on proj-
ects in the space. Participants 
and guests interact in an open, 
creative environment blending 
different forms of art, includ-
ing a collaborative canvas and 
collage workshops. Current 
students may apply to show 
their work for free. To sell 
art or craft items, a booth fee 
of $15 (student rate) applies. 
Learn more by emailing book-
ing@dreamquilt.org or texting 
352-872-2620.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to pfry@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit entries before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.NEWS AROUND THE WORLD
Searchers in California wildfire 
step up efforts before rain
CHICO, Calif. (AP) — 
Volunteers in white cover-
alls, hard hats and masks 
poked through ash and debris 
Sunday, searching for the re-
mains of victims of the dev-
astating Northern California 
wildfire before rains that are 
forecast for this week compli-
cate their efforts.
While the predicted down-
pours could help tamp down 
the blazes that have killed 76 
people so far, they also could 
wash away telltale fragments 
of bone or turn loose, dry ash 
into a thick paste that would 
frustrate the search.
A team of 10 volunteers 
went from burned house to 
burned house Sunday in the 
devastated town of Paradise, 
accompanied by a cadaver dog 
with a bell on its collar that 
jingled in the grim landscape.
US Sen. Nelson concedes to 
Gov. Scott as Florida recount 
ends
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Sen. Bill Nelson, a Florida 
political icon who first ar-
rived on Capitol Hill in the 
decades when Democrats 
dominated this presidential 
battleground state, conceded 
his bitterly close re-election 
bid to Republican Rick Scott 
on Sunday, ceding a razor-thin 
race to the outgoing governor 
after a bruising recount.
Nelson gave up his quest af-
ter days of acrimony and tense 
recounting leading to a midday 
Sunday deadline for Florida's 
counties to turn in their of-
ficial results. Florida will not 
officially certify the final totals 
until Tuesday, but the totals 
showed Nelson trailing Scott 
by slightly more than 10,000 
votes.
"It has been a rewarding 
journey as well as a very hum-
bling experience," Nelson said 
in a videotaped statement.HIGH  78° LOW  56°VOLUME 113 ISSUE 37
Engagement Managing Editor Paige Fry, pfry@alligator.orgEditor Meryl Kornfield, editor@alligator.org
Digital Managing Editor Romy Ellenbogen, rellenbogen@alligator.org
Opinions Editor Stephan Chamberlin
schamberlin@alligator.org
Christina Morales, cmorales@alligator.org
Sports Editor Morgan McMullen, mmcmullen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdreilinger@alligator.org
Online Sports Editor Mark Stine, mstine@alligator.org
Editorial Board Meryl Kornfield, Paige Fry, 
Romy Ellenbogen, Stephan Chamberlin
Multimedia Editor Mackenzie Behm, mbehm@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Emma Witmer, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk ChiefsNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Desk Editors
Amanda Rosa, arosa@alligator.org
Paige Arneson, Matthew Arrojas, 
Mikayla Carroll, Sabrina Conza,
Advertising Office Manager Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Alejandro D'Agostino,
Natalia Martinez Parra, 
Bismarie Plasencia, Emily Perpich, 
Mayla Garcia Herrera, 
Natasha Colon Hernandez
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager
Advertising Production Staff
Editorial Production Staff Antonina Gerus, Dominic GoldbergADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
T aylor BarkerAdvertising Director Shaun O'Connor, sconnor@alligator.org352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556DISPLAY ADVERTISINGCopy Editors
Hanna Gibson, Samantha Marshall,
Federico Pohls, April Rubin,
Juan SalgueroLokela Blanc, Sarah Breske,Madison Forbis, Lourdes Hernandez, 
Marlowe StarlingMONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   3
BURGER 
NIGHT
$3.99 BURGERS
(1/2 LB. ANGUS BEEF) 5PM- CLOSE
$5.99 PITCHERSMONDAY NIGHTS
3501 SW 2nd Ave. • 352-505-3595In the Creekside Mall Plaza
BURGER 
$3.99 BURGERS
Practice Limited Exclusively To
Admitted only to the Bars of New York State and Ontario, CanadaImmigration & Nationality Law
Law Offices of G. Joe D’Amata, LLC
Permanent Resident Status •   Nonimmigrant Work Visas 
(H-1B, L, O, P) •  Family, Marriage & Fiancé  Visas • Labor 
Certification • EB-1 and NIW Petitions • Naturalization 
2630 NW 41st Street, Unit D-2, Gainesville, FL 32606
www.damatalaw.com
Call today at 352-672-0153Attorney At Law 
AUTO 
COLLISION 
EXPERTS
Student Discount Provided • Certified Technicians352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road   gt-motorcars.net
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Jeffrey Hiter, 33, ﬁ  nishes ﬁ  rst at the Cupcake Race of Gainesville Sunday in Depot Park 
with the help of a volunteer. He didn’t let Angelman Syndrome, a genetic disorder, stop 
him. “He loves to get out and do things, ” his mother Cindy Hiter said.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Five-year-old Helious Ptschelinzew smiles as a volunteer for the Cupcake Race 
of Gainesville gives him a medal Sunday for finishing the 5K. The race was 
broken into a 5K, 10K and a half-marathon.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Melody Wang, a 26-year-old engineer at Afﬁ  liated Engineers, approaches the ﬁ  nish 
line Sunday at the Cupcake Race of Gainesville in Depot Park. More than 700 people 
registered to race, and all proceeds will be donated to the Emory ALS Center.
Will run for cupcakes4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections 
wrote in an email. The county’s ofﬁ  cial elec-
tion results were certiﬁ  ed and sent to the 
state Saturday night. These results include 
15 votes for Scott and 36 for Nelson in the 
manual recount. 
Democrat Nikki Fried will become Flor-
ida’s next agricultural commissioner af-
ter beating her Republican opponent Matt 
Caldwell by 6,753 votes, according to the 
Miami Herald. Pyche said 10 votes went to 
Fried and 21 went to Caldwell after the coun-
ty’s manual recount. 
A canvassing board composed of the Su-
pervisor of Elections, a county court judge 
and the chair of the county’s board of com-
missioners or a commissioner in Alachua, 
determines a voter’s intent by hand in a pub-
lic manual recount, the Tampa Bay Times 
reported.  
A majority of the ballots in a manual re-
count comes from overvotes and undervotes, 
Pyche said. An overvote is when a voter 
marks two candidates rather than one for a 
position in a speciﬁ  ed race, and an under-
vote is when a voter leaves a race blank on 
the ballot, according to the Miami Herald. A machine recount in Alachua County 
shifted .01 percent of the county’s votes in 
the races for Florida governor, U.S. senator 
and agriculture commissioner Monday. Al-
though the machine recount was estimated 
to take two days, it took less than 20 hours.
Scott will be sworn into the U.S. Senate 
in January and Ron DeSantis will be taking 
Scott’s former seat as Florida’s next gover-
nor. 
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.orgRECOUNT,  from pg. 1 Nelson, Gillum conceded. 
Tony Jones 
approved  
the permit 
for the event 
even though 
the venue 
owner, event 
promoter  
and artist 
were involved in a concert 
during which ﬁ  ve people were 
shot in 2006. 
Matt Goeckel, the union 
spokesperson, said the union 
doesn’t like to butt heads with 
the city or department but will 
send letters if necessary. 
“We’re writing it because 
our members were in danger 
and that’s the union’s purpose 
— to help protect our ofﬁ  cers,” 
he said.  
The concert was under-
staffed because of the Florida-
Missouri football game. Only 
ﬁ  ve police ofﬁ  cers covered the 
concert, Goeckel said. 
The event was scheduled to 
end at 1 a.m. but continued for 
another 30 minutes, Goeckel 
said. Hundreds of residents 
ﬁ  led noise complaints.
The venue didn’t have a 
permit to sell alcohol and ofﬁ  -
cers didn’t know security hired 
for the event had been armed, 
Goeckel said. 
Gainesville Police spokes-
person Lt. Jorge Campos said 
the letter was inﬂ  ammatory and that the department does 
not agree with the union’s po-
sition. 
“We did plan for it,” Cam-
pos said. “We did do our due 
diligence to have stafﬁ  ng to ad-
dress the issue.”
The chief originally denied 
the event permit because he 
thought it was submitted late, 
Campos said. Jones approved 
the event when he learned 
the permit met all the require-
ments. 
Campos said there is no city 
ordinance that prevents some-
one from hosting an event if 
past events resulted in gun vio-
lence. 
“It would not have been 
different if any other citizen 
called us,” Campos said. 
The department didn’t have 
reason to believe gun violence 
would occur during the con-
cert, Campos said. 
Jones and Maresca are 
scheduled to meet next week 
to discuss the issue, Goeckel 
said. 
“The chief said the event 
was a success,”  Goeckel said. 
“No matter how smoothly the 
rest of the event goes, if some-
one gets hurt on our watch, to 
us, it’s a failure.”
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.orgGPD,  from pg. 1GPD disagreed with letter
Smith
Machine recount results for 
Alachua County 
United States Senator
Undervotes: 779 
Overvotes: 19
Commissioner of Agriculture
Undervotes: 3,754 
Overvotes: 9
““This was a colossal failure. Failure to prepare, plan 
and keep the citizens and your oicers safe.”
Michael Maresca
President of the Gainesville Fraternal Order of PoliceAP File Photo
A Republican observer looks at a ballot during a hand recount at the Broward 
County Supervisor of Elections ofﬁ  ce in Lauderhill, Florida on Friday.
Chris Houston / Alligator Staff
Volunteer Drew McCullough, 18, laughs as she watches a child ﬁ  sh for prizes during Sunday’s “Hey, Neighbor!” 
carnival held at Magnolia Parke Square. McCullough, a UF sociology freshman, was recently diagnosed with 
Type 1 diabetes and received support from the UF Diabetes Institute, which helped host the carnival. 
MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE 
ATTENDED THE CARNIVAL. 
By Lina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing writer
Spencer Torres giggled as a carni-
val worker tied a teal blindfold over 
his eyes Sunday afternoon. 
The 5-year-old wasn’t playing pin 
the tail on the donkey, he was play-
ing pin the pump on the person. He 
gripped a velcro insulin pump and 
waddled toward an outline of a person 
during the ﬁ  rst annual “Hey Neigh-
bor!” carnival at Magnolia Parke. 
Torres and his family joined about 
1,000 people at the carnival, which 
was hosted by the UF Diabetes Insti-
tute and the UF chapter of the College 
Diabetes Network, to celebrate Na-tional Diabetes Awareness Month. The 
free event included bounce houses, 
live music and food trucks.
Despite Torres’ perfect aim, the 
game wasn’t his favorite part of the 
day. 
“My favorite part was to get this 
blue balloon,” Torres said. 
The institute raised more than 
$1,000 throughout November to host 
the carnival, said Gina Aulisio, the in-
stitute’s operations and engagement 
coordinator. The carnival was spon-
sored by Novo Nordisk, Suwannee 
American Cement, Taste Pho & Noo-
dle House and One Love Cafe. 
Aulisio said her mother was diag-
nosed with Type 1 diabetes a decade 
ago. She said her mother’s experience 
inﬂ  uenced her work with diabetes re-
search.
“I wouldn’t be doing this if it weren’t for my mom,” she said.
Sam Huber, a 20-year-old UF inter-
national studies sophomore, hosted a 
game for kids to guess the number of 
carbs in foods like a Chick-ﬁ  l-A sand-
wich. 
Huber was diagnosed with Type 1 
diabetes when he was 3 and said the 
disease is always in the back of his 
mind.
“It’s the ﬁ  rst thing you think about 
in the morning,” he said. “Roll out of 
bed — check your blood sugar.”  
Huber was excited to see kids ask-
ing questions. The carnival helped 
curb misinformation about Type 1 and 
Type 2 diabetes, he said. 
“For events like this, even if it 
teaches like one person more about 
what this disease is really like, I think 
it’s amazing,” Huber said. First ‘Hey Neighbor!’ carnival raises 
awareness of diabetesMONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   5 
AN ESTIMATED 8,000 DISPLACED 
GREYHOUNDS WILL NEED 
HOMES IN THE NEXT TWO YEARS.
By Chrissy Voltoline
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rescue shelters and organizations in Ala-
chua County are preparing to accommodate 
about 8,000 displaced greyhounds over the 
next two years.
Amendment 13, which bans dog racing, 
passed by slightly more than 69 percent in the 
November midterm election. Florida is home 
to 11 dog tracks out of only 17 in the U.S., 
according to WBUR, a National Public Radio 
station in Boston.
The Alachua County Humane Society 
will open its doors for future displaced grey-hounds, said Danielle Cummings, the devel-
opment coordinator at the Alachua County 
Humane Society.
The humane society has had no immedi-
ate impact from the passing of Amendment 
13, Cummings said. She is confident that re-
linquished greyhounds will find support from 
more than just Florida organizations and shel-
ters.
“I think this is going to be a nationwide 
effort,” she said. “I think rescues outside of 
Florida are ready to take in these dogs. It’s not 
going to come as a surprise.”
Shelters and organizations will have time 
to prepare because dog tracks will begin clos-
ing by the end of 2020, she said.
Rita Phillips, the president of the 
Gainesville Greyhound Pets of America, said 
animal rights groups spent a lot of money 
spreading incorrect information about grey-hound racing before the election to get Florid-
ians to ban it.
The media used fabricated stories about 
the practice, like paw-pad cutting and forcing 
greyhounds to ingest kerosene to make them 
run faster, Phillips said.
“The issue was you had a lot of people 
in Florida and 99 percent of people had no 
knowledge of greyhounds and racing,” she 
said. “So they voted on feelings and the mes-
sage they heard the most, which were the ani-
mal rights groups.”
Passing the amendment now forces her 
organization to be responsible for finding 
homes for the greyhounds, she said.
Phillips said she is hopeful to receive help 
from around the country to help the displaced 
dogs, but if the government doesn’t help, her 
organization will pay a high cost for transpor-
tation, care and food.The same groups who spent money to get 
the amendment passed have now left Florida 
and have offered no money to help with find-
ing new homes for the dogs, she said.
“It is my personal opinion that this was not 
a good amendment to pass,” she said. “Eight 
thousand greyhounds will be displaced; 3,000 
Floridians will lose their jobs.”Alachua County pet rescues prepare for aftermath of dog racing ban
THE PROJECT IS FUNDED 
BY A $10 MILLION 
DONATION.
By McKenna Beery
Alligator Staff Writer
Researchers working on UF’s $10 
million project want to know if you 
think the future of Florida is impor-
tant.
The UF Thompson Institute for Earth Systems will promote research 
aimed to improve the quality of 
air, water and land, particularly in 
Florida, said Bruce MacFadden, the 
institute’s director. The program was 
announced in October. 
“I think that all Floridians should 
understand it is important for us to 
do what we can to preserve and un-
derstand the future of our state and 
its environments and natural beau-
ty,” he said.
More than 50 UF departments and units on campus are collabo-
rating on the research, MacFadden 
said. The program aims to inform 
Florida teachers, schoolchildren and 
UF non-science majors about the 
university’s research on earth sys-
tems.
“They will better understand how 
they can make Florida better in the 
future in terms of its environment 
and natural beauty,” he said.
The initiative is funded by a $10 
million gift from UF alumni Jon and Beverly Thompson, MacFadden said. 
Three faculty fellows from differ-
ent UF colleges were selected to offer 
advice and participate in activities 
and outreach events, MacFadden 
said. 
The three fellows are Pasha An-
tonenko from the College of Educa-
tion, Andrea Lucky from the depart-
ment of entomology and nematology 
and Andrea Dutton, an assistant pro-
fessor in the department of geologi-
cal sciences.Dutton said she hopes the insti-
tute will teach people about how the 
natural world works, especially con-
sidering how red tide and rising sea 
levels affect Floridians.  
“While I love my research, I 
truly believe that my job is not com-
plete unless I am able to convey my 
knowledge — not just to my scien-
tific peers, but also to the general 
public,” she said.
@mckennabeery
mbeery@alligator.orgUF creates new institute to promote environmental research in FloridaGreyhounds by the numbers:
- Florida has 11 of 17 dog tracks in the U.S.
- About 8,000 greyhounds will need homes in 
the next two years.
- Greyhounds can reach a maximum speed of 
45 mph, according to Psychology T oday.
- The approval of Amendment 13 could end 
3,000 jobs.HIS BOND IS STILL NOT SET.  
By Alyssa Ramos
Alligator Staff Writer
A man accused of killing his wife and teen-
age daughter was arrested Friday morning, 
deputies said. 
Paul Graves Williams, 61, of Gainesville, 
was arrested about seven hours after deputies 
found the bodies of his wife and daughter in-
side their Garrison Way home on Southwest 
75th Street, according to an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office press release. 
Williams’ wife and daughter, 57-year-old 
Leslie Williams and 15-year-old Paige Williams, 
appeared to have died from stab wounds, said 
Lt. Brandon Kutner during a press conference. 
The medical examiners’ office and forensics team are investigating the 
exact cause of death and 
weapon. The time of death 
is unknown.
Paige Williams was a 
student at Buchholz High 
School, Kutner said. The in-
vestigation is ongoing.
Leslie Williams worked 
at Stephen Foster Elementary School. Staff 
became concerned when she didn’t come to 
work and tried calling her in the morning, said 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office spokesperson 
Lt. Brett Rhodenizer during the press confer-
ence. School employees eventually spoke with 
Paul Williams on the phone who told them to 
check on his wife. 
Paul Williams was not home when depu-
ties arrived, Rhodenizer said. After law enforcement released his name 
and photograph to the public, Paul Williams 
drove back to the home at about 2:40 p.m., 
Rhodenizer said. Deputies arrested him and 
began interviewing him.
Deputies were never called to the home for 
a domestic incident, Rhodenizer said. How-
ever, public records show the the family had a 
history of financial issues. 
A mortgage company claimed the family owed $301,531 in a 2009 lawsuit until the case 
was dismissed, according to public records. In 
2014, the Village Property Owners’ Association 
in St. Lucie County sued the couple for more 
than $12,000 in unpaid assessments and other 
costs for a $330,000 four-bedroom home in 
Fort Pierce, according to court records.
Paul Williams was booked into the Alachua 
County Jail Sunday and will be charged with 
two counts of homicide, Rhodenizer told The 
Alligator. His bail has not been posted.
This is the second homicide in Gainesville 
in two weeks. Deputies are also investigating 
the murder of 62-year-old Joseph Green, who 
died from a gunshot wound Nov. 10.
@LysKRamos
aramos@alligator.org Gainesville man accused of murdering wife and daughter  
By Adrianna Santiago
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Frankenstein, smallpox and Kev-
in Spacey have something in com-
mon. UF honors students are prepar-
ing an exhibit about monsters, and 
all three are on display.
The UF Honors Program offered 
What Makes A Monster, a class 
taught by undergraduate students, 
for the first time this Fall semester, 
said Nina Stoyan-Rosenzweig, a se-
nior associate for the UF Health Sci-
ence Center Libraries. The students’ 
work will be featured in an exhibit 
called “Monsters and the Mon-
strous” at the Harn Museum of Art in late January.
The exhibit will feature about 12 
works that showcase how monstros-
ity defines morality, Stoyan-Rosenz-
weig said.
“If you don’t conform to moral 
standards then you’re considered a 
monster,” she said.
Mary Johnson, a 21-year-old UF 
English and history senior, is one of 
the course’s four student lecturers.
Johnson said society’s idea of a 
monster changes over time. The ex-
hibit includes photographs ranging 
from Dracula to Kevin Spacey, who 
is now considered a “monster” after 
he was accused of sexual assault. 
The course explores why humans are interested in monsters, Johnson 
said.
“We are trying to broaden the 
definition of a monster away from 
just a monster like the minotaur or 
the monster in the Labyrinth,” she 
said.
UF introduced the course in cel-
ebration of the 200th anniversary of 
Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, Stoyan-
Rosenzweig said. 
The one-credit course is only 
available to undergraduate honors 
students, Stoyan-Rosenzweig said. 
She designed the course to give stu-
dents the opportunity to teach and 
have their work displayed to a larger 
audience. “One thing that bothers me is 
when students put a lot of effort into 
a paper or a project and no one really 
sees it,” she said. 
Students took a tour of the Harn 
to choose which art pieces and pho-
tographs they would analyze for the 
exhibit, Johnson said. 
The tour allowed the students to 
discuss their ideas and get comfort-
able working with museum curators, 
she said.
“It was the first point that we re-
ally got to see our exhibit come to-
gether with their personal touches, 
which is exactly what we wanted,” 
Johnson said. 
Olivia Trumble, a 20-year-old UF 
anthropology and biology junior, 
taught the class with Johnson. Al-though writing the syllabus ended 
up being harder than she thought, 
she said she enjoyed being able to 
connect with students and help them 
think of monsters from different per-
spectives.
“It’s an incredible feeling being 
able to help them with their projects 
and see them make it their own,” 
Trumble said.What makes a monster? New UF class opening exhibit in JanuaryPaul Williams
 Paige Williams
 Leslie Williams
-Dracula
-Smallpox
-Kevin Spacey
-Sexist female 
stereotypes
-Nazi generals-A flesh-eating 
demon
-A photograph 
of Maoist China
-FrankensteinThe class is taught by UF honors students.
The “monsters” that will be on 
display include:The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/opinions
Meryl
Kornfield
EDITORRomy
Ellenbogen
MANAGING
EDITORPaige
Fry
MANAGING
EDITORStephan
Chamberlin
OPINIONS
EDITORThanksgiving is more than just a time to engorge ourselves 
alongside our families, whether nuclear or extended. 
We like to think that going around the table to share 
our reasons for thankfulness is an important part of the 
holiday too. Recognizing that we could not possibly all 
enjoy the privileged, cushy lives that we live without help from 
something or someone is important. Whether it’s our cell phone 
coverage, health care, tuition, housing, education or jobs, most 
students get substantial help and advice from parents, families, 
donors, good bosses or professors. While we live comfortably 
for the most part, we should highlight the places where giving 
is still needed — where on Thanksgiving, some will be worried 
about tuition, food or even shelter when they could be enjoying 
the company of loved ones. We applaud those who go out of 
their way to help the needy during this holiday season of gen-
erosity and thanks.
We don’t expect our wonderful professors to work for free, 
so we thank not only them but the people who make teach-
ing and learning possible. Many students would not be able 
to attend UF if not for the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship, 
which was extended this year to provide full tuition for students 
receiving the top level of aid. We can all agree that more money 
toward our education, and occasionally in our pocket, is some-
thing to be added to the list of things we are thankful for, if not 
only to remind us that Florida Gov. Rick Scott did manage to do 
some good while in ofﬁ  ce. Given the left-leaning way the 18-29 
year-old demographic voted in the last election, it’s something 
worth remembering.
We are thankful, too, for the scholarships that our university 
and the UF community offer us. One recent example was the 
parents of UF Student Body President Ian Green, who donated 
$100,000 to fund scholarships for students. Without the contri-
butions of private donors like Green’s parents, and the rest of 
the contributions to the UF Foundation, we could not have UF 
as we know it because only a measly 18 percent of UF’s fund-
ing comes from the state alone. Private donors help attract and 
retain the aforementioned professors who we love so dearly.
We are thankful for the Field and Fork pantry. On this holi-
day of plenty with students returning home to feasts of turkey, 
it’s also worth remembering that nearly half of U.S. college stu-
dents experience food insecurity. About 60 percent of those ex-
periencing food insecurity also experience housing insecurity, 
according to the American Association of Colleges and Universi-
ties. We are grateful to Field and Fork Pantry for helping feed 
our fellow students in need, who may even be more worried 
about keeping a roof over their head.
In that same vein, we are thankful for the Long Foundation, 
which helped feed the Gainesville community by donating more 
than 188,000 pounds of food Thursday. Whether big or small, 
the act of donating or lending a hand is always appreciated.
One small way you can lend a hand to those most in need 
is to donate your new or gently used jackets, blankets or warm 
clothing to a coat drive at the Grace Marketplace, at 3055 NE 
28th Drive, between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. The drive ends Dec. 12. 
As we remember who we are thankful for, from professors 
to donors or friends and family, we are called on to give thanks 
by paying that kindness forward, whether by teaching, sharing 
food or donating a warm blanket. Thanksgiving is not just about 
sitting around the table saying thanks, even less so than it is 
about turkey or yams. We can all do the holiday justice not just 
by saying thanks but by going out and truly giving it.Be thankful: No one 
can do it on their own
Column
It’s been about a week and a half since Election 
Day, but that’s not I expected you to remem-
ber. Multiple recounts in Florida and around 
the nation have dragged out the elections. In 
the Florida governor’s race, Democratic can-
didate Andrew Gillum initially conceded the race 
to Republican Ron DeSantis but took back his 
concession after late-counted ballots narrowed the 
gap between the two candidates to 33,000 votes. 
Gillum re-conceded Saturday, after a machine re-
count (machine recounts are required under Flor-
ida law if the vote margin is below 0.5 percent) decided the 
election for DeSantis, with the ﬁ  nal margin being above the 
0.25 percent threshold for a manual recount. However, the 
races for Senator (between Democrat Bill Nelson and Repub-
lican Rick Scott) and Florida Agriculture Commissioner (be-
tween Democrat Nikki Fried and Republican Matt Caldwell) 
did fall under the 0.25 percent margin, triggering the ﬁ  rst 
statewide manual recount in Florida history. Nelson has re-
portedly conceded after the recount gave Scott a 10,000 vote 
lead, while Fried seems all but certain to win with a 6,000 
vote lead. This is despite the recount in Broward County go-
ing less than smoothly, with more than 2,000 missing ballots 
amid President Donald Trump’s claims that Democrats are 
trying to steal the election in Broward.
These recounts are necessary. First, as mentioned before, 
recounts are mandated under the law in extremely close 
races. But beyond the legal aspect, recounts are needed to 
ensure accurate and fair elections. The idea is that when elec-
tions are this close, a recount is needed to ensure all votes 
were counted correctly, as even small numbers of incorrectly 
counted votes can make a big difference. Recounts give peo-
ple comfort and assurance that, even though the election was 
close, all votes were counted fairly and the ﬁ  nal margin is the 
most accurate one. And those who fear recounts can be used 
to swing election results can rest easy: Historically, recounts 
rarely change the election outcome.
Still, it seems Florida is more frequently involved in such 
election controversies and is more often the butt of voting-
related jokes. Florida’s reputation for election troubles largely stems from the presidential election of 2000, when 
due to a confusing ballot design, recounts went on 
for 36 days until the Supreme Court ordered a halt 
to the recounts and declared Florida, and the elec-
tion, for Republican George W. Bush. And even 
as far back as 1876, Florida was one of the states 
with electoral votes in dispute (along with Louisi-
ana and South Carolina) in that year’s presidential 
election. This begs the question: Why? Why does 
Florida so often have close and recount-worthy 
elections? One theory, put forward by Democratic 
strategist Steve Schale, is that Florida lacks an identity of its 
own: People move here from all over the country, bringing 
their political afﬁ  liations with them, leading to close elec-
tions. University of South Florida political science professor 
Susan McManus emphasized the role of interstate highways 
in shaping Florida’s political divides, with people from the 
northeast U.S. coming to Florida on Interstate 95 and set-
tling in southeast Florida, while people from Pennsylvania 
and the Midwest come via Interstate 75 and settle on the 
west coast of Florida. Meanwhile, Republican consultant Ron 
Pierce suggests the contrast between young people coming to 
Florida for work and older people coming to Florida to retire 
drives the state’s political division.
So, based on history and demographics, plus the increas-
ing polarization that is occurring nationwide, it looks like 
Florida is destined for close elections for the foreseeable 
future. Despite having a Republican state legislature and a 
Republican governor, these close election results show Flor-
ida remains a purple state that is hotly contested on both a 
statewide and nationwide basis. Through all this, the best we 
can do is hold our public ofﬁ  cials accountable to ensure the 
process is conducted fairly, while also ensuring our fears are 
rational and not grounded in conspiracy theories and misin-
formation. In that way, we may continue having close elec-
tions and recounts, but at least we can rest easy knowing the 
results at the end of the process are accurate.
Jason Zappulla is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.Election recounts are painstaking but necessary
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Jason Zappulla
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018    ALLIGATOR   7
While there are niche 
audiences who ap-
preciate a good musi-
cal, I wouldn’t con-
sider musicals the 
most popular genre of our time. 
Frankly, movies with a heavy 
emphasis on music at all are of-
ten questioned and even looked 
down upon. Sure, I understand 
that characters spontaneously 
breaking out into song and dance may not 
be everyone’s cup of tea. It’s hard to sus-
pend disbelief sometimes. But I think we 
are forgetting that music has a place in all 
ﬁ  lms, and it’s a difﬁ  cult task to ﬁ  nd the 
right sounds to ﬁ  t the bill.
When we watch a ﬁ  lm, our primary fo-
cus usually isn’t on the music. We tend to 
give our full attention to the dialogue and 
the action because we think those are the 
tenets of the ﬁ  lm that are the most impor-
tant. It’s true, if we aren’t attentive to the 
dialogue, we probably won’t understand 
much of the ﬁ  lm at all. However, the more 
subtle aspects of ﬁ  lm — the music, the set 
design, the costume design, et cetera — of-
ten paint a far more complex picture than 
we think. 
The music in any ﬁ  lm gives emotion to 
each scene. Music supervisors and compos-
ers work tirelessly to make sure each note 
makes sense. When there’s tension, the 
music indicates that. When the characters 
are feeling joyous or guilty or afraid, the 
music tells us that. Whether there are lyrics 
or not, whether it’s popular music or music 
created speciﬁ  cally for the ﬁ  lm, all music is 
important. Think about it: Films are rarely 
ever silent. And when they are, that means 
something too. 
It’s not easy to ﬁ  nd and/or create music 
that suits the tone of a ﬁ  lm. When you’re 
watching a ﬁ  lm, the music should draw you 
in rather than distance you from the story. 
Take a ﬁ  lm like “Black Panther” or “Bohe-mian Rhapsody,” for example. 
The “Black Panther” soundtrack 
is essentially an entire Kendrick 
Lamar album. Done wrong, the 
choice of such popular music 
could have been jarring to the 
viewer. It could’ve completely 
shattered the altered reality that 
director Ryan Coogler crafted. It 
didn’t, though. It enhanced each 
scene and made each more im-
pactful, and that’s entirely due to how it 
was situated in the ﬁ  lm and how it played 
off of other elements of the story. 
Similarly, “Bohemian Rhapsody” is ﬁ  lled 
with some of the most well-known songs in 
history. Of course, the ﬁ  lm is about Queen, 
so this music is necessary. The music super-
visor still must place each song in the ﬁ  lm 
in a way that is historically accurate and 
that also enhances the story in some way. 
You can’t make a movie about Queen with-
out hits like “Bohemian Rhapsody,” “An-
other One Bites the Dust” or “We Will Rock 
You.” You can, however, make a movie 
about Queen that doesn’t properly use these 
songs to tell Freddie Mercury’s story. 
Not all ﬁ  lms have such obvious and strik-
ing music in them. Like I said, all ﬁ  lms have 
some sort of music, even if it’s just a score. 
Still, it’s integral to the ﬁ  lm. Every ﬁ  lm that 
is in theaters or coming soon, from “Hal-
loween” to “Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes 
of Grindelwald” to “Creed II,” needs some 
element of music in order to succeed. It’s 
hard to realize when you see a ﬁ  lm for the 
ﬁ  rst time because you’re focused on getting 
the story straight. Go back and watch one of 
your favorite ﬁ  lms through, and it’s much 
easier to focus on smaller elements like the 
music and understand how they play with 
your emotions and help the movie pack the 
punch that it does. 
Katherine Campione is a UF journalism se-
nior. Her column normally appears on Fridays.Listen closely: appreciate ﬁ  lm scores
The second chorus of “We 
Are the Boys from Old 
Florida,” the song sang 
at the end of every third 
quarter, contains the line 
that everybody knows and loves: 
“In all kinds of weather, we’ll all 
stick together.” This line is a sta-
ple in UF households, so it’s easy 
to take for granted, I suppose. Re-
cently, The Swamp has become 
a hostile environment, and I don’t mean 
toward other teams. Actual Florida fans 
have begun to boo our quarterback, Feleipe 
Franks. While some plays may not transpire 
the way we envisioned, we do not, as stu-
dents, fans, classmates and decent human 
beings, have the right to belittle someone as 
a person. 
It’s easy being an armchair quarterback. 
Judging the way certain plays were handled 
is acceptable, but it’s important to keep in 
mind that being on the ﬁ  eld with thousands 
of eyes on you is stressful, and mistakes can 
be made under pressure. It’s OK to make 
critiques or acknowledge mistakes. Even I 
make critiques, and I’m not a major foot-
ball fan. But critiques are not jokes. Rooting 
against a member of the team whose school 
you attend certainly is not a joke. It’s mean.
Swampy UF Memes for Top Ten Public 
Teens, the UF meme page on Facebook, has 
been laden with anti-Franks jokes as of late. 
I even saw someone post recently “Not My 
Quarterback.” As bystanders, this may seem 
to be a lighthearted quip. However, being 
the butt of relentless jokes cannot be fun.  
I saw some pushback on Facebook 
with people claiming they did not appreci-
ate Franks hushing the crowd. Maybe, in-
stead of thinking about how getting hushed 
makes you feel, consider thinking about 
how booing the quarterback of your own 
team makes him feel. Personally, I believe 
Franks has every right to hush hecklers from 
his own school. Booing the opposing team is rude enough, but your own 
team? Come on! It’s supposed to 
be great to be a Florida Gator.
At times the football team 
seems distant, almost as if the 
team is a separate entity from the 
university. The players seem like 
celebrities, or at least they did 
when I was little and would come 
all the way to The Swamp from 
Tampa. I now realize that they’re 
just people, just classmates. In fact, I’ve had 
multiple classes with gymnasts, and base-
ball and football players. Imagine coming 
to class Monday knowing that some of your 
classmates were booing you Saturday. Ath-
letes are not emotionless robots who ignore 
harassment, they’re just fellow classmates 
who are far better at sports than the rest of 
us. 
Coming to class every morning knowing 
that fellow students root against you would 
cause a feeling of displacement. UF is sup-
posed to feel like a home to everyone — not 
just the Tim Tebows of the world. One can-
not only cheer on the team members whom 
they prefer — school spirit encompasses ev-
eryone, hence the term school spirit. 
As I said before, it’s easy to take for 
granted that in all kinds of weather we’ll 
all stick together. We’ll ALL stick together. 
Not just some of us, and we deﬁ  nitely won’t 
band against each other. Maybe next time 
we sing “We Are the Boys from Old Flor-
ida” at the end of the third quarter, right 
before we pay homage to Gainesville’s own 
Tom Petty, we should pay more attention to 
the lyrics. Speaking of Petty, some schools 
have decided that their band has the right 
to play over the third quarter Petty tribute, 
as the stadium sings along to “I Won’t Back 
Down.” The utter disrespect! Now, that’s a 
topic for next week. 
Hannah Whitaker is a UF English 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.Stop being mean to Feleipe Franks
On Tuesday, e-cigarette company 
Juul Labs announced that it will 
stop all store orders for their man-
go, cucumber, fruit and creme 
Juul pods. These fruity ﬂ  avors are 
popular among the younger crowd, and we 
all probably know someone who teared up 
when they found out their favorite ﬂ  avor 
won’t be sold in stores anymore. If you are 
one of the teary-eyed just mentioned, here 
is a list of four things you can do now that 
you’ve quit Juuling because Juul stopped 
selling your ﬂ  avor of choice:
1. Eat an actual mango, cucumber or 
fruit medley.
Now that you won’t be getting your daily 
recommended serving of fruit from an e-cig-
arette that looks like a ﬂ  ash drive, it may be 
time to indulge in some of nature’s sweet-
est gifts. This may come as a shock, but real 
fruit does not taste the same as the Juul ﬂ  a-
voring. If you’ve been Juuling so long you 
forgot what a real mango tastes like, this 
ﬂ  avor discontinuation is your saving grace. 
Without nicotine’s side effect of suppressed 
hunger, you might actually want to eat now. 
Also with all the money saved from not buy-
ing pods, you can ﬁ  nally afford the glamor-
ous, pre-cut fruit from the grocery store. 2. Save money.
With the local price for a pack 
of Juul pods being about $15, Juul-
ing is an expensive habit. Depend-
ing on your vape god status, you 
might ﬁ  nd yourself with some ex-
tra cash. Who knows what can be 
done with all that money saved. 
Put a down payment on a house, 
go on a cruise, buy a ticket to 
Coachella, but, please dear God, do not cave in 
and buy that tobacco ﬂ  avor pack of Juul pods. 
3. Stop shaking. 
That nicotine rush can be quite effective on the body. Now that you don’t 
Juul, you can ﬁ  nally stop shaking. 
The days of jitteriness and irrita-
bility are behind you, and many 
more days of nicotine withdrawal 
are ahead. Without the nicotine to 
mess up your blood pressure and 
heart rate, you may also start to 
feel your toes again. Poor circula-
tion is not uncommon when most 
of what you inhale is vapor. 
4. Get work done at the library.
Studying at the library just got a lot more 
productive. No longer will you have to get up to “use the bathroom” when you are actually 
just using the restroom stall as your personal 
smoke lounge. If you are one of the brave souls 
who openly blows clouds in the middle of a 
study area, no longer will you feel the judg-
mental (possibly even jealous) eyes of those 
around you. Without the mango, cucumber or 
fruit ﬂ  avors to distract you, your grades may 
even skyrocket. But it’s safe to say, your stress 
levels will plummet from not having to worry 
if you are going to be kicked out of the library 
for taking a drag from the so-called “iPhone of 
vapes”. 
Jackie DeFreitas is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column normally appears on Fridays.Four things to do with your time after Juul restricts popular ﬂ  avors
Jackie DeFreitas
opinions@alligator.org
Hannah
Whitaker
opinions@alligator.org
Katherine
Campione
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
By Dana Cassidy
Alligator Staff Writer
Cracked windows and a bro-
ken air conditioner couldn’t ruin 
Nan Smith’s first day on the job. 
Inside an old army barrack, 
Smith taught her first ceramic 
sculptures class in August 1979. 
It was far from the 26-year-
old’s ideal place to teach but didn’t dampen her spirit. After 
all, she did turn down nine other 
teaching jobs just to be at UF. 
Forty years after stepping into 
her first classroom at UF across 
from University Avenue, Smith, 
now 66, is marking the end of her 
tenure on Dec. 31 as a professor 
at the College of the Arts. Smith 
said she’ll be focusing on her 
home studio art. “I’ve told 
my students to 
watch out for 
me because I’ve 
got a lot up my 
sleeve,” Smith 
said. 
Within four 
years of her ar-
rival on campus, Smith became 
a part of creating the curriculum for the UF ceramics program. 
She moved from a barrack to the 
ground level of Fine Arts Build-
ing C and revamped the facility’s 
amenities.
“I took the job because it al-
lowed me the opportunity to 
build something,” Smith said. “I 
had this notion that a visually 
gifted artist or creative person 
could build a new curriculum for 
the university.”
Through the course of Smith’s 
career, she’s taught ceramic 
sculpture, graduate seminars and 
wheel and hand throwing. She 
said she lent a hand in building 
the only ranked program in the 
UF College of the Arts. The ce-
ramic curriculum she said she 
helped build ranked in at both 
No. 14 and 15 by U.S. News & 
World Reports in the early 2000s.
She said she was also pub-
lished 35 times and has won 
multiple teaching awards. This 
includes the doctoral dissertation 
advisor and mentorship award in 
2016. Smith went on to be one of 
six to win the UF-wide award that 
year.
“Once I built the program and 
facility, I saw it grow into some-
thing really, really wonderful,” 
she said. “I wanted my students 
to get ahead, so I felt like I was 
training the next generation of 
students in the field of ceramics.”
Her love for art started when 
she took watercolor and oil paint-
ing classes with her neighbor as 
a child. As an undergraduate stu-dent at Temple University, Smith 
said she came in wanting to use 
her hands to paint, but when she 
took a wheel throwing and ce-
ramics class, her focus shifted. 
Inspired by her class, Smith went 
on to teach ceramics after she 
graduated with her bachelor’s de-
gree in fine arts in 1974 and her 
master’s degree — also in fine 
arts — from Ohio State University 
in 1977. Before she was hired by 
UF, Smith worked as a visiting 
instructor at the University of Il-
linois for two years.  
As a UF graduate student in 
2011, Rob Kolhouse said he took 
a ceramics course with Smith. 
She’s an honest teacher and she 
cares a lot about her students, he 
said. It was Smith who inspired 
Kolhouse to become an adjunct 
art professor; he has since taught 
at universities from Virginia to 
Arizona. 
Kolhouse has no doubts Smith 
will be successful in her studio 
work when she retires. He said 
she still has incredible amounts 
of energy to keep pursuing her 
passion even after 40 years as an 
educator.
“I’m hopeful that some point 
in my life I can be as impactful 
as Nan was to so many artists’ 
lives,” Kolhouse said.
This is not the end of an era 
for Smith. It’s only beginning of 
the second chapter of her career.
@danacassidy_
dcassidy@alligator.org‘The end of a chapter:’ UF art professor of 40 years to retire
Courtesy to The Alligator
UF art professor Nan Smith’s favorite creation is ‘Mercury’ , which symbolizes how toxic chemicals can 
impact people’s food sources by traveling up the food chain within seafood.
By Angela DiMichele
Alligator Staff Writer 
Kevin Masaro lifted his hand to glide a 
black Sharpie marker across a pair of jean 
shorts.  
He saves the spray paint for when he 
feels wild, he said. 
Drew Howard, 23, said he and Masaro, 
24, have dreamt about doing what they’re 
doing now for the last three years. The 
friends founded the clothing and art brand 
Always True in 2015 with simple screen-
printed T-shirts. 
Always True began as a way for Howard 
to remember his brother, Brandon Howard, 
who died six years ago and went by the 
stage name Always True.
“His passion and his mindset and his 
philosophy on what he really loved to do 
inspired me to just do what I wanted to do 
with my life,” Howard said.
Now, the pair is focused on expanding a 
pop-up shop tour around the country.
The 17-day long Gainesville pop-up shop 
Howard and Masaro hosted at Blank Slate 
art gallery ended Sunday, but they have 
plans to continue appearing at local art 
shows and music events. 
Always True will be at the Gainesville 
Downtown Festival & Art Show Dec. 1 and 
at a pop-up shop at Visionary Crossfit on 
Dec. 7, Masaro said.
The brand typically repurposes used clothing but will be releasing a larger col-
lection of hand-painted artwork on new 
pieces of clothing, Howard said. The col-
lection will be available online after Blank 
Slate’s pop-up ends. 
Howard said his favorite part has been 
the unpredictability of their everyday lives. 
Although the pair still works on half of a 
ping pong table in their basement, the brand 
has grown into a community, Masaro said. 
Instead of working in their home work-
shop, Howard and Masaro traveled to a 
basement space in the Lower East Side of 
Manhattan for two weeks in July. Local mu-
sicians and artists came and went as they 
pleased.  
Masaro said Always True turned the 
once empty space into a favorite hangout 
spot. Rappers and hip-hop artists spontane-
ously hosted three to four nighttime shows 
at the basement pop-up. Masaro said the 
honest, original way they’ve attracted a fol-
lowing in the cities they travel to is exem-
plary of their brand. 
They plan to bring that same sense of 
community here in Gainesville with their 
pop-up events.
“We stay true, as cliche as that may 
sound, but we just stay true to ourselves 
and make our own moves. The right people 
come our way and the right things always 
go down,” Masaro said. 
@angdimi 
adimichele@alligator.org ‘We stay true’: Always True attracts a following wherever they go
Dominic Goldberg / Alligator Staff
Drew Howard, 23, holds a jacket from his brand Always True, which is named after 
his late brother’s rap name. He runs the company with 24-year-old Kevin Masaro.
Smith
She’ll be focusing fully on her studio art career.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   9 
Julia Tiplea
UF marine sciences junior
Age: 20
From: Las Vegas, moved to Park-
land
It was already a jarring week for 
Julia Tiplea after she saw the results 
from Tuesday’s midterm elections.
Her week grew worse when she woke up to the 
news of the Thousand Oaks shooting in California that 
killed 13 people.
Any gun violence deeply affects her life. She lost 
her friend Quinton Robbins in the Las Vegas shoot-ing, and then five months later, her brother hid from 
an active shooter in Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School.
“There’s no good way of talking about this without 
being emotional,” Tiplea, a member of the March for 
Our Lives Gainesville, said. “Gun violence is not a par-
tisan issue, it’s a human issue.”
Tiplea said it’s a common misconception to think 
she wants to infringe on the Second Amendment or 
take away guns. She said she wants to push for com-
mon sense gun reform. The most effective piece of leg-
islation would be thorough background checks.
“It’s not an issue of trying to take away guns,” she 
said. “It’s just an issue of trying to prevent bad people 
from getting guns.”
Victor Santos
UF advertising junior
Age: 22
From: Brazil, moved to West Palm 
Beach
Guns were only for cops and 
thieves in Brazil where Victor San-
tos grew up.
When Santos moved to the U.S. with his mom at 
age 12, he learned guns were a means to protect him-
self and his family.
Every individual should have the right to bear arms, 
including military grade weapons to be able to defend 
from the government, said Santos, the vice president of the conservative UF organization Young Americans 
for Freedom. Restricting law-abiding citizens by age 
wouldn’t be fair.
Examining the mental health of people with guns, 
having deeper background checks and addressing 
mental health at an early age are some long-term solu-
tions to the problem, Santos said.
The March for Our Lives movement has woken up 
many in America, but his problem with the movement 
is that it only drives short-term solutions.  
“Emotions are valid,” he said. “But you need to re-
move yourself from the emotional situation to be ana-
lytical to come up with a solution for both the short-
term and long-term.”Mary Anne 
Franks
University of 
Miami law 
professor
Age: 41
From: Arkan-
sas, moved to 
Miami
Mary Anne Franks thinks 
people are looking in the wrong 
place to find a solution to gun 
violence.
Franks said it starts with dis-
mantling the culture that makes 
male shooters deadly. The root 
of the problem comes from men 
who feel out of place or don’t 
get what they want and feel a need to control and resort to 
violence and rage.
She said men own more guns 
than women and the vast major-
ity of male shooters have a his-
tory of domestic violence.
“If we don’t confront that 
issue, we’re never going to get 
our hands on the gun violence 
issue,” Franks said.
Confronting the issue starts 
with raising children to feel 
comfortable with disappoint-
ments in life, she said. Working 
on this and background checks 
could help solve the problem.
“We could start tomorrow by 
making sure boys can accept re-
jection,” she said.
Leigh-Ann 
Buchanan
Venture Cafe 
Miami 
Age: 32
From: Canada, 
moved to 
Miami
Leigh-Ann Buchanan said 
there are opportunities for pol-
icy changes in gun safety and 
public safety.
Buchanan said she wants to 
review the “stand your ground” 
statutes, which she was in-volved with as the chairwoman 
of the American Bar Associa-
tion’s National Task Force on 
Stand Your Ground laws.
Clearer statutes would elimi-
nate confusion for law enforce-
ment in “stand your ground” 
investigations.
“I have a passion for safe 
communities and policy that 
focuses on valuing life and the 
ability for people to thrive,” she 
said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgUF students, Florida influencers discuss gun violence, control
Julia Tiplea
Leigh-Ann Buchanan
Mary Anne Franks
Victor Santos
EDUCATION WAS THE 
NO. 1 PRIORITY AT A 
FLORIDA INFLUENCERS 
SUMMIT IN MIAMI.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida public schools are feel-
ing the squeeze and asking taxpay-
ers to fork out more cash to im-
prove education.
The most important resource to 
improve education is more money, 
said Florida influencer Cindy Aren-
berg Seltzer at the Florida Priorities 
Summit in Miami on Wednesday. 
Arenberg Seltzer and a group of 
other influencers came up with 
suggestions on how to solve prob-
lems in Florida’s education system 
during a workshop session Tues-
day. 
Fixing the public education sys-
tem starts by making sure the state 
government funds it adequately 
and adds money from the lottery 
and other local sources as extra in-
come, Arenberg Seltzer said.
In Alachua County Public 
Schools, officials want to find more 
money to increase pay for teach-
ers, fix outdated facilities, provide additional school security and en-
hance mental health resources.
The county’s school system 
took the problem of its outdated 
facilities into its own hands and 
passed a half-cent sales tax initia-
tive in the 2018 midterm elections.
Revenue from the tax could 
bring in an extra $264 million over 
12 years to invest in upgrades to 
school facilities, which are gear-
ing up to start soon, said Alachua 
County Public Schools spokesper-
son Jackie Johnson. These include 
new classrooms and science labs, 
installing new furniture, light-
ing and flooring and overhauling 
school security.
Lawmakers in Tallahassee cut 
facilities funding to local schools 
by more than $168 million in the 
last 10 years.
More than 30 other counties in 
Florida have resorted to passing 
a sales tax to upgrade facilities, 
Johnson said.
But facilities are just a start. 
Johnson said the state isn’t provid-
ing enough funding for things law-
makers implemented like recent 
school safety laws.
“I think people need to elect 
people who are willing to invest 
in public education because we don’t have that right now,” John-
son said.
Alachua County schools also 
face the problem of a wide achieve-
ment gap between black and white 
students divided between the east 
and west — with mostly black 
eastside elementary school stu-
dents failing statewide exams and 
mostly white students passing ex-
ams in westside schools. 
Alachua County Public Schools 
has the largest achievement gap of 
the 67 counties in Florida.
The district revealed a plan in 
August to close the gap by tackling 
student achievement, advanced 
coursework, graduation rates, stu-
dent discipline and diversity of the 
workforce.
With three boys going to pub-
lic schools in East Gainesville, Ni-
cole Stewart, 47, said she feels the 
pinch in the equity gap. At Abra-
ham Lincoln Middle School, where 
her son used to attend, the school 
offers different hallways, newer 
computers and textbooks to its 
Lyceum magnet program, Stewart 
said.
The same resources are not giv-
en to students not in the program, 
said Stewart, a retired 15-year Mi-
ami-Dade County Public Schools teacher.
“There’s a very glaring differ-
ence, and people pretend not to 
see it,” she said. “How could they 
educate kids in one hallway dif-
ferent than another? There should 
be equality in the way we educate 
students.”
Madeline Pumariega, a Florida 
Priorities Summit speaker and 
chancellor of the Florida College 
System, said more can be done to 
close the gap, especially with a top 
eight public university and a local 
college in the neighborhood of Ala-
chua students.
Institutions could expand fund-
ing of dual enrollment courses to 
help future students save money 
and finish college faster to enter 
the workforce, Pumariega said. 
University officials can also have 
talks with superintendents to work 
together to offer programs and ser-
vices and educate students on col-
lege scholarships and Pell Grants.
“I think there’s a focus in mak-
ing sure that all students succeed 
and that every student achieves,” 
she said.
@Christina_M18
cmorales@alligator.orgFixing education is going to take more moneyClosing a wide achievement gap in 
Alachua County
• 29,500 students and more than 2,000 
employees in the district
• 23 elementary schools, 7 middle 
schools, 8 high schools
• More than 66 percent of the county’s 
students qualify for free or reduced lunch
Demographics
• 44 percent of students are white
• 34 percent are African American
• 10 percent are Hispanic
• 5 percent are Asian
2018 Florida Standard Assessment 
(FSA) results:
English Language Arts
• White students: No. 6 in Florida
• African American students: No. 46 in 
Florida
Math
• White students: No. 8 in Florida
• African American students: No. 55 in 
Florida
The district wants to narrow or close 
the gap in 10 years. Goals for the first 
year of the county’s equity plan:
• Gains in student achievement
• Participation in advanced courses
• Graduation rates and minority hiring
• Reductions in disproportionate disci-
pline for students of colorBy Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
Gun violence has continued to 
touch Florida backyards with re-
cent shootings in Tallahassee and 
Jacksonville.
In Miami on Tuesday, a search for solutions by a panel of Florida 
influencers echoed the concerns 
raised by UF students interviewed 
more than 300 miles away.
At the Florida Priorities Sum-
mit — a panel hosted by the Miami 
Herald, el Nuevo Herald and Bra-
denton Herald that had more than 25 influential Floridians discuss 
statewide issues — influencers 
brainstormed ways to slow the cy-
cle of gun violence. They discussed 
mental health, background checks 
and domestic violence.
Here’s how two UF students 
and two influencers view the issue.Influencers planned solutions to the gun problem to submit to future lawmakers. 
STUDENTS:INFLUENCERS:10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
MORE THAN 40 GRADUATE 
STUDENTS PROTESTED
 HEFTY STUDENT FEES.
By Gillian Sweeney
Alligator Staff Writer
Graduate students want the UF adminis-
tration to pay up.
Lugging a giant check up to the steps of 
Tigert Hall, more than 40 graduate assistants 
protested being required to pay fees despite 
being employees of the university. The stu-
dents from Graduate Assistants United rallied 
on Plaza of the Americas before marching to 
Tigert Friday afternoon.
The union advocates for the rights of grad-
uate students, said Roberto Munoz, a 36-year-
old paid assistant for the UF union.
Though tuition is waived for graduate as-
sistants, they’re still liable to pay about $700 
in fees each semester, said Munoz, a UF an-
thropology doctoral student.
“It’s not fair for graduate students to pay 
fees to work here,” Munoz said.
When Mandy Moore moved to Gainesville 
in August to attend graduate school, she spent her first month sleeping on an air mattress 
and grading English papers on a green yoga 
mat. Today, she has a bed, but she’s still do-
ing work on the mat.
The 24-year-old UF English doctoral stu-
dent said she finds it difficult to scrape to-
gether enough money to buy furniture for her 
apartment and pay for her rent, food and car 
insurance. Moore was charged about $750 in 
fees from UF this semester despite being an 
employee.
“It just really cuts out of my ability to save 
and to be financially stable,” Moore said.
University officials could provide graduate 
students an additional fee waiver to help rem-
edy the cost, said Mary Roca, co-president of 
Graduate Assistants United. Starting in Janu-
ary, graduate assistants received a $100 waiv-
er for the year that covers fees, but it wasn’t 
enough, she said.
“We’re here to show solidarity across our 
campus because this is an issue that unites 
graduate assistants and to point out the in-
justice of having to pay to work,” Roca, a 
28-year-old UF English doctoral student, said.
@gilliangsweeney
gsweeney@alligator.orgGraduate students demand 
reduced fees from UF
Aaron Ritter / Alligator Staff
Shaking a bottle of peanuts, Paula Fernandez, a 31-year-old UF teaching assistant, 
protests having to pay fees to UF even though she is employed by the university. 
Walking from the Plaza of Americas to Tigert Hall, Fernandez was one of more 
than 40 graduate assistants to protest Friday. “It’s not fair, ” Fernandez said. “Our 
work is the base of the university. ”
By Hannah Beatty
Alligator Staff Writer
A line of turkeys and hams weighed 
down several folding tables at the Alachua 
County Fairgrounds on Thursday. 
After months of preparation, a group of 
14 volunteers with The Long Foundation, 
a local nonprofit that focuses on homeless-
ness and hunger, finished preparing more 
than 1,000 baskets of food to be given out 
at noon to families in need.
Baskets were bursting at the seams 
with instant mashed potatoes, boxed stuff-
ing and long grain rice. Two men debated 
whether a hefty turkey was 20 pounds or 
25 pounds. One said lifting it was his exer-
cise for the day.
The Long Foundation has been organiz-
ing the weeklong food drive and Thanks-
giving basket giveaway for 10 years, said 
CEO and president Rodney Long. Food do-
nations came from individual donors and 
organizations like churches, sororities and 
fraternities. 
Thanksgiving had come a week early 
for 1,200 people, Long said. 
“For many of them, they’ll eat it be-
fore Thanksgiving,” he said. “For many of 
them, this is all they will have.”About 600 people pre-registered for 
basket vouchers before the event, but 
those who hadn’t registered were able to 
get a basket. This year, more than 200 vol-
unteers participated and 188,000 pounds 
of food were donated, Long said.
The food drive for local food pantries 
began 10 years ago to bring attention to 
community hunger, Long said. In 2011, 
he started the basket drive to give food di-
rectly to families. 
C. Ann Scott has been volunteering 
for the event for four years. She got in-
volved through her board membership on 
the Martin Luther King Jr. Commission of 
Florida, she said. 
This year, she made sure none of the 
canned goods were expired. 
“Some people clean out their closet and 
just throw everything in there,” Scott said. 
In the past 10 years that Long has been 
overseeing the event, he said there hasn’t 
been one type of person who takes a bas-
ket. The fundraiser aims to give back to 
anyone in the community from all walks 
of life. 
“Hunger doesn’t know a color,” Long 
said. 
@hannahbeatty_
hbeatty@alligator.orgAbout 188K pounds of food 
donated in Thanksgiving baskets
Hannah Beatty / Alligator Staff
More than 1,000 baskets wait to be distributed to Gainesville families during the 
Long Foundation’s annual Thanksgiving basket and food drive Thursday morning.
Palmetto 
Moon opens in 
Gainesville
Adam Stone, the CEO of 
Palmetto Moon, uses a 
pair of oversized scissors 
Friday to cut a ceremonial 
ribbon commemorating 
the Southern lifestyle 
retailer’s opening in 
Celebration Pointe. 
Standing alongside his 
employees, Stone was 
excited to open Palmetto 
Moon’s 22nd store. “We 
are one of the few retail 
success stories going on 
right now, ” Stone said.
Aaron Ritter / Alligator StaffBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
2nd Ave Centre. 1/1 in 2/2. Spring/Summer 
2019. Nice unit, lrg BR, full XL bed, walk in 
closet, private bath. Washer/Dryer. Lrg kitchen. 
Pool, weight room, close to campus. Utilities 
included. $804/month. Call 813-240-2373.       
1-18-18-15-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org.  or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-42-5
Designated drivers are the greatestGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
12-6-111-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-18-42-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-5-42-10
Better Grades in Half the Time!
www.makethegrade.xyz
11-19-18-4-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-5-42-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
$0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!
IN HOUSE FINANCING!
352-338-1999                12-5-42-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES & RENTALS
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
MUST BE 21
CARS STARTING AT $39 DAILY!
352-375-9090                     12-5-42-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor -
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-7-18-7-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds13 Wanted
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-5-42-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $445/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-5-18-42-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                         12-5-18-111-2
House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Ave
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA
DW, W/D hookups, cent A/C heat
Only $1,500/month
No application fee, most pets ok
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com   
12-5-18-53-2
HOUSES FOR RENT
Starting August 1st, 2019
Walk or bike to campus. 
See: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 
Call or text 352-339-2342     1-7-18-7-2
● SINGLE HOUSE WITH POOL, 2816 W 
Univ. Ave. 4BR/3BA, $1500/mo Close to 
UF. ● AND HOUSE 3627 SW 15th St, near 
IHOP, 3BR/2BA, $900/mo. Avail now. Call or 
text 352-327-2931 or nghe@msn.com    12-
3-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How to Place a Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pmBy E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.By Phone : (352) 373-FIND
Payment by major credit card ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm
When Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication 
days later. Ads may run for any length of time 
and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there 
can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major creditcard at www.alligator.org/classifieds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis -
ing use caution and investigate the sin -
cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position. 
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ccozart@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari -
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com -
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment  12-5-18-42-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-5-18-111-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Riverside Recovery of Tampa
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Center
4004 N. Riverside Drive, Tampa, FL 33603
(352)204-0286             RRTAMPA.COM
12-5-18-37-16Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-
f and every other sat). Day and night shifts 
available. Must own a car. weekly pay 
$10.00/hr. if interested please call 352-214-
0868    1-7-18-10-14
*INSTANT CA$H sent to your PayPal.
FREE to join with best companies. 
Guaranteed income online. 
Register at: www.paidmarketsurveys.com    
11-19-18-3-14
No Experience Necessary
Part-Time / Full-Time Manager
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
24 / 7 Nude Entertainment
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
2-8-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your 
ad in the  Services Section of 
the Alligator Classifieds for as 
little as $3.00 per day . Call us 
at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week -
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-5-18-
42-15
Designated drivers are the greatest14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   13 
Get your Medical Marijuana Card Today!
Stop taking Pain Pills. Medical Marijuana 
treats over 250 medical conditions. It has 
been used worldwide for hundreds of years 
to treat pain and anxiety. Get your marijuana 
license fast & easy, walk-ins welcome. Walk 
ins welcome anytime from 9-5, Monday-
Friday.2727 NW 6th St, Gainesville, FL 
32609. Call 352-306-0220
Lic# OS8874
12-5-7-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FINANCIALLY SET FOR LIFE!
Never Be Broke Again.  Discover Why it 
Works.  So shocking I had to look 
www.followthetrendworld.com    11-26-18-
4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAYWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-5-111-21
22 Tickets
BUYING OR SELLING TICKETS?
Place your ad here and get results!
Visit: alligator.org/classifieds
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room -
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
By Jerry Edelstein
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/19/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/19/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, November 19, 2018
ACROSS
1 Fast plane
4 Sultan’s group
9 Prickly seedcase
12 Organ with a 
hammer and 
anvil
13 Puts money 
away, as for 
retirement
15 Opposite of 
WNW
16 Actress Longoria
17 *Kids’ 
recreational garb
19 Revolutionary 
British soldiers
21 John of “Fawlty 
Towers”
22 __ lot: stuffs 
oneself
23 *Two-person log 
cutter
24 Little chess piece
26 Genetic initials
28 UFO passengers, 
presumably
29 On the house
32 Elicit
35 Put on TV
36 *Soar
38 Dickens pen 
name
41 City hall bigwig
42 Opposite of cruel
44 Artist’s deg.
46 Moscow’s land: 
Abbr.
48 App symbol
49 *Daytona 500, 
e.g.
52 Practical joke
55 Inexact lunch 
time
56 Mom’s and dad’s 
dads
59 Engage in 
tomfoolery ... 
and a hint to 
what goes with 
each part of 
the answers to 
starred clues, but 
not in the same 
way
61 Set a price of
62 Miners dig it
63 Sides of an issue
64 Michael of “SNL”
65 Snake’s sound
66 Bogs
67 London’s __ 
Gardens
DOWN
1 Boo
2 Roof overhang3 *Economic 
conflict often 
involving tariffs
4 “Papa Bear” of 
football
5 Gamer’s game 
face
6 “Curious 
George” creators 
Hans and 
Margret
7 Corner PC key
8 Chips in a 
garden
9 Order
10 Repurposes to 
replace, as a 
tool
11 Stitch again
13 Pick out in a 
crowd
14 __ sci: college 
major
18 Conical home
20 Ray Charles’  
“I __ Stop  
Loving You”
23 Dry riverbed
24 Links gp.
25 Radio host 
Shapiro
27 India’s first prime 
minister
30 “__ tree falls ... ”
31 Underhanded
33 “Yuck!”34 Former Energy 
secretary Steven
37 Days long gone
38 *Hiker’s carryall
39 Beatle bride
40 Buddhist 
discipline
41 Roger who hit 
61 in ’61
43 Take care of
44 Estate homes
45 Bordeaux 
brothers
47 Neaten (up)49 Silver salmon
50 On the ocean
51 Deep depression
53 Raves’ 
companions
54 Added 
conditions
56 Suffix with 
movie
57 1975 Wimbledon 
winner Arthur
58 Twist, as facts
60 Troy, N.Y., 
school
By James Sajdak
©2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/18Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/16/18ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Friday, November 16, 2018
ACROSS
1 “__ simple, duh!”
6 Gobi container
10 Pollutants 
targeted in Great 
Lakes cleanups
14 “Sorry, bro”
15 Brits’ foul-weather 
gear
16 Devastated sea
17 Novice hiker’s 
predicament?
19 Taboo
20 DUI-fighting org.
21 Card game shout
22 Dairy prefix
23 Relief pitcher?
27 Spot for a 
springbok
29 Allay
30 “Cats” source
31 Stopped working
33 Snarky retort
37 Cheshire can
38 Flipped ... and 
what four puzzle 
answers are?
41 Where 
Charlemagne 
reigned: Abbr.
42 Extended 
account
44 Sources of some 
barrels
45 Salty expanse
47 Boone, to his 
buds
49 Put oil and 
vinegar on, say
50 Showoff with 
gags?
56 Swashbuckling 
Flynn
57 Employ
58 “¿Cómo __?”
61 Digitize, in a way
62 Tenement for one 
on the lam?
65 Director Gus 
Van __
66 Barb
67 “A Fish Called 
Wanda” Oscar 
winner
68 Petro-Canada 
competitor
69 Erelong
70 Worked with osier
DOWN
1 Cornerback’s 
coups, briefly
2 One-third of a 
WWII film3 Wrapping tightly
4 Got married
5 Olive __
6 Acid type
7 Ivanhoe, e.g.
8 Post-OR stop
9 Nile biter
10 Cure-all
11 Bunch of 
baloney
12 Linguistic group 
that includes Zulu
13 Single-master
18 Silent
22 __ Palmas: 
Canary Islands 
city
24 Western tip of 
Alaska
25 Closing 
documents
26 Expressed, as 
farewell
27 Checks out
28 Oscar-winning 
director Kazan
31 Gives a hand
32 Press
34 Grad’s award
35 Nest egg 
choices
36 Bogs
39 Early Atari 
offering40 __-Frank: 2010 
financial reform 
bill
43 Enlarge, as a 
house
46 First name in 
Disney villains
48 Verizon 
subsidiary
50 “Siddhartha” 
author
51 Black-and-white 
cetaceans52 Mission opening?
53 Supercharger
54 Steamboat 
Springs 
alternative
55 Fresh
59 Piece of music
60 Impersonated
62 Woods gp.
63 Strauss’ “__ 
Heldenleben”
64 Pedigree-tracking 
org.
1.  Comedy ____
1.  Said5.  Last Greek letter
2.  Raise6.  Type of performer 
3.  ____ plain7.  Worth, assets 
4.  ____ steeple SCEHTK
EPSNKOGAMOE
TRACO
AEETEVL
SLOCAATAEHWLT
RCCHHUANSWERS: 1A-Sketch  5A-Omega  6A-Actor  7A-Wealth
1D-Spoken  2D-Elevate  3D-Coastal  4D-Church  B-Stockholm11-19-18
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2018 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 160 N. Stetson, Chicago, Illinois 60601 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: This capital is located
on the Baltic Sea.
BONUS1. Who holds the major-league record 
for most consecutive games reaching 
base safely at least twice per game?
2. Which of the following major-
league players known for their lon-
gevity pitched in the fewest major-
league seasons: Tommy John, Jim 
Kaat, Jesse Orosco or Nolan Ryan?
3. Name the last player before 
Cleveland’s Terrelle Pryor in 2016 to 
have three rushes, three receptions 
and three passes attempted in the 
same NFL game.
4. Name the last NCAA men’s college 
basketball team to reach three consecu-
tive NCAA championship games.
5. Who was the last NHL play-
er before Washington’s Evgeny 
Kuznetsov in 2018 to have a four-as-
sist game in the Stanley Cup Final?
6. When was the last time before 
2018 that the U.S. women’s hockey 
team won Olympic gold?
7. In 2018, Brooks Koepka became 
the fifth golfer to win the U.S. Open and 
PGA Championship in the same year. 
Name two of the four others to do it.
Answers
1. Boston’s Ted Williams, with 21 
games.
2. Orosco pitched in 24 seasons, 
trailing Ryan (27), John (26) and Kaat 
(25). 
3. San Francisco’s Billy Kilmer, in 
1964.
4. Kentucky (1996-98).
5. Colorado’s Joe Sakic, in 1996.
6. It was 1998.
7. Ben Hogan (1948), Jack Nick-
laus (1980), Gene Sarazen (1922) and 
Tiger Woods (2000).
© 2018 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
November 19, 2018King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsNelson Maldonado and the 
Florida baseball team finished fall 
ball on Sunday in an exhibition 
game against the USA U-18 team. 
Find out who played well, pg. 16Gators rise in latest rankings
The Florida football team rose in the most recent AP poll released on Sun-
day, coming in at No. 13. They rose two spots from last week’s rankings. In 
the CFP poll from last week, UF was ranked No. 13Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
www.alligator.org/sports
The Lost City of Alanis / Column
The holiday season leaves us 
with plenty of time for reflection.
Reflection on the ups and downs 
the year has brought and reflection 
about what we’re thankful for.
For the 2018 Florida Gators, 
there’s plenty. 
To start, first-year coach Dan 
Mullen turned a 4-7 dumpster fire 
of a program into a formidable com-
petitor and top-20 team in just one year.
No one saw the Gators coming this season. 
And you have to wonder if even they saw 
them coming. 
The Gators sit at 8-3 (5-3 SEC) on the year 
and have made a convincing case to make a 
New Year’s Six bowl game. 
And I see little reason as to why they won’t 
play in one.
One check in their favor is that they play in 
one of — if not the — toughest conferences in 
the nation. 
Their SEC schedule this season included 
matchups with ranked opponents in Georgia, 
Mississippi State and LSU. They beat the lat-
ter two.
As the college football playoff rankings go, 
the top 12 ranked teams are guaranteed a ma-
jor bowl game.That top-12 spot is surely attain-
able as long as Florida doesn’t lose 
to 5-6 Florida State in its season fi-
nale, which it isn’t expected to do.
As for other reasons to be thank-
ful, the Gators’ 63-10 rout of Idaho 
in their last home game of the sea-
son proved that the program has a 
lot of bright spots for the future. 
The young guys who’ll replace 
the departing veterans showed real promise 
against the Vandals.
And according to some of the Gators’ se-
niors, there’s no better staff to get those 
younger guys ready.
“Man, they lucked out with this coaching 
staff,” tight end R.J. Raymond said. “I wish 
I would have had them my entire five years 
here. They’re great, they’re gonna get this pro-
gram rolling in the right direction.”
At the helm of the freshman display on 
Saturday was quarterback Emory Jones, who 
came in at the end of the second quarter and 
played the most second half.
He did make some mistakes, and his inex-
perience showed when he was under pressure.
But he made plays inside and outside the Florida has a lot to be thankful for this season
Alanis Thames
@alanisthames
in six of UF’s 10 games leading up to the Idaho 
matchup. 
Then Mullen subverted expectations. UF’s 
second offensive play was set up like the doz-
ens of other bubble screens it’d run. Receiv-
er Tyrie Cleveland faked a route, came back 
toward the line of scrimmage and stuck his 
hands out. Right tackle Jawaan Taylor even 
took a few steps over to the sideline to sell it. 
When quarterback Feleipe Franks pump-
faked it to Cleveland, however, the Vandals’ 
defense was caught flat-footed. Tight end 
C’yontai Lewis snuck behind the defenders and 
caught a fade route for a 27-yard gain. 
It was a new wrinkle to show off to Tag-
gart and the FSU defensive staff. It’s something 
extra they’ll have to prepare for. Mullen may 
or may not roll that look out on Saturday, but 
it’ll force the opposition to think a little bit 
more before biting hard on the litany of bubble 
screens UF throws. 
Mullen trusts Franks more now
There has been speculation that Florida’s 
read options aren’t really “reads.” They were 
designed to either be given to the tailback or 
kept by Franks. 
If that’s the case, then that changed Saturday. The first option opportunity came directly 
after Lewis’ big gain, and it couldn’t have gone 
any better for the Gators. Franks saw both the 
defensive end and outside linebacker crash-
ing down on running back Jordan Scarlett and 
couldn’t resist the open field in front of him. 
He pulled the ball back for a walk-in 17-yard 
touchdown. Combined with Mullen’s increased 
calls for deep balls, it seems he’s at least enter-
taining the idea of fully trusting Franks. 
There will be trickery
It’s almost a weekly theme. The flea flicker 
on the opening play against Georgia; the Lu-
cas Krull throwback against LSU; the fake punt 
against Vanderbilt. 
Saturday in the Swamp was not different. 
Receiver Josh Hammond took a reverse from 
Scarlett for an easy 21-yard score. 
Seeing as how this wasn’t against FSU, it’s 
safe to assume Mullen had this play in his back 
pocket throughout the year. It’s also safe to 
assume that because we saw it this weekend, 
there’s a good chance of something weirder 
happening after Thanksgiving. Don’t put it 
past the Posh Spice of coaches to pull out near-
ly all the tricks in his first FSU game of his head 
coaching career.
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Gators play Florida State on Saturday at noon in Tallahassee
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks went 19-for-27 with 274 yards and three 
touchdowns during UF’s win over Idaho.
VOLLEYBALL
By Dylan Rudolph
Sports Writer
 
The Bulldogs were down big again 
in the second set, staring at the set 
point against them and looking for 
anything to bring them back.
Georgia’s outside hitter Katie 
Houser hit a ball to Florida’s side dur-
ing the rally but was stuffed so hard at 
the net that the shot ricocheted back 
over everyone on the Georgia team. 
Players stretched out their arms and 
threw themselves after the descend-
ing ball.
No one could reach it as the ball 
fell to an empty area on Georgia’s 
side again, giving Florida the set and 
deflating the scattered crowd at the 
Ramsey Center Volleyball Arena.
Imposing defense at the net and 
strong performances from behind the 
line were big reasons why the No. 13 
Florida volleyball team swept its con-
ference rival Georgia on Sunday 25-
13, 25-11, 25-20 in Athens, Georgia.
The Gators (23-5, 14-2 SEC) re-fused to repeat their sloppy offensive 
performance from Friday against LSU 
where they amassed 18 attack errors 
and eight service errors. Instead, they 
came out hitting efficiently in both 
areas and the Bulldogs (13-14, 4-12 
SEC) could not keep up.
Florida hit for a .571 hitting per-
centage in the first set led by middle 
blocker Rachael Kramer, who had five 
kills on just six swings in the open-
ing set. 
Kramer continued to hit her mark 
throughout the contest, finishing with 
11 kills on just 15 swings for a season-
best clip of .667 in the three-set win. 
It was her 12th match with double-
digit kills.
Florida used lockdown defense and 
precise serves from behind the line to 
dominate in the second set. Outside 
hitter Paige Hammons smacked back-
to-back aces, and the defense creat-
ed three attack errors in a 9-2 run to 
close out the second set.UF sweeps Georgia behind 
strong offensive showing
SEE VOLLEYBALL,  PAGE  16 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Sam Campisano
Sports Writer
 
The Florida women’s basketball team seemed 
like it was going to pick up its first win of the 
season with three minutes left in regulation.
The Gators (0-4) were up 70-59 at home over 
Northwestern (4-0). They had led for the major-
ity of the afternoon and were in control.
It all fell apart. UF forwards Zada Williams 
and Paige Robinson fouled out within seconds of 
each other. There were turnovers. Missed shots. 
Mistakes. 
The Wildcats capped off their comeback 
when Jordan Hamilton hit an off-balance layup 
with less than a second left to tie the game at 72. 
It was all Northwestern in overtime, and the 
Wildcats came away with an 83-74 victory.
“You gotta close out a game. You have to 
play 40 minutes,” UF coach Cam Newbauer said. 
“We did not complete the game. They deserved 
to win.”
Northwestern scored 11 unanswered points 
to tie the game at 70 with under a minute left. 
Florida freshman Kristina Moore converted on 
the biggest layup of her life to put UF back ahead 
with 15 seconds left. The Gators had a chance to 
win it after Hamilton leveled the score for North-
western, but Delicia Washington’s game winning 
layup didn’t leave her hands before time expired.
Once again, Florida’s dynamic guard duo of 
Washington and Funda Nakkasoglu did the bulk of the scoring for the Gators, combining for over 
half of UF’s points for the fourth time this sea-
son. Nakkasoglu led the way on Sunday, going 
3-5 from three-point range en route to a 26-point 
performance. It was Nakkasoglu’s 27th straight 
game with a three-pointer, the second-longest 
streak in program history.
Washington added 14 points and nine re-
bounds of her own, but she wasn’t as success-
ful when it came to shooting. She hit five of 20 
shots, and went just 1-12 from beyond the arc. 
The Gators struggled from three-point range as a 
team, going 5-for-31 on the afternoon.
“A lot of these shots we’re missing we make 
every day in practice,” Newbauer said. “We’re 
gonna keep shooting these shots and we’re gon-
na stay the course.”
Williams had a solid game despite fouling 
out. In 21 minutes, she scored 14 points on 7-9 
shooting. Guard Kiara Smith also had a good per-
formance, snagging nine rebounds to go along 
with four points.
In the end, it wasn’t enough to overcome the 
Wildcats. Four Northwestern players put up dou-
ble-digit points, including 22 from guard Lindsey 
Pulliam. Forwards Pallas Kunaiyi-Akpanah and 
Abi Scheid each scored 18.
“When you get punched, you can’t wobble. 
And we wobbled a little too much,” Newbauer 
said. “We’ll all learn from this.”
 
@samcampisano
scampisano@alligator.orgGators falter against Northwestern, remain winless
Christopher King / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Funda Nakkasoglu led the Gators with 26 points on 9-of-13 
shooting in UF’s 83-74 loss against Northwestern on Sunday.
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
Both UF swimming and diving teams 
came away with convincing first-place 
finishes, competing in the final day of the 
Georgia Tech Invitational on Saturday. A 
dominant performance allowed both teams 
to finish all three days atop the leaderboard.
Pearl posts fastest 200-breast time in 
school history
The 10th-ranked women’s swimming 
and diving team finished with a total of 
1,266 points after Day 3, winning hand-
ily over second-place Auburn (886.5) and 
third-place Alabama (626.5).
Freshman Vanessa Pearl put herself at 
the top of the Florida record books on Sat-
urday, winning the 200 breast A final with 
the fastest time in school history. Her time of 2:08.04 broke the old record held by 
Hilda Luthersdottir (2:08.37), which dated 
back to 2013.
Freshman Leah Braswell continued her 
solid weekend in Atlanta with a second-
place finish in the 1,650 freestyle, thanks 
to a personal-best time of 15:59.47. Sopho-
more Taylor Ault followed close behind 
with a fourth-place finish (16:14.26).
Freshman Mabel Zavaros had a great 
day in the pool, winning the 200 back A 
final with a 1:53.10 swim. She also did well 
in the 200 fly A final, bringing home fifth 
place after her fastest time in the event so 
far this season (1:58.43).
Florida’s relay team (juniors Bella Garo-
falo, Sherridon Dressel, Kelsey Dambacher 
and Tori Bindi) finished the 400-free re-
lay in fourth place behind a group time of 
3:18.10.
“I can’t be any more proud of the spirit, passion, and competitiveness that the team 
displayed throughout the three-day compe-
tition,” women’s coach Jeff Poppell said in 
a release. 
No. 4 Florida men run away from ri-
val FSU and Georgia Tech
The Florida men outlasted a couple of 
ACC opponents on Saturday to leave the 
McAuley Aquatic Center at the top of the 
leaderboard. The Gators racked up 1,224.5 
points, outdoing second-place Florida State 
(876) and third-place Georgia Tech (764.5).
Freshman Robert Finke touched the wall 
first in the 1,650-free final, completing the 
event with a time of 14:55.39. Fellow fresh-
man Trey Freeman finished in third place 
with a personal-best swim of 15:10.95.
Sophomore Clark Beach took third in the 
200-back final. He finished with a time of 
1:41.97. Junior Grant Sanders finished in sixth place in the same event (1:44.80).
The 100-free A final saw junior Maxime 
Rooney finish in second place behind a 
42.50 swim. Junior Khader Baqlah won the 
100 free B final with his season-best time 
of 43.08.
The relay team of Rooney, Baqlah, 
freshman Kieran Smith and senior Chris-
toph Margotti completed the 400-free re-
lay in third place after a combined finish 
of 2:50.70, the 10th-fastest time in program 
history.
“This was a tremendous team win for 
our men in Atlanta,” men’s coach Anthony 
Nesty said in a release. “Our fall invitation-
al is always a good test for us. I am pleased 
with the team’s effort and attitude during 
all six sessions.”
@evanmplepak
elepak@alligator.org Florida overwhelms competition to win Georgia Tech Invitational
CROSS COUNTRYSWIMMING AND DIVINGWOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Evan Lepak
Sports Writer
The 21st-ranked UF women’s 
cross country team finished its 
season on Saturday in Madison, 
Wisconsin, racing to a 16th-place 
finish out of 31 teams in the NCAA 
Championships.
The team, which finished 22nd 
in the region last season, qualified 
for its first trip to the NCAA Cham-
pionships since 2012 last weekend after placing second in the region 
this time around.
UF assistant coach Chris So-
linsky spoke about the team’s im-
provement this season after the 
race.
“Today, the University of Flori-
da women’s distance program took 
a big step forward,” Solinsky said 
in a release. “We just went from 
22nd in the region to 16th in the 
country. We are just scratching the 
surface of what this group is ca-pable of.”
Junior Jessica Pascoe paced UF 
with a 32nd-place finish behind a 
time of 20:31.7 in the 6k. Pascoe 
has been Florida’s frontrunner all 
season, earning All-American sta-
tus in the process. The Australian 
becomes the first UF women’s 
cross country runner since 2013 to 
earn the honor.
“(Jessica) really took another 
step forward in her career, earning 
her first All-American honor,” So-linsky said. “Obviously proud with 
what she has been able to do in a 
year.”
Redshirt senior Morgan Hull 
made a statement in her final cross 
country race as a Gator, finishing in 
70th place with a time of 20:52.1.
The next three Gators stayed 
inside the top 200, starting with 
redshirt junior Elisabeth Bergh. 
The Norwegian was the third 
Florida runner to cross the finish 
line, coming in at 123rd after a time of 21:16.3. Senior Caitlin Mc-
Quilkin-Bell finished in 154th place 
(21:28.4), while freshman Imogen 
Barrett placed 183rd (21:44.3).
The future looks bright as Flor-
ida’s women bring back plenty 
of talent heading into next year’s 
cross country season. 
@evanmplepak 
elepak@alligator.orgWomen’s team finishes top 20 at NCAA Championships
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2018
Florida’s sturdy play at the net 
was vital as UGA was held to a -.115 
hitting percentage in the second set 
and .023 in the match. Kramer also 
led the way in that area, totaling six 
of the team’s 10 total blocks on the 
match.
Georgia kept it closer in the third 
set, but UF’s defense prevailed 
again when a big block from Kram-
er started a 6-0 run that helped the 
Gators pull away and complete the 
sweep.
Libero Allie Gregory also held it 
down in the back row as she tallied 
a team-high 18 digs. 
Gregory and the rest of the Flor-
ida team will look to take its strong 
performance into the ﬁ  nal two 
matches of the regular season.
“The offense was efﬁ  cient to-
day, but most impressive was the 
backcourt play anchored by Allie 
Gregory,” coach Mary Wise said in 
a release. “She had one of her best 
performances in a three-set match 
today.”
@dyrudolph
drudolph@alligator.orgVOLLEYBALL,  from pg. 14Florida secures second straight sweep over Georgia
Alligator File Photo
Florida middle blocker Rachael Kramer (5) was a part of six of the team’s 10 blocks in Sunday’s three-
set sweep over Georgia in Athens.
BASEBALL
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
It doesn’t matter who the op-
ponent is. If the opportunity pres-
ents itself, Gators baseball coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan will run his spe-
cial play. 
It can be broken down into 
three simple steps when there are 
runners on the corners.
The ﬁ  rst is easy enough. Have 
whoever is on ﬁ  rst base start to 
run as if he is stealing a base.
The second is almost comical. Have that runner “trip” and fall 
as if his shoes were tied together.
The last step will work just 
about every time. Have the run-
ner on third steal home while the 
pitcher is distracted. 
This is exactly what happened 
during UF’s 8-1 exhibition win 
over the USA U-18 team at the 
Charlotte Sports Park in Port 
Charlotte, Florida.
Freshman right ﬁ  elder Kend-
rick Calilao slipped at ﬁ  rst, allow-
ing left ﬁ  elder Austin Langwor-
thy to take home and extend the score to 3-0.
It was the same play used to 
help the Gators win Game 3 of the 
Super Regionals against Auburn 
last season. 
Tommy Mace got the starting 
nod for Florida on Sunday, pitch-
ing three near-perfect innings 
with no hits, three strikeouts and 
a walk. Jack Leftwich relieved 
him, going two innings with three 
strikeouts and a hit. 
Hunter McMullen, Jordan But-
ler, Christian Scott and Hunter 
Ruth each pitched an inning af-ter, combining for three strike-
outs, nine hits and allowing just 
one run.
Florida only had six hits. Des-
ignated hitter Nelson Maldonado 
led the way with two hits, includ-
ing a dinger in the top of the ﬁ  rst 
inning. UF’s next scoring oppor-
tunity came in the fourth when 
Langworthy stole home. 
The Gators tacked on three 
more in the ﬁ  fth. Maldonado’s 
single to left ﬁ  eld brought in two 
runs, and Calilao’s ﬂ  y-out al-
lowed outﬁ  elder Wil Dalton to score.
First baseman Kris Arm-
strong’s single to left ﬁ  eld in the 
sixth and a wild pitch rounded 
out Florida’s scoring.
The win marks the end of fall 
baseball for the Gators. The sea-
son begins on Feb. 15 when UF 
takes the ﬁ  eld against Long Beach 
State.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators defeat USA 18-U team in ﬁ  nal exhibition game of fall ballpocket and showed some arm 
strength and accuracy that 
will only get better as he con-
tinues to develop. 
“According to me, my 
dawg balled,” freshman tail-
back Dameon Pierce said of 
Jones.
But besides the obvi-
ous on-the-ﬁ  eld aspects, 
the Gators can be thankful 
they’ve gotten through this 
season relatively drama-free 
compared to the soap opera 
antics of years past. 
No credit card scandals 
or rumors of death threats 
dominated the narratives this 
season.
Mullen created a new cul-
ture and instilled a mental-
ity that many guys said had 
been missing.
“(Mullen) turned the 
whole program around,” 
tight end C’yontai Lewis 
said. “I think they’ll win the 
championship next season.”
Alanis Thames is a staff writer 
at the Alligator. Contact her 
at athames@alligator.org.COLUMN,  from pg. 14